So for the Old Testament reading, we'll be reading from Jeremiah 17, verses 9 and 10. Prophet Jeremiah chapter 17, verses 9 and 10. The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick. Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Galatians three, fifteen through twenty-nine. Galatians three, fifteen through twenty-nine Paul continues. To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, and to offsprings, referring to many, but referring to one. And to your offspring. End quote. Who is Christ? This is what I mean, the law which Came four hundred and thirty years afterward does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God so as to make the promise void. For if the inheritance comes by law, it no longer comes by promise. But God gave it to Abraham by a promise. Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now, an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came. In order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male or female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now, Lord, we pray that you'll help us as we approach Paul's uh considerable reasoning here that we might reason with him and understand what your spirit guided him to write down and what we must understand today We thank you for your perfect and errant word. In Christ's name. Amen. So Paul has been defending and explaining the gospel That is the gospel that he received directly from Jesus Christ. He didn't get it from anybody else. He didn't consult with anybody. He got it as a direct revelation from Jesus Christ. But it comported completely with the other apostles and what they had learned in their life with Jesus before he went back into heaven. The Galatians had received that gospel with great joy. And now Paul is More than a little upset because they have been led astray by false teachers and have actually embraced the false teachings of these false teachers. The false teachers have said that Gentiles, Gentile believers must submit to Jewish customs, particularly circumcision. For the Apostle Paul, this is probably like how you might feel as a parent if you raised your child in the biblical Reformed faith and they ended up joining a cult. I actually have a personal friend, an Orthodox Presbyterian minister, whose son and daughter-in-law Have joined a very similar cult-like group of so-called Christians. These people have adopted all kinds of Jewish practices, including keeping the feasts of Israel And the kosher laws against eating pork. Imagine that on Independence Day they have no pulled pork and no bacon on Saturday morning either. And they also keep the Saturday Sabbath, just like the Jews did. This has caused not a little difficulty in his family, especially when they try to get together and have any kind of fellowship. There are all these rules that keep them apart. Here, Paul looks back into the history of God's covenant to defend the true gospel. And he begins in verse 15. He says, To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it's been ratified. And he says, Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say to offspring, referring to many, but referring to one, your offspring, who is Christ. Covenants, once ratified by humans, cannot ordinarily be changed. If you sign an agreement to buy real estate, You can't just renege on that unless it's in the contract, some kind of clause to let you out. You're stuck You can keep the covenant resulting in peace, or you can break a covenant resulting in sanctions and punishments and penalties. It's also like the rules of a baseball game. You can't just change the rules in the middle of the game from three strikes and you're out to now four strikes and you're out. Can't do that. Changes of rules like that must be negotiated and accepted by all parties before the game begins. So much more God's covenant. And Paul is saying that the coming of the law at Mount Sinai with Moses, 430 years after Abraham, did not change what God promised to Abraham. He calls that the gospel preached to Abraham beforehand in chapter 3, verse 8, concerning a single male person that he calls the seed. Here Paul is theologically connecting the dots from Genesis 3, where the seed of the woman was promised to crush the serpent's head. to the seed promised in chapter 15, and the seed promised again in chapter 17, and the seed promised another time in chapter 22. He is showing that Christ is the ultimate fulfillment of this seed promise. And the word seed in Hebrew or in English can be translated as a collective plural. Or as a singular. Just kind of like the word deer, you know, there's one deer and there are many deer, right? Paul takes it here as a singular as to its ultimate meaning even though it also has a collective plural meaning, the one Christ So he says, this is what I mean. The law which came 430 years afterward does not annul the covenant previously ratified by God so as to make the promise void. For it, if the inheritance comes by law, it no longer comes by promise, but God gave it by a promise to Abraham. This is very important, my dear friends. You must see that all of the Old Testament develops a single theme During the various historical moments of the Old Testament, it is all and always about the promise of Jesus. For many years, I personally suffered from a lack of understanding of this. I saw the Old Testament stories that I had learned in Sunday school. As quaint, interesting stories. The story of Noah and the flood and the animals that came in two by two, the story of David and Goliath, all these stories. I had no clear idea how they were contributing to the big picture of the Bible. To me, they were like individual pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. Paul's interpretation here and elsewhere fits these pieces together, and he's saying, this is the seed that was promised. And that's the gospel that he has to give to the Galatians. So he's made that point. Now he says He's kind of doing the the uh rabbi thing here and he's saying, so you're probably going to ask me next, why was the law even given then? If it didn't change anything, if it didn't add a new thing, what why did why was it given? And he says, verse 19, why then the law? He says it was added because of transgressions until the offspring, the seed, should come. to whom the promise had been made. And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary, talking about Moses on Mount Sinai. And then he says, now an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. It's just something I think he threw in there. He says, is the law contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, Mount Sinai one, then righteousness would be by the law. That didn't work. He says, verse 22, the scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise Back in Abraham, by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. You see, it was always the promise, always the gospel. The law was added for other purposes later. And he tells us what those purposes are. He says, the law condemns us and it imprisons us. He says in verse 23, Now before the law came we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until The coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian, and we'll unpack that in a moment. Was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. What he's saying here is that God added to the promise, he added the written law in order to awaken his people from their sins. You know what happens? When sin's all around you, when it's on every channel, it's on Facebook, it's in every place you go and see the news you watch, and all your friends and all that business, you get comfortable with sin. And unless you have something to ground you, the written code Your heart will deceive you and lead you astray. That's why the law was given. But now, in the gospel age, since the day of Pentecost, believers Have help with this law. We have the indwelling Holy Spirit. So the law is given, and the Spirit is given to guide us into godly living. We can put it another way. Children need rules for everything, don't they, when they're little? No, you can't touch that. Yes, you can. Y it's time to take a nap. No, you you know, they have to have rules in everything and they constantly test the limits, don't they? And drivers, drivers need rules of the road, don't they? Drive in your lane, not the other one. Signal when turning. Don't run the red light. Observe the speed limit. Believers need guidance too. People often say in our culture around us, they'll say, just trust your heart and do whatever your heart tells you. I found 35 inspirational, so-called inspirational quotes, published by Assad Miya. I'm going to read you a few of these. Make mistakes. Take chances. Be silly. Be imperfect. Trust yourself. And follow your heart. Here's another one. Follow your heart. Life is too short to be sidetracked by things everyone else wants you to do. Here's another one. Don't think too much. That's a good one, huh? Don't think too much. You'll think your whole life away. Just stop. Close your eyes and follow your heart. Someone else said, sometimes you have to follow your heart, no matter the consequences. Follow your heart. Do the things that make you happy. Robin Williams, the great, late, late, great Robin Williams said, There are no rules. Just follow your heart. Such statements have to be taken with a large grain of salt, my friends. These must be highly qualified if you're going to use them at all. Or they will lead to the kind of chaotic anarchy that is described in the book of Judges, and we see going on in our society all around us, where everyone did what was right in his own eyes. And the law of God, therefore, was given precisely because you cannot trust your heart. Never trust your heart. Jeremiah 17, the heart is deceitful above all things. Who is it going to deceive? You. That's who. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? And then verse 10: I, the Lord, search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. So the law is important even now. We have the holy law of God, and we have the Holy Spirit. To lead believers to do good and pleasing things before God And the third point is an expansion on some of these same themes, and that is that the law, why the law? The law leads to obedient faith. Verses 25 through the end of the chapter. And about this, Calvin says about the law, I'll quote this from his Institutes. Man never obtains a true self-knowledge until he has contemplated the face of God and come down after such contemplation to look into himself. Gives an illustration. At midday, we look down to the ground or out to objects near us and we think we are imbued with Clear and piercing eyesight. But when we look up to the sun and gaze at it Unveiled, the sight which did well for Earth is instantly dazzled and confounded by the refulgence of the sun So as to oblige us to confess that the acuteness of our discernment is mere dimness when applied to the sun And then he says, this is the way it is when estimating our own spiritual qualities. As long as we look only at ourselves and others around us, we may think well of ourselves, well of our own righteousness, our wisdom and virtue. But when we raise our eyes to God, we see Him revealed in the law as a measure of righteousness, of wisdom and virtue, to which is a standard we are required to reform conform. And what once delighted us as a false show of righteousness will suddenly become polluted with greatest iniquity. Then he goes on to give the illustration of the holy men like Moses and Elijah, who were shocked and overwhelmed by the veiled sight of God, so that they would thought they were going to die. One glimpse of the holiness of God, and we are undone. God revealed himself in his law perfectly. And perfectly as just and righteous in his character. So the law reveals us warts and all. These two things then, the law shows us the holy character of God, and the law shows us our spiritual condition of sin and wickedness and righteousness are falling short. But then there is one more use of the law that Calvin particularly contributed to this Reformation discussion, the third use of the law. That is as a standard for living. This would include aspects of the law that are related not to the priesthood and the ceremonies, because they have been fulfilled by Christ. But it does include the moral precepts and principles of the law because they are grounded in the unchanging character of God. And generally that's the Ten Commandments. God says to you and me, be holy as I am holy. And what he means by that is that you should reflect his moral character like a mirror. Like God, you must always be personally truthful and faithful to your promises. If you're going to reflect God's character, keep your word, do what you say, be on time Some protest and say, I'm not a prisoner to sin. And someone answered that with, there's a simple way to prove whether you're a sinner or not. Stop sinning. If you could stop sinning completely, then well, that ain't gonna happen. The written law was added because of transgression, Paul says. The law was never against the promise. It was added because of transgression in order we can see the transgression clearly. Our dim vision obscures our own transgressions. The law is not contrary to the promises of God. He says in verse 21, For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would be through the law, but the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin so that the promise By faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. He mentions in verse 23 something very interesting. He says, now before faith came, before we turned it to Jesus, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian, he uses the word guardian, until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. Then verse 25, but now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. What's he talking about here, this guardian thing? Some people have said it's like a teacher. No, it's not. It is not the teacher. The teacher is in the classroom standing at the board, giving the lesson, and the students are supposed to be out here paying attention. The teacher is not the guardian. The guardian Is the disciplinarian in the classroom? There would be two people in the classroom. And the disciplinarian is the person in the classroom with a big stick. Wandering around to smack the kid who gets out of line. The deliverer of punishment. And he, I think, takes it in his thoughts to the Egyptian taskmasters who drove the Israelites to make bricks without the proper supply of materials. He says the law was a cruel task, Master, holding us captive like Pharaoh until God finally said, Let my people go. So sin here is personified as a jailer keeping sinners under its control so that they cannot break free. But The time of the guardian isn't always and forever. That's what Paul's saying. It was then, but not now. When a child has grown, he doesn't Do away with all discipline and lessons that he gained from his guardian, but he also doesn't live under that guardian anymore. This is our relation to the law of God. We learn from it. We remember our lessons from it, but we don't live under it. Now in union with Christ, though the law is still in effect because it is grounded in the very character of God, it is accompanied now by the Spirit. Who indwells all believers. That leads us to want to obey the law. So that like David, we say, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. And he says that when you get to that condition, he gives you another name. Verse 26. He says, for in Christ Jesus, you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs, according to promise. This sons of God thing that he says, you are sons of God. Means that boys and girls are sons of God. It means that men and women are sons of God. Because sons here does not mean male persons. It means heirs. In the old times only males could be heirs, but now everybody is an heir, even if you're a slave or a woman. The gospel and the law sweetly agree that by faith you and I are heirs. And compare that to what was being taught. Among the Galatians by these false teachers. In traditional Jewish thinking, which had been imported into the Galatian church by these false teachers, your standing before God was measured by what? By your obedience to the law. So to be truly close to God and considered as sons of God, you had to be extremely observant to the law Just as the scribes and Pharisees were in Matthew 23. Here Paul says that you are to be considered sons of God in a completely different way, and that is through faith in Christ Jesus. So this this standing, this sons of God thing, is more than impressive To be among the sons of God means that you have a close relationship, personal relationship with God as a loving and caring Father. And the method is also very impressive. To become a son of God through faith in Christ Jesus means much more than believing in him or that he exists. Well that he did certain things. It means to put your trust in him both now and for eternity. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ Jesus, here's another picture. Here he's using the picture of baptism. He illustrates what it means to have faith in Jesus. He doesn't say that we were baptized into mere water. He says we were baptized into Christ Jesus. Baptism is the sacramental form of our union, but the essence is union with Christ by faith. It should be stressed that union with Christ is what really saves. Baptism is the sacramental form of it, which we will observe in a few minutes. Faith is always the substance. If you have been baptized into Christ, you are part of the covenant people, the church. You must then follow through and confirm your commitment to Jesus by faithful use of the means of grace. As many of you as have been baptized have, here's another figure, another beautiful image, have put on Christ. That's another way of expressing our union with Jesus. You have put on Christ. In the original language, the phrase has the idea of putting on a suit of clothes. You get a new identity through your clothes. How you dress, doesn't it, has a real impact on how you think or how you act. How you dress has a real impact on how you appear to others around you. I'll give you a personal story about that. Over the years. As a preacher, I have repeatedly had bad dreams, usually on Saturday nights. Each of these dreams involves some version of me arriving late to church where I am to preach. I arrive embarrassingly late wearing shorts and a dirty t-shirt or something like that I can't seem to find my robe to cover it up either. I get up to preach and I can't make sense of my notes if I can find my notes. Some of the dreams I can't even find my notes Now I had to try to add lib and boy that doesn't work. What I say seems very incoherent. I get terribly self-conscious and flustered. And then I finally wake up and say, Oh, I'm so glad that was just a dream. We need to know how to dress appropriately for each occasion, Paul says. He says your appropriate clothing now, as a faithful believer in Jesus, your appropriate clothing each day is to put on Christ. People should see that you belong to Him by looking at your life. And you should live with the awareness that you are adorned with Jesus. And then he goes on to say in verse 29, as we said already, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you're all one in Christ Jesus. This was an amazing, revolutionary thing to say, if you think about the context. The whole problem among the Galatian Christians Is that some still wanted to observe the dividing line between Jew and Gentile? Paul writes that in Christ Jesus that line is done away. When we are in Jesus, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free, neither male nor female. The dividing line between Jew and Greek is not the only dividing line erased. Regarding your standing before God and Jesus, every divining line is erased. Now that your identity is in Jesus, That is more important than any prior identity that you possessed. All believers are one in Christ Jesus. And this is being said by a rabbi, Paul, taught by the most famous rabbi of his day, Gamaliel. With the best pedigree you could get in Judaism, he says, it doesn't mean anything. What means something is my identity in Christ. At that day, rabbis quoted a morning prayer every day. Some of them that said, I thank you God that I was not born a Gentile, a slave, or a woman. Paul takes each of these categories and shows that we are all equal in Jesus. Now, this doesn't mean That there are no differences. Paul knew that there were still differences between Jews and Greeks. His evangelistic approach would differ at times for each group. It would waver, be different for each group. The slave still had to obey his master, even though they were equal in Jesus in Ephesians 6 And there are still different roles for male and female in the home and in the church, according to 1 Timothy 2 and Ephesians 5, though they are equal in standing before God. There are differences in roles and in function, but no differences in standing before God. John Stott says, when we say that Christ has abolished these distinctions, we mean not that they do not exist. But that they no longer create any barriers to fellowship. It says, you are all one in Christ Jesus. The Galatian teachers didn't like that idea. They would have excluded some of the Christians from the Gentile background because they hadn't come under the law of Moses. But Paul includes them saying, you are all one in Christ Jesus. So now we come finally in the last verse back to where we began. To the promise that God made to Abraham long before the law was ever given. He says, if you were Christ, Then you are Abraham's seed, heirs, according to the promise. Since all Christians belong to Jesus the Messiah, all Christians are spiritual descendants of Abraham and heirs. of God. This high place of privilege comes according to the promise, not according to laws and efforts and works. We are connected now with a long line of God's people assembled throughout the ages who waited for the seed to come forth. In conclusion, my dear friends, this morning, if you're in Christ by faith, baptismal faith, You find your place in the parade of the faithful in all eternity. Because you are sons and daughters of God, heirs. You find your place in society because you are brothers and sisters in the family of God, the church. You find your place in history because you are part of God's great plan of the ages. And you are spiritually related as all are to Abraham by your faith in Jesus. I'm going to close with one quote from John Stott. It enables me, he says, to answer the most basic of all human questions, who am I? And to say In Christ, I am a Son of God. In Christ, I am united to all the redeemed people of God, past, present, and future. In Christ, I discover my identity. In Christ I find my feet. In Christ I come home. Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you for the anguish of the Apostle Paul over these dear people that he had evangelized. And for his labor at teaching them again what they had forgotten. Help us not to forget, Lord. Help us to remember our standing, our clothing, our union with Jesus Christ. In his name we pray, Amen.