Please open your Bibles to the 22nd chapter of Genesis, where we'll read verses 15 through 18. And then place your finger in about a page over, page or two over, in Genesis 26, where we'll read verses 1 through 4. Genesis twenty-two verses fifteen through eighteen. And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven, and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord. Because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you And I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. And to verse and to chapter 26, verses 1 through 4. And now there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to the to Gerar, to Abimelech, king of the Philistines. And the Lord appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt. Dwell in the land of which I shall tell you. Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you, and will bless you. For to you and to your offspring I will give all the lands, and I will establish the oath that I swore to Abraham your father, and I will multiply your offspring as the stars of the he of heaven. And will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. The word of the Lord. And now for the reading of John chapter three. Very familiar passage, John three, sixteen through twenty-one. Which is the preaching text. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world But in order that the world might be saved through him, whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world. And people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. O Lord, help us to listen with our ears and our minds. Give us the help of the Holy Spirit, without which all is vanity and worthless. Amen. Well, this is a very, very familiar passage. You may know that John 3. 16, the first verse of this passage is held up as uh a slogan at many games, football games, baseball games, I I suppose every kind And uh you might even see it if you watch the Super Bowl tonight. There will be people who hold up. John 3. 16. They're trying to proclaim this message of God's love for the world. This is a very famous section, and it is one of John's many summaries of the basic message of his writing the whole gospel. You see, John's pattern is this. He tells the stories of Jesus, and then he stops and makes a summary statement. Re-emphasizing his basic thesis from time to time. The final one I've shared with you before is at the end of the book in John chapter 20, verses 30 through 31, where he there says Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that by believing you may have life in his name. So that's the final summary, but this is one of the early summaries here. Before we get to it, let us briefly recount what we have just been going through in the Gospel. We have read the account of John baptizing people into repentance. This happened near Bethany at the Jordan River. And it took place where Jesus was identified by John as the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And then we've also read about Jesus' calling of the first disciples to follow him. And we have particularly read about him calling Philip. And Nathanael. And you might remember Nathaniel was the one whom Jesus miraculously knew, who was under the fig tree. Jesus knew this thing about him. And it impressed Nathaniel greatly. Nathaniel had evidently been meditating on the story of Jacob from the Old Testament and the vision of the ladder between heaven and earth. And Jesus drew that in as he showed this Nathaniel who he was. And then we read recently about the wedding that Jesus attended at the place called Cana in Galilee. And the first miracle or sign that he performed there, where he took these huge pots of water and transformed them into wine because they had run out of wine at the wedding, and the wedding was going on for a week or so. And it was a terrible embarrassment. But Jesus showed himself to be the Messiah because the Messiah, one of his signs and symbols, is the joy of wedding and the joy of wine. And so Jesus did this miracle. And then finally, last week actually, we were privy to his interview of Nicodemus. The Pharisee who came to Jesus at night, and who was told by Jesus that he and Israel both must be born again. in order to enter and see the kingdom of God, the new age and order of the Messiah. So now we come to this summary. John summarizes God's loving plan, and he also gives us the two kinds of human response. And if you might want to notice this, if you look back to chapter 1, verses 11 through 13, there is a parallel summary. Right after he announced Jesus as the word made flesh, there he says in summary, he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of a man, but of God. So that's the first summary And now this is the second summary. Second summary, first part, John 3. 16, God's loving plan. It begins with this. For God so loved the world Now you've heard this many times. It's not astonishing to you, but it was astonishing to the first readers or hearers of this. Very astonishing. Because they were accustomed to think of God's love for Israel and God's hate for the world. That was where their minds had gone. That was what they had concluded. God loves Israel and God has no regard for the nations. Now that wasn't true to the biblical teaching, but that's what many had concluded. And so they were astonished at this This is, by the way, why Jesus cleared the court of the Gentiles, drove out the animal sellers and the money changers, because God loves the Gentiles and God made a place for the Gentiles. in worship even in the old covenant. That's why we have this promise from Genesis 22. Which was read just a few moments ago. And in verse 18 it says, And in your offspring all the nations of the earth, not just Israel, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you've obeyed my voice. And also in Genesis 26 and verse 4. And in your offspring, this was to Isaac, the next generation. In your offspring, all nations of the earth shall be blessed. So God's love was always for all nations, for the whole world. But Israel had come to think that God's love was only for Israel, only for the Jews, only for Judah And so this was astonishing to them, and yet here it is, John announces it with joy. God so loved the world An amazing thing. But how did he love the world? The next phrase tells us that he gave, he gave his only son a gift. He gave his only son, who was the offspring of the woman promised back in Genesis 3. 16. He gave his only son the offspring of Mary, the very son of God. He gave him in the incarnation, you see. And we sing it in our hymnals sometimes, especially around Christmas. Thou who wast rich beyond all telling, all for love's sake became us poor. stooping so low. That's the incarnation. But sinners raising heavenward by thine eternal plan. God so loved the world that he gave his only son in the incarnation. And we also see that Jesus even understood that when he was teaching and preaching. He tells a story about the Father, the Father sending his son as the gift in the incarnation. Let me recount that briefly to you In Matthew chapter 21, Jesus says in verse 33, hear another parable. He says There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard, and put a fence around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, then leased it to tenants. And went to another country. When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get its fruit And the tenants took his servants and beat one and killed another and stoned another. And again he sent his servants more than the first, and they did the same to them Then listen to this. Finally he sent his son. Jesus is talking about himself. Finally he sent his son to them, saying, they will respect my son. But the tenants saw the sun and they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. Jesus is telling a story about God's love in sending him, the Son, into the world. And how is he treated? He is thrown out and killed. God so loved the world that he gave his son in the incarnation, sent him down to a world that hates him and mistreats him and will kill him. But we also see here that God so loved his the world that he gave him on the cross. Jesus has already said that he will have to be lifted up like this like the brazen serpent in the wilderness, so that all who look to him may be saved. He sent him on the cross Listen, as the legal ground to save sinners. The legal ground. There has to be a legal basis for forgiving people. God can't just say Oh well, that's all right, I forgive you. There has to be a legal basis for it. And we read in Hebrews 9 that without the shedding of blood There is no forgiveness. It's not possible. There's no legal ground for it without the shedding of blood. And so God gave his son as the legal ground to save sinners Paul summarizes this beautifully in Romans chapter 5. He says this, listen, for while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for who? For the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners shaking our fists at him, Christ died for us. And then in verse 9, since therefore we have now been justified, that's the legal ground, justified by his blood. Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. We justly deserve the wrath of God, but the legal ground of the blood of Christ, his death on the cross, is again gift that saves us. He also gave his son in the resurrection. The resurrection proves That we have been justified, that forgiveness has been accomplished for us. If Jesus had simply died on the cross, been buried in a tomb, and never risen. Who would know that we were saved? Who would know that we could be saved? There wouldn't be any basis for believing it, but God raised him up for our justification. And verse 10 of Romans 5, Paul says, For while if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. That's the legal basis. Much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. By his life, because he was raised and we are in him and with him in that resurrection we are saved by his life. So God gave in the incarnation. God gave at the cross the legal basis. And God gave the proof of our justification in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. And then we have the two kinds, secondly, this is a two-point sermon, believe it or not, the two kinds of human response. Belief and unbelief. It says in the next phrase, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Now, we need to think about what it means to believe in him. I've said this before. Believing in him is not like believing in George Washington or any other historical figure as just someone that lived and died and is gone. But to believe in him, as one commentator says, his name's Turner He says this means the believer throws himself upon the Lord. It's like a chair. You can believe in a chair. The chair is a good chair. It'll hold me But to believe in him in the biblical sense is to go sit in the chair and have it hold you up. That's what this is about. Whoever believes in him throws themselves up on the Lord in loving, self-abandon love and trust. Whoever believes in him What gets what? Shall not perish. Shall not perish, but have eternal life. The life of God's kingdom And then John says this in verse 17. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. What is John saying here? He's saying that the purpose, the goal of God's mission is the salvation of a great multitude that cannot be none. Of all nations and all tribes and all kinds of people. But not every individual person is saved by this. The nature of the atonement that Christ made is that it is a, this is a Latinish word, I think, it's vicarious The nature of the atonement is that it is a substitutionary atonement. He stands in your place. He stands in my place. He is my vicar. He is my substitute. It's a vicarious atonement, and secondly, it's also a penal atonement. A penalty. Penal penalty. A penalty has been paid. And so God gave him as a substitute victim for all the world in the sense that all nations, all kinds of people at all times in history are included. But he gave him as a victim for his chosen individuals, those chosen for salvation, for those that God contemplated to save in his love, in his grace. Christ stood in their place as their vicar, and Christ paid the penalty for their sins. And their sins have been accomplished, have been put away, have been uh resolved and reconciled by God. So all humans, both Jew and Gentile, we learn here from this this phrase um where it says in verse 18, whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. We learn here that both Jew and Gentile begin in a state of condemnation. You see, when we're born into this world, in our father Adam, we are not innocent. We're conceived in sin, born in sin, we inherit from our father Adam. the sins of our father Adam, and we're born under condemnation. We're not born innocents who at some point uh decide that we're gonna uh disobey and we're going to rebel and we sin and then we're and suddenly become sinners. No, that's not the case. We are born sinners Whoever does not believe is condemned already. See, it's already the case, because he has not believed. God does not condemn the innocent, therefore But he saves the guilty. Ephesians 2, verse 3 says the very same thing. It says that we are by nature, we were by nature, he says to these Ephesians. The children of what? We were by nature the children of goodness and uprightness. That's our nature. Is that what it says? We were by nature the children of wrath. We're born to wrath. Wrath is hanging over our heads as we're born. That's the condition that we are. Our father Adam is the one who gives us this, but our brother Jesus is the one who gives us righteousness and forgiveness and peace. This is verse 19 now. John, in the summary, says this about belief and unbelief. He says, and this is the judgment Listen, the light has come into the world, Jesus, the light, we've heard that before. And people loved what? Darkness. That's natural. They loved darkness rather than light. Why? Because their works were evil. Now, New Testament commentator Leon Morris says this about that He says, immersed in wrongdoing, they have no wish to be disturbed. They refuse to be shaken out of their comfortable sinfulness. So they reject the light that comes to them. They set their love on darkness. That's Leon Morris. I remember years ago I was riding around with my dad. I must have been a teenager or something, and we're riding around South Florida where we lived at the time, and uh there was uh There were various establishments that we noted. There was a saloon over here, a bar, and over there an adult bookstore And my dad made this observation about such places. He said, notice, Ed, that they have few, if any, windows And their parking lots are usually around back. And if you go inside, which you shouldn't do, they are dimly lighted places. And this he said is because those who go there are ashamed to be seen. Now, they were ashamed more in those days than they are now. But what he was pointing to is that darkness is a moral quality which often leads to literal darkness. It leads to the anonymity of internet sites. It leads to secrets and lies and such things. It is biblical to say that moral darkness is the main reason why people don't believe. I would guess that for every honest atheist, if there are any, who just can't believe in God because his mind has a materialist concrete cast For every honest atheist, if there are any, there are a hundred more who love darkness rather than light. And that's why they don't believe. Not because they can't believe, but because they love darkness rather than light. They have chosen some form of sin, usually sins of the flesh Which prevents them from even considering Christ. They have thrown themselves into that lifestyle. And they will not let the light shine into it. John explains it this way. He says this in verse 20. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light. And does not come to the light. Why? Lest his works should be exposed. I remember years ago uh babysitting with my sister in a in a fairly dirty house and uh went into the kitchen and turned the light on. And the roaches sc scrambled for the darkness. Yeah. Love darkness rather than light. Because their roachy deeds were evil. Well people are that way too, according to this. And why are people hiding in the darkness? Because of shame. That's really the motivating thing. Shame is the reason. Shame. Mark Twain was reported to have said, man, listen to this, man is the only creature who blushes or needs to. People may deny guilt and guilt feelings. They try very hard to do that. But it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. They may suppress guilt on the surface level, but it often reappears in the stubborn experience of shame. The universal crisis in the human race is guilt and shame. And the healing of guilt and shame is the glory of the gospel. Where do guilt and shame come from? The Bible tells of the beginning of guilt and shame back in Genesis chapter 2, 25, and then on into chapter 3. There it is. Adam and Eve were living in the sanctuary of God's presence and enjoying the experience of being with God and being naked. And they were not ashamed, it says. Their nakedness was not mere physical, but was a transparency and an intimacy before God. And it also involved their reproductive powers, so their nakedness involved their responsibility for the whole future of the human race. And there was no hiding until after they sinned, as it's recorded in chapter 3. The serpent's promise of illumination came true, but it undid them. And their eyes were opened not to their goodness, but to their shame. They knew they were naked and they tried to cover it up. That was their Operation Fig Leaves. That was the biggest leaf they could find, and so they made themselves little skirts or so something like that of fig leaves to cover their sense of vulnerability and weakness and expensive. Exposure. Guilt. Guilt is the objective legal language for transgressing legal boundaries. Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit and were at that moment guilty of cosmic treason before the Lord of the universe On the other hand, shame is subjective, internal. It entails an emotional element. So you see this way, I am in a state of guilt, but I feel shame, experience shame. Pastor Tim Posey says this about shame. He says, shame shows itself in a person's life in some very unhealthy ways. One can experience many undesirable symptoms of fear, of vulnerability and exposure, a sense of waiting to be found out. Feeling like an outsider who is disconnected and lonely, defensive, perfectionism, a fear of intimacy, shyness Feelings of inferiority or worthlessness, anger, jealousy, judgmental attitudes toward others, scapegoating, difficulty in accepting forgiveness And feeling distant from God and feeling condemned. Thinking in legalistic ways. Using compulsive behaviors to block painful feelings. Using excuses, rationalizing and lies, blaming others Self-centeredness or selfishness, an exaggerated sense of personal flaws or ugliness, a sense of powerlessness and inability to change. hopelessness, depression, even suicidal tendencies. We see these, he says, characteristics fleshed out in Adam and Eve as the third chapter of Genesis Unfolds. That's what shame brings. In dealing with shame, our first impulse is to use face-saving techniques What did Adam and Eve do? Even before God came to find them in the garden, they pursued a cover-up. Operation Fig Leaves, as I've mentioned earlier. Tried to hide their exposure by finding the largest lease they could. Yet even they had a choice. They could have confessed and uncovered their sin before God and pled for his mercy. Instead, they chose to hide. We also do this with words. When we have done something that's shameful, we may say, well, that just wasn't me. I just wasn't myself when I did that. Or it's not my fault. I wouldn't have done that if someone else hadn't done something else. It's really their fault. Or God's fault. That's the ultimate blame Anything to shift blame, refusing to face the truth, the bad news that your heart and your behavior are sinful in the light of God. Another solution that's often tried, especially in these days, is that of convincing yourself through pep talks that you are really acceptable the way you are. This is the religion of popular culture typified by the likes of Oprah Winfrey. It's full of self-congratulatory hype and self-hypnosis. You recite to yourself all the popular self-esteem slogans about how good you are But it won't work. Unfortunately, your feelings won't listen to what you say in your head. Shame is way too heavy to be removed by self-his hypnosis and slogans. What we need, therefore, is a radical approach that deals with the deeper, hidden issues of shame. And here's the good news, folks It's called grace. It's called the love of God who gave his one and only Son. It's rooted in God's love for sinners Grace is the beginning of our healing because it offers the thing we need most to be accepted without regard to whether we are acceptable. Grace stands for gift. It is the gift of God to be accepted before we become acceptable The surest cure for the feeling of being unacceptable is the discovery that we are accepted by grace, the grace of the one whose acceptance matters more than anyone else Grace, you see, overcomes shame. Not by telling us that we're okay, but by simply accepting us, the whole of us. Without regard for our beauty or our ugliness, our virtue or our vices, we are accepted wholesale. Accepted at the ultimate depth of our being, we are given the transparent and sincere acceptance that we have longed for in every relationship in life. Pastor Steve Brown tells a story about a soldier who was wounded in war with the result that his face was badly disfigured He was very anxious about whether his wife could accept him when she saw him. When she met him at the plane, he said to her, I'm sorry about my face. She said, it's okay. I love you. And frankly, you weren't all that pretty before You're ready for grace when you have given up the struggle of looking good to God. When you have given up all hope of ever being acceptable Before Him, then you're ready for grace. When you throw yourself upon Christ, the beautiful one, and take into Him all, and take into yourself all His beauty. Then you have the mercy, the love of God, and you begin to hear in your heart the reassurance, the ultimate reassurance of His love for you. Then you are accepted by grace, not because you look good in your own right, but because of God's love and giving to you and for you. God gave Jesus in the incarnation. He gave him on the cross. And as he hung naked on the cross, He entered into a solidarity and an identification with our shame. The greatest pain of the crucifixion was not the pain of nails and thorns and spear. The greatest pain of the crucifixion was his taking upon himself our human depravity, our foulness, our ugliness, and carrying it away, as we heard from the first chapter. who takes away the sin of the world. And so the cross is the gateway to joy, his and yours For Jesus, who endured the cross, despising the shame, as it says in Hebrews, is risen and is now at the right hand of the throne of God, having exchanged his glory and honor for your shame and mine. As we think about the people around us, shame and guilt will lead many to hell because they refuse to acknowledge their sins. The only reasonable thing to do is to repent and throw yourself upon Christ. So in saying these things in the Gospel, John is trying to get some of his listeners to think hard To examine themselves and consider whether they are self-deceived, whether they are trying to cover up and hide in the darkness. and to challenge them to come into the light of Christ. He says in verse 21, it begins with the word but, contrast. But whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. And that means there is no more shame for you if you are in Christ by faith. You can come into the light, and your works have been carried out in God. There is no more shame. Whoever believes into him should not perish in the shame and the guilt and the darkness and the condemnation and the wrath. But have eternal life, the life of paradise. Are you trusting in God who so loved the world? Or are you maybe rejecting the light Trust in God who so loved the world. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will use your powerful word by the work of the Holy Spirit to challenge. us to trust Christ, to not cover up, to not hide, to not make excuses, but to come into the light And find that we are loved and accepted by the only one whose opinion really counts. Amen.