Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah, where we'll read chapter 64, verses 1 through 8. Isaiah 64, verses 1 through 8. O that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence. As when fire kindles brushwood. And the fire causes water to boil, to make your name known to all the adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence. When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down. The mountains quaked at your presence From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him. You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, and those who remember in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sin we have been a long time, and shall we be saved? We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you For you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. But now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay, and you are our potter. We are all the work of your hand. The word of the Lord. Please remain standing for the reading of the New Testament. Gospel of Luke 15, 1 through 32. It's appropriate to stand for the reading of Scripture. Sometimes we have so much Scripture that maybe it's a little bit daunting for some, but we're going to do it for this portion today. Luke 15, 1 through 32. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to him, and the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he told them a parable. What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country And go after the one that is lost until he finds it. And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. Just so I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance. Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it. And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost. Just so I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents And he said, There was a man who had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. And he divided his property between them. Not many days later the younger son gathered all that he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living. When he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to need be in need. So he went out and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything. But when he came to himself, he said How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread? But I perish here with hunger. I will arise and go to my father. I will say to him Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion and ran and embraced him and kissed him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring the fatted calf. And kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to celebrate. Now his older brother was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house he heard music and dancing, and he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him. But he answered his father, Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat that I may celebrate with my friends But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him. And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad. For this your brother was dead and is alive He was lost and is found. This is the word of the Lord, the gospel of our Lord Jesus. You may be seated. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that you will illumine to our understanding this particular story of the lost son, the prodigal. and his older brother. We pray, oh God, that you'll help us to be able to apply these things to our own minds, hearts, actions, deeds. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I have preached this sermon twice before in my tenure as your pastor here, but a lot of you are new since the last time I did So you won't know that you've heard it before. Some of you who did hear it before may not remember either. But in any case, it is a worthy text. to remind you. It's got lots of extra special teaching, wonderful teaching that will, I hope, be a blessing to you by the Holy Spirit. We're going to go straight to the text Verse 11. Jesus speaking, and he said, There was a man who had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me. This is an astonishing thing and an insulting thing for a son to say to his father in that culture. This son, the younger one, would stand to receive a third of the inheritance. Two-thirds would go to the older son, one-third to the younger son. But that would happen when? When the father died. So in effect, what this younger son is saying, I wish you were dead, but since you're not, I want my stuff now. His relationship was such that he only used the Father as a means to get stuff. He did not want the Father. He did not love the Father He just wanted the stuff that was coming to him. The second phrase is, and he divided his property between them. This father divided his property between them. This is even more astonishing. A patriarch in this culture would be expected to throw the boy out of the house, verbally, if not physically. In light of this insult, this disrespect. But it says he divided his property between them. Not just writing a check, by the way. Now I'll just go to my bank account and transfer some money over and put it in this account, and then I'll write a check, and there you go. That's not the way it works. It means he divided his life, his BIOS. In Greek. He divided his life, his land, which was the measure of his stature in the community. He had to Give up everything in a sense in order to accomplish this dividing and giving a third to this boy. I remember when I was in my first pastorate and I didn't really understand the dynamics of agricultural life. I came into that pastorate and there was a farmer, an elder actually, and a farmer in our congregation. His name was Mick Nedegaard. His wife was Lois. Mick and Nois were dairy farmers. They had worked for many, many years building the dairy, building their dairy herd, building the buildings, taking care of their farm. But it was a bad time of farming life. Prices were down and interest rates were high. They couldn't borrow any more money. They had to lose everything. They had to sell it. And being a new pastor, not understanding these things, the day of the sale, I didn't go. What a dumb idea that I didn't go. They were losing everything. They were dividing their life, their farm, everything. Their cows were all going to auction. That's what's happening here. This man is having to give up everything in order to fulfill this ridiculous request of this foolish son. But he did it. That's astonishing. I apologize to Mick and Lois later when I understood how important it was that I should have been there So we go on to verse 13. Not many days later the younger son gathered all that he had and took a journey into a far country. This isn't the land of Israel, evidently. It's somewhere else. This is Gentile world. And there he squandered his property in reckless living. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into the fields to feed pigs. You know it's a Gentile country because Israelites didn't take care of pigs. They didn't have pigs. He's feeding pigs. And then verse 16, and he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate. And no one gave him anything. Now we see him in a very low condition. Very disgraceful. Unclean living, far country, an unclean country, feeding pigs unclean animals, and longing for unclean food, pig food. Here he is described as in a very low and filthy and desperate condition. But then, verse 17, when he came to himself. He kind of woke up out of this ridiculous thing that he was in. He came to himself and he said, how many of my father's hired servants have more than enough to eat? But I perish here with hunger. I will arise and go to my Father and say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. He finally understands the spiritual condition. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants. What he's thinking here is if he would just be allowed to become a hired servant, He would be able to make, perhaps, over a long period of time, make a small dent in the great debt that he caused his father to incur when he made his ridiculous request. He would be able to begin to restore some of what the father had to lose to allow his wasted inheritance So verse 20, and he arose and came to his father. He's ready to make a speech. A speech of repentance is ready to beg for mercy and to make a beginning of restitution. Now, an ordinary patriarch in this culture would feel no compulsion and have no obligation to receive such a son. He would be respected to reject this son and his ridiculous offer. The son had shamed himself and had shamed the family, and that was really important. But the text says Jesus tells the story this way. While he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion and ran and embraced him and kissed him. Long way off, this patriarch is watching and waiting in longing and love. This would be very far from any expectation of him as a dignified father, but it says next that he ran. This too was unthinkable. Fathers did not hike up their robes and run. Mothers might run, children might run, not fathers. Fathers would never hike up their robes and bare their legs in an embarrassing way like that. It would be completely out of character. But he did. And when the son and the father finally meet, the son doesn't even get a chance to roll out his repentance and his restitution plan. He is swept off of his feet and embraced by this. Father. Verse 21: And the Son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants, but the Father. Said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand. and shoes on his feet, and bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let us eat and celebrate, for this my son, was dead and is alive. He was lost and is found. And they began to celebrate. He doesn't even get to be heard by his father. While he's trying to give his speech, begging for mercy, the father is interrupting it with orders to the servants. And what were those orders? The best robe, bring it now. The robe signifies dignity and honor and glory. It was perhaps the robe of his own father. He doesn't even wait for him to take a bath. He says, cover up my son's nakedness and his filth with my best robe now. And then the ring was probably the signet ring. That is the ring of the corporate seal of that family. Put it on his hand. Restore him to honor with a signet ring. Shoes on his feet. That was to be fully dressed for his home as a son. And then the other order, the final one, the fattened calf. Oh, you would keep your fattened calf over here, fattening them up, feeding them the best stuff, getting ready for some special occasion. Where you would invite the whole neighborhood, all the village to come and share in this wonderful big days-long meal Meat was a delicacy rarely enjoyed, and so only a large and wonderful celebration would be used for, you would bring a fattened calf. So it was an amazing response, wasn't it? An amazing, unexpected response as Jesus is telling this story to these listeners. who were complaining that he ate with sinners. And by sinners he means those who who break the rules of that particular society, who do the things that are not acceptable in that particular culture. He tells them this story. And now verse 25. I think the older son here is the rules keepers. Okay, you can see that I think in the text. Listen to the rules keepers. Verse 25. Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. I suppose that prior to this in the parable He would have noticed how the father was looking and longing and watching for the son that was lost. So he started to now put two things together when he heard music and dancing. And he inquired of his servant as to the meaning of all this noise. And verse 27, and he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. Now, think about it for a moment. If this older brother was at all like the father in this story He also would have run into the house and joined in the celebration and danced a jig of joy. That's not what happens. Verse 28, but he was angry and refused to go in. You need to see him in this verse, red-faced, clenched jaw, seething with barely controlled rage at this celebration. He refused to go in because he hated the whole thing. So next we see his father came out and entreated him Again, this is very uncharacteristic. A patriarch did not have to do things like that. This was a great dishonor to the father when this brother refused to come in. It was a public revolt. It was dishonor. But still the father here went out of the celebration to entreat the older son to come in. Verse 29, but he answered his father, look. This was a disgraceful and contemptuous way of addressing a father. He doesn't even address him as father. He doesn't say, Father, I'm a little perturbed about what's going on. I don't understand. He just says, look! And he says, These many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat that I may celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, comes, you killed the fattened calf for him. So what he's really saying here, in effect, is I'm too good to come in and join this lousy party. You and your son can have it without me. So verse 31, and he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. He reminds the elder brother that the remaining estate is to be given to him. And the father realizes that the older son is angry about the extravagance of the party Perhaps even the cost to the estate. And yet the father still wants him in the feast. And so he says in verse 32, It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead and is alive. He was lost and is found. And that's the end of the story. All are waiting to see what's going to happen next, aren't they? Jesus stops it right there, full stop. It's a cliffhanger. Will there be reconciliation? How will this end? We don't know, but I think we can start to draw some lessons. Jesus here redefines God. For the hearers. God was rarely referred to as Father in the Old Testament. We read in Isaiah 64 one place where he is referred to as Father, but there it means source. It's not father as an intimate, loving, caring, giving person, but father as the source of my life. He brought me forth. But Jesus always called God Father. And he didn't just mean source, he meant intimate, loving relationship. There's only one time in the Bible where Jesus doesn't call God Father, as far as I know. We'll see that in a moment. There are many harsh fathers and distant fathers in this world who are unfeeling and cruel, and maybe yours was, but Jesus gives us the true Father here. He redefines God for these hearers as a loving, caring, giving, compassionate, merciful Father. Some people even object to calling God Father because they have had such a bad experience with fathers, but Jesus gives us a loving God and Father, shows us the Father's heart. In this parable, he defines Father as generosity, as a person emotionally available, willing to endure rejected love And for all his power and majesty, he is loving and longing for reconciliation. He loves his people. This is the redefinition for those who were hearing this parable. Secondly, Jesus redefines sin for the hearers. The sinners were there, the sinners. What are sinners in that context? It means those who Who were not observant Jews, who were not keeping the laws, the rules, the regulations, the kosher, and all those things. They were sinners That is portrayed in the younger brother, the one who went away and spent his inheritance on prostitutes and so forth. Rejecting the moral code, disrespecting Wasting money, bad things. And everybody would recognize this as sin. It is sin. But then in the elder brother he shows us another side of sin. You see, at the end of the story, there are two sons. One is very, very bad and one very, very good. But they're both alienated from the Father. Each one wanted the Father's things, but not the Father. Can you see that? Each one had the same basic pre Disposition to the Father. They just want his stuff. One gets the Father's stuff by being good And one by being bad, but both are alienated from the Father The bad one is alienated in his badness, and the good one is alienated by his goodness. But in the end, it is the bad son that is reconciled and the good son that is still alienated. And it gets worse. The bad son ends up being forgiven in spite of his sins, but the good son. resists the merciful Father because of his record, his self-righteousness, his goodness. And here's the reason he won't go into the feast. He says in verse 29, These many years I have served you and I never disobeyed your command. Therefore I'm not going to celebrate the sinner. It's not his sins that is keeping him from the Father. It is his self-made goodness. He is proud of his moral uprightness, and that keeps him from a relationship with the Father. Remember the first verse of chapter 15. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. That's why he told the story. The tax collectors and sinners are the younger brother, and the scribes and the Pharisees are the older brothers. Younger brothers, we have a lot of younger brothers in this world of ours, our society. Younger brothers say that the way to find life is through doing whatever you want. Doing your own thing, not by conforming to some external moral code. Oh, our society is full of such sinners Who reject all the past, all the codes, all the rules and regulations of moral life, and do their own thing, come what may. I'm going to date myself by quoting from very old musicians here, but the Isley brothers said, it's your thing, do what you want to do. Or the Hodo Guru said, please yourself, please yourself. Or even Outback Steakhouse, I don't know if they still have this motto, but it is no rules, just right. I'll bet they have rules if you try to walk out without paying the bill. But you know who these younger brothers are in our world, maybe even in your own life. They are those who are the party people, the liberals, the moral relativists. Those who grew up in church but don't keep the rules anymore, they're the younger brothers. And the elder brothers Are those who say the way to live is through moral conformity, keeping all the rules in all their detail, all the time, never failing? The worldview of the younger brothers, they look at the world and say, it's the moralists who ruined the world and spoiled the fun and make the world a bad place. And the worldview of the elder brothers, they look at the world and say, it's the immoral sinners who are ruining the world. Jesus is saying, both are wrong. Both are wrong. Both are alienated from the Father. Both are making the world a terrible place, but in different ways. One by being bad and one by being good and proud of it. Jesus is saying, rather, that it is the humble who are in and the proud who are out. Those who come to see being in the feast as an act of sheer grace are in. Those who think they have earned the right to be in the feast are out. You see, my friends The gospel is not religion or irreligion or a halfway in the middle. It is something entirely different. There are two ways to be your own Savior and Lord. One by being very bad and one by being very good and proud of it. One son tried to get the father's stuff by being bad. The other planned to get the father's stuff by being good. But neither of them loved the Father. Neither of them wanted the Father. There are two ways to get control of life and control of the people around you. One by doing your own thing any way you please and just saying they'll get over it. Another is the way of conforming to all expectation, keeping all the rules, and then saying, I deserve it. Two ways to get what you really want when you what you want is not God Himself. Neither one wants God. Tim Keller says, religious people obey God to get things. Gospel people obey God to get God. To know God. To resemble him, to love him, to delight him. So again, capsulizing, younger brother alienation Leads to pain and suffering and sickness and addiction and disorder in the world. Older brother alienation leads to judgmentalism and anger and bitterness and self-righteousness. And selfishness in this world. Just look at the older brother here. He's always angry. He's built his happiness on being paid off for being good. If you think life should go well for you because you are good, then you're going to be angry a lot of the time. And when it goes well with you, you'll be proud and judgmental of others And when life goes tough, you'll be angry because you'll see it as an injustice that you, a good person, are suffering. How can we have the right motive for obeying God? How can we come to obey out of love for God and gratitude toward God? And that brings us to this third point. Jesus redefines salvation. Luther said that the default mode of every human heart is self-justification. We run to it every time we can. Self-justification. So now we see that we need three things. In order to see this salvation that Jesus is giving us, we need the initiating love of the Father. We see it here in the parable. The Father goes out to the Son. That's the initiating love. We see the father kisses his son before he says anything. It's initiating love. The father goes out also to the older brother and treats him. That's initiating love. You need to know that God is the one who initiates a relationship with you And then we need to learn how to repent of something besides the sins on the taboo list You see, everybody, probably everybody sitting here anyway, has a list of sins that are taboo That trouble them, and they see those sins in others, and they look down their noses at them. The Pharisees are that group. The Pharisees repent of sins on their list when they do sin. They repent of those sins and they feel terrible, but when they have finished repenting, they are still Pharisees. They're still self-righteous. So learn how to repent not only of things that you did wrong, but learn how to repent for the reasons that you did right. The wrong reasons you did right. The difference between a Christian and a moralist is that a Christian has learned to repent not only for sins on the list, but for the wrong reasons that he did the right things. You see? It's kind of tricky, but the wrong reasons you do right are self-justification. In order to get over this idea that we can justify ourselves, you need to see, and it's here in the parable, you need to see how much it cost to bring you home. Verse 31, and he said to him, Son, you're always with me, and all that is mine is yours. The money that is being spent on the party belongs to the elder brother. The father divided the estate. But now he says, all that is mine is yours. The elder brother, if he really knew the father in love, the elder brother should have long before said, I'll go out and find my brother. Who went off into a far country? I'll go out and rescue him. He has ruined himself. If he has, I will pay for all that it takes to bring him home again. And I'll give him part of the remaining estate that comes to me. And I'll kill the fatted calf and celebrate. You see, he should have shared the father's heart And Jesus was showing this uncaring, selfish, self-righteous elder brother. He was holding up a mirror in the faces of the scribes and Pharisees. But the very same time, I hope you'll get this too, the very same time he was pointing to a much better elder brother. Not one in the parable, but one very close by. A much better elder brother. That is an elder brother who would not just go to a far country to rescue us But come from heaven to earth to rescue us. One who would lose greater riches than can be counted to redeem us and pay our debt. One who would patiently and lovingly absorb all the pain of our rejecting his love, as you see here in this parable. And an elder brother, the one we need, is the one who always addressed God, Abba, Father. Except one time. One time when he was paying for our alienation, reconciling us to the Father. That place where he had been stripped, so that you might be clothed with a robe of honor. You might wear the family ring. And there he did not say, Father. He said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He was for that infinite moment not being treated as a son, so that you might be a son forever. So when you see how much it costs to bring you home, you may begin to love the Father who gave his only son to be your brother. And begin to love God and obey God, not to get stuff, but to get God, to delight God, and to become like God. And that's what we call the new birth. And if you get this new birth, this new orientation to the true Father, And to his wonderful son who redeemed you. It will make you sweet. It will make you humble because you know how much a sinner you really are, even if you try to keep the rules. And you won't look down your proud nose at others. One old Scottish hymn writer wrote this. Listen to these words. Lay your deadly goodness down, down at Jesus' feet. Stand in him and him alone, gloriously complete. If you come to know God, the God of this parable, the father of this parable, it will make you confident and joyful because you know how much he loves you. He gave you the true elder brother, and all that he has, he will share with you, the entire estate. And so you won't. If you understand this, you won't be a licentious free spirit, doing your own thing and let others pay the price. And you won't be a religious moralist. You will be a Christian. Are you a Christian? Or could it be that you are a religious moralist who has found a comfortable place to be, religious and moral? You need to check your motivation. Do you love God? Not are you good? Not are you religious, but do you love God? And do you love him for who he is and for what he has done to save you? Both prodigal sons, you see, needed this God, this father. For some of you, you may be tempted to try using Jesus as your ticket to forgiveness in heaven while doing your own thing morally. Flouting God's laws. You're counting on grace as your get out of hell ticket. You're using God to get what you want, but not really wanting God for Himself. That's a bad idea. For others of you, you may have started out as a Christian, loving God, wanting God for God's sake, but you have slipped into religious moralism as the default mode of thinking and behaving. And relating to others and to God. And you're critical and you're judgmental and you're angry when things don't go your way. This is a bad idea. It's not the gospel. It's not God's way. What you need to see Which Jesus shows us and He will show. Hanging on the cross, suffering the worst from sinners for sinners. Losing the light of the Father's countenance, so that you might always live in that light. Again, the Scottish hymn writer, lay your deadly goodness down, down at Jesus' feet. Stand in him, in him alone, gloriously complete. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we need to be corrected and trained in true righteousness, not just keeping the rules, but loving you Rejoicing in the mercy that has been given to us in Jesus Christ, our elder brother And Lord help us, therefore, to be gospel oriented people who love you and serve you. Any here who are tempted to to licentiate living, to to being relativists and throwing away the rules, please help them to love you enough to repent and turn to you. And any here who have slipped into moralism and self-righteousness, help them to forsake it and turn to you, the one who gave yourself for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.