Ezekiel chapter 34, and we'll be reading the entire chapter. Ezekiel 34 The word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to them, even to the shepherds, thus says the Lord God Ah, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding yourselves, should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool. You slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. So they were scattered, because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered. They wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek. For them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely because my sheep have become a prey. And my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd. And because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep. But the shepherds have fed themselves and have not fed my sheep. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep at their hand, and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them. For thus says the Lord God, behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from their countries, and will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel by the ravines. And in all the inhabited places of the country. I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. And I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed And I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak and the fat, and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them injustice. As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord God, behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between rams and male goats. Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture, and to drink of clear water that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet? And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with your feet? Therefore, thus says the Lord God to them, Behold, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep, because you push with side and shoulder, and thrust at all the weak with your horns till you have scattered them abroad I will rescue my flock. They shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep. Sheep, and I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them. He shall feed them and be their shepherd. And I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the Lord, I have spoken. I will make with them a covenant of peace And banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. And I will make them and the places all around my hill a blessing. And I will send down the showers in their season. They shall be showers of blessing. And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase. And they shall be secure in their land, and they shall know that I am the Lord when I break the bars of their yoke and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them. They shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid And I will provide for them renowned plantations so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord God, and you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture And I am your God, declares the Lord God. This is the word of the Lord. The reading is John chapter 10, 1 through 21, which is the preaching text John 10, truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but comes up by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought all his own out, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand it So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. The sheep comes only to see Steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice, so that there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I laid down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me. From me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, illumine now our hearts and minds to understand the treasures of your holy word. In Jesus' name, amen. I keep reminding you, congregation, of the overall purpose of John's Gospel. The overall purpose is stated in chapter 20, where it says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. So that's a roadmap to the whole Gospel of John. All the signs, all the doings, all the sayings of Jesus are to convince the hearers that Jesus is the Christ, the promised one, the Son of God, and to believe and therefore have life in his name. That's the purpose of John's Gospel. So that's the purpose Of this particular place that we are in today. But we also have, in this section that I just read, we have a larger context in the immediate situation. And it's still this one. We are still at the Feast of Tabernacles, or booths, as it's sometimes called We're still at that feast. It was a time of eight days of camping out in your own backyard and eating in your little booth, your little tent, your little shelter, to remember, to commemorate. The 40 years of wandering in the wilderness where God provided for his people as they were camping for 40 years. He instituted this to teach them and to remind them and to convince them of his grace in the wilderness to them. And so that's the context And you remember at the end of that last section that we read through and studied, there was this man who was born blind. And the disciples saw him and said, Who sinned? This man or his parents that he was born blind? And Jesus doesn't have anything to do with that. He says it's not either one of those, is the answer. But then Jesus went on to heal the man. And as I pointed out, a couple of weeks ago, in healing the man, he broke the Sabbath, at least their rendition of the Sabbath law, by making mud. By spitting on the ground and that made mud, and that was Sabbath breaking because you're not supposed to make mud on the Sabbath. Um but um he healed the man and then the Pharisees began to interview the man. They didn't believe it happened at first. Uh he they couldn't throw off the evidence. And so they finally just said, well just give glory to God because it's not just Jesus didn't do it. it. And uh and when the man kept confessing Jesus, when Jesus interviewed the man and said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, Who is he? He says, You're looking at him and you're talking to him. And he said, Lord, I believe. Amen. So he believed, and what'd they do in response to His belief and his confession of Christ. They threw him out of the synagogue. You can't come to the synagogue anymore. You're not welcome here. Anyone who believes in him is not welcome. So they threw him out. Now that's the context for the statements that we now come to, where Jesus is teaching that he's the good shepherd, and the guys that threw the man out. are the false shepherds. Just to reiterate what Jeff read. For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds, the ones that throw you out of the synagogue. And I will require my sheep at their hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths that they may not be food for them. That's just one of the birds. So that's the condition, or that's the situation that we're in, and we now come to this statement in 1 through 6 of chapter 2. 10 where Jesus says, Amen, Amen, truly, truly, most solemnly I tell you, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, But climbs up by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep to him Listen carefully, the gatekeeper opens. So the gatekeeper here would be who? John the Baptist. When Jesus came on the scene and began to announce himself, John, the gatekeeper of Israel's Said, there he is. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's the one you were looking for. Jesus is identified by John as the gatekeeper When he said those words. And we see here that when the gatekeeper comes, and there's these sheep in this fold, and the way they did this, they would have like a half-dozen different Folds staying in one sheep pen for the night. You know, several shepherds would bring their sheep and they would lock them into this one sheep pen, and there would be this porter. uh who would stand guard at the door of this nighttime sheep pen and uh when the time came in the morning for the shepherd to to bring his flock out and take them to a pasture place and guard them and care for them for them, they would hear his voice. And it's a remarkable thing. I mean if you've done sheep, I haven't, but uh I've I've seen this in other situations which I won't get into into right now, where where the shepherd comes and he says, Hey sheep, my sheep, and he may have some code words or some affectionate uh way of calling them. Maybe he bleats or something. I don't know. But his sheep will come out. The doorkeeper, John the Baptist here, opens to him. He knows that this is the real shepherd for these sheep. And then the sheep will come out. The other sheep will stay and wait for their shepherd. But these sheep will come out and follow this shepherd. And that's what we have here. Verse 3. To him the gatekeeper opens the sheep, hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. So there's this big flock, but then there's the flock within the flock, and the shepherd, the good shepherd, calls his own out by name. And then verse 5, a stranger, somebody else calls for his sheep? No, they're not going to follow a stranger. They will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know him. The voice of strangers, the figure of speech, Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. You see, what Jesus is saying is Some of you people in the fold of Israel are not true sheep, and you'll follow false shepherds wherever they want you to go. But I'm the good shepherd, I'm the true shepherd, and I'm going to gather my own sheep. I'm going to call them out, and they're going to follow me. They're not going to fail to follow me, but they won't follow false shepherds. And that's what he's saying, and they didn't understand it. So he moves on to a different figure of speech. Before we get to the different figure of speech, let me just apply this for a second. The good shepherd, the true shepherd of his chosen sheep is Jesus. Jesus is this good shepherd. And if you are his sheep, you will hear his voice. Some point in your life you will hear his voice. Maybe you grew up in church and you taught were taught all about Jesus and it didn't really register with you for a while, but if you really are his chosen sheep, it's At some point, your ears will be open to his voice. You will hear it, and it'll wake you up. It'll get you moving. It will call you out. And you'll follow him. And you cannot be led astray if your He is sheep and you hear His voice. So be comforted by that truth And examine yourself as to whether you've really responded to the true and good shepherd, Jesus, who calls out his own chosen sheep. But now this next figure of speech, the door, verses 7 through 13. So Jesus again said to them, and You have to remember these words truly, truly, are in Aramaic or Amen, Amen. And it's a way of being solemn and emphatic. He says, truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and listen, that's very important, will go in and out. And find pasture. I want you to stop just for a moment and consider the importance of that phrase. Go in and out and find pasture. Pastor. It's not just a throwaway phrase that got stuck in here. Going in and out, that idea has always been a part of God's covenant promise. God leads his people in and out in tender love and care because of his covenant love. I know that there's a a burger chain out west called In and Out, so let's put that aside. But in Deuteronomy chapter 28 Verse 6, here's the covenant promise. If my people will keep my promises, it says, blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. That's That's that first picture of this in and out with God thing. And then in Numbers chapter 27, verse 15, Moses spoke to the Lord, saying, Let the God of the spirits of all flesh Appoint a man over the congregation, who shall go out before them, and shall come in before them, and who shall lead them out and bring them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be as sheep as have no shepherd. So again, this in and out is part of God's covenant promise. And then the beautiful psalm which we sometimes sing around here is Psalm 121. Listen to these words The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. And that's what God is promising. That's what Jesus is promising. He's the door. And if you enter through him, you'll be able to go in and out. That's this wonderful covenant stuff. He is able to take, therefore, what appears to be the futility of our life sometimes and establish it. for all eternity, so that our coming and our going and all of our activities are in Him and are kept and made beautiful and wonderful and preserved and will be rewarded for them for all eternity. eternity. As the psalmist says, Establish thou the work of our hands. Yes, Lord, establish the work of our hands. And he does. He establishes all of our goings in and comings out within the covenant of his promise. It's a strange thing that we can spend most of our lives plotting out our career path, making money. Becoming successful, getting ahead, and find at the end of it all that we've wasted our lives, at least from our own look at it All the good things, the joyful things, the things that we felt would make us secure, the things that we expected to give us a sense of accomplishment Sometimes at the end don't seem to have done the job. Someone is called this destination sickness. Destination sickness. That's the sickness you feel after arriving where you always wanted to go and finding that it does not satisfy. Well, God, in his wonderful grace, saves us from destination sickness. He takes our goings in and our comings out, and he makes it wonderful. He makes it established for all eternity But let's move on to verse 10. The thief, he says, there have been thieves in the past, historically. The thief comes only to Steal and kill and destroy. And I'm sure that some of these Pharisees who threw this man out of their synagogues are in that category of thieves and attackers of the flock. I have come, he says, I came that they may have life, and have it abundantly. These other shepherds or false shepherds, they they destroy, they eat, they destroy, they they ruin ruin, but I have come that they have life and have it abundantly. Then he says in verse 11, again, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. The wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. But let's go back to what was said earlier. We're thinking of the hired hands, the false shepherds, but let's think here now of what he said earlier. It was this phrase. Which we haven't untacked yet. I am the door of the sheep. Now we talked about the porter earlier. But this is a different thing. Ray Steadman, a pastor out in California, who's, I think, with the Lord now, he says this: this is a picture taken from the middle of the work day Not beginning of the work day where the the shepherd calls his own out of the larger flock, but the middle of the work day Where a Mideastern shepherd would lead his flock out of the sheepfold to the hillsides in the morning, where they graze through the morning hours, and then in the early afternoon, when it gets kind of hot, like it does here lately. He provides a temporary shelter where they can rest out in their grazing field. This is a corral-type structure where the sheep can lie down in the shade, protected from wild beasts, and it has an opening across which the shepherd himself lies. He becomes the door, you see. A door. So that the sheep cannot go in or out without crossing over him, and no false Predator can come in and out and take the sheep either. This is what Jesus means in the words, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. See, he's the door who guards his own flock. in their rest, who guides them into green pastures and leads them beside still waters, as we sang just a few moments ago. Nothing harmful gets past the door. In this life, as you know, we have all kinds of troubles We have health problems. We're praying for our sister Ann, who's involved in health problems right now. We have money problems sometimes We have kids problems. We have relationships failures. But we can be sure of this. That in whatever God allows in, nothing other than what He ordains gets past the door. Nothing that will ultimately destroy us or harm us gets past the door. He's laying down, guarding our place of refuge and rest. And that reminds me of a phrase from the Heidelberg Catechism, which we're going to be hearing in September. In question one It says there, He preserves me so that without the will of my Heavenly Father, not a hair can fall from my head. Yea, that all things must be subservient to my soul Salvation. Because the door, Jesus the door, guards his own sheep. Nothing that will destroy you ultimately gets past the door. Just keep that in mind. And then thirdly, this is probably the most important point, is that Jesus is the covenant keeper. He's the covenant keeper. Verses 14 through 18. Back in verse 11, he said, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. That's so important. And then in verse 14, I am the good shepherd, I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep. That's what Jesus says here. Now, that's important because God made a covenant with Adam long ago in the garden, a covenant with Adam and all his descendants. And he promised blessing, an unending life, and wonderful communion with God. Peace and health and love and joy and intimacy of fellowship between persons. God is a person. We are persons made in his image. And the greatest bliss possible between our personal God and his personal image-bearing creatures was promised in the garden as part of the promises of the covenant. But there were also sanctions promised as well, threatened. The sanctions of the covenant made with Adam and all his posterity are these If you break the covenant, death of fellowship with God, fear of God, they hid themselves from God. Terror, hiding, strife with God and with other humans. That's why we often confess that we Have sinned against God, and it has caused a breach between God and ourselves individually. It This sanction involves deterioration of bodily life and final death and judgment leading to eternal punishment in hell. That's what was promised in the garden. And in history of Israel, the covenant people were later divided between the original heirs, the Israelites, and the Gentiles. But all are included in this first covenant promise with Adam. To Abraham, later it was promised that his descendants would become an innumerable seed. And that one of his descendants would become a blessing for all nations, so that all those who will be saved And are saved, are saved in union with the life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus. Jesus, who is the only, the only covenant keeper, the only one who ever kept the covenant. All who have faith in him are united to him by that faith and are covenant keepers in him. Jesus is the covenant keeper in the you see, because he always did what was right in thought, in word, and in deed. He never had to stop his mind from wandering into unholy thoughts. He never had to had said anything untrue or out of place, so that he wished he could take it back, as we often do. He never broke God's law or did anything amiss. There were no regrets with Jesus. But he also did what you could not do for yourself. He stood, or rather hung in your place on the cross. And in that he absorbed all of the penalty of your covenant breaking By laying down his life. That's what he says here. I lay down my life for the sheep. By laying down his life for the sheep. And by getting it up again, by being raised from the dead, the death penalty for covenant breakers has been discharged. And so, as I mentioned a few minutes ago, that wonderful first question and answer of the Heidelberg Catechism says this, and it says it so beautifully What is your only comfort in life and in death? Is your comfort that you've tried hard and been pretty good? It is not comfortable. Frankly. If that's your comfort, you got false comfort. What is your only comfort in life and in death if you understand this covenant thing? That I, with body and soul, both in life and in death, am not my own. If I'm my own, I'm lost. But belong unto my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. who with his precious blood has fully satisfied for all my sins and delivered me from all of the power of the devil. So preserves me that without the will of my Heavenly Father not a hair can fall from my head. Yea, that in all things must be subservient to my salvation. That's the ministry of the Good Shepherd, the door, the covenant keeper. Who keeps the covenant when we couldn't and didn't ever keep it? So what's the result of this, these statements? Of Jesus. What's the result? Verse 19. There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said he is a demon. He is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, these are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? John often does this. After telling us what Jesus said and did, he points out the division that it causes. The verdict, as we heard a couple of weeks ago. And he calls for a decision on those who listen. He's not content to just state the truth and let it float out there. Because the truth about Jesus calls for a decision. These days it's it's thought to be impolite, perhaps even not politically correct, to claim that you have the truth Or even that there is a truth. Some people will just say, ah, you have your truth and I have mine. It doesn't matter if they completely contradict each other. Sometimes we we talk about sharing. It's okay to share your experience, but never claim that it's absolutely true or that there's a truth behind it. That's not the way of real evangelism. That's not the way evangelism was done in the early church, my friends. Because the truth about Jesus is absolutely true. And it calls for a decision. It's not just something kind of floating out there, take it or leave it. It doesn't matter too much. You have yours, I have mine. That's not the biblical faith. It's not. So I ask you, believers, are you soft-peddling the truth? Pray that you might be thrown out of the politically correct synagogue. Join the saints who bore the witness of Jesus Join this man who was born blind, who said, I believe and confess. That Jesus is the true shepherd, the Son of Man, the Son of God, the Savior, the only Savior of the world. Hebrews 13, verse 13 says. Therefore, let us go to him, go to Jesus outside the camp, outside the politically correct, outside the synagogue of Satan. Let us go to Jesus outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. Speak up for the truth. Own it. And to the listening audience, maybe on radio later or by internet, or all of you who are here today too. Are you a sheep of Yahweh the Lord? Do you hear his loving voice? If so, follow the shepherd. As I said at the beginning, these are written, this one was written, that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life. In his name. Will you follow the skepticism of false shepherds who threw the man out for believing in Jesus? Or will you cling even now to the good shepherd and be led by him and live because of him? I'll use the words Jesus used. Truly, truly. Amen, amen. I say to you, I solemnly urge you to believe in Jesus and follow him and have life in his name When you do that, you'll be able to say the words and mean them of the Heidelberg Catechism, that I, with body and soul, both in life and in death, am not my own, but belong unto my faithful Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ, who with his precious blood is fully satisfied for all my sins and delivered me from all the power of the devil, and so preserves me. But that without the will of my Heavenly Father, not a hair could fall from my head. Yea, that all things must be subservient to my salvation. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you have called us out. We've heard your voice. You've led us out to graze, figuratively speaking, in the ways of covenant mercy and love. And you keep us even there. You are the door that guards our life, that guards our eternity. Because you're the one who died for us. You're the one who laid down your life and picked it up again. For us. We praise you and thank you. As we come to your table, Lord, help us to remember and experience these truths as we eat and drink. Drink according to your ordinance. Amen.