The next reading is from 1 Peter 2. This is the text of the preaching today. 1 Peter 2, beginning at verse 11. As we continue in our series in 1 Peter. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, To abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Be subject, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as Supreme. Or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil But living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing, when mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to the one who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed For you were straying like sheep, but now have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. And in the gospel reading Which comports well here with Mark chapter twelve, thirteen through seventeen. And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians to trap him in his talk. And they came and said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion. For you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them or should we not? But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, Why put me to the test? Bring me a denarius, and let me look at it. And they brought one, and he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? They said to him, Caesar's. Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit, Lord. That as we have heard these words from the Proverbs and from Psalm 24, And from the epistle and now from the gospel, please may these words illumine, be illumined by your Spirit So that we may understand your will, your word, lay it up in our hearts, and put it into practice in our lives. Amen. Well we continue in First Peter and we pick right up at verse eleven and we read that. I always chuckle when I see a biographical sketch of a former colleague of mine. His name is Robert Lutham. He's the author of many books. And he's a professor at the Evangelical Theological School of England and Wales. And in his biographical sketch, he always puts this little line. He says, one of my hobbies is walking. Dot dot dot, which I began at a very early age. Well Picking up on that, one of my early age things is one of my problems personally is rebellion, which I began at an early age. I am a rebel at heart. And so are you. Baptist minister Vadi Bachman, discussing the human signature, describes babies. He describes babies as vipers in diapers. We have already said that the recipients of this letter are mostly Gentiles. But God has bestowed upon them the status and privileges that belong to Israel, the Jews. Looking back at verse 9 of this very same chapter, he says, you are a chosen race. That's a Jewish title. A royal priesthood. That's a Jewish title. A holy nation, again Jewish, a people for his own possession. This is the great promise And then he says, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, out of that pagan darkness, out of that natural, Adamic darkness. That vipers and diapers darkness. He says, once you were not a people, that goes back to Hosea's prophecy, but now you were God's people. That is Hosea's prophecy. Once you had not received mercy, Hosea again, but now you have received mercy. He's giving all these wonderful and glorious privileges and promises to these Gentiles living in Asia Minor. These gracious gifts of God that are being bestowed upon them are beyond measure, and they are contra-deserved. Sometimes we say that grace means undeserved favor, but it's actually more than that. It is contra-deserved favor. We deserve the opposite. And yet we have God's grace, God's undeserved and contradeserved favor. And so back in chapter 1 of 3 through 5, Peter begins by saying, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. There again is this This wonderful description of these great privileges, this great service is now ensigned to these people, assigned to them, this great service that you may proclaim the excellencies. I've seen it on places and churches. Saved to serve. We're not just saved, we're saved to serve, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Well, with that. Let us then come to verse 11 and see how he applies these great privileges and this great calling to proclaim God's glory. And he begins in verse 11 with a general, overarching idea. He says to them, beloved I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Abstain from the passions of the flesh. Let's take that apart for a moment. Passions. The word here is the word for over-desires. Hyper-emotions and hyperactions, over-the-top things, things that drive your life out of control because they have too much power over you. That can be, for example, uncontrolled sexual desires, or uncontrolled eating desires, or drinking desires, or sleeping desires Or working desires. Or worrying desires. Things that are over the top, that rule our lives are called passions here. And they compete with God's truth and God's goodness in our lives. So he talks about passions, and then he talks about passions of the flesh. What does he mean here? Well, this is not a reference, as I've said many times before, to the human body per se. As if the created world, as if the material world were innately sinful. No, God created the material world and he pronounced it good. So the material world, including our bodies, are not innately bad. But what he's talking here about is the sinful nature. inherited from Adam, the rebellious nature that I described at first. That is the flesh, the passions, the over-desires of the sinful nature operating in our body bodies and in our lives. He says, having been born again to a living hope, in union with Christ, we are to live a new life. And we are not to let these over-desires of the sinful nature rule anymore. And so he says abstain. That's the first word actually. What does abstain mean? It means to say no. Because these things, if they're allowed to go forward in our lives, will wage a war against our soul. They compete with God's work in us. And as a result of this war waging in our soul, and this is the practical port here, you will not have a gospel witness. You've been called to all these great privileges. You've been born again to a living hope. You've got all this good stuff. But if you let these over-desires rule through your sinful adamic nature Then you won't have any gospel witness because they wage a war against your soul, and that wages a war against your witness. And he's concerned about witness here That's what he's talking about. Don't let these things rule because they will destroy you and they will destroy your witness. Now, in the context of this discussion about gospel witness and its importance is the fact of that time that there was There were rumors about the Christians, terrible, nasty rumors about the Christians. One of the Roman senators, I think it was a senator, named Octavius. wrote about these rumors. And here's what he said about the Christians. I'm going to read a bit of it. He said, assuredly, this Confederacy, the Christian Confederacy ought to be rooted out and execrated. They know one another by secret marks and insignia Probably meaning the way they greeted one another, probably meaning the the fish symbol that they would often draw to identify with one another. He says, and they love one another almost before they know one another. Everywhere also there is mingled among them a certain religion of lust. And they call one another promiscuously brothers and sisters. That not even the usual Not even un that n even not unusual debauchery, maybe intervention of that sacred name because become incestuous. I'm getting this wrong, but he's basically accusing them of incest. because they call each other brother and sister. Nor concerning these things would intelligent reports speak of these things so great and various and required them to be profit prefaced by an apology unless truth were at the bottom of it. He says, there's no excuse for what they do and and I'm not even going to argue about it. He says, I hear that they adore the head of a donkey. Where did they get that? The basis of creatures. He says, on a solemn day they assemble at the feast with all their children, sisters, mothers, people of every sex and every age. And then he goes on to accuse them of child sacrifice. and incest actually accused the Christians of of eating little children Crazy. I guess that's because they talked about eating God's Son, you know, his body and blood. So Peter says in that context, because you have to be careful of your witness in verse 12, he says, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. The Gentiles are these pagans, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. We'll discuss that a bit later. That's the general overview. Now he speaks specifically about how we should guard ourselves against overpassions and sinful desires, and he says this in verse 13. Because passions, you see, run in many different directions. But not usually in the direction of respecting authority. That's not one of our problems, is it, respecting authority This is especially true of our Western post-Enlightenment individualistic mindset. So here's what he says to them and to us. The subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be the Emperor as Supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God. Here's the mission part of it For this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, he says, not using your freedom as a cover up for evil, but living as servants of God. And then he caps it off again. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. Well, that is a tall order. Again, because our passions tend to run in the direction of rebellion against all authority. He says, don't do that. It wages war against your soul, and it will ruin your witness in the world. Martin Luther, in his treatise called The Freedom of a Christian, says this, and we like the first line. A Christian is the most free Lord of all, subject to none. Amen. But then he says in the next line: a Christian is the most dutiful servant of all, subject to all. We Americans are perhaps the people most prone to this particular passion that Peter's addressing here. We've never had a monarchy We have an election every two years. And we want to know the answer to the question, what have you done for me lately? Our predisposition is to throw the bums out. But Peter says, run against that trend. Be subject. Be subject. To the authorities. That makes the hair stand up on the back of our head. Be subject to the authorities. Now, in this context, what kind of emperor was ruling where Peter says, be subject, honor the emperor, and all that. What kind of emperor was ruling the Roman world? Nero was ruling the Roman world. Many things may be said about our president, but he is not Nero. History tells us that Nero wanted to redesign Rome But there were many old houses in the way. So, because the owners of these houses would not give their consent, Nero had them set a fire and then blamed the Christians for their destruction. The accusations gained acceptance because Christians had such strange rituals and they refused to let their God, Jesus Christ, be lumped together with all the other Roman gods. This led to much persecution. Many believers were thrown to the lions. They were sown into animal skins and left for wild dogs to pull to pieces. And these things were done as entertainment for the crowds. Many Christians were crucified. Others were dipped in candle wax and fixed to posts along the way to Nero's palace. and then set on fire. And Nero was once said to have remarked at the sight of these Christian candles, Now you really are the light of the world. This Nero is the same one who had Peter crucified upside down, according to tradition. And it was at this time and situation that Peter wrote these words, which I repeat, be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Whether it be to the Emperor as supreme or to governors sent by him, and then fear God, honor the Emperor. Why? Why? He says in verse 15, for this is the will of God, that by doing so you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. It's a mission thing, you see. It's a mission Well, Octavius had those terrible accusations, but they had to be answered. They were answered at least once by Justin Martyr in his In his second Apology or Defense of the Christian faith, here's what Justin Martyr said Um the Christians were being accused of cannibalism, the Lord's Supper, and sexual immorality, the sacred kiss. Justin argues that if that were the case and if Christians were mere pleasure-mongers, then why would they be fearless of death and faithful to what they believe Their faithfulness to Christ in the face of death proves that they are not mere pleasure seekers. On the contrary, it was the accusers who had a system of religion in which noble men sacrificed humans to gods such as Saturn. And in which sexual immorality was openly practiced without shame. And then Justin cries out in his defense. He says, but would that even now someone would mount a lofty rostrum and shout with a loud voice Be ashamed, be ashamed, ye who charge the guiltless with those deeds which you yourselves openly commit, and ascribe things which apply to yourselves and to the gods to those who have not even the slightest sympathy with them. Be ye converted, become wise. And finally, Justin portrays the Christians as those who love God and his word, Jesus Christ. And he desires that this appeal be published, that the world will not be superstitious about Christians. And he closes with these words. About us. He says, our doctrines are not shameful according to a silver judgment, but are indeed more lofty than all human philosophy. And henceforth we shall be silent, having done as much as we could, and having added the prayer that all men everywhere may be counted worthy of the truth. And would that you also, in a manner becoming piety and philosophy, would for your own sakes judge justly. He's appealing to the sensibilities of those who are listening to him to please don't believe the lies about Christians. but listen to what we actually do and observe what we actually do and say. Well that was then We may not be accused of the things that these Christians were accused of, but we are, if you think about it, being accused of being anti-Congress Anti-president, anti-government, un-American, intolerant, haters, regressive, prudish. That's what we're being accused of. Some of these accusations are pure fiction, based on stereotypes about Christianity. Misrepresentations of what we actually believe unjust. Others of these accusations may in fact have some basis. In our rebellious nature, nurtured by our enlightenment, individualism, and autonomy. But not a basis of support in the Christian scriptures. And the Holy Spirit here calls us to repent. of arrogant words and other actions of rebellion against civil authorities. Doesn't it? It is right to dissent. We must, however, be respectful in our dissent. There is a time and a place to disobey. That time is when we are commanded to obey man rather than God. or whether in a time where we are forbidden from doing what God commands, then yes, we must we must dissent and we must disobey, we must rather die than obey such terrorism. But until then, we must be subject, as Peter says, for the Lord's sake. to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme or to governors sent by him Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. And now he's going to apply that to various institutions. institutions or various stations, I should say, in life. And he takes it up specifically to servants or slaves. Now, slavery in ancient Rome is not exactly like slavery which prevailed in America for a time. Slavery in ancient Rome played an important role in society and in the economy. Besides manual labor, slaves perform many domestic services and might be employed at highly skilled jobs and professions. Slaves were teachers and accountants and physicians, and some slaves were also just poor people. who had to work really hard, unskilled people, who had to work on farms or in mines or at the mills. Slaves were considered property under Roman law and had no legal personhood. Unlike Roman citizens, they could be subjected to corporal punishment, sexual exploitation, torture, and Even summary execution. A testimony of a slave could normally not be accepted in the court of law. Over time, however, slaves gained increasing legal protection. Including the right to file complaints against their masters. Attitudes changed in part because of the influence among the educated elite of the Stoics and because of Christianity. To those slaves, Peter says this, servants, be subject to your masters with all Respect not only to the good and gentle, not just when you like your employer, but also to the unjust, for this is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. And then he says, what credit is it if you sin and you're beaten for it? But when you endure and suffer, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. And then he caps it off in verse 21, for to this you have been called. This is your mission. Because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. And then I want to go back at this moment to verse 12. Verse 12 said As a justification for doing all these things, verse 12 says, that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Now, what is this day of visitation? In Scripture, the day of visitation has two meanings. And it might be both here, but the one meaning which is very clear in the Old Testament is it is the day of final judgment. The day when God visits his judgment on the world. It points to the expectation that many people around these Christians, watching them live, observing their life. Would see the grace of God working in them and living through them and see their respect and see their honorable behavior, and they would be convinced of the truth of the gospel so that when God finally does judge the world on that day of visitation, there would be those who would glorify him and praise him because they would have been converted to the Christian faith. by the example, by the life, by the witness of those around them. That's what this possibly means On the day of visitation, God will have his harvest. Those who trust in him because they saw the way you lived your life with respect and honor. We are to honor authority because it's a common grace thing of God to restrain evil. He ordains human institutions. so that humans can live lives of joy and peace, and they can live out their lives with honor in this world. I was trying to think of an example of this. I hate to give too many personal examples, but I did remember one where something happened like this without a direct witness. When I was a student at Moody Bible Institute, I had to leave the Institute in Chicago for one semester in order to fill in some Some liberal arts credits that I was lacking and couldn't get there. So I came back to Western Illinois to get that those credits, and I Worked at United Parcel Service while I was there in the early morning unloading semi-trailers at the United Parcel Service facility in Milan, Illinois. Now, while I was there working at the facility, I was usually working in a truck by myself, but there were all these other people in the facility working around, and I would hear them and they would hear me in various ways And when we would have a break, sometimes these guys would laugh at filthy jokes at break time. And uh I didn't stand up and rebuke them and preach the gospel or anything like that. I didn't have any such attitude. Um but sometimes I was quizzed as to Why are you a Bible student? What are you doing? You know, are you crazy or something? And I would occasionally, I suppose, be caught in my trailer alone singing Christian songs. Or hymns while unloading the trailer. But I was no fiery evangelist. Now, in that situation, there was a young man who was very outspoken and boastful of his sins. Often talking about his exploits. I worked through the winter and into June And then I was ready to end that job and return to Chicago to finish my last semester. This fellow who had told the worst profane stories came up to me on the day of my departure. And he said, I want to apologize for all the mean things I have said about you. I have become a Christian. Christian. I didn't realize that he had ever said anything mean about me. But it seems that he had become obsessed with me as a Christian. God had used my silent witness, along with the witness of some others, I'm sure unknown to me, to bring this man to Christ. Now he was ready for the day of visitation. Now he had the visitation of the Holy Spirit, which I think is also the possible meaning here, the visitation of the Holy Spirit, which the Christians expected in the gospel age to bring about the work of transformation of the world. The Christians, you see, back then actually believed that the world would be transformed by the gospel, by their powerful Christian living and their powerful Christian witness, so that it mattered. how they lived in the world. They believed that. And they thought, I believe, possibly of the day of visitation. as a day when finally the gospel would have power, would have sway, and that many, many people would come into Christ And come up to the mountain of the Lord and praise the God of Israel. I believe they had a Christian basis for that, a biblical basis for that belief in the day of visitation when the Holy Spirit would come. Because Jesus, when he ascended in Matthew 28, he said, All authority, how much? Oh, wait a minute, all authority in heaven. But just in heaven, right? All authority in heaven? No. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me, he said. And then what did he say? Carry on and try to get through it until the end and maybe, you know. No. Is that what he said? Go therefore and make disciples of a few scattered individuals here and there that can be harvested out of the big mess. Is that what it's Wait a minute, no. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. All nations. Make disciples of nations. I I could he could have said, make disciples of individuals. But he actually says, make disciples of all nations. That's the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. That you will be a blessing to all nations. Baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. They're going to be fully discipled. And then he said, behold, I am with you always. He didn't say, just try to hang on until the end, and maybe it'll work out. No. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So they had this basis in the words of Jesus for the hope of the gospel taking powerful root. and growing and permeating a day of visitation. First Corinthians Chapter 15, when Paul's talking about the resurrection and the way the world will be shaped up at the end, he says this. Then comes the end. And now he describes what that's going to be like. When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when he delivers the kingdom, after what? After destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must reign how long? Until he has put all his enemies under his feet Christ is ascended and he reigns and he rules and he continues to rule until he has put all his enemies under his feet. And then Paul says, the last enemy to be destroyed is death. These Christians, I believe, expected their King Jesus to do what he promised through them and through their powerful witness to the world. And part of that witness is respect toward authority. And living lives that can't be spoken ill of. And lives that actually contradict whatever ill is spoken of us. He says, finally, for to this you have been called. Because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. And then what did Jesus do? He committed no sin. Neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges. Justly, and that's what we're to do. Entrust ourselves to Him who judges justly. Is it worth it to suffer because of Christ? Do you believe that Christ will rule the nations? Do you serve a king whose kingdom you think is shrinking and failing? are growing and progressing. And I caveat to say we may not see here in the Western world great movements of revival. At this moment in history, but go to some other parts of the world. Go to China. Go to Africa. And you will see the day of visitation. Happening in many places, the gospel powerfully affecting change in places. We Christians are like teabags, as someone has said. Not much good until we get into some hot water. And we may be getting into some hot water now. So let us be those who respond accordingly. Respond in Christ. I have more here, but I will end with this. I close with the words of William Fullerton who in the late 19th century came to Christ after he heard the hope-filled gospel preaching of Charles Spurgeon. And he became himself a well-respected Baptist preacher and the Home Secretary of the Baptist Missionary Society. He said this, and it's in a hymn. He says, I cannot tell how he will win the nations, how he will claim his earthly heritage, how satisfy the needs and aspirations of East and West, of sinner and of sage But this I know. All flesh shall see his glory, and he shall reap the harvest he has sown. And some glad day his Son shall shine in splendor, when he the Savior, Savior of the world, is known He says, I cannot tell how all the land shall worship, when at his bidding every storm is stilled. Or who can say how great the jubilation when all the hearts of men with love are filled? But this I know, the skies will thrill with rapture, and myriad, myriad human voices sing, and earth to heaven and heaven to earth will answer. At last, the Savior of the world is Cain. We need to believe that God is working in this world That if we are faithful, resisting our passions, honoring and respecting all people around us, but proclaiming the gospel of salvation, if we do that. God will work through us. And He will visit the world with His Holy Spirit power to bring about transformation and revival and some glad day Heaven and earth will answer that the Savior of the world is King. Out of love and loyalty to our King Jesus We are called to honor the human institutions set over us by Him. Pray for them at all times. Resist their unlawful actions And lawfully change them whenever possible. We owe him this obedience. It is our witness. Amen Amen. Lord, as we consider these words of Peter, they challenge our challenge us. They challenge the desires and wishes and directions of our hearts. They challenge our passions at certain points. They call us to repent. They call us to obey. So that you may work through us, that your glory may be seen in us. Help us to obey our Lord Jesus And help us to enjoy such obedience. Help us to find pleasure and joy in serving our King. Amen.