Please turn with me in your Bibles to Daniel. We'll read in chapter two, verses thirty-one through forty-five. Chapter two, verses thirty one through forty-five. You saw, O King, and behold, a great image. This image mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance was frightening. The head of this image was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle and thighs of bronze its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay. As you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand, and it struck the image on its feet of iron iron and clay, and broke them in pieces. Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold all together were broken in pieces, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors. And the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of them could be found. But the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth This was the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation. You, O King, the King of Kings. to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, and the might, and the glory, and into whose hand he has given wherever they dwell, the children of man, the beasts of the field, and the birds of the heavens, Making you rule over them all, you are the head of gold. Which shall rule over all the earth. And there shall be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron, because iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things. And like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these. And as you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom But some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay, and as the toes of the feet were partly iron But they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay. And in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms, and bring them to an end. Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces The iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, a great God has made known to the king what shall be after this The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure. And now to the reading of the New Testament from John chapter 4. John chapter 4, 19 through 26. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming. And is now here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And then the text of the sermon from Exodus chapter 20 As we continue in Exodus, Exodus 20, verses 22 through 26. And the Lord said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the people of Israel, You have seen for yourselves that I have talked with you from heaven. You shall not make gods of silver to be with me, nor shall you make for yourselves gods of gold. An altar of earth you shall make for me. And sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In every place where I cause my name to be remembered, I will come to you and bless you. If you make me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stones, for if you wield your tool on it, you profane it. And you shall not go up by steps to my altar. altar that your nakedness be not exposed on it. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. Let's pray together. Lord, we have this your word that's been read in our hearing and now to be preached. May you open our hearts, illumine our minds to understand it spiritually, and to make application to our everyday life. As we continue our journey of living in your presence until we come to the great heavenly city, the new Jerusalem. Through Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, this little bit in Exodus 20 begins to unpack for us what we might call the basics of divine worship We're going to see many, many details unpacked in the rest of Exodus and in Leviticus. Details that that will be baffling at times by their uh sheer volume and by their minuteness in sorting out various things about what can be done and when it can be done and when it can't be done and what can be eaten and so forth and so on. But these things that are here in these few verses are the basics. that will form the overlying pattern for all that comes uh forth and also a basics for all worship that will go forward even into to our worship today and into eternity. Basics of divine worship. And so, first of all, we have in this basics the first commandment being re-emphasized God alone is to be worshipped. No matter what you might have thought of all the other gods, whatever gods you might encounter out in the world. God alone is to be worshipped. Here it is in verse 22. The Lord said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the people of Israel, You have seen for yourselves that I talked with you from heaven You shall not make gods to be with me, nor shall you make gods for yourself. Now I left out something. We'll get to that in a minute. But no other gods are to be worshipped. That's the most basic thing of divine worship. No other gods which the people might be tempted to make as they're living in the midst of a pagan, idolatrous culture They came from Egypt. The Egyptians had gods for everything. They had gods for every place. And for every situation. And the Canaanites, where they're going to be, living in the future, have gods for every place and for every situation. They have gods for fertility, gods for birth, gods for fearful situations, gods for war, gods for celebrations. And they had gods for all the places. They have a god of the river and a god of the sky and a god of the mountain and a god of the field. So they were going to be influenced by all these various gods And God is reminding them as you go into that place, you are to worship only God, no other gods. Only the God who reveals himself by speaking. That was emphasized here. You heard that I spoke to you Don't worship any other gods. This is the God who speaks from heaven. The God who is known by speaking. The God who is word Communication, the God who reveals himself by word. We see this in contrast in Psalm 115, verses 4 through 8 Psalm 115, 4 through 8 says about the pagans, the Egyptian gods and the Canaanite gods, and any others. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands, carving and scraping and melting and molding. They have mouths, but they do not speak Speak, God speaks. They have eyes that they do not see. God sees They have ears, but they do not hear, noses, but do not smell. They have hands but do not feel, feet, but do not walk. And they do not make a sound in their throat. But the Israelites heard the voice on the mountain. And then verse 8, those who make them become like them. So do all who trust in them. If you want to be stupid, if you want to be mute, if you want to be dull of sight and dull of hearing and completely imperceptible, then worship false gods. Because those who worship them will become like them. Don't worship any other God except the Lord God of heaven. Matthew Henry in his commentary says, the costliest material of this low world should be utterly condemned In rivalry with that spiritual presence revealing himself out of a wholly different sphere. And so, insofar as they remembered him and the voice which had thrilled their nature to its core, Insofar they would be free from the desire for any carnal and materialized divinity to go before them. And so God said, you shall not worship any other god, and don't make anything out of silver or gold to be a God for you. This gets us into the issue of visual representations of God here. And what God is teaching his people is that visual representations of himself or any other God Are not an aid to worship. Visual representations do not help because no image of God can begin to capture the being of God God is far too immense, far too spiritual, far too exalted and sublime to be captured by any visual representation whatsoever. J. I. Packer says this, the realization that images and pictures of God affect our thoughts of God points to a further realm in which the prohibition of the second commandment applies. Just as God forbids us to manufacture molten images of God, so it forbids us to dream up mental images of Him. Imagining God in our heads can be just as real a breach of the second commandment as imagining him by the work of our hands. So yes, none of us are going to go carve a God. None of us are going to go mold one and lay it over with gold or silver But we have the danger of mental images of God. And then he says, to follow the imagination of one's heart in the realm of theology. All people say, I just follow my I just think God is like this, or God is like that, or I don't like to think about God this way. Packer says to follow the imagination of one's heart in the realm of theology is the way to remain ignorant. Of God, and to become an idol worshiper. The idol, in this case, being a false mental image of God made by one's own speculation and imagination. Well, Packer has said something pretty harsh here. We know of many Christian groups, even, that use images of God And somebody might say, what about pictures of Jesus? After all, God became flesh, God became incarnate. Can't we make a picture of Jesus, the God man, and put it in our church and Make some use in worship? Well, even an image of the incarnate Christ, who is the image of God, according to Colossians, cannot reveal God fully Let me illustrate, if I may. I have seen old pictures of myself when I was a little boy. They're black and white. Some of you don't know what that is, but uh if I show you one of those photos of myself on my sixth birthday Holding a sheet cake that says, Happy birthday, Eddie. That cannot be, that cannot be more than a snapshot of a moment in my life It certainly cannot tell you about my personality. Just looking at a picture. It cannot tell you about my temperament. It cannot tell you about my sense of humor or lack thereof. It cannot tell you my character traits. And it cannot predict how they might form and shape and change. It cannot tell you about my good habits or my bad habits, my truthfulness or lack thereof, or my wisdom or my foolishness. The picture cannot tell you much about me. It's a snapshot of Eddie. On his sixth birthday holding a sheet cake. And in the very same way, Jesus, the Godman, the incarnate Godman, was at one time a baby And he became a youngster, and he became a very young man, and eventually a 30-year-old peripatetic Jewish teacher. And he became a condemned criminal, and a crucified man, and a dead man, and a resurrected man, with a glorified human body. in which he ascended into heaven. And if we had a photo of each of these moments, or a thousand photos of these moments, they would not reveal much about him. Mental images are the same. They do not reveal much about God. What is God? Our catechism asks. God is a spirit. infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Pictures cannot communicate these things. They cannot communicate infinity and spirituality and eternality and wisdom and power and holiness and justice and goodness. in truth, they cannot do it. That's why God speaks and tells us these things. That's why God acts, and then God interprets his acts, and we have it in the Word of God. The Word of God made flesh in Jesus Christ. and the word of God in record of Holy Scripture. So pictures are not much help Images do not instruct. Why are there so many different views of God? It's because people develop mental images of God based on data that they have, and some of it's false data. Which leads to a false image. And then people, even if they get the right data, distort and misinterpret the data to their own liking, putting it through the filter of their fallen mind. And they like to think that God is okay with their life, and so they will interpret every bit of the data to find God in accord with their life, their values, their behaviors. And they will exclude all ideas to the contrary. And that's what's described in Romans 1. 18 as suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. In summary, then, the first point, there's only two, it is God alone who must be worshipped And he must be worshipped as God revealed on his own terms, not in images, not even mental ones, and with no other gods alongside. That's the first basic thing about worship. The second basic thing is about the approach in worship. The approach in worship. In verse 24, God said to the people, an altar of earth you shall make for me, and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In every place where I cause my name to be remembered, I will come and bless you. If you make an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stones. For if you wield your tool on it, you will profane it. And you shall not go up by steps to my altar, that your nakedness be not exposed on it. So what is this all about? Well basically, it's saying, don't worship the true God in the ways that the pagans worship. What do the pagans do? Well, he says, build an altar of earth or of stones unhewn. What did the pagans do? Well, first of all, they would build their altars unhigh Even in the low country of Babylon, they would build a a ziggurat or something and then put the altar on top. They would build on high places. And in Canaan, they would go to the high places and put their altar there because if you get high, you're closer to God, right? And God says, no. Don't you dare build anything high. An altar of earth shall you make for me. The material has to be plain. It has to be what God made, not what you made. Not something that you tune with your own hands, or something that will last and become a place of gathering for remembrance in some bad way. No, they were to come to God in humility and to make these altarplaces temporary as they would transition from place to place until they were brought home to Canaan. The purpose of worshiping the eternal God needed to be worshipped in a way that was in temporal conditions and situations. And it was another thing that was being made here. The pagans had, as I said earlier, all these local gods: a god of the river, a god of the mountain, a god of the trees, or whatever. No, God is not a god of the local. He's not local at all. God will meet with his people wherever he chooses, as it says, wherever I cause my name to be remembered in verse 24, I will come to you and bless you. So God isn't local. God will travel. He'll be with his people wherever he causes his name to be remembered. So one of the uh commentators says this, Gabeline is his name. They were instructed to make their altars very plain. Either of earth or unhewn stone, that they might not be tempted to think of a graven image, first of all, that they must not so much as to hew into the shape of the stones that they made of altars, but piled them up as they were in the rough. And there was to be nothing left on the spot after they moved on, nothing that would be uh a place for gathering and superstition And then one other thing that comes here about how to worship God, which is in contrast to paganism, is verse 26. You shall not go up by steps to my altar, that your nakedness be not exposed on it. You shall not go up by steps Well, what is that about? Pagan priests made their sacrifices on these step stepped-up altars so everybody could see. They made them in the nude. And they often engaged in sexual activity, prostitution and other things, as they offered their ecstatic, crazy sacrifices. And their way of worship in their altars. But God's people are to be modest as they come to worship. They are to be humble and discreet and modest as they approach God in worship. Even later on, when God ordained the priest garments, he ordained underwear for the priests. Modesty is a premium here. And I think we can extract from that that in worship we come as polluted sinners Needing atonement, but coming to the place that God has called us, where he will be remembered, where his name will be extolled, coming to restore us to his fellowship, coming to have communion with us. As we have communion with one another. And then there are the offerings, the two kinds of offerings that are going to be a paradigm for all the offerings to come. In verse 24, sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, number two, burnt offerings. The Hebrew word there is hola, and the idea is to rise up in smoke. So the burnt offering would be the sacrificed animal made for atonement of sins, and it would be completely consumed and caused to rise up in smoke. Smoke. Ola, the atonement offering, the burnt offering. That's one kind of offering, and then there's the peace offering the peace offering. And that is the thanksgiving offering. That is the fellowship offering. And the Hebrew is, the root word is shalom. The word here is shalamim, but it's from the root word shalom. And in this kind of offering, the only part that was burned up would be the fat portions. I think what would happen to the rest of the animal that was sacrificed As a peace offering. What would happen? It would be roasted instead of consumed and burnt up in smoke. It would be roasted until tender. And then the gathered worshipers in the presence of God and in one another's presence would eat the sacrifice. They would share in the thanksgiving and eat the sacrifice. Together. Let me suggest to you that these two classes of offerings are now subsumed in the work of Christ, our sacrifice Through his atoning sacrifice, bearing our sins, we who are united to him by faith are offered up to God. He endured the judgment. And we are offered up to God in him. It's the Ola, the atonement offering. Our sins are atoned for, and then in the subsumed work of Christ, we also have the peace and the fellowship and the giving thanks as we eat together. The offering that was made for our sins. We eat together, and it's been all subsumed as we see it now in the New Testament. I'll come back to that in a moment, but in summary, what do we see here? Worship God alone. Whatever is ultimate to you is God. If it's your career, if it's your relationship with someone, if it's a possession or money or leisure or recreation or beauty or strength or popularity. whatever drives your life, whatever causes you to be happy without God, or whatever makes you sad and discontented if you do not have it That is your God. And we are to worship only God, not these things, not these things that would otherwise drive us. God alone is ultimate. Nothing else should be ultimate to us. We should be willing to lose everything else in this world but have God. Worship nothing but God. God alone is ultimate. All else that we enjoy and have must serve Him. And whatever you love must be loved through Him. Someone taught me this some time ago, and I've used it occasionally at mealtime, as we sit down to a beautiful, tasty Great smelling, beautiful meal, and I will pray, Lord, help us to enjoy these tastes and textures to your glory. Not in and of themselves, but enjoy them to your glory. That is the same idea as whatever you love must be loved through God. Don't love things apart from God. Love things only in and through God. And then never worship the things. Never. And secondly, by way of summary, worship God God's way. And that is only in the sacrifice of Christ. All other blood was temporary cover, waiting for the blood of Christ, which alone takes away sin. He was the only victim worthy to bear our sin, not the blood of bulls and goats and sheep. And we worship not in our own human efforts We see this particularly in that little bit about not hewing a stone. Macintosh, in his notes on Exodus, says. God will meet the sinner at an altar without a hewn stone or a step, a place of worship which requires, listen, no human workmanship to build Or human effort to approach. We see something of that provision of God That is without human effort, in the reading that we had from Daniel. Because Daniel in his vision says in verse 34, As you looked, he's speaking to the king, as you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand. Where have we heard that before But what happened? And it struck the image on its feet of iron and clay and broke him to pieces. And then at the end of that passage, but the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled The whole world. God who supplies, God who saves, God who provides salvation, does it without our human hands. He does it in the stone that He sets Christ. Christ was born not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but born of God. And so we worship God only in the place where He has caused His name to be remembered. Temporary altars and tabernacles and temples, Will be destroyed. Jesus said, destroy this temple, and I will raise it up in three days. So He is the altar, He is the sacrifice, He is the temple He is the place where God will cause his name to be remembered. Where is that place today? Where is that place today? Is it in Jerusalem awaiting some future activity over there? Is it in Rome, as some people like to think? No. Where is that place today that God will cause his name to be remembered? It is the church, humble though it may be. The body of Christ, it is the household and family of God, and it is in the stone cut without human hands whose kingdom will fill the whole earth. God's chosen place where his name is to be remembered is in a place just like this here today. The people gathered in his name on his day, the Lord's day. And our worship in word and sacrament is in the remembrance Ordained by him in his word for his gathered church. This meal set before us at this table combines the remembrance of the once-for-all, Ola, a sacrifice of Atonement. And the shalamim, the thanksgiving and praise and eating together in God's presence. You can't get this at home. You can't get it on the radio or on the internet, not even if you listen to my sermons. You can't get it in your private devotions You cannot worship God as you see fit out in the woods on a nice day or by the water fishing or something. When I was in college, even at Moody Bible Institute, a number of students would sleep in on Sunday mornings. And you would ask them at lunch, where did you go to church today? Um, bedside Baptist or Pillow Presbyterian. That will not do. This is the place God has called us. This is where He will be remembered. This is where His name will be remembered You must worship God as He has ordained. And if it does not please you to do so, so much the worse for you. You had better repent. But may it please you more and more. May it please me more and more to be in the fellowship of God's people on the Lord's day, to hear the God who speaks. And to eat the gospel sacrifice meal, the fellowship and thanksgiving meal gathered in his church, where he has chosen to have his name remembered. This is the God with whom we have to do, whom we worship as He has revealed Himself. Let us come humbly and modestly with the sacrifice of Christ and in the fellowship of Christ. Amen. Lord, we thank you for these basic instructions, and we pray that you will allow us individually and corporately to incorporate them into our thinking and into our understanding of your whole word as we go forward studying the Prescriptions of worship in Exodus and Leviticus and beyond. And may we in all our understandings of the Old Testament see Christ And may each one of us individually be drawn to him now as we come before his table, as we gather in his presence Joined in his sacrifice for our sin, and together to give thanks and eat in his presence. Amen.