Exodus 16. They set out from Elam, and all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness of sin, which is Between Elam and Sinai on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had departed from the land of Egypt. And the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the people of Israel said to them, Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the meat pots and ate bread to the full. For you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am about to rain bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day, that I may test them. Whether they will walk in my law or not. On the sixth day, when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily. So Moses and Aaron said to all the people of Israel, At evening you shall know that it was the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt. And in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against the Lord. For what are we that you grumble against us? And Moses said, When the Lord gives you in the evening meat to eat, and in the morning bread to the full, because the Lord has heard your grumbling that you grumble against him What are we? Your grumbling is not against us, but against the Lord. Then Moses said to Aaron, Say to the whole congregation of the people. And as soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness, and behold The glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. And the Lord said to Moses, I have heard the grumbling of the people of Israel. Say to them, At twilight you shall eat meat and in the morning you shall be filled with bread. Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God. In the evening quail came up and covered the camp, and in the morning dew lay around the camp And when the dew had gone up, there was on the face of the wilderness a fine flake-like thing, fine as frost on the ground. When the people of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, It is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat. This is what the Lord has commanded. Gather of it each one of you as much as he can eat. You shall each take an omer, according to the number of the persons that each of you has in his tent. And the people of Israel did so. They gathered some more, some less, but when they measured it with an omer, whoever gathered much had nothing left over And whoever gathered little had no lack. Each of them gathered as much as he could eat. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now the reading of the new. First Timothy three, one through thirteen. So we continue this short series on deacon, officers in general, but deacon in particular. 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 13. The saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Therefore, an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach Not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money He must manage his own household well, with all dignity, keeping his children submissive. For if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the devil. Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. And let them also be tested first. Then let them serve as deacons, if they prove themselves blameless Their wives, likewise, must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves, and also great confidence in the faith that is in. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, as you have given us instruction through your apostles, Help us to understand it in the spirit and in the meaning which you intended. Help us not to import our own thoughts and ideas And impose them upon your word, but let your word speak through. And we pray for the ministry of that word, the preacher, as well today. In Jesus' name. Amen. One commentator asked the question, if we were to place an ad in a newspaper inviting applications for church leadership. We need church leaders, so we're going to put an ad in a paper. What might we include? Well, from visiting board meetings of many modern churches, you might get the impression that We should expect to get a bunch of successful businessmen who would make the very best leaders of all. Because after all, management is management, right? So just get your successful business leaders and then they should be the board members That'll do it. Get the place run smooth that way. On the other hand, Christian books that deal with leadership training often highlight Something else, the sense of calling, dependence on God, and perseverance that we see in the great biblical characters such as Moses, who we just read about. Dealing with the people of Israel in the wilderness, and Jeremiah and others, to provide a model for leadership Who is fit to lead the church? Well, we're going to look at this section, 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 13. But before we get there, I'm going to venture into some very scary place. Before we get there, I'm going to give a word about men. As male persons, not humans in general, but men as male persons as a qualification for leadership I can't go deep into this today, but I'm going to say that the reason for the requirement for male leadership, listen to me, is not at all because men are superior to women. That's simply not the case, first of all. But that is not the reason. Sometimes it's read that way, but it is not the reason. But rather The reason why men must be the leaders in the church is because men failed as leaders and heads. And they must now, in redemption, recapitulate that failure. They're given the leadership because they failed, and they must take it back and succeed. The passage that comes to mind in this regard is often misunderstood. It's just before our passage today. It's in 1 Timothy 2, 12-14, where the apostle says this, listen. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man. Rather, she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor Many people take that as a, and they impose their own thinking on it, and they just think, well, women are gullible, they're easily deceived, that's why you have to have men in charge. That is not what the apostle is saying. Two points, I believe, are here Again, men were supposed to lead as those given the tasks of dominion by God in the garden. That's why Paul says, for Adam was formed first. If the other interpretation was in play, he wouldn't say that. But instead, man became the leader in plunging a whole race into sin. Man has no excuse because he was not deceived, but acted with his eyes wide open. He added his creation responsibility. So the apostle says, Adam was not deceived. You get it? So you need to read that through the lens here of this. The second point is Christian men united to the second Adam Christ must lead in the community of redemption, that is the church. And they are to be images of Christ in this sense. In Christ, they are now to exercise authority in the church And in doing so, they retake or recapitulate their created role as heads of the family and the church for the sake of those whom they serve. Men failed, men must now take responsibility and authority and service to succeed in and with and through Christ. That is the meaning of this thing. And that is the reason why men should be the leaders in the church. Not because women are gullible. They are not. Now, having said that, let's move on. That's one of the qualifications, male. And that's why the OPC stands Clearly on this idea. It's not because we think women can't do it or some women wouldn't be better at it, but because men must take this created responsibility back and do it over and do it right. And must be given that privilege and opportunity, that responsibility more than privilege. Today's text The two lists in today's text describe the necessary character qualifications for the men. Who were to occupy the office of overseer and deacon. And let me just say this also. There are three words that describe office in the New Testament. Three words, episcopas, from which one church gets its name, the Episcopal Church. Another name is diaconos, and that's the word for deacon. And then the other word, the third one is presbyter, from which we get the name of our church, Presbyterian, right? So these These things uh we have to understand, and if you if you take all the data together and put it together and sort it out, you find that that episcopas is the word overseer and it is just one part of the function of presbyter. So we believe that there aren't to be bishops and then elders and then deacons, but bishops and elders are the same thing but different functions. It's more like pastor elder, pastor ruling elder, and then deacon. So there are only two offices, elder and deacon in the church. And pastor is a function of one of those office, the office of presbyter. The standard for these who were to do these things, both deacon and elder. Is that they are to be above reproach or blameless. That's an extremely high standard, but not out of proportion to its importance for the church's mission in the world Which according to verses 15 to 16 is that the church is to be the pillar and buttress of truth It is to be Truthville, the place where truth lives, where you can count on truth being taught, truth which transcends and truth which contradicts the false ideas all around us It is to be truthful, therefore, these men who hold the offices and care for this church, which is truthville, must be above reproach and blameless. Who were these overseers and deacons? Well, we see that they have the office of leadership and governing in Romans 12. They had the gifts of administration in 1 Corinthians 12, and they had the gifts and offices of pastors and teachers in Ephesians 4. So among the duties assigned to this office are preaching and teaching and generally leading or managing the church. That's the office of elder. That's the first set of descriptions. The second set is the office of deacon which was instituted as the church grew in size and as the demands on leadership required that certain functions be delegated. We covered that last week in Acts chapter 6. Where a need arose, and then deacons were selected, and then they were ordained to the office. But teaching and ruling are not the function of deacons specifically. Does it mean that that deacons can't preach and teach? We have Philip and we have The other one I can't think of right now. Stephen, yes, who preach and teach on occasion, but it is not their constant function and their office to do this Both offices, however, share this requirement that they are above reproach. Above reproach is one word in the Greek, and it requires some some definition. It means that no one has anything bad to say about you. It doesn't mean that somebody can't make up something bad to say about you, but they don't have any legitimate thing to say about you. You're not going off the handle. You're not uh speaking out of turn, you're not gossiping, you're not stealing, you're not using bad language, you are above reproach. And one of the places where that is to come out, according to the teaching here, is in marriage. For a married man His marriage is probably going to bring out whatever flaws there are. It's easy to put on a a show, isn't it, guys, when you're dating somebody and You dress up just right and you put on the cologne and you act just right and you're be real careful what you say and what you don't say and and uh you're just really good at that. But once you get married You're seeing 24-7 and heard 24-7. And then all the things come out. We're to be. Straightforward and honest and truthful 24-7 in the midst of our wives. So wives are important in this process, aren't they? And it would be a bad idea to nominate and install and ordain a man to office whose wife knows that he's not at all what he appears to be. That would be a very bad thing. So it's a good thing to actually consult the wife and ask, what's this guy really like? And if she thinks highly of them, and I know some women who think very highly of their husbands, then that is a really good indicator of these things. One commentator summarizes this idea of being married as not just that he's He is the it's not a requirement that every officer be married, but that if an officer is married, he is a one-woman man. It doesn't even mean that he can't have been married and his wife died, or he can't have been married and his wife divorced him. If it is legitimate the way the divorce happened, the way the marriage ended, if it's legitimate and he's now married again, if he's a one-woman man, or if he was a one-woman man, woman man during that time, then he qualifies here in this case. Some commentators don't think so. They they say uh that what this is talking about is polygamy, that uh the officer must be not a polygamist. Well that's not the case uh because Polygamy was not seen as a good thing in the Roman Empire. Monogamy was standard. So yeah, that would be not Clearly what's in focus. Some say the qualification excludes those who have remarried after the death of a spouse, and again, I don't think that's the case. Some say the qualification specifically rules out those who have remarried after divorce. Again, that is not what is clearly in view, but what is in view is the requirement of faithfulness in marriage. Given the whole context, this interpretation is clear. The tone of the phrase, you see, is positive. He is to be One woman focused. One woman, his wife, focused, a one-woman man. Men. What you do in your family and your private life has consequences for the church. So the point of the phrase is probably not how many times you have been married, but rather how you conduct yourself in marriage, or how you conducted yourself in a past marriage. Now Paul inserts several personal qualities to amplify the idea of above reproach. He's going to now boil it down. What does it mean to be above reproach and the husband of one wife in this case, one woman man? The candidate must be temperate. Temperate. Or sober-minded is another way to translate, which means to be clear-headed or vigilant You see, vigilance is the opposite of drunkenness or fuzzy thinking, which in this context has the life of faith in view Christians are to guard against spiritual laziness and avoid habits that lull you to sleep and draw you away from God and give you fuzzy thinking. We are to be vigilant, have clear-minded, God-focused hearts and minds and lives. That is what it means to be temperate and discipline. The second is self-controlled. The quality Paul refers to here frequently is to take charge of your mind. Self-control. This means that you have control over your impulses. Your impulses to over-indulge the physical appetites or to let your mind wander into areas where it shouldn't and think wrong thoughts about yourself or others And without control, this would drive you to excessive behavior. So we are to be, men, we are to be self-controlled. Respectable refers to observable behavior from outside looking in at us. This corresponds to inner self-control, but it is from the outside in. It refers to behavior of all kinds, and our behavior should be marked by self-discipline, order, and balance. And Paul's use of this traditional quality, especially in connection with self-control, sets before us the possibility and challenge of developing a life in which your inner motivation and your outer Action are in harmony. So that inside and outside match, that is to be finally and fully respectable. You see, Paul here is not simply pushing traditional values that some 2,000 years later are of no use to us. Because this is the Word of God. These are necessities for all times and all places. Summarizing a bit, without vigilance, We will not exercise self-control, and without self-control, we will indulge ourselves freely according to the advice of the world around us, instead of setting limits that produce a godly balance. And here's another characteristic, hospitality. Hospitality says to be Hospitable. This virtue was also widely heralded in the Greco-Roman culture. Within the church, however, the practice of hospitality was an imperative. Some Christians, you see, had been forced out of their homelands by persecution, or found it increasingly difficult to make a living. And this was always a prospect for Christians in the Roman Empire. And the practical and sacrificial sharing of your home and your resources could mean. Survival for someone. The New Testament enjoins all believers to practice hospitality To be willing to give of ourselves our place, our substance to serve the lives and needs of others. The New Testament enjoins all believers to practice hospitalities, but the pastorals mention it only in connection with those who would serve. It is an imperative for those who would serve that they be hospitable. Another characteristic is able to teach. This specifically focuses upon elder, but it relates directly to the ministry. In the New Testament church, in the context, heresy would come up And so the elder in particular had to be able to teach and preach and contradict and refute the heresies that would come up. What kind of heresies were there in the early church? We know from the New Testament documents that there was the Gnostic or Docetic heresy, so that people believe that Christ couldn't possibly have been a human being. He only seemed to be a human being. That's doceo, docetic. The Gnostic idea that God is a pure spirit and has nothing to do with the material world. led the heretic Marcion to reject the entire Old Testament because why? Because the Old Testament reveals a creator God and and the pure Spirit God that he believed in couldn't have created created this material world, that would have been a terrible crime. And so there was this Gnostic and Docetic heresies. In 1 John 4, 1 through 3, the Apostle says, test the spirits. He says, beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test. Spirits to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. Material, you see, is from God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus is not from God This is the spirit of Antichrist, which you have heard that was coming into the world and now is already come. There were heresies in the early church, and the teacher needed to be able to refute them. And show the truth of the matter. There was also another heresy in the early church called modalism. Recently, I will I was speaking to someone. I won't get into too many details here. I don't want to say too much that might be known out in the public. But uh there is a congregation in our area that is modalistic. That is, they believe that God is one God who changes personas, like an actor that plays several different parts in the play and changes costumes at different times. They believe that there's one God who changes persona, God the Father, became God the Son, became God the Holy Spirit. And uh so that is a heresy, that's modalism, it's rejected and condemned. And uh I was speaking to this person, this Christian person. And I said, you know, here's a congregation that teaches modalism, and they didn't think it was a big deal at all, I guess. Well, they still believe in Jesus as God. Well, that's true. That's good, but that is not okay. Modalism is a heresy. We cannot accept it. And later on, there was another heresy, the Arian heresy of the fourth century, which taught that Jesus is not God. That's even worse. And we have the Jehovah's Witnesses today that still uphold the Arian heresy. Which must be refuted and rejected. It's not okay for people to just think anything they want to about who Jesus is or who God is. or whether he created the world or any of those things. We must be clear and biblical and truthful. And so The elder must be able to teach and refute and correct and train in righteousness and doctrine. As the list continues, it prohibits four characteristics of behavior. I'll go through those quickly. The first one is the tendency toward drunkenness and violence. First Timothy, I mean Tim in Titus 1. 7, these are clearly reasons for rejection. The church cannot afford to be led by those who allow themselves to be controlled by intoxicating substances. Which enslave the user and inhibit decisive thinking and good emotions. So the tendency toward drunkenness and violence has to be rejected. At the same time, the overseer must not be quarrelsome. This tendency shows itself in an ability, in an inability to get along With and accept the views of others. The false teachers that Timothy had to deal with in Ephesus It says in 1 Timothy 1, certain persons by swerving from these have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to be teachers of the law without understanding either of what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions. And then he describes the false teacher as saying he is puffed up with conceit, understands nothing, he has an unhealthy craving for controversy and quarrels about words. which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions, constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth. So Those who lead must not be quarrelsome. They must not be looking to always pick a fight. A leader who exhibits this weakness will produce discord instead of harmony. But a leader of any, or any Christian for that matter, who promotes peace among the people, will create and preserve relationships necessary For building and unifying the church. Then it says the overseer, and by extension, the deacon, must not be a lover of money This means that the candidate's attitude toward material wealth ought to be one of a kind of healthy detachment. But not irresponsibility. It's one thing to say, I don't care about money at all, and therefore I don't have any. It's another thing to to be absorbed with it and think about it all the time. Such a leader can be a model of generosity and simplicity of lifestyle, because the knowledge that whatever one's economic status might be all belongs to God is in And so all must be looked after faithfully, and all must be let go with an easy hand. This applies to every believer, by the way. The issue raised here is that the leaders of the church must really exhibit these characteristics fully But we all need to have these kind of attitudes and characteristics. So, your attitudes and your motivations where money and acquiring things are concerned must be brought before God for evaluation. God's word, not the values of society around us. must be allowed to shape and correct our thinking and behavior in this area. So the profile of elder and deacon has these three positive conditions. That we now add. First, Paul cites proficient management of the household as a prerequisite for church leadership. That is in verses four and five Paul has in mind the typical householder of the Roman society, who ordinarily would have also been a citizen. He would have been head of house, household members, including his wife, children, and depending on the economic status, his slaves. In fact, some Christian householders in Ephesus owned slaves. We see that in verse 2, chapter 6. The dwellings of these places ranged from spacious houses of the upper class householders. to the apartments of the middle and lower income households. Normally the authority structure of the household was strictly patriarchal And at each level, subordination to the household was expected by those who watched. And anything less than this Would be a sign of disorder and even political subversion. For the stability of the household was regarded as fundamental to the well-being of society. Society as a whole. The culture sometimes gets some things right. One commentator says this: society expected the householder to command the respect of his wife, children, and slaves. To expect less from church leaders would have been to risk associating the church with charges of social disruption and political subversion. However, this particular condition was not meant to exclude the unmarried from holding positions of leadership in the church. In that day, marriage was almost a universal rule. And one more characteristic, the overseer must not be a new believer. This is verse 6. The reason is not lack of leadership potential. You might have somebody with great leadership gifts. But they still must not be a new believer because they would lack spiritual maturity. The new believer is more prone to see a position of leadership as an opportunity for personal advancement. And to fail, therefore, to understand the gravity of the task. So we should not quickly put someone in office who has great leadership skills And even a great family who is new to the faith, they need to mature in the faith The danger is, as Paul says, of becoming conceited or filled with pride, and falling under the same condemnation as the devil, who was filled with pride and fell from his original created position. The point is that conceit, especially among church leaders, is just the kind of chink in the spiritual armor that the enemy often exploits In Ephesus, pride was the sin of the false teachers, who were probably also immature overseers. Deacons and caused all kinds of troubles. Their too quick placement in office could have led them to be puffed up about their teaching far more than they ought. And they became hardened and stubborn and caused many arguments in the church. And we have seen this in many places and at various times. Instead, those who have the office of leadership, especially the office of teaching Ought to go by the axiom that I learned long ago in high school. I saw it on the wall of my classroom. The more you learn, the more you will know how little you know The more you learn, the more you will know how little you know. And that should be the case for elders and deacons, pastors in the church. Personal pride and church peace have nothing in common. When the devil discovers this characteristic of personal pride in church leaders, he will exploit it as much as he possibly can. The third and final condition here states clearly what has already been implied, that an overseer must have a good testimony Before outsiders. Verse 7. In Paul's mind, the greater danger lies in the fact that a fallen leader brings disgrace on the church and casts doubt on the church's message Leaders must have management skills and purity of lifestyle, but they must also have the respect of outsiders who watch. So they are to be without reproach. But that does not mean they are to be perfect. Their wives will certainly know that they are not perfect. If Paul meant perfect, in need of no growth, No one would qualify. But this requirement points towards significant measure of development, toward maturity. You must be able to see in that man that God is at work in that man, that he is going forward in faith, not backward, and that he does not think that he has arrived. This is applicable to all believers. You can see those areas in your life that need attention. While along the way you can receive encouragement at the signs of progress in your own life. And if you lose your way, you can see how to get back on the road. Candidates for the office of deacon come under the same careful scrutiny that we find in those first seven verses. Because Paul basically says, likewise the deacons. Likewise the deacons. The only obsession, the only difference is that they are not specifically given to Shepherding the flock and teaching the flock. Those are the main differences. Now there is one more thing. Wives also, especially in the section on deacons, verses 8 and 9. The women were to have the same kind of qualities that their husbands, who would be office bearers, would have. They are to have the same kind of integrity. Because the man is easily influenced by his wife and the and vice versa. So the women needed to show the maturity. He needs to show that he's able to bring his wife along if she needs to be brought along and that they are in harmony together. in this work. And then in 1 Timothy 3. 10, and let them be tested first, these deacons. Now, I think the elders had to be tested first too. He didn't bring that into that part, but I believe it's true of them. But let them also be tested first, then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless. To be a leader requires having leadership skills that are tried and tested in the most practical situations. It's one thing to think you know what the answer would be in a theory It's another thing to have a person before you and having to deal with their need and their situation and their perspective. It requires great skill. And so that let them try it first. Let them be tested in this area to see if they're able to work through the details. Whether they're able to deal with their home and the church and then outside world. And verse 13 concludes the list of requirements for office with an encouragement to those who serve well. Verse 13 says, for those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves, and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Very important, isn't it? That we have elders, that we have deacons Who exemplify these things? It brings confidence to the flock. We have leaders that we can trust. They're not going to mismanage the affairs of the church. They're not going to be harsh. They're not going to beat the sheep. They're going to love and care for the sheep. They're going to manage the situation. They're going to be wise in the use of the funds that we allot and delegate to them for ministry purposes. Confidence in the off and those filling the offices needs to be a constant. And sometimes it needs to be restored. Today, these same confidences. In office need to be maintained. Paul reminds us that those who serve well will receive a two-fold reward. Among the people, faithful deacons will gain a good standing, elders too, and a good reputation. And they will also grow closer to Christ in faith and assurance of faith. It is when we exercise our spiritual gifts that we grow the most, you see. Our message is that important. Our message as the church, the gospel message is that important. You see, it's the only message about the Savior, the only Savior of the world that brings the only salvation of the world, the only healing, the only restoration to the world. And therefore, it needs to be entrusted to those who have these qualifications, these characteristics, and who see their role in creation and redemption. as God has given it. John three eighteen says this Whoever believes in Him is not condemned But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. The world around us needs to see the gospel and hear the gospel in such a way that those who are already condemned belief. Come to believe, and part of that coming to believe is to see the integrity of the Church of Jesus Christ and to say, I can believe that. I can trust those people. I know what they're saying is from God's word, and it's true. Therefore, I trust the same Savior and Lord that they trust in. Those who believe in him. are not condemned. That is our message, and it's that important that we find leaders that will support and encourage and adorn that message. Let us pray Pray. Lord, we thank you for these gifts of office that you have given to men who in the garden failed and abdicated and blamed others for their failure. And now you've given it back to men. And said, try it again. Do right this time. Not by your own strength or by your own efforts But do right, given the Holy Spirit living within you, given the Word of God before you. Do right. Lead God's flock. Preach the word. Refute heresy. Administrate. Care for the poor. Be hospitable. Don't be a quarreler. Don't be a drunk. But be sober-minded and vigilant, and you'll show that the world has a Savior, that Jesus Christ really has come. And has saved the world. People will believe when they see these things. So we pray, Lord, that this will be our characteristic here. Not only now, but going forward for decades and even centuries ahead, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.