Please turn in your Bibles to Deuteronomy fifteen. Deuteronomy fifteen we'll read verses seven through eleven. If among you one of your brothers should become poor in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you You shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother, but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for His need, whatever it may be. Take care, lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart, and you say, the seventh year, the year of release, is near And your eye look grudgingly on your poor brother, and you give him nothing, and he cry to the Lord against you, and you be guilty. You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him. Because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. For there will never cease to be poor in the land Therefore, I command you, you shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy, and to the poor in your land. Land. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. A New Testament scripture reading comes from Acts chapter six, verses one to two. You can turn there if you'd like to follow along as I read from God's Holy Word. Now, in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, A complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit. And Philip and Procur Procurus and Niconur and Timon and Parmiant Parminius and Nicholas and a proselyte from Antioch These they set before the apostles, and they prayed, and laid their hands on them. And the word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. And a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. And please also turn over to 1 Timothy 5, verses 3 to 16. Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household. and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues Continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, He has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband and having a reputation of good works, if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the Saints and cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work, but refused to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry. and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith. Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households And give the adversary no occasion for slander, for some have already strayed after Satan. If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are truly widows. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us come before Him and ask for His blessing as we study it together this morning Our Lord and our God, the unfolding of your word gives light. It imparts understanding even to the simple. We ask that your Spirit would enable the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ to shine in our hearts this morning. For we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In this letter, James asked asks us to imagine that one of us goes and says to this brother, go, be warm and well fed, but does nothing to help this person's need. James asks the question, what good is that kind of faith? Can that kind of faith save you? And throughout the Bible, we see a strong emphasis is placed on our obligation. To care for the weak and the needy, to speak up for the rights of those who cannot speak up for themselves. And more than being simply an obligation, Obligation the Bible places on us. It should actually flow naturally from faith in Jesus Christ. It should flow naturally when we consider our own spiritual poverty. And so as we consider the work of the deacon That's the major theme that kind of underlies the work of the diaconate. Because God has loved us, we also ought to care for one another. So again, that's the broader principle, and we'll reflect on that under three points, as you can see in your outlines. First, we'll look at the role of the deacons, then the role of individuals and families. And then finally the role of the person who is in need. So first, let's consider the role of the deacons from these texts. texts that we have just read. In Acts 6, which we just read, we see two reasons for the establishment of the office of deacon First, they're entrusted with a ministry of mercy, which is too much for the elders to do alone. And then, second, it's a necessary ministry. So let's see how this ministry of mercy is too much for the elders to do alone. In verse 1 of Acts 6, it notes that the church is increasing in numbers and as it did, there arises a complaint from the Hellenists against uh against the Hebrews. So the Hellenists were Greek-speaking Jews, uh Jews who had uh Greek Greek fathers and they noticed that they were being There was a bias in favor of the Hebrew Jews. They were not being, the Hellenists felt they were not receiving an equal share of the mercy ministry. And verse one indicates that this isn't just a small issue. You know, it's not like there's just one or two outsiders who feel they're being neglected. Actually the congregation is growing quite large. And as this congregation grows, this is surely a very significant problem. In fact, it's so significant the disciples feel that they cannot keep up with preaching. and praying. The ministry of the word is going to be neglected if they're going to sort out all these needs. And so they look at this scenario and they say, if we're going to keep doing this We're going to have to stop preaching. And they look at that and they say, that's unacceptable. We cannot stop preaching. Look at verse 2. It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. they say. And so while this ministry of mercy is important, it's not so important that it trumps the Word of God And from this, we can conclude also that we must never, ever reduce the church to acts of mercy ministry, causes of social justice, without preaching the Word of God. Why is that? Why is that? It's because our deepest need isn't food, it isn't clothing, it isn't Isn't shelter or warm place to sleep. Our greatest need isn't to have our physical poverty lifted, but to have our spiritual poverty lifted. And so the Bible reveals to us that all of us are sinners. That the wages of our sin is death. And by nature we are enemies of God, objects of wrath, justly deserving nothing but his displeasure. And yet, too many of us are like the church in Laodicea. You may remember that from Revelation 3. The Apostle John writes to them, For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing. not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. Let me ask you, if you see your fellow man in that kind of condition, is it kind to ignore that spiritual need? Is it compassionate to give him food and clothing and not to let him know that he is spiritually needed Naked, poor, blind, and pitiable? Well, thankfully, the Bible doesn't only reveal our spiritual poverty, but also Jesus' rich mercy Second Corinthians eight nine says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, that through his poverty you might become rich. So our greatest need can only be met when we feed on Jesus Christ, the only Savior, the only mediator. between God and man. And therefore the greatest act of mercy is to lead someone to Jesus. Romans 10, 14 says, how then will they call on him whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And so the disciples very correctly realize that they can't give up this ministry of the Word. They cannot forsake preaching the gospel. And by way of uh application today to the church, uh may our churches never be reduced to just centers of mercy ministry. ministry, of of social justice or of meeting physical needs. No no matter how noble the cause may be, we must never ever give up preaching the gospel. And the pastors and the elders Especially must devote themselves to the ministry of the word and preaching. But if the ministry of the word is so important, and if the work of diaconal care is It's too much for the apostles to do. Why not just get out of the mercy ministry business, right? Why not just get out? This would be the perfect opportunity for the disciples to say We just can't do it. You know? Some other nonprofit, maybe the government, someone else needs to care for the poor, but not us. We're just going to preach the word Well that brings us to a second reason for the establishment of the office of deacon in Acts 6, and that is the work is a necessary ministry. A necessary ministry. In other words, the work of mercy ministry is not optional. It's not optional. If the work is too much for the elders or the apostles in this case, it's not just dispensable. They can't just say that they're not going to do it. The choice isn't between the apostles doing it. Or it being undone, left undone, the choice is between the apostles doing it or someone else in the church doing it. Do you see that? Right? Look again at Acts 6, verse 3. The apostles don't say, this work is too much for us, let the government handle it. This work is too much for us. Surely some other nonprofit is going to step up. No, they say, therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the spirit and wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. It's a necessary ministry. And when uh you think about uh when people speak of managing their time, you've probably heard the illustration of um a bunch of rocks and pebbles and sand. and a and a jar, and you say, how are you going to fit all these things in? Well you start with the large rocks, right? You start with the sand and the pebbles, the large rocks are never going to fit. Well, if we think about the church and church ministry, preaching the word is a large rock that must fit into this jar. But so is mercy ministry. Uh it must fit in. Someone must find time to care for the poor in the church. Alright, applying this to uh church life, again, uh every church must have some level of compassion of mercy ministry to the physical needs of those within the congregation. Compare it with, say, other very good opportunities a church may have. Say a vacation Bible school, a wonderful outreach opportunity. But a church can for any number of years not have a vacation Bible school if it doesn't have enough volunteers or someone to coordinate it, that the church uh it's okay. Uh my own church has had some years and we haven't had BBS just because we didn't have anyone to lead it. It's unfortunate, but it's okay. But uh mercy ministry is not like that. You can't say, hey, there's a widow in the church, uh, she's really in desperate need, but we just can't Help her. We don't have enough time. We're doing other things. We're running a VBS. We can't help her. Right? It's not not a not an option here. By the way, uh I say that, I understand individual churches have limited Limited funds, limited resources, right? Not every church can meet every single need that that they would love to meet. We're going to be talking in the Sunday school hour about the Presbytery's diacon And that's one way our denomination tries to help address this. Some churches uh end up in a season of their life where they have lots of needs and and limited resources, and that's where in our denomination of Presbyterian, our denomination Denomination can jump in to try to help those churches who aren't able to help like they'd like themselves. So we see here that the apostles saw the ministry of mercy as indispensable. And notice what happens when they set apart these deacons for this work. Look at Acts chapter 6, verse 7. The word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. And a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. See, people became obedient to the faith. People became Christians as Christians. As the disciples had time to devote themselves to prayer and the ministry of the word. And in many churches, you could say, if you've heard a good sermon, you can thank a deacon. Because they freed the pastor up to to spend his time praying and and preparing to preach. And likewise the elders up to visit with people and shepherd So that's one way that the work of the deacon has surely helped the church grow. There's another way. As surely, as people looked at the deacons meeting physical needs. They would say, see how these people loved one another. And they would have been drawn to such a community of believers. In contrast, imagine if you had a church full of people who preach the word, preach God's grace, and ignored each other's needs, said Be warm and well-fed. We'll pray for you. We have a prayer meeting on Wednesday, and we're going to pray that someone gives you a good warm meal. But do nothing to help it. Would that kind of faith be attractive to anyone No, right? And so the word of God began continued to grow as the deacons did their ministry in conjunction with with the elders. Let me say one more thing about the role of deacons before we move on. In many churches, or or if you ask many, many people, what does a deacon do? I'll often hear young people say something like, well, they take care of like the light bulbs and they maybe they mow the grass and uh y you know, in a lot of churches functionally they do those things uh for the same reason for basically the principal and action Acts 6. They do it because the elders are need to devote their time to the ministry of the word and prayer, and they don't have time to change the light bulb, so the deacons do it for them. That's okay. But the fundamental ministry of the The deacon is not changing light bulbs or managing church property, but a ministry of mercy to those in need. In some churches, they may have trustees who change the light bulbs or pay the mortgage, right? But the deacons are are particularly tasked with caring for those in need. Alright, so that's that's the role of the deacon, and pray that God would lay it on the hearts of even maybe some of you to be a to ask the Lord if He's calling you to be Even younger people. Maybe the Lord will someday raise you up as a deacon in your church. That's a great aspiration if you have the Lord put something That's the role of the deacons. They're given a necessary task, what we could say an indispensable ministry of mercy. But mercy ministry, we shouldn't think, is limited to deacons. Second, I'd like to consider the role of individuals and families with you, and this will also help us think through perhaps some of the limitations. When God gave the church deacons, it's really clear that it was never meant to replace our own obligations to families and neighbors. Uh and this is really important for you to know because the majority of you are not ever going to be deacons. The majority of you are not going No. We all have a certain obligation in in caring and in g engaging And I see three particular ways that you can be involved in mercy ministry, even if you're not a deacon. First in supporting the deacons, second in loving your neighbor, and third in caring for your own So the first way everyone can engage in mercy ministry is supporting your deacons if you have deacons, right? Or supporting your elders who are doing the work of a deacon. You don't have deacons. Throughout the Bible, again, we see individuals contributing to the needs of others. So look at just a few verses back. Acts chapter 4, verses 34 to 35. If you flip back there, we read that there was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of what was sold, and laid it at the apostles' feet. And it was distributed to each as any had it had need. Now look, I understand you could object. This is Acts 4. Acts chapter 6 is where the diaconate is established. However, Act 6 doesn't change the way funds were received. In Acts 6, we just see a change in who was administering the funds. So now no longer would the funds be laid at the apostles' feet, but it would be laid at the deacon's feet, and the deacons would distribute it to those who had need. Uh where do deacons get get money to come from? We don't just uh find the people with the most most money and say, be a deacon because you can afford to give money to people. No, the deacons manage the money that others bring to the church. Likewise, if we look through Paul's letters, he command commends us to give generously to those in need. And so practically speaking, each and every Every one of you could contribute to a diaconate fund or to funds as the church raises for those who are in need. There are other ways you can support the work of a deacon. Deacons may sometimes need someone to help, say, give rides to an elderly person who who needs to visit the doctor. Women. Perhaps there's uh a woman who's in need and some of her needs are better met by another woman than by a man. And so you can come alongside the deacons and help them by volunteering your time and also giving of your money. But the roles of, uh, by the way, you can also pray, I should add, pray for any deacons. Pray that God would raise up deacons and pray for your deacons when he does raise them up. But the role of individuals and families doesn't stop at simply supporting deacons, right? You can also engage in mercy ministry yourself by loving your neighbor. Think about the parable of the Good Samaritan. Luke chapter ten. Jesus told this parable of a of a man going from down to Jerusalem from Jericho, or from Jer Jerusalem to Jericho, I should say, and this man falls among robbers, they beat him up, they leave him from for dead. Lots of people pass by, do nothing. Who stops? A Samaritan, right? And what does the Samaritan do? He binds up his wounds, he puts him on his own donkey, he takes him to the inn. He pays for the expenses, and he says, if there are any more expenses, I'll pay for those when I come back. That is a man loving his neighbor, and it's this kind of love that God calls me calls each of us to. But the work of the deacon doesn't replace this kind of good Samaritan neighborly love. When you see, in other words, if you're the Good Samaritan going down the Jericho Road and you see someone in need, you don't You need to pick up the phone and call the deacons first. You can jump in and help where you are with the people God has providentially put in your path. So as you personally think about being a good Samaritan, let me encourage you to think about it in what we could call, and I believe others have also called, the nearness principle. The nearness principle. In other words, think first of those who are around you who you can help. So you may like all of us hear news of disasters, hurricanes. You hear of shootings and and people who are victimized in various ways who need help. But most often as you read about these atrocities and tragedies throughout the world, you're going to have very limited funds or ability to help. Sometimes you may be able to hop on a short-term disaster relief team and join in. Great, praise God. Most often, for most disasters, you're just going to be But instead of focusing on all these things that are out there that you feel like you can't do Just start with those right beside you. And after all, if you can't love the person right beside you, how can you really love someone you haven't even met? Right? And so think about your own friends, your own family. family, your own fellow members of the church, your own neighbors, and how can you be a good Samaritan to them? So for example, say your neighbor has cancer. You can offer to cook them a meal, bring them a meal, help help with babysitting or help with taking them to doctor visits. Be the Good Samaritan, to whoever the Lord has providentially put in your path. Start there, and of course, if the Lord blesses you with other opportunities, take those as well. Also, let me say, be willing to be interrupted. compassion on others, being a good Samaritan requires you allow your schedule to be interrupted. This man surely had plans, he was surely busy, and yet uh he saw a man in need and he was willing to take Take time out and stop and help the one God had providentially put in his path. One other principle in this, Galatians 6. 10 says, So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone. And especially to those who are of the household of faith. So again, if you're looking for somewhere to start, start with mercy, ministry, and care and compassion to your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ's It doesn't have to stop there, but let it start there. So even if you're not a deacon, you can be involved in mercy ministry by supporting the work of the deacon and by being a good neighbor. A third way you can engage in mercy ministry Ministries by caring for your own family. And this called individuals also places a limit on what the deacons are called to do. You see, this obligation to care for one's own family, we specifically read that in 1 Timothy 5, verses 3 to 8. And families, it makes sense. clear are to be the ones who are the first line of help for each other. Not the church. Family members are supposed to care for their own first. Paul writes this in verses 3 to 4: Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household. And to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. Again, in other words, the deacons aren't the first ones to help someone in need. Their own family should be this. And of course, there are some people without families, or perhaps with families who refuse to And in which case, of course, the deacons are supposed to jump in and help. Verse 5 addresses these people and calls them truly widows. The deacon should focus And by the way, when when Paul says that, he's not being insensitive. He's not saying you haven't suffered if you've if you've lost someone you love. Some people have truly suffered suffered and others haven't. By truly widows he means people who are left alone in terms of material provision, not anyone who's suffering grief. Paul states this even more strongly as we look at verse 8. Look what he says: if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith. and is worse than an unbeliever. Not holding too many punches back there, is he? If you do not care for your family when you are able to, you have denied the faith and You are worse than an unbeliever. Why does Paul say that? Well, we think about it, even unbelievers have some type of sense of obligation To care for their own family members. If even unbelievers, if even pagans get that, how much more should a Christian? Remember, the gospel teaches that we're sinners, that we are desperately in need of God's Grace, that we are spiritually poor, we're spiritually bankrupt, and if we truly grasp what God has done for us, if we truly grasp the mercy He has had on us in Jesus Christ, Then how can we not be concerned for other people? And if our compassion doesn't even rise to the level of caring for our own, say, elderly parents caring for our own disabled uh adult children, caring for our own injured brother or sister, right? If we can't even muster the compassion to care for people who need our help within our own families How can we really grasp the love of God for us in Jesus Christ? Now, of course, some try to use some pretty clebbing arguments to get out of this obligation. May remember the Pharisees back in Matthew chapter 15 fifteen. They said, what you would have gained from me, this is what you can say to your parents as they get older, what you would have gained from me is now Corbin, as that's gift to God. The Pharisees would allow you not to help your parents. And Jesus says, no, you make void the Word of God when you do that. And so let me say clearly here that you can't forsake taking care of your parents in the name of serving the church. Right? You can't say, I'm not going to help my family out because I'm giving to the deaconate fund. No. That's a backwards way to think of it. Let me be a little more practical here. So let's say you're involved in a nursing home ministry. A wonderful thing to be involved in. If you're involved in a nursing home ministry and you have elderly parents nearby, how often do you go visit your own parents. For how often, if they don't live near nearby, do you call them? And if you don't have time to visit your own parents, maybe you need to get out of the nursing home ministry and go visit your own parents. parents on Sunday afternoon, right? If it's a choice between the two. Right? And so we need to think carefully about how we can care for our own families. And I just invite each of you to examine yourself and think about is there anyone in my family who's in need, who I'm not willing to help. Or uh perhaps you're not in that position yet. Let me just ask you to examine your heart and say, dispositionally, if something were to happen to someone in my family this week and they were were to need my help. Am I willing to give it? Am I willing to help those in need in my family? So that's the role of deacons and that's the role of individuals Let's consider the role of the person in need finally this morning. And as we do so, again, we're going to see some limitations that are placed on the diaconate. Alright, so we see some of these limiting principles as we continue to look through 1 Timothy 5, verses 9 to 16. Paul gives instructions limiting which widows should be enrolled on the church list of widows. Now let me pause here and say we shouldn't look at this as some totally absolute principle, as if the Deacons in Paul's day never did any type of short-term immediate relief for someone. Right? What Paul is talking about here is someone who is put on a permanent list to receive essentially perpetual aid in their retirement, in their older in their final years. Right. And so Paul's saying, be careful, be slow to put someone on any kind of permanent list. He's not saying an emergency call saying I need two hundred fifty bucks for my rent from someone you know and love that you need to give them the nth degree. So he says here, in order to be enrolled as a widow, the widow must be at least sixty years old. She has been faithful to one husband, and she has a reputation Now, as you think about that, is this a merit-based mercy system? Wasn't I just making a big deal about how God gives us, lavishes his grace on us? But now Paul seems to be flipping the script here and saying you have to earn your mercy. I don't think that's what he's saying. He's not saying don't help someone until they deserve it. That would go against the entire spirit of the gospel, right? But he is encouraging to think how to cause the to call the church to think Think carefully about how and who and when it helps. So an elderly woman who has done all these things is very unlikely to be trying to milk the system. However, other people, you may not be able to say that about them. In contrast, here in verses 11 to 13, Paul addresses the danger of enrolling someone too quickly. First of all, he says the woman may be tempted to marry. Now that may seem a little little bit of an odd danger, especially since Paul later goes on to commend marriage for widows. But what Paul must have in mind here is some who maybe tend to To say Mary, unbelievers, or perhaps a woman who commits herself in her widowhood to serve the Lord in a particular way, but then is drawn away and enticed uh by marriage rather than keeping her commitments. And so therefore, Paul urges young widows not to be put on the rolls. Another thing young widows are tempted to do Do is to become idlers, gossips, and busybodies. In other words, they're going to be very counterproductive to the health and life of the church rather than productive. And now these sins, again, they may seem counter- kind of innocent enough. Oh, so-and-so is going around saying things. What's the big deal about that? But that can be really destructive to the life of the church. Having an idle person who gossips and gets into everyone's business in inappropriate ways is destructive to the health of the church. It can even devastate some churches. And so Paul says, be careful. The tongue is a fierce danger. And James chapter 3 writes, How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire. And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. And that's what young widows who are kind of have all their needs taken care of for them and have nothing to do. That's what they can become. And therefore, Paul's remedy to the situation is to have younger widows marry, as we read in verse 14. Or rather than being idle, women should be productive. They should have husbands they can help and children they can raise for the glory of God. Remember back then too, women didn't have quite the same career options to to put it to understate the case. I didn't have the same career options as we did as they do today. And so uh the advice for them is to be productive, do what they should do, marry, raise children for God's glory. I think this principle can be extended beyond widows of childbearing years. We should always, all of us should always be looking happy. How to use our time productively rather rather than wasting it in idle talk, gossip or meddling or anything like that, right? And so those in need, in other words, have a responsibility. Those in need have a responsibility to honor God with their lives and to try to provide for themselves. If they have the ability to provide for themselves, themselves, if you have the ability to provide for yourself, it is your obligation to do so. That is God's call for you. Others uh can do this instead of, say, marrying, as these young widows. were encouraged to do. Today the advice might be get a job. Go apply for a job if you're unemployed. 2 Timothy 3, verses 10 to 11, Paul wrote, If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy bodies. Again, every single person who is able to work has an obligation to do so. Now again, I understand. Some people will be trying to find work and not able to find work. That's a very different case than someone who is not doing their best to find work. Right? And so anyone who can should, and if they're not willing to do that, Paul says, no, do not support someone in that. Now, so that's the principle, and the deacons here, we can also learn practically for the deacons is that it is right for them to insist upon So also many people who work uh if you if we have deacons here, many people who work extensively say with those who are poor or in poor areas where where the deacons may get a lot of say walk-ins, the typical advice you'll hear is not just to give money to people who walk in, but to to come beside them and to help them with actual needs or help them work towards being self-supportive. You can read a good book on this by David Apple Who's a director of Mercy Ministry at Tenth Press in Philadelphia? He's written an excellent book and he gives that counsel as well. Likewise, deacons may place limits on someone they know. very well. And and if you're ever in need, I encourage you not to be offended if if you have deacons doing this with you. So let's say a man is is out of work and he needs help from the deacon The deacons may work with him to set a budget. And they may work with him to work on his resume and encourage him to apply for jobs rather than just you know, say sitting around and and complaining about God's providence. And a at a certain point the deacons may have to tell someone, No, we are not helping you any longer because the man refuses to open up his his budget to them. He refuses to receive their counsel or he refuses to apply for jobs that are beneath him when when there are actually opportunities for him. Paul's advice is work or don't eat. And and sometimes the deacons will be in the hard position of having to tell someone We cannot help you any longer because you're not willing to work with us. Likewise, think about it for you as a family member. Families also may need to do this. It can be excruciatingly painful, by the way. It's going to be very difficult to have to say to someone, no, I can no longer help you out. But for example, you may decide that a family member, say a a younger uh a younger adult son can no longer live with you even though he he needs a place to stay and he he doesn't seem to be able to support himself. You may need to decide that because he's a dangerous danger to other people in your household or or by helping him you just are enabling a particular sin and and c kindness and compassion would dictate that you not support or enable this uh behavior. Again, practically speaking, these things can be very painful. And maybe some of you have been there before. It can be very painful to have to To say to someone, No, I can no longer help you. Or for a deacon to say, No, we cannot give you the kind of help that you're asking for. But sometimes we do this not out of hard-heartedness, but sometimes Uh that is the best way to serve someone. You've brought someone, say, a cup of cold water over and over again and you're trying to lead them to the well to draw water and they refuse to come with you. Right? Uh the deacons and the family's obligation uh cannot uh if someone refuses help, in other words, it's not the deacons or the individual family. family members responsibility. And let me add one more thing here to the person who is in need. So if you find yourself in need, one thing is to be humble enough to admit it. To be humble enough to admit it. Many people who are in need, they don't want to milk the system. Many people who are in need in fact don't want to admit that they're in need need. It's humbling. For some people can feel humiliating to say, I've lost my job. I can't meet my expenses. I need help. And asking for help is hard. But if you think about it as a Christian, that's what we all have to do, isn't it? We have to admit that I don't have the resources in my hand That I am actually poor, wretched, pitiable, naked, blind spiritually. I come to Christ empty-handed, like a Poor beggar begging for his grace. And if you can come to Christ like that, admitting your spiritual poverty, it shouldn't be all that difficult to admit to to someone here that that you have some physical needs. that you can't can't meet. So our our faith can actually allow us to swallow our pride as it were and to humbly ask for help. and to gratefully receive help as we give it. And for those of us who, or those of you who will be giving to someone in need, remember that. Remember to be compassionate with them. to be kind to someone, it can be hard for them for them. And so always give generously, kindly, and uh without begrudging it, right? People can know if we're giving it Grudgingly, and it doesn't doesn't help. And so we see here that uh the deacons uh that deacons are called to this great Ministry of Mercy. It's a necessary ministry of mercy, one that uh the church can't just dispose of if if we're too busy for it or if we don't have any men raised up as deacons. We also see that this is an obligation not just for deacons In the church, but for each and every individual one of us. Each and every individual one of us as members of our community, as members of families. And we engage in this ministry of mercy because we know that God has loved us in Christ, because God has given his Son for us. That he, while we were poor, became sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God. So let us pray that God would give us all hearts of compassion to those in need. And let us pray that he would especially raise up deacons to help us as we pursue this ministry of mercy. Let's pray and ask him for this. Our Father in heaven, we praise you for our Lord Jesus Christ. We know His grace, that though He was rich, yet for our sake He became poor, so that by His poverty we might become rich As those who have been shown such mercy, please incline our hearts to extend compassion to others in need. We pray particularly for deacons. We pray for you to raise up more deacons in this church and in all your churches. We thank you for their work. We ask that as you give us deacons, that you would grant them a spirit of love and wisdom as they seek to serve you through a ministry of mercy. May you be glorified in it, and will you please continue to add to our numbers those who are being saved? For we ask this in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen.