Join me, congregation, in prayer. Gracious Father in heaven, according to your promise to us in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they shall all be taught of God. Send now your Holy Spirit to be our teacher, that our hearts may be open to receive the word. become flesh. In Christ our Lord we pray. Amen. Congregation of the Lord, what is it that you want for Christmas? I know what I want. We actually didn't get to it. But John goes and tells us of the fruit of the word becoming flesh. I want more of this grace for grace. I want more of the grace and truth that came by Jesus Christ. that John told us was the fruit of the word becoming flesh. And I want more of that grace for grace with you all. The Church of Jesus Christ as those who have received the fullness of Him or received from His fullness. I just want more of this this Christmas. I want more of the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want more of that in the love and fellowship and friendship. of the Church of Jesus Christ as those who have received of his fullness. Christmas is all about verse 14, the last verse, the word was made flesh. But John would have us start a little bit sooner than that and trace back this mystery to the beginning. And in the verses that we read here this evening, John gives us a little bit of a history of salvation. A history of salvation. Genesis, the first book in the Bible, will give you, if you turn there, a history of creation. And John will start with the words in the beginning and the gospel to give you a history of salvation. And he gives it in four parts, and no briefly. I promise briefly look at these four parts of the history of salvation The first part is there at verses 1 through 2. They deal with the word with God. You have it printed before you so you can follow along with me. You see that in the beginning was the word. We're accustomed to reading the Bible where it says in the beginning God created. But in the gospel we learn that in the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God. So John's teaching us here's how we should uh read the Bible in Genesis. In the beginning was the word with God who created. And John said that the world was with God, that is, distinct from God, but not so distinct. that he is not also God himself. As soon as after John says the word was with God, he says, and the word was God. So the word was there in the beginning with God when God created and he was there in the beginning as God. So that's the word. Distinct from God, of course, talking here about God the Father, but not so distinct as not to be God Him. So we might say the divine word. In the beginning, the divine word was with God. When God made all things. And that's the second part of salvation history. You could hardly have a history without creation, which John will talk about in verses three and five. But as the gospel reveals to us, you can't have any salvation without the Word Verses three through five we read about the word, how everything through him was created, all things were made by him And without him was not anything made that was made, nothing you see, touch Hear, smell, feel, encounter, seen or unseen exist apart from him. He made it all Everything you will bombard into this room. The word made. The word created. John then narrows down and talks to us about the word, telling us that in him was life. Obviously everything that exists. Don't we like life? Do we like a dead bouquet of flowers or do we like a living bouquet of flowers? Do we like dead relationships? Do we like living relationships? Jesus was the life of it all, is the life of it all. The word gives life to everything. And in particular, this life was the light of men. Men enjoyed his life. Men enjoyed his light. And then we read in verse five, foreshadowing the incarnation and what took place, that the light shineth in darkness. John doesn't say or explain here the darkness. We read about it in Genesis and the stories. The Bible doesn't really explain it because I think it is a bit unexplainable. How can you bask in the light of the word and full of life and turn from it? But that's sin. And the lights shined in the darkness, but the darkness did not comprehend it And then John takes a little break in verses six through nine. Some in his church thought that John was the light and he corrects their thinking. About John the Baptist not being the light. And then he picks up again in verse 10 and he talks about the word and the world, the word with God, the word in creation. Now the word and the world. We read in verse 10 That the light, the word, he was in the world. He was in this world. The world that you and I live and move and have our existence in and walk amongst. He was in this world. Not that world in this world. A little bit different moment of history, but But a lot has changed in 3,000 years, right? You still have government, you still have homes of families, of trees, of businesses Still has life, it's of commerce, technology's change different things, but still recognizably the same world Living under the same constraints, guided, governed by the same relations, and driven by it all in this world And the world, now John is narrowing down what he means by world is men, and in particular, men who are Estranged from God, or mankind estranged from God and hostile to God. The world, he was in the world, the world was made by him, but the world knew him not. How many of you like peanut butter and pickle sandwiches? I don't even know if that's a thing. I hope not. How many of you like spaghetti and toothpaste? These are unrelated things, right? And uncompatible things. That's what it means that the world didn't know them. It doesn't mean they just fell short intellectually. They were so unrelated like light is from darkness and they can't be together. I hope nobody puts peanut butter and pickles together and if you do it's okay. That's how unknown they were to each other, unrelated, utterly different. And yet made by him, made for him, but did not know him It gets a little worse. He came unto his own. This is the history of salvation. The Jewish people prepared for him. God had revealed Himself to the Israelites, declared His name to them, Exodus 34, 6 and 7 Moses, you want to see my glory? You want to know my name? Here, I will declare it to you. The glory of the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger. Bounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity, transgressions, and sins, will by no means pardon the guilty. A new God The Khan said God preached to them in their synagogues. Khan said the law read to them, the prophets read to them, knew their history. Prepared particularly for him like nobody else, and yet they received him not. And by that John means They refused a relation with him. Someone Christmas were to put a guest on the table. Said open it right if you want, and you can have what's in it. Or leave it there and miss out. That's what it's like when the gospel comes to you. That's what it's like when the Lord comes and the word becomes flesh. It's a relation with him that's refused. It's knowing him that's refused. He's refused. He's not received. He's not welcomed into your home as a guest. Given a place and entertained and loved and adored It's wonderful that verse eleven is followed by verse twelve, isn't it? But As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood. nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. We rightly and often speak of the incarnation as a miracle. But John talks of another miracle here: the divine birth and begetting, so that we would receive Christ. And believe on his name. What does name mean, right? When you hear name in the Bible, think fame. Someone's name is their fame. What have they done? And Jesus raises the dead, heals the sick, opens the eyes of the blind, walks on water. Calms the season. That's his name. That's the name given to Yahweh. When you read the prophets and the storms, these are the things that Yahweh does. What's the name of Jesus? What's his fame? The Lord, the Lord, a God, merciful, gracious, slow to anger. That's his name. Those who believe on him and believe on that name and receive him are born of God. And the last bit of salvation history there is beginning in verse fourteen and continue on in sixteen and seventeen after John Takes another pause in verse 15. But verse 14 then narrows down to if the world and those who Who were made his own did not receive him and refused a relationship with him. What is life like for those who've known this miracle, have been born again, and have received him. And John then begins to talk about the life of grace. And he says The word was made flesh. That doesn't just mean that he was made man. He was made a man. It means that He took on a human creaturely existence. It means though he's God and always remains God, and Stays as God even when he took on flesh, he means he knows your existence. Means he knows what it is to be in a body and to get tired, to be dependent and needy He doesn't know a different experience of the flesh. He knows the experience of the flesh, the same that you and I are as flesh. That's what it means, that the word became flesh. He entered into the mode of existence that you and I know and have a human, creaturely existence. Needy and dependent. And he dwelt. Some of you know, he made a tent among us The significance again of that is, well that's what God does amongst his people. John, are you saying that like Yahweh of old came down in the tent of meeting and dwelt with the people, that's what Jesus did? Yes. Except he didn't do it in a tent covered in skins. He did it in the flesh. God came near to us in the flesh. How more fully could the Word express Himself to us than to become Flesh. Do you think it'd be easy for you we communicate pretty well, don't we? Oh yeah, I mean I'll make a joke here for the elderly. Oh, because my mom was reminding me at home, you know, when she's like, when I get together with my brothers and sisters now, all we talk about is, you know, what doctors we gotta go to and what hurts We understand that, right? We get that. Because we experience and go and down here, how wonderful God can communicate in this flesh and existence with us Himself. In the same medium in which you and I exist in as creatures in the flesh. Well, what's it like, John? Tell us, what did you see when the word became flesh? Well, we beheld his glory. His glory. What was his glory like? It was like the only begotten of the Father. Do you mean you saw God in him? Yes. We beheld the glory of the only begotten of the Father. Well, John, what was it like when Jesus called you on that sea in Galilee? And Jesus said, Come and see and live with me, and you walked with him through Judea in Galilee, and you lay down with him and you ate with him, and you watched him teach, and you lived with him, and you saw him interact with others, and you saw him weep tears and you saw him raise the dead and you saw him comfort the bereaved and you saw him help parents who lost their children and do the miraculous for them. What did you see? What was the glory All we saw was grace and truth in him. All we saw was Never ending in unbounded kindness and goodness and mercy and love You know, we're meant to take grace and truth together. You've probably received grace from somebody What often happens with our grace is that it isn't always so true. You've probably been loved by somebody. But have you ever found out that sometimes our love just isn't so true? Or what the word means, faithful. And John says, no matter what we did, no matter how egg-headed we were, obstinate and hard-hearted we were. ignorant and slow to understand and sinful and proud and arrogant and puffed up because he talked to us about reigning with him and having thrones and we wanted to see who can be great in his kingdom and we didn't understand at all but He didn't stop being gracious to us. He didn't stop loving us But his love is faithful. He doesn't stop loving those who receive him. He never stops loving those who believe on his name. I think that's a priceless gift. I think it's something you can't buy. I think it's something you can't find. But in Jesus. And I think it's something you all can have if you believe on Him and receive Him. So as you celebrate Christmas tomorrow, celebrate it as the birth or the beginning of this new life of love. Of being loved by the Lord Jesus Christ, that you, his dear saints, know. And tell the world what he is like, full of grace And truth. And he's right here. Come and open him Come enjoy it. Come and have a relationship with Christ through his word. Through his sacraments, through prayer, in the context of a local church. That's the gift of his grace May you always know this grace. May you be joyful and rejoice And the gift of grace that God has given to us in His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.