Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from Genesis chapter two. Genesis chapter two, verses fifteen through seventeen. And then we're going to shift to chapter 3 and read verses 1 through 12. So Genesis 2, 15 through 17. Then chapter three, verses one through twelve. Hear now the word of God. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Chapter 3, verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise She took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed feed gleaves together and made themselves wincloths And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman who you gave to me with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Matthew chapter 4, 1 through 11. I don't have a children's introduction, but I would encourage all of us to think about how these passages tied together in the course of the sermon. Matthew four, one through eleven. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Don not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you. And on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against the stone. And Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to be here today. It is only by your grace and your providence that we woke up even. And yet you have called us to be your people. You've called us by name. You've loved us with an everlasting love, and you have called us to attend your word, your word that spares us from all kinds of troubles. That contradicts the lies that are told to us. And we praise you for your word. Now please speak through your word, O Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we did not read it, but we will read in the course of the preaching the first 14 verses of 1 Samuel 13. So I do encourage you to turn to 1 Samuel 13. 1 through 14, and as we continue our series through the book of 1 Samuel, the first book of Samuel. In chapter 11, we have the story of Saul's excellent obedience right after being anointed king. And he was acknowledged by all Israel in chapter 12. In chapter 11, he had commanded an army against And you have to kind of keep these people separate. The Ammonites, that's not the same ones that we're going to talk about today. The Ammonites are a different group. Who rose up? That's the the Ammonite king Nahash, the guy who wanted to make a treaty with the Israelites and saying, I'll make a treaty with you if you let me pluck out the right eyes of every one of your men. You know, that's that guy. Uh-huh. So they had defeated Nahash and the Ammonites, and they rightly gave thanks to God. including Saul, with sacrifices of praise and peace offerings that were offered by Samuel the high priest. He is batting 1,000% at this point, King Saul is. But his attitude and good actions unfortunately will not last. His good record is about to be spoiled as we come to chapter 13 today. The Israelites, as you remember, had asked for a king, and they got one. Saul. God was always willing to be their king, but they wanted a visible king. And the king God gave them was actually to be a kind of vice-king. He wanted to still rule his people, but he was allowing them to have a visible king, a vice-king, through whom he should rule. And that's the setting of the story today. We have Saul, who should be the vice king, God still ruling, and we have yet The first big fall of King Saul 1 through 8. I'll read it. Saul lived for one year and then became king And when he had reigned for two years over Israel, Saul chose 3,000 men of Israel. You remember, uh the Samuel prophet, it said, he will take of your sons and give make them into his army. And this is what he's doing. Saul chose three thousand men of Israel. Two thousand were with Saul in Mi'kmash and the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people he sent home Every man to his tent. Jonathan defeated the garrison of the Philistines. That's not the Ammonites, that's a different group He defeated the garrison of the Philistines that was in Giba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear And all Israel heard it, said that Saul had defeated the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel had become a stretch to the Philistines. And the people were called out to join Saul at Gilgal. So let's go back over this. Jonathan We don't know who he is. He just appears on the scene. He is Saul's son. So Saul's an older guy. He's got a son who's old enough to lead a garr a fighting group against the garrison He is a remarkable military leader, as we will see. And here he demonstrated his ability to lead a successful attack against a garrison of the Philistines. That's a small post. Of the Philistines that were in Israelite territory. But this attack merely wakened the greater army of the Philistines. Israel has enjoyed the peace up until now, the peace with the Philistines, the peace that we would call a peace of subjugation. The peace of a subjugated people. And that means that for them everything would be fine as long as they kept their place in subjugation. Through this attack, Jonathan proclaimed, We won't meekly surrender to you, Philistines, any longer. As long as the Israelites saved them, but as soon as the Israelites showed boldness and courage against the Lord's enemies, the Philistines considered the Israelites, it says, a stench. They stink to us now because they've gotten out of their place. They've risen up. And we don't like it Now we get to verse 5. And the Philistines mustered to fight with Israel. The text is a little unclear here The Hebrew is not clear. It says in our ESV 30,000, but that's probably not the right number. It's probably 3,000. That makes more sense So we'll go with three thousand. The Philistines mustered to fight with Israel. Three thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen and troops, like the sand of the seashore in multitude. They came up and encamped at Mi'mash. to the east of Beth Abon. When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble, for the people were hard-pressed, the people hid themselves In caves and in holes and in rocks and in tombs and cisterns. You've got to get a picture of this. Great fear, as these Philistines are coming to get These Israelites who have risen up out of their place of subjugation, and a bunch of them are put in the army, Saul's army, but a bunch of them are hiding in crazy places. Rocks and caves and tombs and cisterns. Wells. They're really afraid. And some Hebrews crossed the fords of the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Some of them said, Let's get out of here. Go across the river of Jordan to the foreign countries to get out of this because we don't want to get slaughtered. And then it says, Saul was still at Gilgas, a very important place, and all the people followed him trembling. So here's Saul. He's at Gilgal. That's the place where the covenant was made. The covenant was restored and Reiterated. And he's waiting there. Verse 8. He waited seven days, the time appointed by Samuel. Now go back to Samuel 10, 7 through 8. And it says there, now when these signs meet you, do what your hand finds to do. The hand finds to do thing is Beat the Philistines. That's what it means. Do what your hand finds to do, for God is with you. Then go down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I am coming down to you to offer burnt offerings and to sacrifice peace offerings, seven days you shall wait until I come to you and show you what you shall do. Seven days. You can't start this battle with these Philistines until I, the priest, comes to you and we have this offering of sacrifice to get you ready. And to hear the word of God and to go forth in boldness and defeat God's enemies. But then the text tells us: but Samuel did not come to Gilgal. And the people were scattering from him. So Saul was there waiting at Gilgal. Samuel said he would come in seven days. Six days have passed. It's the morning of the seventh day. He still hasn't shown up. The people are afraid, as we've already heard. A lot of them have left. Some of them are hiding. And the numbers are going down and he's, oh now what do I do? The people are all going to leave me. We will have no army left Saul waited seven days. Saul was in Gilgal for many months. In the press of this crisis, every day now seemed more important. He knew that the Philistines were getting their act together, assembling a huge army, and that once they were organized, they would be much harder to beat. And Saul probably felt that a quick response would give him the best chance to beat the Philistines. So then it says, according to the time set by Samuel. As we go back to chapter 10 for that, we've already read it. Samuel told Saul to wait for him at Gilgal. Then Samuel would preside over the sacrifices, and Israel would be spiritually ready for battle, and God would deliver his people. But the text tells us Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from him. This added to Saul's anxiety. First, the anxiety was based in waiting for Samuel. When somebody tells you they're going to meet you, and They said I'll be there between ten and ten fifteen. You were hoping they'd be there at ten And now it's 10, 14 and a half, and they still haven't shown up, and your anxiety. If it's important, your anxiety is rising, right? So that's what's happening with Saul here. Second, the people are scattering. A lot of people are giving up already. I don't think he's going to make it. He must have been delayed. He must have been attacked on the way. Let's go. Let's get out of here before we get clobbered. This was a test of faith to Saul. He wanted God's help for the battle, but he was impatient and he became impetuous. That's the first thing to note here, the setting of Saul's fall. Now we go to the very act of Saul's fall in verses 9 through 12. Verse 9. So Saul said. Bring me the burnt offering and the peace offerings. And he offered the burnt offering He had seen it done many times. He knows how to do this. Verse 10: As soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, behold, and that's kind of a look. He was surprised to see coming up the hill Samuel. Behold, Samuel came. And Saul went out to meet him and greet him. Again, this is probably the morning of the seventh day or the afternoon, sometime on the seventh day. One commentator puts it this way, Saul decided to perform the sacrifice not more than an hour before Samuel arrived. If he trusted God and waited one more hour, how different things could have been. The last moments of waiting are usually the most difficult. And they powerfully tempt us to take matters. And it says, then after he sees old Saul coming up the hill, Saul meet him and greet him, literally to bless him. Saul had overstepped his bounds. Literally, the Hebrew says Saul wanted to Bless Samuel, perhaps, as a priest blesses the people. Now Saul really saw himself as a priest because he just offered a sacrifice. And now he's going to give a blessing. This illustration comes to mind. It reminds me of a story of a mom who baked cookies. And uh I imagined these cookies were toll house cookies Chocolate chip cookies. And the mom put these toll house cookies out on the cooling rack and warned her young son, maybe maybe Simon's age, I'm not sure, warned her young son not to get any of the cookies because they're for eating later And mom is out of the kitchen, and the boy sees the warm, moist cookies. Makes your mouth water, doesn't it? He just has to have one. And you know, when you have cookies on a cooling rack, you can shift them around after taking one and it's not as apparent that Just as the boy is munching one of the cookies, mom appears. What have you done? And the boy answers, let's say a blessing for it. Saul says, Oh, let's have a blessing. To old Samuel. And Samuel says, What have you done? Samuel knew that something was wrong. He probably could smell the sacrifice In the air. But Samuel did not want to hear reasons or excuses because there were no valid reasons or excuses. What Samuel wanted to hear and what Saul should have said was confession and repentance. So what Saul here did here was a public sin. Everybody that was there saw it. It was a public sin. And he was a public person. He was a representative of all his people. Public person. And it was a violation of his office as king, because the king Could not bear three offices. He could not be a priest in this case. One simple, it seems to us, simple act of disobedience. by a federal person, a public person is what happens here. This is happening by the hand of the first vice king. Of Israel, Saul. Samuel said in verse 11, What have you done? The first and original vice-king we read about earlier, Adam. was to rule for God and to spread his image everywhere by procreation. Fill the earth and subdue it. And when Adam fell, God asked, in essence, in Genesis 3, where are you? What have you done? The first vice king of Israel here in our text, Saul, makes excuses and blames others And Saul said, When I saw the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, at least almost to the very end of it. Actually it was probably the seventh day, as I've said. And that the Philistines had mustered at Mi'kmaq. I said, now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the favor of the Lord. He says, so I forced myself. And offered the burnt offering. He has his reasons, doesn't he? The first vice-king of creation, Adam, also made excuses and blamed others, even God. In Genesis 3, 11 through 12. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? And the man said, the woman. Whom you, God, gave to me to be with me, she gave me fruit, and I ate. Saul thought he had to do something to impress the people, to keep them from running away. But if Saul had only obeyed and trusted God, God would have given the victory over the Philistines. With or without the people, do you remember that God gave Gideon the victory with only 300 men? Possibly some of the Israelites there that were with Saul when he did this admired him as a man of action, who takes charge, a real leader. Who needs that old priest anyway? Saul might have been high in the public polls at this point, but if God was not with him, they would all fail He should have been more concerned with pleasing God than pleasing the people. Saul's excuses make it clear that this was not a misunderstanding about the time of the the who can do what, it was not a misunderstanding. He didn't say to Samuel, did I do something wrong? He knew exactly what he had done, and he thought of his excuses ahead of time. So that's the fall of Saul in this passage. And then we get the aftermath of the fall of Saul in verses 13 and 14. Verse 13, and Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. This is a strong statement, stronger than it appears at first glance. Samuel did not mean that Saul was unintelligent. Some of the greatest intellects in the world are atheists and otherwise unbelievers. But they are spiritual fools. Some of the simplest people in the world who may be illiterate or mentally impaired are spiritually wise. The Bible uses the term fool for those who are morally and spiritually lacking. And that's what Samuel said to Saul, you have done foolishly. You have not kept the command of the Lord your God with which He commanded you. That's a way of emphasizing it twice. You have not kept the command of the Lord your God with which He commanded you. Emphasis on command. Despite all the excuses, all the reasons, all the blaming someone else, the bottom line was still the bottom line. Samuel put it plainly, you have not kept the command of the Lord your God. God commanded him to do something, that was wait for the priest to offer a sacrifice. And he did the opposite. Young people and old, when God has given a command You must obey. Your fallen nature will lead you to reason why it's okay in this particular case to disregard God. But it's not okay. Here's the way reason works. We go back to Genesis 3, which we read earlier. Here's the way it works. The woman, it says in verse 6 of Genesis 3, so when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, she her reason looks good to me. I don't know what the big deal is about prohibiting eating this particular looks good to me. She saw that the tree was good for food. And that it was a delight to the eyes. That's kind of a poetic duct. And the tree was desired to make one wise. I have heard stories, she says, that this fruit from this tree can actually improve my perception about things. That's her reasoning. This makes sense, she says. I am justified in my decision to eat this fruit. So she took of the fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her. And I imagine that his reasoning was something like this: kind of a peer pressure reasoning. She is a delight to my eyes, and I really like her, and I like to be on good terms with her, and it's a good idea to please her, and she is offering me some of this fruit, so I'm going to have it too. That's his reasoning, probably. But the command of God always outweighs any human rationalization Listen to God's command and obey. And yes, even kings and presidents must obey. Listen to the word of God, the command of God. That's what we have to care about and take heed most of all. Now, this is a story that I've heard in different commentaries and sermons, so I'll tell it to you. It's a good one. The story is told of James VI of Scotland. who was the king of Scotland, and the kings of Scotland back in those days, unlike our politicians today, actually had to attend church. But he did attend church, but he would sit up in the gallery, and he was notoriously rude at church On one occasion, he was seated in his gallery with several of his courtiers while Robert the Bruce preached. In the usual way, James began to talk to those around him during the sermon. Bruce paused. The king fell silent. Then the minister resumed, and so did King James. Bruce stopped again, a second time. The same result. When the king committed his third offense, Bruce turned and addressed King James directly. He said, It is said to have been the expression of the wisest of kings, when the lion roars, all the beasts of the field are quiet. The lion of the tribe of Judah is now roaring in the voice of his gospel, and it becomes all petty kings of the earth to be silent. That finally shut him up. Great and small, all must hear and obey the command of God. And Samuel says, if you had done what you should have done, then the Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel, the God of all creation The omnipotent one, then Yahweh would have established your kingdom forever. But now your kingdom shall not continue. We might expect, but he wasn't. He reigns another twenty years. He will sit on the throne as a king, but he will never be the same because the end of his dynasty has been forecast, foretold. Charles Wesley said, it is to disobey God in the smallest matter is a great sin, because there is no little sin, because there is no little God to sin against. One commentator says, because the actual judgment for this sin was so far distant, you know, it was your dynasty will end. We may regard his pronouncement of judgment as an invitation to repentance even now. Many times when God announces judgment, he will change his plan if his people repent. But God knew Saul's heart. He knew that he wouldn't repent. And then we go on in verse 14. The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be prince over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you. Though God rejected Saul, he did not reject Israel. Because God loved Israel, he would raise up a king someday, a man after his own heart. You see, listen carefully. Saul was a man after Israel's heart. He was tall and handsome. He was all about image and prestige, Shrila Man after his own heart, and raised that man up to be the next king. Who was that next king? David. David. David would be that man. David would also sin, would he not? Yes, he would. Yet God never took the kingdom from David and his descendants. See, the issue was bigger than one incident of sin. The issue was being a man after God's own heart. David Gusick, a commentator that I like, gives us the characteristic of a man after God's own heart. He says, a man after God's heart honors the Lord. Saul was more concerned with his will than God's will. David knew that God's will was most important. Even when David didn't do God's will, he still knew that God's will was most important. He had the right take on it. A man after God's own heart enthrones God as king for Saul For Saul, Saul was king. For David, the Lord God was king. For David, Saul knew, for David and Saul knew that sacrifice before battle was important. They both knew that. But David thought it was important because it pleased and honored God. Saul thought it was important because it might help him win the battle, but help him achieve his goals. It was all about Saul and his goals, you see. David thought that please when Saul was confronted with his sin, he offered what? Excuses. When David was confronted with his sin by the prophet Nathan, what did he do? He repented. He confessed. We have it in 2 Samuel 12, and we have it in that wonderful Psalm 51, where David repents and confesses his sins. A man after God's heart loves other people. This is the third one, the fourth one. Saul will become increasingly bitter against people and live more and more selfishly in the course of his life. But David loved people. And when David was down and out, he still loved and served those who were even more down and out. So that's the difference between a man after God's own heart and a man who's not. Conclusion. Saul was the first king of God's people. He was a public person who violated a simple yet vital command of God. What did he do? He then made excuses, blaming others, refusing to take responsibility. By the way, the most mature thing anyone can do is take responsibility. Making excuses is always lame and at best is lame and at worst it's a lie. Saul is parallel to the first king, our father Adam, who as a public person, representing the whole human race, violated a simple command of God And true to his fallen nature, he then made excuses. And we, you and I sitting here today, have inherited both the sin nature and the excuse-making nature from Adam. Paul in Romans 12, Romans 5, verse 12, teaches that we became sinners as a result of a public person who is our federal head. In that verse he says, Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sinned. All sinned in Adam. The old quip is In Adam's fall, we sinned all. David will be the second king of Israel. He too will sin, as we've said, but he will repent. again and again, and he will be a man after God's own heart. He will also be a prophet, declaring the word of God at times. But he will prophetically point forward to his greater son, the second Adam, Jesus Christ. But David would never, ever assume the office of priest. As Samuel did here today. The second Adam, David's greater son, is pictured for us in the wilderness in Matthew chapter 4. What's happening there in the wilderness? He's being tempted by the devil. Not just once, but three times. In each of the areas where we humans are tempted, the desires of the flesh Make bread. The misuse of power. You can dump and you'll be saved. The desire for easy glory, I'll give you all the kingdoms of the world, false worship. The second Adam succeeded, did he not? Every time he turned to the Word of God and said, Again it is written. It is written. It is written. And that's how he succeeded. And that's how you and I can succeed. The second Adam. Is a perfect man after God's own heart, Jesus Christ. He was and is also a public person, a federal representative of his people But he did not sin, not even once, not ever. But he did die for sin. In the place of sinners. He died for the sins of all who come to him, all who trust in him. Hebrews 7. 26 says, it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, exalted above the heavens. So when you sin, it's no small matter. Because every sin is against a great and holy God. Every sin deserves the wrath and curse of God. That's the truth. But if by faith you and I turn in repentance to the second Adam He takes away the guilt of your sins, and you receive his perfect record of obedience of all God's commandments You do you get that? Do you receive the perfect record of disobedience of all God's commandments? Imagine that. God looks at you. Through pure and perfect lens, the lens of Christ. Christ's perfect record And so he sees, as he looks at you through the lens of Christ's perfect record, he sees nothing of your disobedience, nothing of your weakness, nothing of your failure. In the words of an old song, clean before my Lord I stand, and in me not one blemish does he see. When I placed all my burdens on him, he washed them all from me. In the words of 2 Corinthians 5, 21, for our sake The Father made him, Jesus, to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. You and I become the righteousness of God. That's the way God looks at us. Romans 4, verses 24 and 25. Righteousness will be counted to us who believe in Him who raised Him from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our transgressions and raised for our justification. That is how you get a heart that God loves. You get it from repentance, from sin, and self-reliance. With trust in the true King, the second Adam, Jesus. That's how you get A heart that God loves and are a man, woman, child after God's own heart. You get it by trusting in the second Adam Who obeyed in your place and who took your sin away, by faith in him you gain all that he has done and all that he has. Are you a man, a woman, a child, after God's own heart? Amen Lord, we thank you for Jesus' great success when he was tempted in the wilderness for 40 days. And beat the devil every time by your word, by obeying your command. We thank you for King David, who was a man after God's own heart, who, when he sinned, confessed his sin and repented. and ultimately trusted in the great second Adam, his son, Jesus Christ, who was clothed in his righteousness Clothe us in his righteousness, the righteousness of Jesus Christ today as we trust in him. Who became sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Amen.