Congregation, our scripture reading tonight is, first of all, from the Psalter, Psalm 129, our text. This is the Word of God. Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth Let Israel now say, greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Yet they have not prevailed against me. The plowers plowed upon my back. They made long their furrows. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turn backward. Let them be like the grass on the housetops. Which withers before it grows up, with which the reaper does not fill his hand, nor the binder of sheaths his arms. Nor do those who pass by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. And now from Second Corinthians chapter four, verses seven through twelve. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake. so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us. But light in you. I didn't realize when I prepared this sermon that this is going to connect so closely to this morning's sermon Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know what the Psalms of Ascent were? Pilgrimage to Zion. Here we have in Psalms 124 and 125, together with 128 and 129. Almost the equivalent of stanzas of a modern hymn. They hang together and express the fears And faith of the church of the covenant of promise, paralleling our own church of the covenant of fulfillment. 124. Israel is the prey to the teeth of many enemies. 125. Peace is upon Israel, surrounded as she is by Yahweh. 128. Peace is upon believing Israel's families and children. 129. Israel has suffered great affliction from her youth up. It goes sort of like this I'll explain that in a moment. Yet in each of these Psalms of Ascent Sung by the leading Israelites over the centuries as each time they went up to Zion to worship Yahweh. There was the ringing note of deliverance and protection under the loving care of their faithful covenant God. And did you notice that structure of these four songs? There we find the perfect balance between the realism of opposition. And the grace of divine covenant or faithfulness. Both within the Psalms individually and within the corpus of this collection of psalms together. Pray, P R E Y, Affliction, Peace, Peace And we notice the same construction in our psalm tonight: great affliction, no benediction for the wicked, deliverance from oppression, total removal of the wicked. But there are more amazing features about this psalm, poetic illusions, that make it fascinating, both to study and to sing. As we will later. Being it as it is a recitation of our own situation as the church of the new dispensation, but the one covenant of grace. Thus, while making parallels to our own situation and recognizing the ultimate fulfillment of this psalm in our glorious Redeemer. Jesus Christ, we can surely profit from a careful listening to and repeating of its song in our time and place. Being as it is, that we are God's true Israel. Our proposition is this tonight, folks. All the efforts of the enemies of Yahweh against his purpose of covenant redemption through Jesus Christ. Issue in nothing less than complete futility, with a result of complete peace as the blessed state Of the Church of God. We notice then, in the first place, as we seek to expose this proposition. The affliction of Yahweh's son Israel, the children of the Lord. Notice the time of their affliction. Verses one and two Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Let Israel now say, Greatly they have afflicted me. From my youth. Did you get it? That's why I repeated it. Clearly, that would be in Egypt, wouldn't it? Where Yahweh looked upon the children of Abraham and in covenant mercy delivered his children, sometimes called simply his son. From my youth. Notice secondly the extent of the affliction. Greatly have they afflicted me. Greatly have they afflicted me. We're reminded of Exodus 1. 13, speaking of the Egyptians. So they ruthlessly Made the people of Israel work as slaves and made their lives bitter with hard service in mortar and brick and in all kinds of work in the field. In all their work, they ruthlessly made them work as slaves greatly. In our text, verse 3 expresses the malignity of that affliction. The plowers plowed upon my back. They made long Their furrows. Time, extent, and now length From my youth. In other words, it goes on. That is, it continued from youth onwards. It was the lot of the Israelites, some of it brought on by divine displeasure for disobedience, but others of it as a result of pure malevolence of Yahweh's enemies. One thinks of the oppression by the Philistines during the time of the judges, the attacks of foreign nations during the reign of the kings. The treachery of David's own family, resulting ultimately in the complete eradication of the northern kingdom. Ten twelfths of Israel by Sennacherib and the captivity of the other one sixth of the of Israel, the Southern Kingdom by Nebuchadnezzar. All this brings us to the time of the composition of our psalm Probably during the reconstruction days of Mehemiah and Ezra, a time in which the affliction had not yet ended. Viz. The attacks of Tobias and Sembalat and their Samaritan plotters. But finally, notice the outcome of their affliction. Verse 2b puts it plainly, yet they have not prevailed against me. And you know who me is. The purpose of all this affliction was the obliteration of Israel, an offense to the world that hated their privileged position as the pupil of Yahweh's eye. That's why they hated Israel. So there were the plagues in Egypt, with the outcome of the tenth one, especially. Then the drowning of Pharaoh's army in the Red Sea. Their history. Thirdly, the overthrow of Jericho and the Canaanites Except for the Gibeonites, who, preserved by the disobedience of the Jews, continued perpetually as a thorn in Israel's side. Then going on, we see the ever troublesome Philistines, constantly thwarted in their schemes By the unexpected saviors called judges. One of them was left-handed. Another was female. A third was immoral. They were judges, but God delivered through them. Then we come to all the enemies of David, including Absalom, who got all tied up in a hairy episode of his own. Thank you for smiling, at least one of you. All culminating in the absolutely phenomenal and unprecedented deliverance of Judah from captivity under Yahweh's. Messiah Cyrus of Persia, a pagan Morduk worshiper Who nevertheless found himself a pawn in Yahweh's hand? All that Affliction comes to nothing. Time and again. By Yahweh's gracious deliverances. As we move up in the chiastic construction to verse 4. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked. This reminds me of Psalm 2. 3. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. Ah, the wicked wanted release from Yahweh's sovereignty. So they had cast cords of bondage, oppression, and affliction upon Yahweh's children, Israel. But every time the Lord turned it all about by his divine intervention, didn't he? And the song of the redeemed was this in that Old Testament, Old Covenant Age. The Lord is righteous. The Lord is righteous. That was probably their favorite hymn. He was righteous, just in his merciful deliverance of his people. His name is Yahweh Sadiq Yahweh Sadiq, the Lord is righteous. That's his name. But the question will not down. How in the world could he be righteous in saving a people who time and again demonstrated utter unworthiness of such mercy? How can Yahweh Sadiq be true given the history of Israel But now in a different form. Meaning, not the Lord is righteous, but the Lord is our righteousness. That's the gospel, my friends. Yes, the world would seek to mold us in his image, in its image To cast cords around us crying, you're no better than us. But God breaks those bonds in Christ. By whose righteousness you are better For his name is Yahweh Sidkenu indeed. And that means the righteousness of his son, your Savior, as imputed to you who believe in Jesus Christ. And that does make you better In fact, that alone makes you holy and acceptable in God's sight. Hallelujah! Oh, that causes us to go over verses 1 through 4 once more. But this time reflecting on how the gospel of verse 4 was accomplished. The Lord is righteous. How did it become later? The Lord is our righteousness. Yes, through the incarnation Sufferings. That's why it was good that we sang a hymn about a Christmas hymn tonight. About the birth of Jesus. Through the incarnation Through the sufferings, through the death and resurrection of the true Israelite, Jesus Christ, by his afflictions We are healed. And by his righteousness, we are equipped to stand in his presence. Now we must move on to consider in the second place the affliction, the very affliction, of Yahweh's Son Jesus. Why make this connection? By reading Matthew's comment that the flight of Mary and Joseph with baby Jesus into Egypt Was to escape the murderous intentions of jealous King Herod, which was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. That would be Hosea Out of Egypt, I called my son. Out of Egypt, Yahweh called his son Israel. And out of Egypt, the Father called his son Jesus. Easy to make that connection, isn't it? But could Matthew not have had in his mind, in the back of his mind at least, also the words of our text tonight when he wrote that? Note the parallels between Psalm 129 and Jesus' own life. From my youth. We've already seen that. But did we think of the parallel between Israel's history and Jesus' life? From his youth up. Jesus suffered many things from many enemies, Pharisees, unbelieving Jews. His own disciples, and especially Satan himself, directly and unrelentantly So that it says, long furrows plowed upon my back. Whose back is that? Are we aware of the extent of the scourging that Jesus received? No doubt he almost died from that bloodletting and those excruciating wounds, even before the nails of Calvary But in it all, the Lord has cut the cords of the wicked. Here we exclaim the fulfillment of Eden's promise directed toward the serpent: He shall bruise your head. Jesus struck Satan's cranium. Yes, here the psalm comes to complete fulfillment. One cannot grasp in biblical terms the full import of Psalm 129 by referring merely to the history of Israel, which we've been doing. Is peace come upon national Israel, indeed? For one thing, the Israel of biblical times is no more. And modern Israel is a nation as little as any characterized by commitment to the God of Scripture. What exactly may Israel now say? Only upon Messiah Jesus, the church may now say that the full extent of affliction has fallen. Affliction of Yahweh himself. Yes, it pleased Yahweh to bruise him, as Isaiah prophesied And the New Testament says the Father did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. Jesus, even more than Nathaniel, was the Israelite in whom there was no deceit. Yet he, the sinless Son of the Father, took upon himself the sins of his brethren. And the result? Back to verse 4 of our psalm and back to Jeremiah. The Lord is righteous. He has cut the cords of the wicked. Yes, as we have already seen, here is justification, my friends Biblical justification of unworthy sinners, meaning that they need no longer suffer the accusation of the wicked one. They have violated your laws. Yes, that primary cord of oppression being true Is cut. That bondage is ended. You are justified by faith in the Son of God who took away your guilt and judgment And became your righteousness. That exactly was Israel's problem. Not so much affliction from her political enemies Not even treacherous sons of godly David, and certainly not the Babylonian captivity. Piece of cake. Divine justice. That was was the issue of eternal damnation, and that bondage needed to be removed. They needed deliverance from that bondage. They were delivered, and so are you. Psalm 129 is a gospel. Him, my friends. It speaks of Jesus in clear and unmistakable terms, and it forms the lyric of grace. You see it? Are you not thrilled and grateful, full of praise for your wonderful Christ, the Messiah of God, who bore the affliction due to you If so, then stay with me as we observe finally. The affliction Of the sons of God, the church of Jesus Christ. For that and they will be afflicted You will suffer affliction as a child of God, believer. Count on it. If you were If you are a covenant child, it will be from your youth that you will be afflicted. And it will continue unrelenting throughout all your days, because you, let's face it, are an offense. To the world. You bear the aroma of Christ And that scent is distasteful to the people of this world. They will say that you are proud And insufferable in your contention that your sins have been erased, forgiven? How is that there? And they will not cease to let you know their disdain. That will be their chief contention with you. Church of God, and they will accuse. You think that you are better than everyone else Even though you quickly rejoin, not better, but better off than everyone else who does not trust in Jesus. Better all. But that will not satisfy them either. And they will press their disdain all the more vigorously. Most of the time, you American Christians will face the affliction of being it ignored at best, or perhaps ridiculed at worst But some of your brothers and sisters in other parts of the world suffer affliction that takes on more physical and painful characteristics. A few years ago, some believers in Eritrea had been cooped up in shipping containers. For the crime of gathering to worship God. Because they smelled, they smelled like Christ. And that was offensive But can you be sure that you will escape affliction of that sort? No, we don't know what a day will bring. But come what may, we still have our Psalm 129, don't we? And what does it say? Well, check out the rest of the Psalm, verses 5 through 8. Read them again. May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turn backward. Let them be like grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up, with which the reaper does not fill his hand, nor the binder of sheath. His arms. Nor do those who pass by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. What's going on there? Justice. Afflicted Christians may ever call upon God to relieve them. They may, yea, they must pray. Here you see the psalm turns from the didactic to the imperative. You know those two, don't you? From what the didactic, from what God has done, to the imperative, what God would have us do He would have us lean on him and call forth his deliverance. Now, just what do these believers say to him? Verse 5, may all who hate Zion be put to shame and turn backward. That's imprecation, my folks And we are thought ill of for doing such a thing. Can't you be more loving than that? Notice not all who hate us. But all who take Zion, we pray, will be put down. You see, what truly bothers the believer is any possible slurring cast upon God, not upon us. For Zion, in our text, is tantamount to God Himself. Zion, after all, is the place of his name where his very person and honor dwell. And it is that name that the true Israelite defends. It is that name that the true Israelite once honored. Thus, what could seem to be like personal vendetta, an unjustifiable imprecation. Is actually the height of piety. Send them off packing, Lord. Let them be dishonored and shamed, all those who despise you. Christian, does this characterize your prayer for help in time of affliction? When you're afflicted and when you're suffering even unjustly at the hands of others, does this characterize your prayer for help in time of affliction Is it a prayer for the maintaining of your comfort and your ease? No. Let it be a prayer for the maintenance and the preservation of his honor. Then notice the faith that characterizes the response of the true believer when faced with the affliction that is the lot of all those who are linked with Yahweh. The covenant God. This we observe in those last three verses of our psalm, which is actually a real poem with lots of word pictures. These are poetic and very powerful affirmations of the trust that we must display. For ancient Israelites, verse five was buried down to earth. Let them Be like the grass on the housetops, which withers before it grows up. I say it's very down to earth. Actually, it was a bit up from the earth. since it speaks of breath on the housetops. That was language that they would understand For the typical Israelite housetop would be roofed flat with hard packed soil. As such, grass seed that might blow there and think to find a home there would soon come to nothing. It might germinate, but it won't endure. It could find no root and would die under the blazing Near Eastern sun The believer calls upon Yahweh to thus bring his enemies to a similar end. They germinate. They look a little possible, but then they're dead. Verses 7 and 8 take the analogy one step further There will be no harvesting of grass from that aforementioned housetop. Note the hyperbole From that stray grass seed lately popped up but quickly snuffed out, does not come an armful of cheese. Put away your lawnmower. You will need it. There will be no harvest of satanic design, only loss. Promises of being like God, but only death. Hope of plenty. But the fruit of want. The expectation of blessing, but the reality of condemnation. That will be the lot of the wicked. And verse 8, I love it. You get it? It only makes the contrast more severe. Nor do those who pass by say, the blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. This is people pronouncing benedictory blessings upon the wicked. Here the picture is of the usual rural conversation that took place millions of times over the centuries of Israel's agricultural life. That's the way you talk to leapers. Hi, God bless you. Keep up the good work You find it in Ruth 2. 4, in these words. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and he said to the reapers, the Lord be with you. And they answered, the Lord bless you. But what's it doing here in this psalm? Well that normal country dialogue, folks, is true because after all their physical life depended upon reaping Wasn't it? Food didn't come from the giant store or wit's market. It came from God's ground, as He was merciful and allowed it in that difficult climate. But here, when it comes to what we say to the wicked, the traditional dialogue will be omitted. No one passing by, the wicked, will say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord Because they are dead already. Rest assured that all the designs of the evil one to overthrow the Israel of God. Will come to nothing, like the brittle dust of useless hay May this powerful poem be your bedtime meditation tonight as you lay down to sleep, knowing that it will be the sleep Of the righteous, because Yahweh Sidakenu. Because the Son of righteousness, Jesus Christ Is your Savior. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, you've put very powerfully the gospel before us tonight. And it's the same one that kept the old going through all those centuries. As true believers, trusted you to do it your way and to bring to pass your will. Both for the salvation of your ones, your elect ones, and the condemnation of the lost. Lord, it does not make us proud or feel or make ourselves feel very special. But it makes us feel that you are very special. You are a God unlike the gods of the nations. You gave your only begotten Son to die for us and to remove The oppression and opposition that we had from you yourself because of our sins and our coming judgment. So that we are delivered. Hallelujah, Lord God. We bless you. In Jesus' name. Amen.