Please turn in your Bibles to First Kings chapter one. We'll read verses thirty-two through forty. 1 Kings 1, verse 32. King David said, Call to Mizadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada. So they came before the king, and the king said to them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and have Solomon my son ride on my own mule. and bring him down to Gihon. And let Zaadok the priest and Nathan the prophet there anoint him king over Israel. Then blow the trumpet and say, Long live King Solomon You shall then come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne, for he shall be king in my place. And I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah. And Beniah, the son of Jehoidah, answered the king. Amen. May the Lord, the God of my Lord the King, say so. As the Lord has been with my Lord the King, even so may he be with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my Lord King David. So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Baniah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherithites and the Pelotites went down and had Solomon ride on King David's mule and brought him to Gihon. There Zadok the priest took the horn of oil from the tent and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, Long live King Solomon! And all the people went up after him, playing on pipes and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth was split by their noise. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We have a New Testament reading, Luke 19, 28 through 44. Luke 19, 28 through 44. It's a very familiar Palm Sunday text. And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem, when he drew near to Bethage and Bethany. At the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of the disciples, saying, Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied. on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you why are you untying it, you shall say this: the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent away, those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus. And throwing their cloaks on the colt, they sat Jesus on it. And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. As he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. He answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace But now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you. And surround you and hem you in on every side and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you. And they will not leave one stone of one another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that as we consider again this familiar passage and corollary passages of Scripture. That you will teach us from your word, help us to live according to its teachings and precepts, and glorify you. Who are saved by grace through faith, not of works, lest anyone should boast. Amen. So a couple of questions, Jerusalem on a donkey. All the gospel accounts show that this is what happened, and that Jesus arranged the events of his entrance into Jerusalem. Well, one answer to that question is that it was fitting as an Israelite king's entrance into the city, it was fitting to ride on a donkey. This may seem strange to us, like a United States president arriving instead of in a limousine, which we expect, in one of those little cubes on wheels called a smart car. Yeah. Wouldn't that be interesting? Donald Trump in a smart car. But there is an ancient precedent for using a donkey. We read it earlier in our Old Testament reading from 1 Kings. I'll just refresh your memory in case you weren't listening for this. So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoiadah, and the Cherithes and the Pelophites went down and had Solomon ride on King David's mule. Why? And brought him to Gihon. There they took Zadok the priest, took a horn of oil from the tent, and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, Long live King Solomon! And all the people went up after him. playing on pipes and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth was split by their noise. Can you see that that Is a precursor to what we see here in the text today. Jesus entering in the people's praising God, worshiping really. King Solomon came in on a donkey. see. So that's one reason. And here's another reason. Because horses, you need to think of horses in terms of modern terms as war tanks, you know, big monstrous war tanks. Horses were forbidden to Israelite kings. Here's what it says in Deuteronomy 17, 16 about future kings of Israel. It says, only he must not acquire many horses. tanks for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses, since the Lord has said to you, you shall never turn return that way again. Deuteronomy 17, 16. Barnes notes on the Bible say this: the horse was not anciently used in the East for purposes of agriculture or traveling. But ordinarily for war only. The horse appears constantly in the scripture as a symbol and embodiment of fleshly strength and the might of the creature. So the spirit of this prohibition, therefore, is that the king of Israel must not, like earthly potentates, put his trust in costly and formidable preparations for war. And then there's a second side to that. The Barnes note says, Egypt, where you get your horses, was the principal source from which the nations of Western Asia drew their supplies of horses. But contact and traffic or alliance which would cause the people of Israel to return to Egypt, set free from Egypt. would be to reverse the great and beneficent wonder work of God when he delivered them from the bondage of Egypt. So two reasons or two sides of one reason there. A third reason why the kings of Israel needed to come in, why Jesus needed to come in this way, is found in Zechariah 9, 9 through 10, where we have it as a fulfillment of prophecy. Here's what Zechariah the prophet said would happen when the Messiah would come into Israel. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey On a colt, the foal of a donkey. And then Zechariah goes on to say, I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim. And the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth This is the one who conquers the whole world, who brings peace everywhere, who ends all wars, and he's not to come in on a horse. He's to come in on a donkey, the foal. A colt the full of a donkey. Now, the disciples were probably very, very happy to think about Jesus coming into Jerusalem as he set up these things to make his grand entrance. to display his power and become king by popular acclaim. And they hoped very much that he would come in and then throw out the Romans. He would cut off the chariot and war from the horse from Jerusalem, get rid of the Romans, and restore Israel to its former glory as in the days of David and Solomon. That's what the disciples were probably hoping for when he did this. He used his providential control of all things to arrange this donkey cult. And the crowd of pilgrims arriving for Passover celebration, and he had taught his disciples to search the scriptures and find him there, and they got a lot of it right. They got a lot of it right. They recognized that he was entering as the Messiah, the son of David. That was right. And he was showing his miraculous control over all things as creator. And there's one thing that you might miss in reading the story that we just read, one thing that might be easily overlooked. With the that the colt, the donkey, had never been ridden on before. It was a completely unbroken little donkey. When we lived in Delaware, we would occasionally go across the Delaware River to New Jersey to a rodeo in southern New Jersey called the Cowtown Rodeo. Believe it or not, there are cowboys in New Jersey. The thing I remember most about the Cowtown rodeo was the Bronco Busters. That's the insane young men. who come out of a stall riding on an unbroken colt or horse. And that colt or horse is bucking like mad. And the colt comes out of the stall trying to throw the rider off. Usually succeeding in just a few seconds. And I guess the score of the Bronco Buster is how long he stays on, especially if he stays on the whole time, but that doesn't happen much. This is a chiropractor's dream. Or nightmare, I guess. Here's what the text says. Go into the village in front of you, whereupon entering you will find a colt tied there on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. It would not have been possible to ride such an animal without divine intervention. What happened? Well, I think this is what happened. In accord with Zechariah's prophecy, where he said he shall speak peace to the nations, his rule shall be from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth. Jesus, the God man, the Lord of creation, healed this little cult. this little donkey, of its natural anxiety and revolt against its first rider If the disciples that fetched this colt had tried to ride on it, they would have been thrown off. But Jesus is Lord of the donkey. Jesus mastered the donkey. Jesus brought peace to this disturbed young animal. And I pause to ask, has he mastered you? Going on in the text, the hopes and expectations of Jesus' disciples were that he would soon be made king. This thought of theirs, despite Jesus telling them several times over and over that he must be rejected and betrayed and handed over to death. They just couldn't add all these things up. They easily swept aside all that bad news talk and seized upon the and believed the parts that sounded good to them They thought they had Jesus figured out. Do you have Jesus figured out? Fitted neatly into categories that work for you. Some may think of him as a way of avoiding judgment. That's the fire escape, Jesus. Some may think of him as someone who exists to meet your desires and personal goals, like a genie who grants wishes. Few would admit it, but this is often the way people treat him. I call this the friend in need is a friend indeed, Jesus. You may think of him as a kind of personal assistant who offers ethical advice and encouragement to do the right thing as defined by the latest. politically correct dogma, the moralistic therapeutic deism of the day. So this is the advisor Jesus. Do you have Jesus all figured out, needed, fit, fitted neatly into? Again, Jesus was expected to do certain things. And soon the disciples who were so excited by his entrance into Jerusalem on this donkey would be scratching their heads and shaken to the core by the events of the next few days. What events? His arrest. Illegal arrest. His trial. His illegal trials. And the death sentence cast upon him. What else did they sweep aside? Something in our text that they swept aside but recalled later, so it's written in the Gospels. And that is that passage from verses 41 through 44. Listen to it, and I want to explain it a little bit for you. When he drew near, he's coming in, he's on this donkey, it's not bucking. He's coming around toward the city, and suddenly the city appears in his vision. He drew near and saw the city. He wept, it says. And wept here doesn't just mean he whimpered a little bit. It means he wailed. He wailed over the city of Jerusalem Back in the days of those times, people, when someone would die, they would hire people to wail. They would hire mourners to come and wail. And the louder they wailed, the better they were paid, I guess We think that's very strange. But it was a way of showing respect for the dead. What do we do? We buy a bunch of flowers and put flowers everywhere and stack flowers on the casket. Strange to them. As mourners do. He wailed over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you. Siege. No one goes in, no one goes out, no supplies come in. Siege. And surround you and hem you in on every side and tear you down to the ground. Two million Jews would die in the city of Jerusalem in about forty years. And not one stone will be left upon another in you because you did not know the time of your visitation. Jesus seeing Jerusalem is full of compassion and sadness and weeping and wailing. And they swept that aside for the time, hoping that he would just come in and be king and throw the Romans out. But he had said that. They didn't want to believe it. I'm going to try to draw two lessons from these Palm Sunday events. One, I think, is this. Jesus was making it clear for everyone in the future. That he is the Messiah, the King, the Passover, the new exodus of God, and the only Savior. I'm not going to take all those apart one by one. He was telling them that divine Roman judgment was coming in about 40 years on the apostate nation that would refuse him. And so he wept and he wailed over their rejection of himself and over their apostasy against God's covenant. But when he has judgment on them, I believe that he looked beyond that too He wasn't just weeping for the city and what would happen in 40 years. He was weeping for the final judgment. The last day when all sinners will be raised up from the grave and all stand before God The great final judgment, and he wept for that too, I think. The judgment was on Jerusalem was just a small down payment. On the great judgment at the end of history. I believe Jesus weeps for those who were lost. But he was willing to go one into Jerusalem and face for himself An unjust judgment. He was willing to take the big judgment, the final judgment, hell, which would have come upon you So that now all those who run to him and hide in him are covered. And washed and sheltered in his blood as the Lamb of God His blood which was about to be shed on Calvary. By faith, people like you and me take that blood And apply it to ourselves and are washed and cleansed and forgiven by it. And we will escape the wrath to come when the final and great day of judgment arrives. only by faith in Christ as the Passover Lamb, the Messiah King. I'm going to tell a story now that I saw on the internet in a concerted effort throughout July 7th and into early July 8th, 2017. Approximately eighty airmen, four aircraft from the nine hundred and twentieth rescue wing. Successfully rescued two German citizens whose vessel caught fire approximately 500 nautical miles off the east coast of southern Florida. At the request of the United States Coast Guard 7th District in Miami, the 920th Rescue Wing was alerted by the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center in Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, to assist in this long-range search and rescue. It was discovered during the planning stages that only one of the German victims spoke English, but was badly burned. Therefore, Master Sergeant Isabel Cleargrom, a non-commissioned officer, was tasked to join the team due to her ability to speak fluent German. The team arrived on the scene two hours later and orbited overhead while the 39th Rescue Squadron at Patrick Air Force Base communicated with the distressed ship. Finally, five pesk perestumen plunged into the ocean The pararescue mansoon hoisted the 48-year-old and the 66-year-old father and son Duo on board and transported the victims to Orlando Regional Medical Center. Wow. That is a lot of resources, a lot of personnel, a lot of time and expertise sent to rescue two non-citizen men 500 miles off the coast of Florida. But suppose that when the pararescue guys arrived at the scene and jumped into the water, the German men had said, No thanks. No thanks. We're paddling our way to safety. We can do this. Would have been ridiculous, wouldn't it? And I say that to say this: the gospel is not an offer of a bit of help to basically good people who just need a little boost from God. That it is a radical rescue from certain judgment for people who are spiritually dead standing in line for judgment and hell. Radical rescue. From our checks, horses, the power of man, will not save. And you cannot atone for your own sins And God in Jesus Christ has provided the only rescue, and it is received by faith as a gift. And the man who sits on the throne of the universe wept. Over Jerusalem and over all people who are standing in line for hell and judgment. He wept. He was not callous to the plight of all those who were apart from God. He wailed for them. Are you callous? Praying for the lost? Sad for the pain and brokenness and suffering caused by sin. Sad for the condemnation that is coming, the hell that awaits. Jesus was making it clear for everyone in the future that he is the only Savior, there is no plan B, and that we should therefore care. Jesus is also making it clear for all future readers of history that through him the kingdom really has come. It really has come. The disciples were hoping for this kingdom. And they were about to be thrown into deep confusion. They were trying to add up all the things he had taught and said. He was the one who had taught the principles of living in the New Kingdom, called the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5. There he revised the popular applications of the Torah and taught the gospel ethics of love, nonviolence, sincerity, prayer, sharing with others dependence upon God, not lording it over others, but treating others as better than itself. He had taught that the kingdom of God, in its present development, that there would always be in this world wheat and tares That the kingdom would start like a small mustard seed or a bit of leaven and grow to fill the whole world. He had taught them that the kingdom of God would include his rule of his disciples. No, I should say it this way. He had taught them that the kingdom would of God would include the rule of his disciples, but as humble servants. Hard to put those things together. You're going to be rulers, but you're going to be humble servants. He taught them that this was the only way, and the way that he would conquer the world. Through his new people, the new Israel, the church, making disciples, baptizing, teaching, all the things that belong to his kingdom. This would not happen through military power, horsepower, but by world-changing, redemptive acts accomplished by Jesus Christ, provided by him alone. In the text, the old Jerusalem was about to be destroyed in 70 A. D. But the new Jerusalem, the household and family of God, would come forth from that. The church, the gathered people of God in history, is now the center of sacrifice and praise. The church is the new center of God's universe. That's the way the Jews thought of Jerusalem. They thought of Jerusalem as the center of the universe, the place where God's footstool was. Now the church, the gathered people of God, is the center of God's universe. It's very important. He was demonstrating what he would tell them later, that all power in heaven and on earth has been given to him. So I ask you, in conclusion, to give yourself for others Mothers, fathers, friends, neighbors, co-workers, care about them passionately. Don't be callous to their suffering, to their hurt in sin, to their standing in line for hell. Don't be callous about that. And you must proclaim and embody a kingdom which has begun. A kingdom which has come that has already begun to change you so that you're not the same as you used to be. You have new ethics, you have new desires, you have new abilities because you are united to Jesus Christ. And when people all around us are distraught at the pain and suffering and ruin and waste, Some of them complain against God and say, how can there be an all-powerful good God with all this terrible suffering around? You should enter into their suffering, not denying it, but sharing in it with them with compassion. And you should say to them, It's not the way it's supposed to be. It's broken, but God is going to heal it. He's already begun to heal it in me. So are you today, like Jesus was then, joyful in your Redeemer King, like the people were when they gathered and Put those cloaks on him and threw their cloaks on the roads and cried, Hosanna, Hosanna to the son of David, are you joyful for your king? And are you also at the same time, like he was, tearful for those who are outside of his grace? And are you therefore willing to be used by God to bring them inside? Are you? Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this passage of Scripture and for the events of Palm Sunday. How perplexing they are in one sense, and yet we believe them all and put them all together. Help us to care like you care, Lord. Be willing to be serving this world, knowing that you're bringing about your kingdom. We pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen.