Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, the words of our passage this morning, first Corinthians thirteen, eight through thirteen Speak of love's greatness, which is part of its excellency Which is what Paul is setting forth in this chapter, The Excellency of Love He shows the excellency of love from its necessity. Verses 1 through 3. Now without it all gifts are nothing. He next shows the excellency of love from its character. Verses 4 through 7. In quoting here Jonathan Edwards. Every good disposition and behavior arise from it, from love And finally, in our passage, he shows the excellency of love from its greatness. Whereas spiritual gifts come to an end, the spirit's fruit In our lives, love never does. And of the graces that do and shall remain to us, faith, hope, and love Love is the greatest of them. Now Paul is showing the Corinthians the excellency of love, so that they will make it their pursuit. As he says in the beginning of the next chapter, chapter 14, pursue Love. And so love congregation should be our pursuit as well. Now, this morning I want to focus on lasting love. As Paul's telling us here. That's the first thing that makes up its greatness. Love never ends. And next week, Lord willing We'll look at how love is the greatest of what remains to us of faith, hope, and love. Which is the final part or the second part that makes up its greatness. So this morning we're going to focus on lasting love. That love lasts. Now, what I won't be focusing on this morning is the issue of whether certain spiritual gifts have ceased that arise from this passage. I wholeheartedly adhere to the cessation doctrine, which is a part of our church's confession, the confession of faith. I quote, those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased. That's Westminster Confession of Faith, Chapter 1 on Holy Scripture, Article 1, which is dealing on the necessity of Scripture. Necessary, because God ain't speaking to you in any other way. If you are working through the issue and would like to talk about it, I would be happy to do that with you. I'm just not going to be addressing it in this morning's sermon. Now, the first thing that Paul has to say about love's greatness is that love never ends. We read that there, beginning of verse 8, love never ends. What he actually writes is love never falls, like falls down. Which amounts to the same thing as our translation here, that it never ends, because if a thing never falls, then it always stands, and the thing always stands, then it keeps on going forever, and never ends. We read in Scripture, this comes from 1 Peter, but he's quoting the prophet Isaiah, the grass withers and the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever. So Paul is teaching the Corinthians that love remains forever. Now, why would he do that? Did they doubt this? Did they deny this? There's no hint of that here in the letter that they did either of these. Though the issue is he's telling them love lasts because they didn't value it As the lasting treasure that God has given it to them to be. It ranked below in their estimation the other gifts of the Spirit They focused on what wouldn't last, and he wanted to bring down their estimation and evaluation of these gifts. So they would rightly value love as the true mark of what it means to be spiritual. So he tells them in the rest of that verse, as for prophecies, they will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge, it will be, or it will pass away. He's saying, better not set your heart on these, base your spiritual identity upon them, because they're going away. You know, not only then is Paul saying that love lasts forever, but he's also saying it outlasts what they love the most: prophecies, times, and knowledge. The fruit of the Spirit of love, or the fruit of the Spirit, which is love, and the gifts of the Spirit, if you will, do not have the same shelf life. One lasts forever, love. The others don't. Now, I just want to say a quick note here. The knowledge that Paul says passes away, that's being referred to here Is insight given to a member of the congregation about God's redemptive revelation in Christ For the perfection of that body, because they had not yet the written New Testament. They couldn't open their Bible and read about it They needed the Spirit to immediately tell them to build the saints of width. We don't need that anymore, we have it right here. We have that knowledge given to us Ephesians 3, Paul says, if you read my letters, you'll know of the knowledge given to me, my insights into the mysteries of God's redemptive plan. But otherwise, though, knowledge will go on, as Paul says there in verse 12, right? Now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully. Now, this might have come as something as a shock to these Christians. Their beloved gifts, and their gifts, they're good things to cherish and enjoy rightly. There's no diminishing of the gifts. Which they were puffed up about, though, which they were envious of one another for, which they were now divided over as a congregation, And with which they were making a mess of Christian worship and service myth, were all destined to go away. What they thought showed maturity and lasting spirituality, in fact, says Paul, only showed adolescence. He goes on to say there in verse 90, For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away. Then he wants to illustrate what he means. When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish way. Now, that I think should throw a bucket of water on any Pentecostal fire. What? These gifts aren't lasting? I'll grow past these. These aren't the mark of lasting conversion or true spirituality. Someday I'm gonna put these away? I mean you can almost see right their faces drop Like a parent does when they realize that their Susie no longer says gigoromphis or ginormous. That's really cute and wonderful, isn't it, when our children talk in those ways. And it's sad to know that their childless ways are going away. But no sooner does Paul shock them, maybe discourage them a bit, he encourages them. He says, For now we see in a mere dimly, even with all these gifts. Even me as an apostle with all these gifts, it's only still like seeing an Amir Disley. But then, face to face Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known. He's saying, okay, you're gonna lose these. They're going away, but whatever good is lost to your spiritual childhood Something better will take its place when you grow up. You're not going to be wishing for special knowledge. For a prophetic utterance, for a tongue. Let me tell you what a tongue is. A tongue is a known language A known language, I mean the language somebody actually speaks and uses. It's a known language uttered by the Spirit in a person who doesn't know that language, so that it is evident that God is speaking in that person. And we don't want to get in. I said I wasn't going to do it that issue, just let you know what a tongue is. He's doing that in the church to make it clear to his people, Israel, who rejected you. I'm with them, and I'm speaking to you now through them. Isaiah 25. You won't be wishing for these guys when the s when the perfect comes Just right like any of us, you wouldn't wish for a dim mirror over seeing face to face. You wouldn't wish to just have partial knowledge rather than to know fully, even as you're known. So see right how Paul he both wounds them, but he also heals them. He takes their gifts from them right at some future date. But at the same time, right, he encourages them that something better with regards to knowing, because they love being in the know, is coming. But all the while he leaves it standing that love never ends. Now, why? What's he driving at by doing? Wounding and healing. That's going away, but something better's coming. But love always lasts. What's he doing? Because they need to pursue love first. They're not doing that as a congregation. But they also need the right perspective on the gifts God gives them to serve the body. They are not part of the best and lasting that God has for his people and promised to his church. Knowing that will help them to use their gifts rightly and not abuse them for selfish gain. They can no longer now make up their identity of what it means to be a Christian, as some are still taught and do today, that they have these. Hide behind a false spirituality. It can no longer be what marks them out in the world as being spiritual. Because that says Paul must be loved. Because love is what lasts. Love is what lasts forever, and love is what lasts these gifts. Because love is the greatest of the graces that remain of faith, hope, and love. Now, that word that Paul is speaking to them is just as true for us today. Is just as true for you and me in Christ today. If loving God and loving man is not your measure of being a Christian, Then whatever you're measuring spirituality by is wrong. If loving God and loving man isn't your definition of what it means to be spiritual, then it's wrong because love outlasts the gifts. It is greater than faith. It is greater than hope. Oh, I know, and I'm aware, and we'll talk about it next week. Love is only given by faith in Christ. Yes, it is the work of God's grace in us, but love is the goal of God's redeeming us. What else can you mark being anointed? Remember our Heidelberg Catechism, right? Why are we called Christian? Because we share in Christ's anointing, his spirit What else can you mark that anointing by if not love? Because if you take everything else away that's going away and you don't have love, what spiritual life do you have? As Paul and James both say, faith without working by love or without works of love is dead. Spiritually dead. I want to be very clear. You have no lasting spirituality. If you do not love God And love man being redeemed in Christ. And what that means and what Paul is telling the congregation Is that we never ever mature past love? We mature past the gifts God given in an infancy to lead it and help it In its adolescence, but we never mature past love. Nothing comes and replaces love with something better. As it does, right, with knowing, as Paul says. Paul says, our sight improves with the coming of the perfect, from seeing dimly through a mirror face-to-face. Our knowledge improves as we go from partial to full, but not love. Because patience is patience, right? Kindness is kindness, regardless of how old you are or of what age you live in, whether you live in the partial. Or you live in the perfect. Whether you go back to the state of innocency in the garden, whether you live in the times before the what? Whether you live in the times after the exile, whether you live in the Renaissance time, whether you live in post-industrial America, whether you live in the age of AI Love is love. There's nothing better to replace it. God will never do a work to take love away. Rather, it has been all of his redeeming work to get love to stay. Because God has promised a world of love when He promised eternal life in Jesus Christ. Consider these words of John. He says, We know that we have passed out of death. into life because we love the brothers. Loving your brother in Christ is a mark. You're not spiritually dead anymore. But alive. Whoever does not love abides in death. He's continuingly spiritually dead. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Because the curse of murder is death. God's promise of eternal life in Jesus Christ is accomplished in us By making us one through the gift of the Spirit with His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Who took on our flesh, who redeemed us from the curse of the law by his atoning death for our hateful works or sin. By making us one in Christ, together with his Son, the Son of God, who is co-eternal with the Father, we now abide in the Trinitarian fellowship. Not as being divine ourselves, but as partaking, right as Peter says, in the divine nature of love. And having communion with the Father, with the Son, and with everybody else in that fellowship, the church, born-again believers. As we share in their eternal life of love. Let me see if I can put it to you this way. The Trinity never gets angry at it and one of them strikes the other one dead. Because they love. And this, John says, as God's promise, eternal life, a world of love. And I would even argue that the removal of everything else besides what promotes love is what the coming of the perfection is. Listen again to Habakkuk. Woe to him who builds a town with blood, that's murder, or just any deceitful killing. Founds a city on iniquity. Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that people labor merely for fire and nations warry themselves for nothing? If you're going to build a city on blood and iniquity, you're just building it for the fire. It will not stand, God says. Why? For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea Compare that with what John says. 1 John 4, 7 and 8. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God. Why? Because God is love. The universal knowledge of God, which God has promised and declared, will come to pass through his prophet. Which therefore we should hope for as we wait for it by faith. Come back tonight, that's tonight's sermon. Means the end of bloodshed and iniquity. When the knowledge of God fills this world, there'll be no more bloodshed than iniquity. That's what replaces it. Love. All who live that way by bloodshed and iniquity now merely labor in vain. Their corrupt kingdoms will not last. Because patience and kindness are forever. Envy, boasting, arrogance Rudeness, selfishness, and stubbornness, irritableness, resentment, rejoicing of wrongdoing are not forever. Rejoicing with the truth, bearing all things, believing all things, hoping all things, enduring all things, never end. For those who do not love, as we sung in Psalm 1, but not so the wicked. Like the chaff, the wind will blow them all away. But that is not true for us, beloved in Christ. For we have been planted as a flourishing palm tree that we might prosper in the courts of our God. holy and blameless in love before him forever, as he has chosen us in Christ for. Before the foundation of the world, as he has predestinated us to the adoption of children for in his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption and the forgiveness of our sins. For sure, when the perfect does come, you and I will love God, and we will love one another better than we do now. Even right as we are learning to love God and love one another better every day as we live under His grace in Jesus Christ. But when the perfect comes, it's just that we'll be loving better, but we won't be doing anything better than loving God and loving man. Because love, as Paul is trying to say, that is the still more excellent way. If you don't like that way, that's bad news for you. Because there's nothing better than loving God. I mean, I I think we could say being loved by God's better. I I I w I I won't deny that. I gotta deny that But as far as we're actively doing, because we're just that we're enjoying that, there's no better pursuit for our lives than the love God, the love man. Love lasts because God says so. As we heard right in the gospel, by the teaching of our Lord, love Is what the law and the prophets hang on. There would be no revelation to us through the law and the prophets if love did not exist before them. Because the law and the prophets hang upon it. God is love from his before all things, without beginning and without end. And that means, congregation, that love must last among us. I often hear people praising you for your love. And say, those saints of grace of bees are so loving. Hallelujah. It's true. You are very loving. And I always want to hear that being said, and so does our Lord Jesus. Consider his words from Revelation 2. The words he writes right to the church at Ephesus. He says, after commending them, but I have this against you. That you have abandoned the love you had at first. Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen. Fallen. If you leave the love that never falls, you've you've fallen. There's nothing to go past loving. Repent and do the works of love you did at first. If you've been a part of a church when it's beginning and start, I hear it's quite a lovely experience. And some of you might have few have been here for that. But you don't ever go past that as a church. If not, Jesus says, if you decide not to repent and do this, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place Unless you repent, it means you'll no longer be a church. I won't be with you. What is our light in this world without love? Tell me, what is it? What is our light besides these fifteen do's and don'ts? And the more that there are, what is it? A church like Ephesus can tirelessly defend the faith, which they did, and they were commended by Jesus for it. They can expose evil impostors in their midst, which they did, and they were commended by Jesus for it. They can even labor hard enduring opposition while waiting patiently for the Messiah to come, which they did. And they were commended by our Lord for it. And yet, if that same church forgets itself and leaves its first love, its end is near, says Jesus. Because it is not enough congregation to love the Lord. You must love Him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Here is the kind of love that Jesus wants from his bride, Jeremiah 2. 2. I remember you, the kindness of your youth The love of your espousals when you went after me in the wilderness in a land that was not sown, or before You were prosperous. Congregation, let us not, or let us not let prosperity Or age, or just the passing of time, cool the ardor of our love for our God and for one another For though love will never fall, churches can fall from love. And if they do that, then they need but do what Jesus says. Repent. For unless they do that, he also says they will have an end, no matter how orthodox or disciplinarian they are. And considering the events in our own presbytery, I want to add this to that. Because I meet people who want to be pastors and teachers. They want to go to seminary, they want to teach other Christians, and all this is good, and very well may be from God And all of us, whether we go to seminary or not, right, whether ordained to the ministry ordained to the eldership, are called to teach, it's incumbent upon parents to teach your children, it's incumbent upon mature Christians to teach younger Christians. But if you want to teach in the church or even in your home more than you want to love God or other people, then I say don't teach yet. First, learn love. Because otherwise disaster and heartache await. I have a very dear brother in Christ. We wanted to have more of a teaching impact on me. I think he wanted to impart more Bible knowledge to me. He wanted to disciple me in that way. When I was a really young Christian. But you know what the truth is? I learned more from him about love because we had our hang ups. I learned more from him about love than anything he taught me, which I use every day He had a far greater impact on me and my ministry than he even knows. Because what I learned about love from him Because love, congregation. That is what God wants. That is why He's redeemed us in Christ. That is what he wants us to pursue first. And that means we must teach it diligently to our children. I guarantee you, if you commit verses four through seven to mind, when you're going about your way and living with them and talking with them, it will flow out of you. Because that's what God wants his people taught, number Deuteronomy 6. Love the Lord, all your God, our soul, soul, mind, and strength. Teach that diligently to your children. Even if they're even if your family is just two lovely, dear, aged old saints Because you don't have children at home anymore. They've grown up. You can still teach love diligently to each other every day. You can still do it while you sit together, while you walk together, while you lie down together, while you get up together. Should write it. On whatever ministry and gifts God given to you, you should write love last, because they won't. With an open Bible, we should sit at Jesus' feet and prayerfully learn from Him. Love. And as we gather every week, we should prepare to feast on it. As we soon will again at the Lord's table. So how excellent is love congregation? It never ends. Amen.