Psalm one thirty-eight of David I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. For you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called you answered me. My strength of soul you increased. All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, for they have heard the words of your mouth, and they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life. You stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Here's the New Testament reading, Congregation, Galatians 2, 15. We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Because by works of the law no one will be justified. But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, Is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh. I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God. For if justification were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. This is the word of the Lord. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. We often speak of the grace of God and salvation, particularly focusing on the five points of Calvinism. T U L I P, Tulip. Total depravity, unconditional election, irresistible grace. Limited atonement, irresistible grace, perseverance of the saints. And so we should Last week, when we focused on the purpose of the church, which is to be for the praise of the glory of the Triune God We paid attention to the second letter, U. Unconditional election by God of those who make up the church of his son Jesus, according to the purpose and counsel of his will. And we note that according to the teaching of the first chapter of Paul's letter to the Ephesians, That the cause of this predestination unto salvation of a definite number Of undeserving sinners, known specifically and graciously chosen by him, was singularly the sovereign choice Of God the Father. As such, you who are saved sinners Know assuredly that your salvation did not originate in your decision to believe in Jesus. But in the eternal purpose of God, His love and purpose of grace. Yes. By the gracious working of his Holy Spirit in your heart, you were enabled to repent of your sin. And trust in Jesus as your sin bearer. You absolutely needed God's grace It came not from yourself, but from him, lest, as the Bible teaches, anyone should boast You, as John Murray, my theology professor at Westminster Theological Seminary, put it so succinctly Are saved not by faith, but by grace through faith Those ten words need indelible inscription upon the heart of every Christian. Saved you are saved by not by faith, but by grace, through faith So it is with every other letter of tulip, our absolute need of God's grace in order to become and continue to be. Christians. We've seen the become part last week. Now let's turn this morning to the continued part. That too is something for which you need God's grace, the assurance of salvation. Now I trust that most of you here present have a reasonable certainty of your life in Christ. But it is well for you to explore together with me the ground and basis of that certainty. In order that you might know even more than ever, and for sure, that you know him and that you are in him. And that brings us to the last letter of Tulip: the perseverance of the saints. Some people nowadays still retain a vague feeling that there is a judgment day coming. And there is a possibility that they could go to hell. At least they refer to hell a great deal, judging by the way they talk. The word seems to creep almost imperceptibly into everyday language. Most people, however, would prefer not to go there. No matter how little they have to do with religion during their life, people usually prefer a funeral In which the impression is given that all is well with their soul when they die. And after it. You cannot really blame them. For God's wrath is a pretty horrible thing to contemplate, isn't it? There is a hell, of course, because the Bible says so. And the reason why the Bible tells you that there is a hell is that it is terribly important that you know that fact. What certainty have you that you will persevere to the end of your life, united to Jesus Christ by grace through faith And thus be certain to avoid that destination. And that certainty, if you had it, would make you happier Less nervous about your own welfare and more capable to help others Well, you would be a changed person, wouldn't you? If you would be able to say, I know that when I die, Jesus Christ will be right there and he will save me. The certainty of salvation, there is no possession more valuable anywhere in the world. If you do not have it, you have every reason to be afraid. If you do, you have every reason to be glad. So our text today from Galatians two, nineteen B and twenty Concerns the certainty of your salvation and how you may have it I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. The first point we'd like to make in exposing this wonderful truth and certainty. Is to address the question, where do you look for it? And that brings us to ask the question, what about looking within? I guess that when we try to establish the certainty of our salvation, the first thing we do is take a long, hard look at ourselves. But that is a mistake. Because you never become unshakably certain of your salvation if you look there. Oh, you can develop a certainty that lasts for a little while, but it will never develop into an unwavering assurance, for you are not completely stable every day, are you? You do manage to achieve enough permanence of character and habit so that you can face your daily life and keep on keeping on But if you were to truly chart your feelings and map the course of your inner life, you will have to confess that you have your ups and downs. Sometimes you're happy, and sometimes you're sick with sadness and doubt. Even the most heartfelt faith of Christian people varies from day to day. Sometimes it can be strong and sure, sometimes it is weakened. By doubt or by acknowledgement of sin. Life is certainly not a rose garden, is it? And physical disease changes our outlook, disability limits our activity, and invites discouragement. Bereavement triples emotion. We're always being modified by our environment and by conditions that exist within and around us. That's why it's so disappointing to base your certainty of salvation upon yourself and upon the things you have done and upon the way you feel. Well, I've run across some people who claim to be Christians, but who sincerely wonder if they will ever see the light of heaven. The best they can answer is, I hope so. They feel miserable, and the reason is this, they've attempted to base their certainty. Of salvation upon themselves. It won't work. So don't try it. In our text, the Apostle Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. Now you have to understand what he means when he says that. Just this: I deserve crucifixion. Christ doesn't, but I do. Crucifixion was the means of capital punishment under Roman law for the most heinous criminal offenders. And Paul says, such fits me. Looking at himself, he concluded that he was the chief of sinners. Just where do you suppose that leaves you? No, don't compare yourself favorably with others. If the great Apostle Paul says that such is no contest, and that he comes out a sure loser, do you think that you will fare any better? When you look within your own natural self, You will find that you like to get your own way. You like to do that because God's rules naturally offend you. You want to be free of them, and you can't. The tenth commandment says, thou shalt not covet. So you break those rules. You want to follow your own desires and you kick over the traces and Do just that. Like Paul, then you deserve crucifixion, execution everlastingly in hell. That's what looking within yourself gets you. That is, if you're willing to be honest about the way you truly are by nature. Of course, you can fool yourself, as some do, with surface cosmetics. I obey the law generally, except when no one is looking. I pay my taxes and I don't take any improper deductions Except ones I think that the IRS will overlook. I love my spouse and try to raise my children right, except when it costs me too much time or energy No, I wouldn't recommend putting too much stock there. Even the great Apostle Paul confessed sadly to his shame, and he seemed unconcerned that you and I Would think less of him. Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? He answered his own question with these certain words of hope. I thank God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, that's where to look at Jesus Christ. Our second point, where to look, says this. If you want to be sure of your salvation, instead of looking at yourself, you must look at Jesus. On the cross of Calvary. And you must understand what happened there. Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. There's something about crucifixion with Christ that makes all the difference in the world and in eternity. For this was no ordinary crucifixion. Oh, it was ordinary in the sense that it was indicated. Yes, it was exactly the punishment called for by the crime. This was truly a situation of heinous capital offense, because Paul, the chief of sinners, was on that cross with Jesus. And not only Paul, all the other chief sinners, too. Hundreds of millions of people Whose unconscionable sins God was punishing with that one death, that one crucifixion. I have heard some very strange and sadly mistaken views of the death of Christ. Everything from the Jews killed him to he was history's most magnificent martyr. But you must understand the Bible's view of the death of Christ. The Apostle Peter gives us that view in his Pentecostal sermon recorded in Acts chapter 2. When speaking of Jesus, he shockingly announces: this man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge God the Father executed Jesus. God the Father executed Jesus. That is the teaching of the Bible. That was the only way he could deal with your sins. His perfect son's life. For yours. So the Apostle Paul was sure of his salvation, not because of something he had done or felt. But because of an event that occurred outside him and away from him. An event with which God had everything to do. It was the event of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. And so Paul says, I have been crucified with him. He loved me and gave himself for me. Because there was a bill to be paid An incalculable bill, due in full, by currency of which he, Paul And you hadn't a nickel or a dime. But Jesus did. Yes, you too can be sure that you are saved when you can say, I have been crucified with Christ. He loved me and gave himself for me. Don't you see that when a person can say that, the certainty of his or her salvation is anchored in that which Christ has done on Calvary's cross? What a wonderful assurance flows from the truth expressed in those words. There are many people, fine neighborly folk, who do not possess this assurance Because they have never grasped the Bible's full message concerning what happened when Jesus died on the cross. How about you? Can you bring yourself to say this morning, Christ loved me and died for me? Or do you think that he died for everybody? And whether or not they will be saved is dependent upon how they happen to react to and respond. To his cross. Could it be that you think that when Christ died for the sins of the world, he accumulated a large quantity of What should we call it? Merit? That merit is like a monstrous capital fund. Trillions and trillions of units of heaven currency that may be applied to a person's life When he or she believes in Jesus Christ. Or so it might be thought. Let me illustrate that with this proposal. Say your grandfather left you $500,000 that would become yours when you were twenty-one, if you scored at least twelve hundred on your SATs and never smoked or drank. Some people think that they're related to Christ's sacrifice, something like that. That everybody's related to Christ's sacrifice, something like that. like that. And then if you scored one thousand one hundred and ninety-nine smoked or drank just once, you never get your money. And if you don't accept Jesus as your Savior and live a good life, you will never benefit by what he did on the cross. But you see, on that scenario, salvation is ultimately dependent upon you And that, I'm telling you, yields little, if any, certainty No matter how wonderful Christ's sacrifice might be, it won't help you if you don't die in the right condition. But looking upon him who died on Calvary and putting your trust entirely in him and on his sacrifice. For you personally. That alone brings assurance of salvation. That look, by God's grace And through faith alone brings a firm hope. And that's our third and final point: a firm hope The only way you can be perfectly sure you're saved is this. You must be sure that when Christ died, he definitely died for you. The message of the Bible is a joyful one because it proclaims that when Christ died. He died for his people. You know, actually that's the L. Of TULIP. Limited atonement. His people. You could also call it definite atonement. Definitely his people. Whichever word we use, there was nothing provisional or indefinite about Jesus' work on the cross. It had a purpose. And that purpose was the eternal salvation of a definite number of persons, each of whom could say, He died for me. The work of salvation he accomplished was not stored away somewhere in a vault. While God waited to see whether anyone would make use of it. Christ died to accomplish the eternal redemption of a specific people who belong to him. The certainty, therefore, of their salvation is rooted in the application of redemption to their unworthy life. Their faith, their good works, do not originate with them, though they express them. But they have faith and they live holy lives because God has redeemed them through Jesus. and has graciously by his Holy Spirit given them faith and the good works to perform And so, Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, you may be very thankful that the Bible gives you every reason to believe. That when Christ died, he knew exactly what he was doing. And he knew exactly what was going to be accomplished By his suffering, death, and soon resurrection He knew exactly which people were going to stand someday within the courts of heaven. He referred to them as his sheep. Not any old sheep out there, his sheep. And he describes his relation to them as a shepherd to his flock. This means that you who are united to Jesus this morning can humbly say that in some real sense, I think I can say this. Jesus was thinking of you personally in those terrible moments of agony. Those who are members of his flock can say, he's my shepherd. He knew me then. He took my sin upon himself, and now I know that nothing will ever separate me from his love. It so happens that the same Bible that tells how specific and definite Christ's work of salvation on the cross really was Also tells us that Jesus Christ has ordained that the gospel of salvation, get this, must be proclaimed to all men everywhere. Yes. In John 10, he spoke of his sheep, and he said, And other sheep have I. Which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice. That's why Calvinists, Reformed Christians, still do mission work. For Christ carefully mobilized his church so that the work of missions might advance And so today could hear of God's grace and receive the command, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. The Lord's Prayer. That is, I'm thinking about Jesus' own prayer, is actually found in John 17. I pray for them, for those whom you have given me Christ's sacrifice on Calvary's cross was for a definite people, his people, the sheep of his hand. But that does not detract. From your responsibility to look upon the crucified Christ, to repent of your sins, and to flee to Him and to tell others that they need Him. So whoever calls on the name of the Lord, the Bible says, will be saved. That's the great mystery of God's drama of grace. When you flee to Calvary's Cross, there you will experience the joy. Of being saved and of knowing it So I preached this morning about a most wonderful thing, huh? The certainty and the assurance. of salvation. Those are happy concepts, to be sure. And minus them, you won't be a very happy person. But I don't want to leave you with the impression that the main thing we're after here is being happy Happiness is a fruit, not a root The root is God's grace and glory. And Paul doesn't miss this. He wrote, I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I live in the body, I live by faith. in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Just who is that I who no longer lives Clearly, it's the old Paul who deserved to be crucified for all his cheap sinning. That old Paul is dead. Crucified with Christ, and alive now as a new Paul, a Paul indwelt by Christ. That's a Paul, who, even though while still in the body, as such, he still sins But he finds a new nature at work within him. It's the spirit of the living Christ alive within Paul. And that means that Paul's sins are now against his new self. Before, his sins were right in tune with his old self. He did exactly what he wanted. Now, when he sins, he acts in a way that is out of accord with his new Christ nature. So what does he do? He lives by faith in the Son of God. That is, he turns away from sin in genuine repentance and believes that God forgives. Him. And the point I want to make then is just this: there's no difference between you and Paul. Believer here today. No difference. You two are of a peace. As another believer in Jesus with Paul, assured of eternal salvation. You with him still have to contend with your daily sinning. Have to. But that sinning does not bring about the loss of your salvation You know that now for sure if you didn't know it before hearing this wonderful message, that you were crucified with Christ, who loved you and gave himself for you. And that daily, weekly, yearly, lifetime sinning just makes you look all the more intently. Upon the cross of Christ, crying, God have mercy upon me for Jesus' sake. And forgive me. So we started with a question. How can I be certain of my salvation? And we ended with another. How can my life bring more glory to my Savior who loved me? And gave himself for me. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we want to be happy, that's for sure. But help us to see that it's more important that you be glorified. And so we do not base our certainty of salvation upon our performance. That gets us nowhere. But we look at Calvary and we see, Father, what you did there. And we see Jesus what you did there And we see, Holy Spirit, what you're doing about what you did there. And we are grateful. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.