Please open your Bibles. We'll read Genesis one one through two three. Genesis one. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning the first day. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place. And let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas, and God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind on the earth. And it was so The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so And God made the two great lights, the great light to the rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth To rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the fourth day. And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. So God created the sea creatures and every living creature that moves with which the waters swarm according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind, and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things, and beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind, and God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea. And over the birds of the heaven, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food, and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. The word of the Lord. Now please open your Bibles to Ephesians 5, verses 15 through 20. Ephesians five, fifteen through twenty. Look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always And for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Now let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we ask that the Holy Spirit enlighten our minds and our hearts now as we go to your word to study it, to know its truths. Only with the Holy Spirit guiding us and testifying to it will we know what it means. and be convicted of those truths. So clear away distractions and enable us to see what you have for us. In this text of Scripture, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. As I have told you before, the prologue to the book of Genesis is the prologue to the entire Bible. This prologue runs from Genesis 1. 1 to 2. 3. And contains the creation account. This is the third exhortation in this series on the Bible's prologue Let me remind you that the first exhortation emphasized the fact that in order to understand the Bible's prologue properly, you must approach it with a biblical worldview of history. The second exhortation emphasized that in order to understand the Bible's prologue properly, you must approach it with a biblical worldview of Scripture. Which includes correctly identifying the genre of the book of Genesis, which is historical narrative. You may recall that the renowned Hebrew scholar E. J. Young called the book of Genesis severely historical, quote, so strongly historical that it may be labeled genealogical. In this exhortation, I'll use a biblical worldview of history and a biblical worldview of scripture to walk you through God's creative acts, as described in the Bible's prologue. Please notice as we go that the creation account is addressed to people of all educational levels and it uses the language of everyday life. As we proceed through this today, try to heed Douglas Kelly's advice, quote, in the matter of time and days of God's creative work. The perspective of faith is not to speculate on how God could have done it, but to stand on what he tells us concerning his procedure, both temporally and materially. End quote. As we begin though, I want you to know at the start that we will go through the contents of the Bible's prologue four times this morning. Now you may recall that in the book of Genesis, from verse 4 of chapter 2, through the end of the book, There are ten chapters, you could call them. Each of these chapters is a particular stage in God's redemptive work. Ten of those, starting on chapter 2, verse 4. And each of these chapters has a title at its beginning. Every chapter title utilizes a phrase with the same Hebrew word. Tolodol, which is translated, this is the account of, or as the ESB puts it, these are the generations of The phrase, these are the generations of in the chapter titles, means that each chapter describes what happens as a result of the person or things identified in that chapter title. You need to get that in your mind first. For example, please turn to the verse of the Bible that comes right after the Bible's prologue. You'll need your Bibles this morning open. Chapter two, verse four. Look there. That's the first chapter's title. And it says, these are the generations of the heavens and the earth. This means that the contents of Genesis' first chapter, that comes right after the prologue, And that first chapter runs from verse 5 of chapter 2 through the end of chapter 4, records what came from the heavens and the earth that God created in the prologue. Now, given how the chapter titles in the book of Genesis work, if you now look back at the first verse of the prologue Genesis 1:1, you will see, and I mentioned this before, that there is no Toledos statement there. There's no, this is the book of the generations of. And that's because, quote, the Toledo is designed to explain what became the results of the preceding section. And there is nothing preceding Genesis 1. 1. So, I want you to begin by knowing that the first verse of the Bible's prologue, chapter 1, verse 1, is not a title to the prologue. The prologue begins right away with God acting. God creating the heavens and the earth. There's no history before verse 1. Verse 1 of the Bible's prologue is the absolute beginning of God's created works, and nothing existed outside God before verse 1. Now, I'll walk you through those creative works that occurred during Creation Week. And at this point, I don't want you to be concerned about which verse I'm on or the time frame in which God says he acted. Their focus right now is on the order of God's creative acts as he creates and prepares the universe for mankind to live in and take dominion over. It's important to recognize the order of his creative acts that he provided you. Try to picture in your mind the order in which things occurred as I go here. And I should mention too That I plan to go through the details of each of these acts of creation in subsequent exhortations. First, you have the starting point. Only God existed Obviously it's impossible to have a picture in your mind of nothing, but try to imagine conceptually no universe No material existence, no spiritual beings other than the triune God. Only God there. Then God creates the universe in its basic material form. And when the Bible says the heavens and the earth, it means everything outside of God. The ancient Hebrews did not have a word for universe, as we do, so they used the phrase heavens and earth instead And then God parenthetically notes at this point that Earth was not yet in the organized form that it will be in at the end of the Creation Week process. And it's critical that you avoid thinking that there is any imperfection in this yet-to-be organized earth. In that state too, Not yet organized, it is absolutely perfectly good. It may be that at the outset the earth is a massive ball of water because 2 Peter 3. 5 says, quote, the earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. Next, God creates light. The source of light is not identified. And because the book of Revelation uses prophetic language to say the Lamb is the city's light. You should remember to avoid taking that kind of wording literally there in Revelation. Therefore, Revelation 21, 23 may not be helpful here. However, in 2 Corinthians 4. 6, where Paul most likely refers back to creation at this very point in God's process, meaning before the Son existed. He says, For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness. Thus, God could have made the source of light, of this light at this point, the darkness itself. Whatever the actual source of light at this point, this created light enables there to be a day-night cycle, which implies that the Earth is rotating in space. The picture is of an enormous ball of water, the Earth, rotating in the middle of empty space. Next, God creates an expanse, which refers to both the Earth's atmosphere and what we today call outer space. Picture this way, you have the earth. The waters that are covering the earth are called waters below the expanse Above the waters that cover the earth is the Earth's atmosphere. From the perspective of a person on the earth, the lowest part of that expanse The part of the expanse that is closest to the surface of the earth is the face of the expanse where the birds will fly when they're created later. But at this point, the expanse is empty The expanse continues outside the Earth's atmosphere to the edge of the universe, all of which we call outer space. And at the edge of the universe are what are called the waters above the expanse. That's the idea. Then God gathers all the waters under the expanse, the waters covering the earth. into a single area that creates a single land mass on the earth. Next, God creates plants to cover that land mass. Then God creates light sources for the earth, the sun, moon, and stars, all of which he puts in outer space. And by stars is meant any bright heavenly object from the point of view of a person on Earth. So this includes meteors and planets. God made billions of stars at that point. Genesis 15, 5 indicates they cannot be numbered. Next, God creates living creatures for the earth's seas and air. Then God creates land animals, and lastly, a man and a woman to live on earth After creating all these things, God ceases his creative activity and from then on continues to uphold all his creation as he carries out his eternal decree in time. Now, let's add another layer of detail to God's creative process. God describes his creative acts for you as a series of four steps of creation and cessation. First, there's a narrative statement. Each time he creates, there's a narrative statement. God said, and you're told, that God's word speaks things into existence. Second, you're given what God said. He speaks a commandment. Let there be such and such a thing. This is a divine fiat, a divine command that something be created. The words from God that are quoted in the Bible's prologue have been described this way by E. J. Young, quote, the organs of speech are physical. For us. We people, human beings, need mouth, tongue, lips, teeth, and so on in order to speak. And yet speech in itself is not necessarily physical. In a dream we can speak. That is not ordinary speech, but it is speech. We need not conceive of this expression in Genesis, the expression God said. As a crude anthropomorphism, meaning in the form of man, the way we do it. More is involved here than a mere anthropomorphism when it says God said that does not mean that he spoke in Hebrew. It does not mean that he even uttered sounds. I think it does mean that there is genuine divine speech. End quote. Verse 26 of Genesis 1 May help you get a sense of what this divine speech was like. There the three persons of the Godhead communicate to one another, saying, Let us make man in our image. For your further reflection this week, think about how this is presumably the way the three persons of the Trinity would have spoken to each other before creation Such as when they entered into the covenant of redemption. So far you have two steps. The narrative statement, God said, then the divine speech he uttered. Each time he acts. creating things. Third, God's command is fulfilled. You read the words, there was. Like there was light This is a straightforward statement that indeed God's divine fiat was fulfilled just like he wanted. And then fourth, the fourth step, you are given God's assessment of the results of his creative act. God saw that it was good. The Creator God expresses that he is satisfied with what he has made because it is precisely what he intended it to be. Remember that when God says something is good, he means it is absolutely good, with no imperfection or sin. A point of application here. You know that God doesn't change. God is always satisfied when things are done according to his will, and this holds true for when you do his will also. As a Christian, your highest goal in life is for Christ, your Lord and Savior, to see what you are doing, hear what you are saying, know what you are thinking, and then say, that is good. Now I'll walk through this repeated sequence of steps which God chose to go through as He created the world you live in. Each of those steps we'll go through as He creates. I'll mention where the steps of God's process are indicated verse by verse so you can see in your Bible this. So you can follow along exactly with what God's doing. So please look in your Bible now. The first creative act, verses one and two There God says that he created the universe in this basic material form, but notice that he doesn't use this fourfold pattern for the initial creation of the universe. God created the universe without saying anything that is recorded. But from verse 3 through the end of chapter 1, God is forming ordering and beautifying this universe that he has created using this sequence of four steps each time with only minor variations Look at verses 3 and 4. God creates light out of darkness. In verse 3, you have the first three steps. There's a narrative statement. You see it there? God said. Then what God said is given, as he speaks it into existence. Let there be. Then the command is fulfilled. There was light Then step four is in the beginning of verse four. You're given God's assessment of what he just made. God saw that the light was good. Stop for a second and reflect on verse 3. That is the first record in the Bible of anything God said. If you have a biblical worldview of language, you'll recognize that. If you have a biblical worldview of language, you will also recognize that human language is possible only because God Created man in his image with the ability to speak. Take some time this week to reflect on the fact that the only reason any person ever uses the word God When he thinks, speaks, or writes is because God put the idea of himself in every man's mind. Think about that the next time you hear the reprobate curse, for instance. Furthermore, later in the Bible's prologue, God will assign names to material objects as He creates them. Verse 5, God called the light, day. Verse 8, God called the expanse, heaven. Verse 10, God called the dry land earth. And so on. God didn't do this for himself, he did this for mankind. That's why mankind uses these names for things. You must know that because you are made in the image of God and you have been given the gift of language, you are accountable to God for how you use language. Whether it be spoken words, written words, or thought words, whether it be words you use in reference to yourself, toward God, or toward others. Please don't fail to recognize that language is one of the most important battlegrounds of good versus evil. Don't be naive about this area of life. The ungodly use their language as a weapon against the kingdom of God, its king, and its citizens. Have you ever thought about the ways that is being done all around you every day? But then what about you? How careful are you to be loyal to Christ in your language? How rebellious are you in this area of your life? How careless are you in your language? Do not judge by your own standard, though. Use God's standard. Here are a few questions to reflect on through this week. Remember that Ephesians 5. 4 warns that humor is no excuse for loose talk and ungodly language. Do you know that the things God created correspond to the meaning of what God called them, their purpose? Have you ever given a nickname to a person without asking them their permission or without asking the person who is in authority over them whether it's okay to do so? God did not give you authority to do that. People seem to think they can make up words whenever they want or for whatever they want, even at times when perfectly good words already exist for things. Some people also think they can alter the meaning of words as they choose. Ask yourself, shouldn't God's will be considered when you do these types of things? How is God holding people accountable when they do these kinds of things? Ask God to make all of the ways you use language glorifying to Him. Taking dominion over this part of your life will require that you study to know what the biblical definitions of words are. And it will also require that you then strive to maintain those biblical definitions. as you use those words in your language. You bear God's image, and just like Adam, who had to name the animals appropriately and according to their functions, Your words must align properly to God's reality. Don't just use language however you feel at the time. Now continuing with the second recorded Creative Speech Act, look at verses 6 through 8. Here God creates the expanse, which is what we refer to as space. By separating the waters. In verse 6, you have the first two steps. Step one, there's the narrative statement. God said Step two, then what God said is given. He speaks it into existence. Let there be. Step three is at the end of verse seven. You read that God's command is fulfilled. It was so. But what about step four? Here you have an interesting situation. God just arranged the waters to make the expanse. But his assessment will come only after he finishes arranging the waters into seas. And that will come at the end of verse 10, after his next creative act. He's not done with the waters yet. Next creative act. Look at verses 9 and 10. Here, God creates the seas and dry land. In verse 9, you have the first three steps. Step one, narrative statement. God said, Step two. What God said is given. Let the waters. He speaks them into existence. Then step three, the end of verse nine. God's command is fulfilled. It was so. Step four, at the end of verse 10, like I said, you're given God's assessment of what he just made. God saw that it was good. It refers to the arrangement of the expanse. which he began in his previous Creative Act, and the dry land and seas. This is the completion of the arrangement of the seas. Next creative act. Look at verses 11 and 12. God creates plants to live on the dry land. In verse 11, you have the first three steps. There's the narrative statement. God said, Then what God said, let the earth sprout vegetation. He speaks it into existence. At the end of verse 11, you have step 3. God's command was fulfilled. It was so. Step 4 is at the end of verse 12. You're given God's assessment of what he just made. God saw that the vegetation that the earth brought forth was good. Next creative act. Verses 14 through 19. God creates in outer space all luminaries for the earth Verse 14 has the first two steps. Step one, there's the narrative statement again. God said. Then step two, what God said is given. Let there be lights in the expanse. He speaks them into existence. I mentioned it earlier, but what exactly did God make here? Look at verse 16. The greater light which governs or rules the day is the sun. It takes over the job of the divine light that God used up till now to create daylight. The lesser light which governs or rules the night is the moon, to provide light for the earth at night. And then you see in verse 16, almost as an afterthought, he created billions of stars. Then at the end of verse 15, you have step 3. You read that God's command is fulfilled. It was so. Then look at the end of verse 18. There's step four. You're given God's assessment of what he just made. God saw that the luminaries for the earth were good. Then look at verses 20 through 23. God creates sea and air creatures, or you might say swimming and flying creatures. Using the modern classification groups, it would be fish, mammals, and reptiles that swim and/or fly. Verse 20 has the first two steps. Step one, there's the narrative statement. God said Step two in verse 20. What God said is given, let the waters teem with living creatures and birds lying above, beaks them into existence then. And then step three, you have an exception to the pattern. The typical statement that the command is fulfilled is not given. It doesn't say it was so. Instead, verse 21 shows you in detail that it was carried out just as God desired. At the end of verse 21, you have step four. You're given God's assessment of what he just made, God saw that it was good. Next creative act, verses 24 and 25. God creates land animals and a man and a woman. Verse 24, that's the first three steps. There's the narrative statement. God said, then what God said is given, let the earth bring forth living creatures. He speaks them into existence then. And then step three, you read, God's command is fulfilled. It was so. At the end of verse 25, you have step four. You're given God's assessment of what he just made. God saw that it was good. Next creative act, verses 26 through 31. God creates a man and a woman Verse 26 has the first two steps. Step one, there's the narrative statement. God said, then what God said is given. Let us make man in our image. Man and woman are spoken into existence. A man, and then he takes the woman out of the man. At the end of verse 30 is step three. You read that God's command is fulfilled. It was so. This step four is unique because it refers to the entirety of his creative acts. There in verse 31 is that step. Provide you with God's assessment of all that he has made up to that point. The universe, in its parts, and as a complete system, and this refers to everything outside of God Himself, is declared very good at that point. So at this point you've looked at God's creative acts and sequence, but if you stop there, you would be missing a critical element of the Bible's prologue. God didn't just create the universe, he created it in time. Time as we know it. He didn't have to take time to create any part of it. He didn't have to take any time to create the universe as a whole. He didn't have to, but he did. He chose to create the universe in a certain period of time. He did it that way and recorded it the way he did for mankind. I want you to see that even the structure of the Bible's prologue tells you this. In your English Bibles, the Bible's prologue 1-1 through 2-3 has 31 verses in the first chapter and 3 in the second chapter. Versification, which is the breaking up of the text of Scripture into verses. And grouping those verses into chapters was done back in the 1200s A. D. in Europe. The verse numbers and chapter numbers were added to the text as aids. To help you when you want to refer to specific places in the Bible, like we just did. However, you must remember that they are not an inspired part of the text. God didn't have the writers of the books of the Bible add chapter and verse numbers as they wrote. If you had the original Hebrew version of the text of the Bible's prologue, you would see that it is organized into what we would call paragraphs. Do you recall from my previous exhortation on this book that the book of Genesis as a whole is highly structured? The prologue to Genesis was written in a highly structured way, too, just as you would expect. And each paragraph of the prologue covers one day of creation week, which means that the Bible's prologue has how many paragraphs? Seven. Seven. Each paragraph ends by stating which day of creation it was. Day seven is the only exception to that rule. Therefore, the chronological progression of these paragraphs is absolutely clear and controls the entire account of creation. Each day, God builds on what He has done up to that point. Now you already know that day one begins at verse 1, the absolute beginning of creation. Where is the end of the first paragraph of the original Hebrew text? Where would that be? Verse five. So God's creative activities on day one are contained within the first paragraph only of the original Hebrew text. That first paragraph would be from verse 1 through verse 5. Your Bibles don't break it up that way. The original text does. The paragraph ends in verse 5 with the naming of the day in which God did his work. Now what does it say there in your Bible when it names the day? The ESD and the King James Version say the first day. The NASD says one day, which is a more accurate translation of the original Hebrew. And there was evening and there was morning, one day. The significance of the fact that verse 5 says one day, not the first day, has been described this way. Quote, with the creation of light, it is now possible to have a cycle of light and darkness which God labels day and night, respectively. Having an evening and a morning accounts to having one full day. Thus, Genesis 1 and verse 5 is defining what a day is for its readers. It is carefully crafted. the wording, so that an alert reader cannot read it as the first day, leaving open the question of how long a day might be. Instead, by omission of the article, it must be read as one day, thereby defining a day as something akin to a 24-hour solar period with light and darkness and transitions. between day and night. End quote. In other words, Genesis 1 is showing you, the reader, what a day is, so that you are given the definition of a day. In this way, mankind is not left to figure out what the meaning of the day is. At the end of the first day, you have this: the universe in its basic material form. And within that universe, the earth as a ball of water rotating with darkness for a period of time and light shining on the earth for a period of time. And this total period of time, roughly 24 hours, is defined as a day. Now, where's the end of the second paragraph in the original Hebrew text? Verse 8. This means that God's work on day two is described in verses 6 through 8. And the paragraph ends in verse 8 with the naming of the day on which God did his work. What's it say in your Bible? The second day in the ESB in King James Version. The NASB says the second day. Both are close to the Hebrew, which says second. day. This is therefore a repeated length of time of the first day. You have the template on the first day, and now repeat of that with an evening and a morning just like day one. The second one. At the end of the second day, you have an earth with an atmosphere, an outer space surrounding the earth, and then water at the edge of the universe. Where's the end of the third paragraph in the original Hebrew text? Thirteen. Thirteen. This means that God's work on day three is described in verses nine through thirteen. And the paragraph ends in verse 13, naming the day. And at the end of the third day, you have a single landmass on the earth covered with vegetation and then water covering the rest of the earth. Where's the end of the fourth paragraph in the original Hebrew? 19. This means that God's work on day four is described in verses 14 through 19. And the paragraph ends naming the day, the fourth day. And at the end of the fourth day, you have light sources in outer space for the Earth, the sun, moon, and billions of stars. They were given, it says in verses 14 and 15, you see there, so that mankind would have signs and seasons, days and years. Where's the end of the fifth paragraph in the original Hebrew? 23, verse 23. This means that God's work on day five is described in verses 20 through 23 The paragraph ends with the naming of the day on which God did his work, fifth day. The end of the fifth day you have a single landmass on the earth covered with vegetation. And then water covering the rest of the earth, and the seas are now teeming with living creatures, and other creatures now fly above the sea and land. Where's the end of the sixth paragraph in the original Hebrew? 31. This means that God's day of work six was described in verses twenty-four through thirty one. The paragraph ends in thirty-one with the naming of the day. The Hebrew is unusual here though. The Hebrew says day, the sixth one, which is a way of highlighting the importance of this day, because man's created on that day. Now that's where English Bibles end chapter 1. And remember the original Hebrew text just keeps going on there without any chapter division. And at the end of the sixth day, you have land animals and one man and one woman now living on the earth. The seventh paragraph begins in 2. 1. Which is a statement about the completion of God's work of creation. You're told that God now ceases his work of creating. Day seven was a day of rest for God. He didn't need to rest. Does God need to rest? No. He did that as a model for mankind Just like the naming, just like the timing, all this is for man. This also means that God's working the other six days is also a model for mankind. Chapter 2, verse 3 ends the seventh paragraph and is the last verse in the Bible's prologue. And like the sixth day, the Hebrew is unusual here and says, day, the seventh one. Again, highlighting the importance of this day. God has completed his work of creation. He did no work on that day At the end of the seventh day, you have a universe and its earth made into a perfect system for mankind, mankind being the jewel of God's creative activities, made in his image to have dominion over all of creation. And as you remember, chapter 2, verse 4, the next verse there begins the first Toledah, the Toledah of the heavens and the earth, what came from the heavens and the earth. Therefore, just like the rest of the book of Genesis, the creative account is logically structured and chronological in its narrative just as you would expect. Now God had his creation account written to show he created everything in six days, and he defined what he meant by a day. Now I want to show you the scriptural reasons why the word day in the Bible's prologue means a day as you know it. About 24 hours in duration, a solar day. The Hebrew word for day is Yom. Yom is the fifth most frequently used noun in the Old Testament at 2,304 times. In the Bible's prologue, it appears 13 times in the singular and once in the plural. Verse 14 of chapter 1 has it in the plural. And when Yom is in the plural, It always means literally a solar day. The fourth commandment tells you that. It uses it the same way there. Since Yom is mostly used in the singular in the Bible's prologue, that's where I'll focus. The main thing to know is that when the word yom is paired with any limiting, qualifying adjectives It always means a literal day in Scripture. And here's some examples. As you recall in the numbering of the days, the Bible's prologue attaches a numeral to each of the days of creation. One day, the words used in day one. Second day, third day. There's the adjective in front of it When numerical adjectives like these are affixed to Yom in the Bible, Yom always means literal days. Furthermore, when Yom appears in a sequentially numbered, uninterrupted series, it always specifies natural days. I'll give you an example. Just like he did in the Bible's prologue, Moses used Yom in an uninterrupted sequential numbering of days. Number seven. You may want to turn there. Number seven, and look at verses 12 through 36. Number 7. The same pattern here. The same way it was written. If you start in verse 1, see this is the offerings that were given at the tabernacle's consecration. They built the tabernacle and they're consecrating it. Starting on verse 1, on the day when Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle. Verse 2 says, the chiefs of Israel approached, verse 3, and brought their offerings before the Lord. Skipping down to verse 11 now. And the Lord said to Moses, they shall offer their offerings, one chief, each day, for the dedication of the altar. So verse 12. He who offered his offering the first day, it says. Then verse 18, on the second day. That's the same writer, Moses. as the Bible's prologue. 24. On the third day. And it continues down to the 12th day, verse 78. These are all normal solar days as we know it, just like the Bible's prologue. Each day is sequentially numbered in an uninterrupted series, just like Creation Week. If you look at every verse in the Bible's prologue where the creation day is stated, it says there was evening and there was morning, and then it says what day it was. Moses makes a point of qualifying each of the six creation days with that phrase evening and morning. You saw that at the end of every day. This exact phrase is only used in Genesis 1, but the words evening and morning individually are used 30 other times in the Old Testament, and they always refer to a solar day. Here's an example of that. Leviticus 6. 20. It says, This is the offering that Aaron and his son shall offer to the Lord on the day when he is anointed. That's a single 24-hour day as you would know it. A tenth of an epha fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning, half in the evening. Normal day. Evening and a morning. By the way, if Moses meant the days to be ages, he would never have used the words evening and morning to qualify those days. Which would render the meaning of evening and morning nonsensical. Now, please look at your Trinity Psalter Hymnal, page 920. Page 920. This is the Westminster Confession of Faith Statement on Proper Principles of Biblical Interpretation. Very succinct chapter. In a very straightforward way, it tells you how to interpret Scripture. 920. It's chapter 1, paragraph 9. It says there, the infallible rule Of interpretation of Scripture is the Scripture itself. When there is a question about the true and full sense of any scripture, which is not manifold but one, It must be searched and known by other places that speak more clearly. So Scripture, being God's word, being unlike anything else in this world. Must be used to interpret scripture. The findings of science, man's opinions, whatever else are not to be used to interpret scripture That is, if your goal is to actually find out what God intended in His Word, the only possible way of achieving an infallible interpretation of a text of Scripture that you can depend on in your life is to use other clear texts of Scripture. Now let's look at God's own commentary on the meaning of day. And you find that in the fourth commandment, Exodus 20. Please turn there. Exodus 20, verses 8 through 11. God gives a commentary on the days of creation there. Exodus 20. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, for that means because Because in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. So the fourth commandment makes a direct connection between Creation Week and the weeks of your life. The reason to rest one day and work six days every week is because God did that in Creation Week. God chose to do his creative work in human days. He didn't have to. He could have done it in one split second. The fact that Exodus 20, verses 8 through 11, the Fourth Commandment, is God's commentary on Genesis 1, means that the limits to the ways Yom or Dei can be used in the fourth commandment text are the limits to the ways Yom or Dei can be used in the creation week text. May you all pray throughout your lives that Christ would continue to refine and unify his church's interpretation of the Bible's prologue before he returns. Because as the Westminster Confession of Faith says, the true and full sense of the Bible's prologue is not manifold, but one Please pray for that. The church needs it. Now, the Bible's prologue impresses you with the fact that the entire created universe is under the dominion of time. Genesis 1-1 is the beginning of physical time. And it moves in a linear fashion in one direction according to God's eternal decree. Time moves at a predestined pace that God gave it. And his purposes are worked out at precisely the right points in time. Can you think of an example? Christ arrived in the fullness of time, at the perfect time, in God's eternal plan. God gave time a structure. He gave it specific divisions. And that structure, God gave all mankind, the reprobate and the redeemed alike. And you are to order your life by it and not pretend that it does not have a structure made for you. What's that structure? It's all there in the Bible's prologue. Look back at verses 14 and 15 of Genesis 1. It says there: God made the sun, moon, and stars For more than one reason, it says. Verses 14 to 15. It says he made them for light for the earth, verse 15. But then look back at 14. He says they were given to give time a dependable structure. So what about days? God created the sun. And except for those people who live near the poles of the earth, all mankind experiences periods of darkness and light each day, an evening and a morning, every day. Thus, the relationship between the earth and the sun provides you with days. God created it that way. Now, why does the seven-day week exist? Ruth Beach addressed this question. She said, quote, in practically all places and all times, people have observed a seven-day week. And this is a puzzle to those who do not believe the Bible They can't figure out how or why the week even got started. It's easy to see that the month is connected with the moon and the year is connected with the sun, but the week is not connected with any sky signs Nor does it seem to come from anything else in nature, yet it has existed for thousands of years Dictator Stalin in the Soviet Union tried to erase the memory of the Seven-Day Week because he wanted to erase all religious memory in his citizens. In Russian language, Sunday is called Resurrection Day. And Stalin didn't want that reminder every seven days. So he instituted a ten-day week and called the days simply by numbers It turned out that the people couldn't work nine days with one day of rest. The experiment fell apart and the Russians returned to the age-old week of seven days. Other attempts to change the week have also failed. And the week has existed now for almost 6,000 years. Bible believers know the seven-day period originated that first week in history, and every week that goes by reminds us of that creation week. God himself spoke this reminder from Mount Sinai, and he wrote the fourth commandment with his own finger on tablets of stone. End quote Thus, not only was the Sabbath made for man, but the week as a segment of time was made for man. So God gave you days and weeks. He also gave you months. The existence of the moon provides the lunar cycle from which you get months. Years. One revolution of the earth around the sun is a calendar year. 365 days, five hours, 48 minutes, 45 seconds. God gave you that. The position of the stars can tell you what season it is. Thus, the Bible tells you that time is not your enemy. Death doesn't occur because of time. Don't get confused by that. Why does death occur? Sin, not time. As you saw in the Bible's prologue today, there was time before there was sin. So sin and death aren't necessary aspects of time. This means that time isn't one of your problems in life. Sin is. Instead, time is valuable to you. Because it's a gift from God to you. Time is like wealth. You are to be a good steward of it. Now in conclusion, do you remember the New Testament reading for today? Ephesians 5, 15 through 20 The first verse that I read there, verse 15, said this. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but wise, making the best use of time, because the days are evil. Now when he says days are evil, the days are evil, he's talking about the time we live in, not days themselves, not the segment of time that's a day. That's not evil Paul's talking about the age when he lived. And we can still say that today, but we can say that less so though. You must recognize, because Christ has been subduing Satan's kingdom for over 2,000 years now. It was worse back then. So let's reread that verse. Verse 15. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil, the time we live in is evil. Paul says to use wisdom in your use of time. This morning I want to end by providing you with some biblical wisdom regarding time in your life and the use of it. For biblical wisdom, who better to go to than Solomon? So please turn to the book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 8, verse 15. Now, this is wisdom that's usually either flipped upside down or denied by a lot of Christians. But I want you to see it there. It's right there in your Bible, chapter 8, verse 15 of Ecclesiastes. And chapter 8, verse 15 is part of the central part of his argument in that book, and it's the concluding statement of that section. Ecclesiastes. So this is an important statement in the Bible. If you think about the whole Bible, this is an important statement in the whole Bible for you to know and live by. Now what does it say there? It says, and I commend you, Solomon speaking to Christian, I commend you, for man Has nothing better under the sun but to eat and drink and be joyful, for this will go with him in his toil through the days of his life that God has given him under the sun. Walter Kaiser Jr. described the meaning of this verse this way: Quote, God commends enjoyment as one of his most excellent gifts to the men and women who fear him. And this gift of enjoyment, including eating, drinking, and receiving the joy of living in the favor of God, will stay with them. The gifts of God are not dangled on a string before men's eyes, only to be retracted just as they seem to come within reach. The promise is that in the good plan of God, they will accompany men who fear Him. God really intended that men should come to a proper enjoyment. of the good material gifts placed in this world by God, and that the gifts should be a source of constant satisfaction When the things and the users are properly related to the giver himself. This is what Christ did for you to enable you to do this. Such enjoyment is meant to accompany man all the days of his earthly life. End quote. So don't discredit the time God gives you here before you see him face to face one day. Don't be in such a hurry to get to heaven. Indeed, as Ecclesiastes 5, 18 through 20 indicates, the godly person has too much joy in living to even worry over the impermanence of his mortal life. He takes each day as God gives it to him, seeing each one as a gift from God. Time is certainly not the enemy of the Christian. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, enable us to trust that you will give us joy and pleasure in the things you give us in this life. even the material things, that we are meant to have companionship, fellowship, and godly enjoyment of the material things of this world, enable us to enjoy life here. As we seek to glorify you. Enable us to see that time is not our private property to manage the way we want. It's a gift from you. You require that we seek each minute, hour, day, month, and year that God gives us in this life to redeem the world and redeem time. Enable us to know with conviction that at your Son's resurrection you began the subjection of this world to your will. As citizens of Christ's kingdom, we know that all things that occur in this world are ordained by you. So plant in our hearts this day a firm conviction that in all the events of time and space, we are more than conquerors through Christ who loved us. Amen.