Our Old Testament reading this morning is also the sermon text for today. It's Psalm 2, the Second Psalm. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together Against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs, and the Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We have two readings from the New Testament today. Which will be referred to in the sermon. First, 2 Corinthians 5, 17 through 20. 2 Corinthians 5, beginning at verse 17. On, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh, even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ Reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ. God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. And then Matthew 28, 18 through 20. The very end of the book of Matthew at the ascension of Jesus Christ. Matthew 28, beginning at verse 18. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teach them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit, who inspired these words to be written down and who protected them and transmitted them to your church. We need that same Holy Spirit to come now. To preach through your word. May the Holy Spirit superintend and even correct the preacher May the Holy Spirit's words be heard, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Last week I preached from Psalm 8. And I began by asking the question: Who rules the world? Who rules the world? Today we're going to get another look at that question: Who rules the world? G. K. Chesterton A famous British author, commentator said this: the optimist looks at the world and thinks it's serious but not hopeless. And then he said, the Christian looks at the world and thinks it's hopeless, but not serious. I think Chesterton was right. The world situation is a divine comedy. It can't be fixed by politicians and government programs. It is hopeless, but not a serious problem for God. We're going to see that in this psalm in four speeches, four speeches. In this little psalm, Psalm 2. First, the nations speak. Secondly, God the Father speaks. Thirdly, the Son of God speaks. And finally, the narrator speaks and preaches. So let's get right to it. First, the nations speak. And when the nations speak, their speech is a declaration of independence from God. It says, Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together. Against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. They're saying, they're gathered before God and they're saying, we don't want you ruling over us. We don't want your laws restraining us We want you to burst them off. We will burst them off. We will cast them away. We will do what we want to do. We declare our independence from you, God. It's not just the rulers. It's the people behind the rulers. All the people are doing this before God. They're declaring their independence. From God. They are united, all the nations, regardless of their various cultures and religions and so forth, they're all united in one thing. They may not be united in many things, but they're united in this one thing. They hate God and His rule. They hate His law. And that law is written on their hearts. So they can't escape it. It's always there. It's always calling them to account, always creating a problem for them. They think the answer to that problem is to get rid of the law. Cast it off. So we could say that the nations are saying in ordinary parlance, you're not the boss of me. Right? You're not the boss of me. And in effect, every time every time we sin, every time you sin, I sin, we're saying, in effect, to God, you're not the boss of me Our sins are not merely faults, you see, our mistakes or foibles or weaknesses, but they are at the bottom, our protest against God's very rule over us. By our fallen nature we hate God. That's the way it really is. This is also made clear for us in a parable that Jesus told in Luke chapter 19. I'm not going to read the whole parable, but I'll read part of it. In Luke chapter 19, beginning at verse 11, It says, as they heard these things, he proceeded to tell them a parable because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said, therefore, a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, Engage in business until I come. So he gave these people something to do, he gave them uh resources, and he's gone to receive some other kingdom. Verse fourteen is the key part here now. Listen But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him saying, We do not want this man to rule over us. Doesn't that sound like Psalm 2? We don't want God to rule over us. And Jesus is telling that parable. And at the end of the parable, down in verse 27, After he's received various things from various ones, verse 27 he says, But as for these enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. So God's judgment is going to come on those who reject his rule, reject his law, who cast it off as these nations do. In our first So that's the first speech. Second speech begins at verse 4. The Heavenly Father responds. It says, He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Here we have a picture of God laughing at these silly nations that are gathered. God is amused at man's puny revolt. The depiction of man and God reminds me of an angry toddler who's all worked up because he didn't get what he wanted. I have to admit, I have been tempted to laugh at the rage of an angry toddler once in a while. They get so worked up, their faces so red, it's comical. Please don't hold that against me, ladies. But God is doing that. These little nations are this And they're so angry and they want to throw God away. I remember, in fact, my eldest son Isaac, a scrawny little boy of three or four years. who was, by the way, speaking in full sentences at age one. We were out in the backyard in Wilmington, Delaware, and I was tending my garden, and for some reason Isaac got mad At me. I denied him something, I don't know what it was, but he got really mad and he said to me, I'm gonna tear down your tomatoes and pull up your peppers and break your whole garden. I couldn't help but laugh. This little red-faced boy threatening to destroy all my work. But then I turned the tables on him. And I sternly told him that he was not allowed to speak to me that way. And amazingly, I don't know why, but Amazingly, he pondered what I said and changed course, and he said, sorry, Dad. And I could not do other than be gladly reconciled to little Isaac. Well, God responds by laughing first, and then with a declaration of impending war against these nations. Who speak to him this way. Verse 5, then he will speak to them in his wrath. That's the British way of saying it. We say wrath, you know, but it's wrath. And terrify them in his fury, saying, and we'll stop there for a second, saying something unexpected. We might expect him to say, I have an angelic army that I'm about to send down and wipe you all out. No, that's not what he said. Or I'm going to pour down a consuming fire upon all you sinners, but he doesn't say that either. I'm going to cause the ground to open and swallow you all up. No, he doesn't say that either. It says, he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, and it's in verse 6, as for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy Hill. That's a surprising thing for him to say. He's basically saying, I have a human. I got a man. I put him in charge. And I think we should remember this. God is committed to mediated rule over creation. When He created Adam and Eve and gave them dominion over everything, it's a mediated rule. They have a task to do. And they failed to keep their covenant with God and became sinners, but that was the original plan and purpose that man is to have dominion and that God uses not direct rule but mediated rule. And so he's saying that right now. I have a man, I have a human. Now, in Israel's mind, reading this psalm and singing this Psalm and Israel's history, David comes to mind. That's why I gave the kids a picture of David on the throne. David comes to mind. Now Solomon had a more splendor, but he wasn't as good in the minds of Israelites as David. In fact, what is the symbol, what is the flag of the nation? Of Israel these days. Star of David, isn't it? Not the star of Solomon, the star of David. David comes to mind as this great king, but. If you go on in in uh Israel's history, you find out that David, who you who ruled over a united kingdom of all the tribes, it soon became divided, didn't it? And then the ten tribes of the north, who defected from God's word first, were swept away by the Assyrians, the Nazis of the Near East. They were destroyed and annihilated. And then the two tribes called Judah, 586 B. C. were made exiles, taken away, deported to Babylon, and made slaves there And so I wonder how these Israelites could still sing this psalm, you know, I have my king on Zion, my holy hill, when not reading Julie, you know, he's been gone a long time, and the nation is broken, and even the Jews, who the better part, are in exile Hard to sing this song. It goes flat in choral terms. So we have to think about what else that might mean. And we're going to get to that next because the royal son affirms his sovereignty over the nations in the third speech. Here's the royal son. Being spoken about and speaking. He says, I, the royal son says, I will tell of the decree The Lord said to me, the royal son, You are my son, today I have begotten you. You are my son. Now we are used to thinking about God the Son being God the Son from all eternity, and certainly that is true. God the Son is God the Son from all eternity. He didn't become the Son. But in this sense, he becomes When God raises him up from the dead and declares him openly to be the Son, approved by God, It happened at the baptism first, but now it's happened in a definitive and final way. And he's raised up and ascends to heaven. God is saying, this is my successful, approved son who has done all that I should have had him do. You are my son, today I have begotten you. You. I have raised you up. You were ascended. And then he says, ask of me, this is what The father said to the son, Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage. Your heritage. Now, the word heritage in Israelite mindset again is important. Israelites always thought of their heritage, their heritage that God had always promised them their heritage was the land of Canaan, wasn't it? All through Israel's history, the land of Canaan is their heritage. Ask of me and I will make the nations your heritage. So it's not just the land of Canaan, spreads out, expands. It's the nations. And it goes on. He doubles it, explains it even further by saying, and the ends of the earth your possession. That word possession is another thing. The possession of Israel is Canaan in all Israelite history. That's our possession. That's our royal and final and wonderful possession. Into Canaan's land I am bound. I am bound for the promised land. That is my possession, where my possession lies, is the hymn has it. But now possession has expanded the ends of the earth, your possession. And we see the same thing in Romans chapter 4, verse 13. Where Paul is explaining the gospel, and he says this, for the promise to Abraham and to his offspring that he would be heir of the No, world, heir of the world. See, there it is. The whole world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. The world is the possession of God, the Son. He gets the whole thing. And then Matthew 28. Christ, who has completed all the work, who has defeated the devil, who died for our sins and rose again and is ready to ascend into heaven. And what does that royal son say? He says all authority. Isn't that something like what was said in Psalm two? Yeah. All authority has, in heaven and on earth, has been given to me. Given to me, the Son. And then he gives us a job. It's a mediated rule. He's going to heaven now. It's going to be a mediated rule again. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded And behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. I'm going to heaven, but I will be with you always. So he is affirming his sovereignty over the nations. Now we look around and we say well that's nice to hear. However, it doesn't look that way sometimes, does it? A lot of bad stuff going down here and there A lot of evil, a lot of injustice, a lot of prejudice, a lot of bad things. God's laws have been ignored and violated and scorned. But we can be sure of this. Because of who Jesus is, because of what he has received, because of what he's promised, judgment were to come. Have great atrocities been committed? Yes. Innocents slaughtered, poor oppressed, life and livelihood stolen. People been deprived of what was rightfully theirs? Yes, it's happened and does happen. Judgment is sure to come. Judgment is sure to come. Things will be put right. And here's where we have it in verse 9. You, son, risen, ascended, you shall break them with a rod of iron. They're depicted as clay pots. You know, these nations that are gathered here, you know, clay pots. Pretty fragile, dry, and he's got this big rod of iron. Heavy gauge and dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. The Son is going to judge the world. He's going to judge. So there it is. There's three speeches. And it's a mediated rule. He's in heaven now, but he's given us something to do. And that's what we get in the final speech, verses 10 through 12. We have the godly preaching to the nations. And the godly preaching is this: okay, nasons, listen up Because of what God has done, because of who He sent and His great success, here are your options, you nations that are gathered to throw off God's law and God's rule. Here are your options. Verse 10. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Wise up. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. And here's what I advise. Serve the Lord with fear. The word serve means worship, honor, glorify. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. The nations are called to worship God They have served idols. That's been the heritage of the nations all through the courses of history. They have served false gods. They have turned away from God. They've thrown off his rule. But he says. I advise you to serve the Lord with fear and rejoice before him with trembling. And then this little bit in verse 12: kiss the Son. Kiss this that's strange to us. We're not used to people kissing a man like that, you know. Now I suppose in some cases uh kings have a a royal ring and when you approach the the king and you he'll stick out his hand and you might get to kiss his royal ring But this is a more intimate picture, I think. It's embrace him. It's love him. It's honor him. It's adore him. It's take your hope in him. Kiss the sun. Quit kissing the idols and kiss the sun. Make peace on God's terms. And these are the terms. Unconditional surrender. That's what you have to choose from. Unconditional surrender or do it your best own way. And he goes on to describe it, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is wrath is quickly kindled. And we read in other parts of the Bible that God is patient and long-suffering. He is. He lets people do their own thing for quite a while. But do not misjudge God. God will rule. God will judge. His wrath is quickly kindled. I know how to make a fire. I've got a fire all set in my little fire ring on my patio. And I've got some dry paper at the bottom that I can reach with my little lighter torch, you know. And then on that top of that I've got some very fine splinter Wintery Kinlin, you know. And then on that I've got some smaller pieces of wood, very dry. And on top of that, I got some bigger pieces of cured wood, which I got from Lorena. And I am ready. And if I just put that in there, it will quickly kindle and it'll suddenly be ablaze. God's wrath is waiting And when he's ready, it will be quickly kindled. And then this wonderful word at the end: Blessed are all who take refuge in him. Him. See, the threat of God's judgment is real, my friends. But those who turn to Him, instead of being judged by Him, will find their refuge In him. Their shelter in him. They will be on the right side, the winning side of the judgment of God. Romans 5, the Apostle Paul says this. I think it fits very well. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. The fear and the wrath have become the refuge for Those who have turned to Christ. We see the same sort of thing in the apostolic preaching of the book of Acts. The apostles proclaim Jesus God raised up, and we are all witnesses. And then he says to them, Here is my advice to you. Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus. Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit for the promises for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to Himself. Repent. That's my advice. That's his advice. Repent. And one more thing I want you to notice here. As I said before. It is a mediated rule. Christ has ascended into heaven, and if he's the Son that's depicted here, and He is, you, you, people here gathered today, you and me. Must mediate this message to the people around us. This unconditional surrender, this threat of judgment. And this promise of refuge. We must mediate this message for the people around us. It is not easy. It is not easy. It helps if you have a relationship with the people around you. You, doesn't it? That you might have some kind of entree to talk to them about these things which are vital for them. But one thing we can't Cannot do. We cannot just say nothing and let them go. We cannot do that. We cannot just keep this truth Inside. We must speak, or they are sure to remain God's enemies, and his wrath will be kindled someday against them. It is hard these days to talk about God, to share this message of the risen Christ, the truth of God's law. It's hard to talk about these things. It's politically incorrect. You will likely be labeled a religious bigot. If you do, it's scary. Used to be in this culture, we could talk about things like this. In fact, a hundred years ago, the New York Times used to print Messages, preachers, sermons in the newspaper, and then people would discuss them regularly. Don't happen anymore, does it? And we can't just sit back and rely upon the sovereignty of God as Calvinists, you know. Just the sovereignty of God. If they're elect, they'll be saved, and if they're not, oh well. Well, too bad for them. That is not right. We have been given this message, this word. It's very important. Now I want to confess something. Yes. Yesterday, I finally, after 12 years of living where I live, 150 feet away from my neighbor, I finally saw him out in his backyard and went over and Talk to him and ask him what his name is. Twelve years. That's bad. And it's bad in light of what God says here in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. We are to be that. The old has passed away, behold the new has come, and then all this is from God who through Christ reconciled us to Himself. Isn't that wonderful? God reconciled me to himself through Christ and you to himself through Christ. That's so wonderful. We celebrate it. We sing it really well here at church, don't we? But listen, this is our calling because it says, and gave us the ministry. It's a mediated ministry. Gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Our job. That is, and he explains it, that is in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against him. And here it is again, entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. It's our job, Calvinists. And here's the message. We implore you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. We need to say that. It works better if you have a relationship with people around you. But you need to say it. And what we're saying, in effect, is My friends, my neighbors, my colleagues, kiss the sun. Kiss the sun. His wrath will be kindled someday Kiss the sun. Change sides. Join the side that wins. Just change sides. We don't give them a list of proposals and benefits, although the benefits are indeed great. And this is not a negotiation, it's unconditional surrender. Unconditional surrender. Have you surrendered? Personally. If you haven't surrendered personally first, then you don't really have a message anyway, because you haven't been reconciled to God. But if you have, then you have a Message. Have you surrendered? In the words of Judson Vandeventer, all to Jesus I surrender, all to him I freely Give. I will ever love and trust him in his presence daily live. I surrender all. All to thee, my blessed Saviour. I surrender all. Blessed are all who take refuge in Him. Amen