Reading is from the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven, verses one through seven. Hebrews eleven, verses one through seven Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for. The conviction of things not seen For by if the people of old received their commendation, by faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so what is seen was not made out of things that are visible By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous. God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. And without faith, it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists. and that he rewards those who seek him. By faith, Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his household By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. The word of the Lord. Now the text is Genesis 9, 8 through 17. Here, Genesis 9, 8 through 17. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you. And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark. It is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood. And never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all future generations. I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. When I bring clouds over the earth and the bow is seen in the clouds, I will remember. my covenant that is between me and you, and every living creature of all flesh. And the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it. And remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh. That is on the earth. The Word of God. Now you've noticed that the title of this morning sermon It's this. God, the divine sign maker. I hesitate only a little to speak this way, wondering if you think me disrespectful. King of kings or Lord of Lords. Yes, perhaps Ancient of Days. Or another of many titles you think better describe God. But Sign maker? Well, if you can make a rainbow, you are no small sign maker. And that is exactly what this text today tells us: the kind of maker of signs that God exactly is. Now, you have no doubt noticed other signs in the early chapters of Genesis that are ascribed as products of divinity. Particularly those special trees in the Garden of Eden. One of them was not at all pleasant. Especially when its fruit was eaten by our first parents. But the rainbow, ah, that's entirely a thing of beauty. And I don't refer simply to its palette of the color spectrum. The rainbow bespeaks God's own beauty And particularly the beauty of his grace and mercy. It's good for you to reflect upon the rainbow for a while. Gather together as we are here this morning. Even if you didn't actually see one this morning. Since you've all seen it at one time or another in the past, you can visualize the rainbow mentally, can't you? The covenant of the rainbow, or the Naoic Covenant, may be found in our text. Here, the sign of the covenant, the rainbow, is introduced and highlighted. If it were possible to highlight a rainbow, But the covenant itself is discussed in Moses' account in at least two other places. Before the flood in Genesis 6, verses 18 and 19. God says to Noah, I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, and your sons' wives with you. And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female. And I could say you you get the implications. And secondly, after the flood, the whole of chapter 8 is a record of details of that same covenant. as Noah and his family, together with all those animals, each male and female, came out of the ark upon solid ground, and hear God say Never again, never again will I destroy all living creatures as I have done. Then chapter 9, verses 1 through 7, which we didn't read, tell us of a new setup which God puts in place by which the kind of violence That had so characterized human society before the flood would be checked through the institution of capital punishment. Which, shame on America, we don't do anymore. Which institution, the scripture says, was but another feature of God's favor Then in the verses of our text today, which we're going to now look at in some more detail God actually enacts the covenant and gives the sign of the rainbow. Now, why all the repetition in these verses? It is not for the sake of God, who does not need to repeat things in order to remember them, like I have to do with your names. But for the sake of Noah, who needed to hear these things and even be reassured of them For Noah was wounded in soul. So God said again and again in these chapters, as I may paraphrase it. I am never again going to destroy the world by flood. You have seen the ugliness of sin and its effects and the horror of my judgment. I want to reassure you that I will never send a flood again. And in order to do that, I am making the beautiful rainbow in the sky as the pledge of my promise. Now before we look at that covenant in detail, however, a few more words of introduction are needed. This is probably the longest introduction I ever wrote for a sermon. First, we need to be reminded of the context in chapters 7 and 8, in which there is recorded wickedness aggravated God's decision to destroy the earth and its inhabitants, leaving a remnant. Noah, chosen by God and given 120 years. to prepare an arc of safety, together with its specific measurements The deluge of unparalleled rain, with the fountains of the deep open for forty days. This was Seattle supersized. Water twenty-two feet above the mountaintops of Earth. Flood conditions persisting for seven months. Finally, the water subsiding, and Noah sending out the birds. Then at last he and his seven family members. And the animals, two by two, remember male and female, and come out of the ark. All told, they were aboard the ark for more than a year. Now, I must stress historicity here, folks. Jesus believed it, happened, and his authority is bound up with what he said. True, the account is cataclysmic and marvelous in the extreme, but incredible No. Still we must pay attention to the whole story. And that includes especially our text this morning. The record of the Noaic Covenant. Here's the application for us. Take this home with you. All wrapped up in these gracious words of the Lord to Noah. Not only that mankind would long continue on the earth, which ensured that we would live here today. But especially that he would carry out his promise and give time for redemption. When Noah exited the Ark, the first thing he needed was some assurance as to the footing on which he stood. The flood had swept away the old order. How did the new world stand with God? Could its continuance be counted on? Answer God's covenant The covenant of the rainbow is God's gracious determination for the continued existence of earthly light. Until his saving purpose in time by the coming and work of the Lord Jesus Christ shall have been fulfilled. So I'm going to consider with you the covenant of Noah, the Noahic covenant, the covenant of the rainbow. Under three headings, each beginning with a P. The parties, the promise, and the pledge. First, the parties. What is a divine covenant? Well, these verses constitute one of the fullest discussions of a divine covenant in the entire Bible. It's not the only covenant, of course. There was a previous covenant with Adam, though the word itself was not used there in Genesis. There were also subsequent covenants established with Abraham, Moses, and David. Yet this is an important covenant and deserves careful attention, if for no other reason than that it is the first explicit discussion of the theme in Scripture. One could define a covenant as a setup An established arrangement involving a superior and an inferior. Now that inferior can be either an individual or a group usually represented by an individual. And the point of the covenant is that the superior arranges for the accomplishment of what he determines for the life and well-being of the inferior, whether that inferior is another one or others. A setup. Here, in the case of the Noaiic covenant, to be in covenant with God is the opposite of dying. That's why the covenant is mentioned both before and after the flood. It is set over against the flood. Whereas by the flood the world was as it then was to perish. By the covenant, Noah and his family And indeed the new earth would live. Now there are three features of a divine covenant seen here. First, the divine initiator and author of the covenant. Verse nine. Behold, I establish my covenant with you. Actually, the Hebrew pronoun is repeated. I, even I. That's the equivalent of saying, I myself The covenant was not established by Noah, and it was not established by God and Noah jointly. It was established by God acting alone. Noah was the recipient and the beneficiary of it, yes, but he had no part whatsoever in the making of it. A biblical divine covenant is not contrary to the old original children's catechism. Which I learned to recite when I was five years old back at Calvary Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Willow Grove, Pennsylvania Written in 1840 by one man alone, the Children's Catechism. A covenant is, he said, an agreement between two or more persons. If that document is used now, that particular definition needs to, and it has been edited by Grey Commission Publications, as they've printed it out and sell it. A divine covenant is not an agreement. It is an arrangement laid down sovereignly by God, having as its base nothing more or less. Than his own good pleasure. Of course that is so. For Noah was in no bargaining position. His life had hung upon the Word of God, and his future world would likewise. If God would determine not to destroy the earth again with another flood, it would come to pass only and entirely. Because he wanted it that way. Thus we must stress the divine initiative in the covenant. No must wait to hear what God says. And God said, My covenant to you is that I will never do it again. You see, not only is God the author of the covenant, he is its guarantor. The verb translated establish, descriptive of God's making of the covenant, means literally to cause to stand. The Hebrew language has a special way of making that point. There is causality here. God ensures by virtue of his own person and reliability that the covenant would last. It will not arbitrarily be changed down the line, so to speak. Noah may count upon God, for he speaks, and thus it stands fast. And that must have filled Noah and his family with great comfort and hope, don't you think? I wonder what the weather's going to be tomorrow. Even verses 1 through 7 describe how God would have men obey him. These verses are not an account of Noah's wise suggestions as to how the future generations of mankind just might figure out how to preclude all that violence. That preceded the great flood. All of the Noaic covenant, including man's response of obedience, should that take place Is of God. God conceives it. God establishes it. God ensures it. And God declares just what man will do for his part. For Noah, that meant obeying God's commands and prescriptions for his life. Secondly, notice the blessings of the covenant Received by the inferiors eight persons, Noah and his family Something immediate and obvious. Those eight persons were kept alive, and there would still be a human race. The covenant was not a private covenant confirmed with one family only, but would be common for all people to the end of time. Noah's sons and their wives bore children. And those cousins obviously married each other then. And so you got second cousins, and finally millions and billions of people. Yet still now we observe that wickedness Flourishes no less today than it did in Noah's time. Think of the whole fair slaughter of innocent men and women and children in horrendous fashion that has occurred in just the past few days in the Middle East We could say that such violence more than equals what brought about the great divine justice for a worldwide flood in Noah's day, couldn't we? And it is especially necessary that the waters should be restrained once again, lest God destroy the earth's inhabitants. And we know that such is not possible. It will not happen because God has promised that He will not do it again. Ever. And he has confirmed that with his divine vow, the sign of the rainbow. Without that covenant sign, that gorgeous bow in the sky, we would have no reason to hope That God would not now utterly wipe out the entire human race. We're no less sinful and deserving of judgment Than was the generation of humanity in Noah's day. But that brings finally to its eternal character. The covenant has everlasting consequences. It was mankind that sinned and fell, doomed to eternal perdition. Yes. But God had his own plan. And that plan would be accomplished. For his covenant with Noah to keep the world and its inhabitants going, Until another covenant would be established and fulfilled, the covenant of grace, which God established with a blessed portion of humanity to deliver them. out of the estate of sin and misery, and bring them through a coming Redeemer. The seed of the woman Your blessed Redeemer, Jesus, would need to be conceived in Mary's womb by the Holy Spirit of God And become truly human, yet without sin. Ah, but do you see the point to today's sermon text? There would be no Mary of Nazareth, and in fact, no covenant race of people, if there would come another worldwide flood. But that will never happen. You have God's word on that, and his vow is confirmed every time you see a rainbow in the sky. And when you do, let that be a time for you to give a prayer of heartfelt thanks to your saving God. Okay, so that's the point of the covenant. Secondly, we note the promise of the covenant. The promise. It had been alluded to earlier when Noah sacrificed after coming out of the ark. Read verse 21 of chapter 8. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. For the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done. Then in the next verse, there was the promise of regular seasonal cycles. Listen to verse 22. While the earth remains, Sea time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night, shall not cease Now, in our text this morning, the Lord specifies further no future worldwide water destruction. Putting all this together, we conclude. God in this covenant with Noah promises that he will stabilize the world order under which man shall live. It will not be the subject of his premature destruction or devastation. Awaiting the redemption of mankind. Notice, however, that the promise itself, as Noah received it from God, Is not concerned solely with physical nature. No more flood, yes. Never again. But does the Bible leave the matter there? No. Read Jeremiah thirty-three Verses twenty-five and twenty-six. Jeremiah writes, Thus says the Lord If I have not established my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of heavens and earth Then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David my servant, and will not choose one of his offspring. to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, for I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them You know what that means? That means if I ever send another flood, there will be no Jesus coming. And that's bad. These verses press the promise of the Noahic covenant into higher service than we had perhaps anticipated or understood. The prophet's argument is from the lesser to the greater. And it goes this way: God's faithfulness in the order of nature. Is the pledge of his faithfulness in the order of salvation. If God can be trusted to make good on his promise to Noah and to the whole of mankind in general, regarding the order of nature and man's physical life in this world, and he most certainly can so be trusted Then it follows that he can be trusted with something of far greater worth, namely the eternal well-being. Of those who are the objects of his electing love. Or to put it another way Why would God go to the trouble of maintaining mankind's earthly life and order while allowing his eternal purposes for his elect people to fall to the ground? The conclusion is inescapable. He would not. He has been faithful in the relatively small matter He will be faithful in the infinitely larger one. Specifically, what the Noe Covenant does Is to allow time for the fulfillment of the covenant of grace. If there is no earth And no human race, then there can be no covenant of grace. But since the latter is God's counsel, the former must be. So, to summarize the promise of the covenant, it is everlasting, because although it regards time and the natural world, It spreads into eternity and into the realm of the spiritual through the covenant of grace that it makes possible. It was established with both Noah and his descendants and with every living creature. God loves life and he preserves it. And finally, and most important, it is gracious. This factor must have been particularly noticed and comforting to Noah. When God said, Write in the context of making the promise, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Remember those words which we hear back in chapter 6 when God gave that as the reason for the flood. So, the flood didn't change the heart of man. It was still evil from his youth. But in spite of man's sin, God enters covenant with Noah. Now, after the flood, even though the condition of man is the same, God is still merciful. And that leads us finally and briefly to the pledge of the covenant. The result of the divine sign maker's artistry, the rainbow, which I think no doubt existed before the flood, there was a rainbow back there in Adams Day. But it's now designated by God as the ongoing sign of his covenant. The rainbow will now be a call to remembrance. But who exactly does that? The usual answer is mankind remembering. No more flood. See the rainbow? But the text As, are you listening? As God remembering, looking at the rainbow. It's for him. The word usually in Hebrew means literally a war bow. Now, what ordinarily was an instrument of war to shoot arrows out of vengeance becomes a symbol of peace in the rainbow. Here it is not war though, but grace bow, the glory of God's love In Ezekiel 1. 28, we are given a description of God's glory as it appeared in the amazed prophet Ezekiel in a vision. Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. That's the glory, the Shina of the Lord. Again in Revelation 4. 3, we have a similar picture of God's glory as it is likened to a rainbow. Thus, when God looks at it, he sees the reflection of his own glory. You could say that the rainbow is God's own personal mirror. He is reminded. When he looks at the rainbow, at his own promise. So he needs to recognize this. The idea of the rainbow is not so much that you be reminded of the divine promise, but that God Himself were it possible for him to forget, which is impossible. Will by the sign himself be reminded by his oath. Tom Tyson didn't make that up. God says so in the Bible, when I see the sign, I will remember, says God. The bow, you see, is produced against the background of the clouds that had brought destruction. Thus the idea of the rainbow. But this bow is different. It is produced by the rays of the sun upon those clouds. Divine grace will overshadow divine retribution. God, in his own righteous wrath, has found the way to restrain his own righteous wrath. And that is through Jesus. Now the rainbow stands not for the pot of gold at the end of time. But for the golden promise of God's love and grace in Jesus Amen. Lord God, look at the rainbow. Every time you make it Read your own signage, as you said you would. And more importantly, receive praise and thanks from us for that fact. The assurance of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ that is ours today and every day until the end. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.