Our first reading tonight is from Psalm 32. We'll read verses 1 to 7. And what I want you to note from this is here's a little bit of what was going on in David's heart. And about the nine months to a year he spent in an unrepentant state in the sin that he had committed with Bathsheba. So Psalm 32, beginning in verse 1. Hear the word of the Lord. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted through my groaning all day long For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. I acknowledge my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. And we'll turn now to 2 Samuel, and we'll read chapter 12. 2 Samuel chapter 12. We'll read to verse 25. So 2 Samuel chapter 12, beginning at verse 1. And here you see God beginning to deal with David and sending the prophet Nathan. to work this grace of repentance in his heart. So 2 Samuel twelve, beginning at verse one, hear the word of the Lord And the Lord sent Nathan to David. He came to him and said to him, There were two men in a certain city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had very many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing but one little ew lamb, which he had bought And he brought it up, and it grew up with him and with his children. They used to eat of his morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms. And it was like a daughter to him Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take one of his own flock or herd to prepare for the guest who had come to him But he took the poor man's lamb, and prepared it for the man who had come to him. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, the man who has done this deserves to die, and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity Bathed said to David, You are the man. Thus says the Lord the God of Israel I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul, and I gave you your master's house and your master's wives and your arms, and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more. Why have you despised the word of the Lord to do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the Ammonites Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me, and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the Lord. Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house, and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor. And ye shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun, for you did it secretly. But I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has put away your sin. You shall not die. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord, the child who is born to you shall die. Then Nathan went to his house And the Lord afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and he became sick. David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night on the ground. And the elders of his house stood beside him to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did he eat food with him On the seventh day the child died, and the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was dead. For they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us How then can we say to him, The child is dead? He may do himself some harm. But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David understood that the child was dead And David said to his servants, Is the child dead? They said, He is dead. Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his clothes. And he went into the house of the Lord and worshipped. He then went to his own house, and when he asked, they set food before him, and he ate. Then his servant said to him, What is this thing you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he was alive, but when the child died, you arose and ate food. He said While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who knows whether the Lord will be gracious to me, that the child may live? But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me. Then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and went into her and lay with her, and she bore a son, and called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved him and sent a message by Nathan the prophet, so he called his name Jedediah because of the Lord. And thirdly, we'll turn to Psalm 51, where we see repentance began here with this word from the prophet Nathan and David's frank acknowledgement I've sinned against the Lord, but it takes its full fruition and maturity as it worked on David's heart and is expressed here in Psalm 51. So here the word of the Lord, Psalm 51, beginning at verse 1. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth, in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness, but the bones that you have broken rejoice Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. This is the word of the Lord Our confessional reading congregation is from the Canons of Dort, and we're continuing our study of the fifth and final main point of doctrine, the perseverance of the saints. And we're looking at the fifth article tonight, the effects of such serious sins. Here's what the confession says. By such monstrous sins, however, they greatly offend God, deserve the sentence of death. Grieve the Holy Spirit, suspend the exercise of faith, severely wound the conscience and sometimes lose the awareness of grace for a time until after they have returned to the way by genuine repentance God's fatherly face again shines upon them. That'll be our teaching tonight. Congregation of the Lord, my address to you tonight. should be on a topic that is dear to every child of God. And that is the grace of repentance That God is pleased for the sake of Christ to put our sins away so that we shall not die. And work in our hearts to return us to Him that we might enjoy His favor. Repentance, as our confession teaches, is a grace It is an evangelical grace. It's because there is a Christ who suffered for our sins. There is a gracious God calling us back to Himself to leave our other gods to leave our sin and come to him to be healed and made whole and to live with him. So truly I think tonight's teaching, I pray and hope, is dear to every child of God here and or will be, I know uh the doctrine of repentance has become more and more a teaching I've loved in Scripture. I know when I preached on it the other week and Isaiah 55 and the preaching of the gospel and we examined From Isaiah 55 to the preaching of the apostles, this word repentance is this word that goes out and bears such glorious fruit and transformation in our lives as we are restored to our God. And maybe some of you have have uh and we're talking about this in the life of true believers, maybe some of you have experienced uh this joy, this transformation, uh either in your own life or praying hope, but uh uh in others too In my year spent in New Hampshire with Pastor Alan Tomlinson and the Saints at First Church, a woman who had fallen into adultery 30 years before and moved away was brought back into the area to uh care for her aged parents, who scorned her for her faith But in that time God had worked repentance and I got to see her restored to the church and become another member there uh united again to that body because God was faithful to restore her. So repentance is truly a a marvelous uh doctrine Uh as I said this in the put this in again to what we're looking at. We're dealing with the doctrine of of perseverance That word is is I looked it up in another word closely linked to it is the idea of tenacity, or that, which is dealing with the idea of holding on, right? Hanging in there. And that's what we are called to do as saints, to hang in there. And what are we hanging in there for? But the Bible makes that very clear. 1 Peter 1 and other places, we're hanging in there for the salvation of our souls. And I hope and pray that every one of us cares about the salvation of our souls and have come to Christ for no other or lesser reason than the very salvation of your eternal soul. and are clinging fast to him so you might enter into that state of which you cannot and not possible to fall from. like in glory. So we're looking at perseverance of the saints, hanging in there. And at the same time, as I mentioned, this doctrine of hanging in there has the other side of the coin of God's preservation of us. We persevere holding on to Christ as God preserves us in his grace, which we see so wonderfully in David's case. Let me just also remind you, we're in the fifth article, we've got some people visiting us, and I know it's we get we hear lots of sermons and can Forget things. What's the foundation that uh Dort is laying here in this doctrine? Why is perseverance even a thing But if we go back to Article I wonderfully says that those people whom God according to his purpose calls into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, and regenerates by the Holy Spirit He also sets free from the reign of slavery and sin, though in this life not entirely from the flesh and the body of sin, right? So it's called members uh into fellowship with Christ. We've been freed from sin's reign in our lives, but not freed from sin's presence in our lives. And that leads us into Article 2. The daily sins of weakness that arise give us constant need of humbling ourselves before God because they're real sins. uh fleeing for refuge in Christ crucified, out of that position of being loved and accepted in Christ, putting to death the flesh more and more by the Spirit. and straining towards the goal of perfection. And then Article three assuring us that this is just the nature of sin. Even with sin's reign broken in our lives, though not its presence. With the remaining corruptions of our flesh, and with the world's allurement of us and the evil one's temptations, without God's reserving us, we wouldn't even stay in his kindness. We would wander even right from his grace and maybe the words from Oh what a thousand tongues is sing speaks that right. I'm prone to wonder and I like the version that translates it, fill me From thy courts above, right? Fill me from your heavenly courts for yourself, and keep me. That man knew his heart, that even from God's grace we are prone to wonder And then we entered into Article 4. And Article 4 and 8 are are building a big picture. And though we have these daily sins of weakness we struggle with, what about Serious sins, right? Can true regenerate people commit murder? Commit adultery uh deny Jesus and apostatize like Peter. Is it only the daily sins that are possible for true believers, or is it even possible, is it maybe to put it this way Is it a real danger you need to watch out for? Anytime you get on a you take a car chip, right, there's always a danger of a flat or something, so you do preventive maintenance, right? You check your tires, you walk around before you go out. Those the danger of engine trouble, so you check your dipstick, make sure you got enough oil, check the fluid levels, right? You're aware that there's dangers. Are we are we aware like that in the Christian life that, you know, it's there are dangers out there. Um And that even a fall into serious sins is a danger for Christians. We looked at that teaching last week and we answered the question, as Dort laid it out, why why why does this happen? Why do you even True believers fall into serious sin because they don't watch and pray. They stop staying spiritually awake. They fall asleep And get God up in the things of the world, the cares of this life, the riches of this world. Jesus talks about those, whatnot. And they stopped praying. We talked about last week. Why do we stay awake to pray? We're alert spiritually because it's when we're spiritually alert. We're staying alert because we need prayer, because prayer is what keeps God at the center of our lives. And it's when we whatever happens in our Christian lives, in David's case and Peter's case, it seemed to be because prosperity I'm the king now. Um So we watch to pray. Well tonight um we're asking the question then and seeing, well what what happens then when true believers do fall into serious sin? Is it possible? We looked at last week, yes it is possible, when we do not watch and pray. Um The Bible is clear, we talked about, right, the argument there is who would ever doubt God's power to keep us, right? It's not an issue of God's power. But also, who teaches that God so powerfully preserves us like we're machines that therefore we're not responsible as even regenerate people? to heed our Lord's instructions and watch and pray because God is not interested in saving machines, but creating children. Jesus watched and prayed. He will always be our model. You can't say, oh Lord, why do I have to watch and pray? It's too much. My son did it. And in my son there is sufficient grace for you to do it. Because he's not making anything less but children. He's copying. However many number there are of the left of his son Jesus Christ that we would become watchers again. I I was asked one time by a man um who I was giving counsel to dealing with serious sin in his life. and the struggle of it and the hardness of it and asked Damon does it ever get easier? Yes. I answered him, and I still stand by my answer. Six, seven, eight years ago. Yes, as you become a better fighter. God's making fighters of us, children of us. Turn to him and trust in him and learn to say, no. He's making children. He's not just going to do it all for you. It's very interesting, right? I think you know this Armenians in Calvinism, right? Well Armenians don't like the teaching. All us Christians we often find ourselves go, Lord, just do it for me. Just just do it. Just make me holy. We pray that, right? But how does that work? He does it by you pray to be holy, good. He's gonna really make you you You. You. A wonderful teaching, but it's hard. Because you, we're we're learning really to turn from sin and that way of living. And really turning to the ways of holiness. That's what God is interested in doing to you, is making you His children. So what happens when we fall into serious sin and and what's the way out? That's what we're looking at tonight. As we look at that, there's three things we're going to look out from this teaching. The effects of serious sins. First we're going to look at the effects of serious sins. That's what happens uh when you fall into serious sin, you you bring upon serious effects. Uh second, we're going to look at the remedy or the redress of these effects, and that's repentance. And third, we're going to look uh at the fruit of repentance. So the effect The remedy and the fruit of this remedy. Again, I just want to stress here that repentance is a grace. It starts and it ends with God. And we'll see some of that tonight, but we'll see it more fully in coming weeks as these other articles really stress on that. Now the argument here in Article 5, I think, goes something like this, that though God justly permits these monstrous sins, we see that back in Article 4. That when saints fail to watch and pray, not only is it possible for them to be carried away by the world, the flesh and devil, but also by God's just remission, they're sometimes so carried away And if you see the fifth word in Article 5, it's this word, however, and it's saying, Now don't draw the wrong conclusion by God's permission here. Because Don't say, well, God's permitting it, then everything's gonna be okay right because it you know it's in his plan and that kind of thing. Yeah, praise God's grace will work out. But it's sort of stopping that train of thought and saying By calling these things monstrous sins, it's saying though God does justly permit these monstrous sins, they nonetheless have monstrous effects upon the believer. And God who does not forsake his own, does not shine his fatherly face upon them again until they return to the way by genuine repentance. That seems to be the sort of argument that Dort saying here is Yeah, though God justly permits these monstrous sins for the chastening of his children, so they be more dutiful in their watching, nonetheless they do have terrible effects upon God's children. And God, who does not forsake his own, does not shine his fatherly face upon them until they again return again to the way by genuine repentance. And maybe we could uh just use a little bit of illustration like that. I think we could all imagine a a s uh a sunshiny road or a road right which the sh sun is shining on and off to the side of you know the on both sides flanking it, some dense dark woods. That on the road the the sun shines and you feel its warmth and its beams impart their strength to you But in the woods its rays are lost and you walk in the shadow, right? When we are walking in God's ways as God's children, right, we feel his delight and his and he shines upon us. But when we Turn off that path into the way of sin, right? We turn into those dark woods and we do lose that sense. This is also the teaching of our of our own confession of faith. In chapter 11, which is dealing with the doctrine of justification, in Article 5, it says, God does continue to forgive the sins of those that are justified. And although they can never fall from the state of justification, yet they may, by their sins, fall under God's fatherly displeasure. and not have the light of his countenance restored unto them until they humble themselves, confess their sins, beg pardon, and renew their faith and repentance. So it's even a teaching in our own standards that Yes, we cannot fall from the state of justification, but we can incur our Father's displeasure when we do sin against him. Okay, so let's look at these effects. Dort gives six of them here, and we do see them in the account, or most of them in the account there in 2 Samuel in chapter 12. The first one is that God is is greatly offended. We fall into it and again pause real quick. I do not think Dort is seeking to Bring about something of the difference between right uh mortal sins and venial sins here and and try to come up with some distinction. It's already talked about the daily sins that come out of the weakness of our flesh. We're dealing with right what we might say serious sin, not because Dort doesn't think or the Bible doesn't think every sin is not serious As it is serious, we're just dealing with the reality, even in the preservation of God's saints, they can and do fall into what we might call right very, very serious sins. And so that's what we're we're talking about here. Well in those sins, I think any sin sends into God, but God is greatly offended. Look at the language there in verse 9. Why have you despised the word of the Lord? Thought it below him Thought it nothing that the king needed to heed. Just took God's word and set it aside. Look at verse 14. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord. As we're going to see, and maybe I'll just say it now. We need to always remember how personal our God is, and how personal the process of becoming like Him or sanctification is. You are doing offense to God in your sin. You're treating him with contempt when you despise his word. You utterly scorn him. When for whatever reasons, and for David it was just, I think one commentator's language, insatiable covetousness He treated God's, treated his Lord with utter contempt. So sin, beloved, greatly offends God. There's no way of getting around it because it's always personal. It's always a choice against God. And so that's the first effect. It greatly offends God. The second effect is that these sins deserve the sentence of death. You know, both David and God agreed that his sin deserved death. But God put away David's sin so he wouldn't die. Look at verse 5. When using this parable, David's anger was greatly kindled against man, he said to Nathan, as the Lord lives, the man who's done this deserves to die. David, you are the man. This sin deserves death. He deserved to be stoned Hung up, David. The king. He deserved to be put to death for his sin before the people. God agreed when He said to the prophet Nathan there in verse 13, The Lord has put away your sin, you shall not die. In Article 6 of our confession, in chapter 6, this is on the fall of man, sin and the punishment Every sin, both original and actual, being a transgression of the righteous law of God and contrary to it, does in its own nature bring guilt upon the sinner. Whereby he is bound over to the wrath of God and curse of the law and so made subject to death with all miseries and uh temporal and eternal. What's it saying is that sin doesn't stop being sin just because a regenerate person commits it. Sin is always sin, and it's always deserving of death. And just because of the state of the heart of the person versus regenerate, unregenerate commits it Sin in God's sight, especially since serious and aggravated sins by a leader of his people, deserves death. So d David rightly deserves There's death from God. You already can see the graciousness then already that's happening in repentance. He's not given death. The third fact mentioned here is grieving of the Holy Spirit David was God's anointed, to whom God gave his spirit, and by his actions David pained the Holy Spirit, his destructive actions. Because David, as the leader of God's people, should have been employed in building up the people. And I'm playing on that language. You do find the language of grieving the Holy Spirit in the prophecy of Isaiah, talking about how God's people had rebelled against him and grieved his spirit, so the many numerous ways and rebel against God. Paul also writes about it in in chapter four of Ephesians, verse thirty. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you are sealed for the day of redemption as believers you've been sealed by God's Spirit For that day of redemption, it's that guarantee, it's that deposit of the life of the world to come which has sealed us But I believe the commentators are right that are saying that we needed to interpret that language. It should be interpreted as context, and that comes from verse 29. of let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. We especially grieve God's spirit as Christians, as believers, when we employ our tongues even in the use of obscenities or in bitter remarks, or in any type of destructive language, that doesn't build up the people of God, that doesn't give grace to its hearers. So our tongues and how we speak to each other very much grieve the Holy Spirit of God. That's why I I bring out that idea that David is in no way building up God's people here, but doing terrible harm uh to the life of the church, the life of God's people uh in this sin, and it greatly greets the Holy Spirit. Again, a reminder. The Holy Spirit's not a force. It's like in that in scripture, very powerful, right? The wind that blows. And yes, those are true qualities of the Holy Spirit. But you have in you the third person of the Trinity, the very God Himself who is pleased to dwell in you, His temple. And that should that's something we should really remind ourselves of every day, right? that um the Holy Spirit's in me, who is a personal God from which can be grieved The fourth effect is the suspending the exercise of faith. I believe what the article is getting out here is everything we do as Christian comes from faith, that we worship. Because we believe that God has accepted us in Christ. We serve God by faith, trusting in his grace and his strength. Um so I guess the ideal is when David spent this nine months to a year His son had been born at this point. That's why Nathan says to him, the child shall die So David's been in this unrepentant state for a good part of a year by now. We see after the child had died and the Lord taken him And after his repentance, he David fasting, which is an act of worship, and going into God's uh house to worship him. But I wonder what David's exercise of faith was like over that year. I wonder how near he really drew to God. I wonder how much he was really for his brothers and sisters in the church engaged in the worship and service of God when his conscience was laid with this sin. Sin will always have that effect in suspending these exercises of faith because faith is just a human response God-given, but human response to God who has revealed himself to us. Fifthly, it talks about severely wounding the conscience. You see there in verse 13 David frankly says, I've sinned against the Lord. David recognized that he had sinned against the Lord, and his conscience was pained with a sense of guilt and self-condemnation. That's what it means to have your conscience wounded. It is pained with a sense of guilt and of self-condemnation. Yes, it's a terrible pain to know of your uh guilt before the Lord and what you've done and to have uh the sense of it. So David wounded his own conscience And sixthly, sixth effect is sometimes we lose the awareness of grace for a time. Now I don't, I guess the idea there is that sense of God's favor, that sense of God's delight, that sense of belonging to him can be withheld from us. where we lose the awareness of it for a time. Uh Dr. Godfrey and his commentary on this mentioned Peter's case. Now after Peter's sin he went out and wept bitterly, and there was a great change uh in him in that time of his sin. So these are the effects that Dorp mentions several of them are very clearly seen in David's case and his sin, fending God bringing on upon our heads a sentence of death Grieving God's spirit, suspending the exercises of faith, severely wounding our conscience, and sometimes losing the awareness of grace for a time. I'll just point out here These are just the effects of the sins upon us. These aren't even the consequences. He's like, what's the difference? But they the consequences for David's sin was that the soul to never depart from his family. Consequences, David said, That man must be restored fourfold, and David lost four of his children uh because of his sin as a direct result. So these are the effects and the r and these can be remedied as we'll look at a minute the repentance, but Just because these effects can be restored doesn't always mean the consequences in this life will be entirely restored to us. Why am I saying that, dear Saints? You don't have to sin. Yes, God's decree is all we don't go to God's decree as the way do we walk. It's there in a workout. You don't have to sin. These are serious effects that are serious consequences. Watch and pray. These can have generational consequences. These can tear apart families. These can destroy churches. Serious effects and serious consequences from sin. Well what is the rejrust? What's the remedy? What has God given? To make these things right. Well, it's his grace, and it's the God given grace of repentance. We see that even beginning with uh the prophet Uh there, God sending a prophet to David. God apparently keeping alive enough in David's conscience by his spirit, right, a tender conscience where he didn't entirely harden himself against this But felt what he had done. And then God sending the prophet to bring it to head and to bring David into repentance, giving him that assurance, David You won't die as a sure foundation of drawing near to the Lord and emptying out his heart. And turning from his sin. So that the redress here is that God given grace of repentance, or as the canons of Dort put it, a genuine repentance. And briefly if we look at Psalm fifty one, just we'll walk you through a real quick. You see David's mature Repentance for this act here. It begins right. How does big repentance begin? It begins with this plea for mercy resting upon God's name. Have mercy according to your abundant mercy. Because of who you are, show me mercy. There's a acknowledgement of David's guilt in verses 3 through 6, right? David says, I know my transgression. He acknowledges his guilt before God, that he has done it. He has sinned. He doesn't blame shift Doesn't put it on anybody else, but squarely acknowledges his guilt for his sin. Verses 7 through 12, there's a plea for restoration from the effects to sin is pleading to God to bring him joy, to heal him, to hide his face, to restore him to favor, to do what only God can do and clean his heart from the guilt of this sin. To renew within David a right spirit, to not cast him away, but to continue to give him his spirit. So he's pleading with God for restoration from the effects of these sins. And it ends there in verse 13. It goes on, but the final thing is, there's a real desire to do right. Then I will go teach transgressors your ways and sinners return to you. So repentance has its full unturning from wrong. To doing right in through these places of acknowledging our guilt, crying out for mercy, pleading for restoration. And all this wonderfully as verse 17 says, coming from that broken spirit, that contrite heart. You say, I've heard contrite heart. What does contrite heart mean? I looked it up Contrite means a deep sorrow for sin or guilt with the purpose of not sinning again. That's the kind of heart God is looking for. Are you broken for your sins? For what you've done. If you've done these sins, God, are you broken for them? Deep sorrow for them. And are you purposed? not to do them again. That's a contrite heart. That's the sacrifice that God accepts. So this is the way back into God's favor through repentance, and finally what's the fruit there? Wonderfully the canons say God's fatherly face shines upon them again. If you look there and this is why I read two verses twenty-four and twenty-five. If you look at verse 24. Then David comforted his wife Mathsheba and went into her and lay with her and she bare a son and called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved Solomon, loved him Solomon. And he sent a message by Nathan the prophet, so he called his name Jedediah because of the Lord. What's the name Jedediah mean? If you look at your footnote there, Jedaniah means beloved of the Lord I remember preparing for this sermon a couple weeks ago and reading it, and I just had to fall on my face and worship Yahweh because David so clearly deserved death and sin. And here's God acknowledging his marriage with Bathsheba, this child, and naming his own child, beloved of the Lord, that he might know it's been dealt with. And he accepts his son. And of course, you know he would put his own son on the throne. And you go, why? Right? Why? Because Yahweh is gracious. He's kind, he's forgiving, he's merciful. He chose David, and he's not going to let his sin, even though he deserves it, right, have the final And last word. It's utterly amazing. You read this and we should all just be led to worship. God would show such grace to David. And give his child the name Jedediah. But let me clarify this teaching, drive it home to you as we close. The doctrine here for us, beloved, is that serious sins have serious effects that are only redressed through repentance. Serious sins have serious effects that are only redressed. through repentance. You can think of the prodigal son. Again, serious effects of what he brought on his head, only redressed by returning to his father's house. And of course we're wonderfully reminded there. Of how much Yahweh will put it all behind and treat you like you're his favorite child and give you everything, right? But an encouragement to repentance. I hope we love this word. This truth of repentance I don't have time because I took up all my time uh this morning, but there's many other places that demonstrate this. Maybe you could read the letters to the churches that Jesus writes. Five out of seven of them, he has a word of repentance. There are serious things that are happening to them. Spiritual destitution in some cases. They've shut him out and aren't letting him in even in the church. How will they fix this? Repent. All those I love I chasten And so he says to them, repent. But how how do you repent? Many examples, you can think of human relationships, right? Think of all of the how how how does reconciliation even begin in marriages? And between children and parents and siblings, right? Repentance. That is the redress that God's given to make these things right. It doesn't always remove the consequences right away. But it deals with the issue of returning into favor with each other when we deal with sin. So if if serious sins have serious effects that are only addressed to repentance Then biblical repentance must be followed in every case of sin, to include, of course, serious ones. Well, how do you repent? You need to heed the voice of conscience and not harden your heart against you that's saying, make it right. Don't keep hardening your heart. You need to heed the voice of prophets that God sends your way. The prophet God sent to me and my sin was my twin brother. He said, don't you know what you're doing is sin? But I justified myself in my sin. Beloved, never underestimate your word of rebuke. It has the power of God to convict people of their sins and not give them peace in their sin so they return to the Lord. Derek was a profitable prophet. Let us be profitable prophets to each other and receive brothers and sisters in sin. Don't you know that sin? State your sins openly. Especially if you're dealing with serious sins, I doubt a serious sin is going to happen in a believer's life that's not going to be public in some cases. There needs to be an open statement of your sin. I did it. You need to acknowledge your guilt. You need to take steps to redress what has been broken or damaged, and generally in this case it's going to be under the guidance of your spiritual leaders, not necessarily left into your own hands and how to bring this about, but through spiritual leaders. And finally, purposing and endeavoring to walk in all of God's ways. So that's repentance, heeding this voice. For the prophets of conscience, stating your sins of acknowledging guilt, taking steps redress what's broken, and purposing endeavoring to walk in God's ways. And why? So that God will shine his fatherly face again on us, right? That's why we want to repent. That God's fatherly face will shine again on us. Alright, we looked at tonight what happens when true believers fall into serious sin? Serious effects. And what's the way out of that? Repentance. We saw these effects. We saw how they reject the repentance We saw the fruit of that repentance, God's fatherly favor, a return to us as his children. So let us never forget that we have this grace, but for the sake of Christ crucified for us, let us continue to praise God for his grace. And let us continue to watch and pray for ourselves and for one another that we never even fall into these serious sins. And let us continue to walk closely with the Lord in his means of grace, the word, sacrament, and prayer. Amen.