The text will be the entire psalm, so we'll be reading the whole thing tonight. Before we get started doing that, though, I'm going to open with a word of prayer. Father, we come before you in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. And we thank you, Lord, that you have given us an opportunity to come before your presence to worship you. to share in this covenant meal that you've given us of yourself, your son. And I pray, Lord, that you will open our ears to hear your word, help us to believe it. To understand it and to live by it. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. So go ahead and turn to Psalm 37. Psalm 37, a Psalm of David. Fret not yourself because of evildoers. Be not envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord, trust in him, and he will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noonday. Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the ones who prosper in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices. Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath. Fret not yourself. It tends only to evil. For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land. In just a little while the wicked will be no more. Though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there. But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him. But the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he sees that his day is coming. The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose way is upright. Their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the Lord upholds the righteous. The Lord knows the days of the blameless, and their heritage will remain forever. They are not put to shame in evil times, in the days of famine. They have abundance. But the wicked will perish. The enemies of the Lord are like the glory of the pastures. They vanish like smoke. They vanish away. But the wick the wicked borrows but does not pay back. But the righteous is generous and gives. For those blessed by the Lord shall inherit the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off. The steps of a man are established by the Lord. when he delights in his way. And though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the Lord upholds his hand. I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread. He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing. Turn away from evil and do good. So shall you dwell forever. For the Lord loves justice. He will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever. The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice. The law of his God is in his heart, his steps do not slip. The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death. The Lord will not abandon him to his power, or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial. Wait for the Lord and keep his way. He will exalt you to inherit the land. You will look on when the to inherit the land you will look on when the wicked are cut off. I have seen a wicked, ruthless man spreading himself like a green laurel tree, but he passed away, and behold, he was no more. Though I sought him, he could not be found. Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man the Lord. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble. The Lord helps them and delivers them. He delivers them from the wicked and saves them because they take refuge in him. And this is the word of God. It's very easy to trust God when everything's going your way. And when everything goes exactly according to your plan, it's very simple to say, I trust in God, I believe what He's got for me is good. Because you already think it's good and now you're just thanking God that He gave it to you. But how you respond to the providence of God when it isn't going your way And it appears as though all of your plans are being frustrated, and the wicked all around you are successful, that's going to tell you what you really think of God's providence. And that's going to tell you far more about trust than a life of ease will. In Psalm 37, David is addressing this very question. How should you respond when the wicked around you are thriving? How can you fight off envy and despair when it seems as though the entire order of the world has been knocked off balance? David says in this Psalm, I have been young, and now I'm old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread. Well, I hate to break it to David, but that doesn't really seem to be the reality sometimes, does it? I've looked around the world a little bit, and it seems like he might be wrong. Um I'm not saying scripture's wrong, obviously, but sometimes it seems like the righteous are forsaken. Sometimes it seems like the righteous have been abandoned and all hope has been lost, but the wicked are walking around as though nothing could ever go wrong in their lives. So surely David can't mean that he's never seen the righteous forsaken. Think of the book of Job. You have this story of a righteous man, the first verse of the first chapter of Job tells us That Job was an upright and blameless man, and yet Job loses everything his livestock, his servants. And even his own children are all lost. Eventually his wife tells him, Just curse God and die. And yet in all of this scripture tells us he never sinned against God in these events. So what does David mean when he says, I have been young and now I'm old and I've never seen the righteous forsaken? Does he not know the story of Job? Hasn't he heard of Joseph, who was sold into slavery by his brothers simply for being his father's favorite? And doesn't David remember from his own youth when he was sent into exile because Saul tried to kill him, or when his own son tried to kill him, and even when Saul exiled him? He and his people were begging for bread, literally begging for bread. And yet David writes, I've never seen the righteous forsake him or his children begging for bread. So what in the world is David talking about? And how can he say that he's never seen the righteous forsaken? Of course David knows these stories. And the Holy Spirit who inspired David to write this psalm did not forget these stories either. So the question is, what is David talking about? What in the world is going on in this psalm? And to answer that question, we're going to turn back to the text of the psalm. And we're going to break it down in three major sections. First, in verses one through nine we have an encouragement for the righteous. Then in verses 10 through 26, we have this description of the true end for the wicked and for the righteous And then three, we end in verses twenty-seven through forty, this final section, with some advice for the hearers of this psalm. So David starts with an exhortation for the righteous. And first, he's going to say, don't fret over or be envious of the wicked. Why not? Because even though it seems like evildoers are successful now and that they prosper now, in the long run, they're going to be cut off. Have you ever waited too long to cut your grass and eventually when you're done you have the These rows of days later, these rows of just brown, disgusting, dried-up grass in your lawn that you should have really bagged up but were a little too lazy to. Uh that's what the wicked will look like in the end. That's what it's like for the wicked They're like the the dried up clippings in a lawn. And they will be forgotten. They'll be like the dead grass that dries up and withers away. So instead of being envious of the wicked who seem to be prospering now. David says in verses 3 through 4, trust in the Lord. And it might look like the wicked are prospering. And it might seem as though the righteous are dying off, but that won't last. So don't worry about the wicked. Instead, be faithful. Dwell in the land that God has given you. God gave Israel a land flowing with milk and honey among the nations. He planted his people there and prospered them. And just like that, just like he's done for Israel, he's also given you a place, whether it be employment. life among your family, your church, or your community. God has given you these things and He asks, commands that you be faithful in those things. Not envying the wicked who seem to be prosperous, but being faithful in the little that you have. So now David is admonishing you, instead of fretting about the wicked, focus yourself on being faithful in what God has given you Put your delight in the Lord and He will give you what you desire. And it can be easy to hear those words, delight in the Lord, and He'll give you the desire of your heart, and scoff at them. It can be easy to do that. You might think, I've tried delighting in the Lord, and it still seems like all of the things I want, I don't have. And the little bit that I do have has been taken away from me. So What happened? But the painful reality is that what this text is telling us, is teaching us, and what we need to learn from it, is that when we delight ourselves in the Lord Our desires will be crucified and sanctified. It's not as though the drug addict who comes to Jesus is now getting high on Jesus. Instead, his desires are crucified and sanctified, and no longer desires that high from the drugs he was once taking, but instead finds satisfaction and delight in the Lord Himself. The scriptures tell us over and over again that we become like what we worship. The prophets are full of that message. And when you worship and delight in the Lord, we become like him, and our desires transform. to be like his desires. And the first ten verses of the psalm continue presenting these two themes in different ways. The first theme being don't be envious of the wicked because they're going to be cut off and their end is really bad. So don't envy that. And second, trust in the Lord, because He's going to bring about justice for you, His people. He's going to uphold you. And so the first two or the first ten verses in a series of parallels, which I was going to spend a little bit of time talking about Hebrew parallelisms Because we were going to have a nice Sunday school about it this morning, and I was going to reference that, but then Sunday school didn't work out, so we didn't have that. Um But basically throughout this entire psalm it's The verses are set up in kind of parallels. You'll see either a synonymous parallel where he says something and then he says the same thing again in a different way, or you'll see an antithetical parallel. which is where he says one thing in the first section, and then in the second section he says, but it's also like this and gives the opposite perspective. And so you see that as you go through this psalm. So after these two exhortations in the first ten verses, don't be envious of the wicked and trust in the Lord because he will bring about justice. David's now going to launch into this exposition of the true ends for the wicked and the righteous. So don't be envious, trust in God, and here's why. Verses 10 through 26. And ten through seventeen, he's going to talk about the wicked. So I thought it would be helpful to just look at each of those little um parallelisms and talk about each one. So first, verses 10 through 11. Don't envy the wicked, because while the righteous are going to remain in the land, the wicked will not remain. And this is going to again remind us of Psalm 1, which has been a constant refrain as we've been going through the Psalms. Psalm 1 sets up the pattern for the entire book of Psalm. You have the path of the righteous, you have the path of the wicked. Choose one and stick with it the righteous the righteous path because Because the path of the wicked will be cut off in the day of judgment. And that theme runs through the scriptures. Be like the righteous who s sits by the rivers of water, like a tree of life. So two paths, two ways to live, and here we see it again. Second verses twelve through thirteen. While the wicked torments and plots against the righteous, the Lord laughs at the wicked and his plots. Because the Lord knows that the wicked's day is coming. The Lord isn't surprised by the apparent success of the wicked. He has their end in mind, and when they plot against you, his righteous ones, he laughs because he sees the end from the beginning. It's almost a reference to Psalm 2. The Lord sees the kings of the earth plotting together against him and his anointed one, and he laughs. He holds them in derision because he sees the end from the beginning. And he knows what the end is for the kings of all the earth. Just like that. He knows what the end is for the wicked as well. And so when they plot and when they have apparent success in this world, he knows what their end is. is and he laughs. Third, verses fourteen and fifteen. While the wicked lie in wait for the righteous to to do harm to them David tells us that, in fact, their own sword is going to be turned against them. The very plots that the wicked have against the righteous will be turned against the wicked in the end. They'll be doing harm only to themselves. And their weapons will be destroyed, and their plans against the righteous will fail. Fourth Verses 16 and 17. David sums up this entire section by concluding that even though the righteous have little and the wicked have much, the little bit that the righteous have in this life is far greater than the abundance that the wicked have. Because, as he's already told us, the wicked are going to be utterly destroyed. So it doesn't matter how great their lives seem right now. What matters is At the end of the road, at the day of judgment, will they be driven away like chaff in the wind, or will they stand with the righteous in that day? So I want to encourage you. When it seems like the things you desire are refused to you, or being taken away from you, find your delight in the goodness of the Lord. Lord. Remember Job, who said that the Lord gives and the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. And let this be your attitude also. Because you know that when you delight in the Lord, He will give you the desires of your heart. It may seem as though you've been given very little in this life. And it may seem as though, as I said, what little you have is being taken away from you. But remember that the abundance of the wicked will ultimately be removed from them. And all the blessings of God, all the promises of God, which have their yes and amen in Christ, are yours in Christ. So don't fret over evildoers Don't worry about the wicked. Don't envy what they have now. Their end is coming swiftly, but the Lord will uphold you. Now in verses 18 through 26 they're pretty similar, but instead of focusing on the wicked, they're focused on the end of the righteous. And again, there's a series, I think, of four of these, so I thought we would just go through them just like we did with the series for the wicked. First, verses 18 through 20. So just as David previously said that the wicked are going to be forgotten and cut off, now he assures the righteous that the Lord knows and remembers them. And when the famines of judgment finally come upon the wicked, he assures the righteous that the roles will that their roles will be reversed. And while it seems like the wicked are flourishing now, the inheritance the righteous receive Second first excuse me. Verses twenty one through twenty two. David describes some of the behavior of the righteous and wicked. The wicked are thieves. And that's how they get their success. They're thieves. They don't earn what they've got. They aren't successful because of the blessing of God. They're thieves. But the righteous are generous. And similarly, when judgment comes, the Lord says that he is going to be generous to the righteous, to his people. But the wicked will be cut off, and they will get what is due to them. They'll get what's coming, as he says. Third, verses twenty-three and twenty-four. Unlike the wicked who are cut off and forgotten, the steps of the righteous man are ordered by the Lord. And so when he falls, and notice this, pay attention to this, look at the verse. It says, I can't remember if this is the ESV or just my memory of the King James, but it says, though he fall. Is that what it says in the ESV? Though he fall? Yes. Okay. Though he fall. Not if he falls. Because the righteous ones are going to fall at some point. You're going to fall in your life. And though you fall, what does the passage say? You will not be utterly cast down. You won't be cast down utterly. But the Lord will uphold you with his hand. The righteous man is not cut off or forgotten like the wicked. when he falls, because the Lord is the one who upholds him. It's not because the righteous is a better person, it's because of the one who holds the righteous up. Fourth, verses twenty-five and twenty-six. David is so confident in these things that he said about the righteous and the wicked, about the status of the righteous. That he says, in his life he's never seen the righteous forsaken, or the children of the righteous begging for bread. And we talked about this a little bit in the introduction. Uh some have suggested that this is a general principle, kind of like the proverbs that we've read, where, you know, if you train up a child on the way he should go when he's old, he's And so that's kind of a general principle. It's not always 100% true, but it's a general good guideline for life. And some people have suggested that that's what is going on in this verse as well. David's given A general principle that usually the righteous are successful and not poor, not forsaken. And that may be one answer. However, I think the truth that David is explaining here looks beyond this life. God, who is faithful to his covenant, will not forget his people, and even if they struggle in this life, he will bless them and care for them in the life to come. And in some sense, even in this life, the the righteous are even now seated in the heavenly place Ruling and reigning with Christ, and are heirs to every good thing that He has. So even the poor, I think of the story of the rich man and Lazarus in the New Testament. Jesus tells the story of the rich man and Lazarus. The rich man lives a life of ease in his uh in his house. He spends his days in luxury, but Lazarus sits outside in the street Covered in sores that the dogs lick and begs for whatever he gets. However, in death, the roles are reversed. Now Lazarus sits in a place of honor beside Abraham himself, and the rich man suffers the torments of hell. And I've always found it interesting that in the story, the only one with a name is Lazarus. The rich man doesn't get a name. Jesus doesn't say King so-and-so or you know um the the guy who lived over there. He doesn't get it he doesn't name the rich man. And it makes perfect sense consistent with this psalm we've just been reading. Why? The wicked are cut off and forgotten. But the Lord upholds the righteous. He remembers their names. Their steps are ordered by the Lord. So Lazarus, we know, but the rich man, no one remembers him. And this is ultimately what David is talking about. When you view your status as God's covenant people, from the position you have in Christ, as Christ's body. You recognize that no matter what pain or torment or struggles you face in this life, in reality you are seated in the heavenly in the heavenly places with Christ and ruling and reigning with Him today, even now. So when your life appears to be falling apart around you, and it seems as though God has forsaken you, remember that you are his, and he has ordered your steps, and when you fall, he will hold you up with his hand. So far we've seen this exhortation for the righteous in verses one through nine, and now this comparison of the true end for the wicked and the righteous, the wicked forgotten and cut off. but the righteous held up by the hand of God. Now the last th thirteen verses of the Psalm close with some final recommendations. for the hearer. And these recommendations are a good application for the psalm. So I want to look over them again. We're not going to re we're not going to reread the whole section and we're not going to go through it as we did in detail because they were repeats a lot of what came earlier in the Psalm, but there are two two spots I wanted to look again at. So look again at verses twenty-seven through twenty-nine. Turn away from evil and do good. So shall you dwell forever. For the Lord loves justice. He will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever. I think this passage is key for understanding the rest of the Psalm. From the beginning, David has encouraged the righteous. He has shown how the righteous and wicked will finally get what is coming to them in the end. And finally, as David is beginning, his series of recommendations or exhortations for the hearer. He encourages them with these words, be the righteous ones, don't be the wicked one. You've heard these things about how life on earth might seem good for the wicked? Now you've seen the true end for both the wicked and the righteous. So which one do you want to be? He's putting the question to you, which are you? Which should you be? And he says, be the righteous one. But that's a lot easier said than done, I think. Human beings are pretty well known for not being righteous. I think that's a a consistent theme throughout the Bible. Human beings are not not righteous. So how do you satisfy that standard of justice that God requires The great news is we have an advocate in Jesus Christ who has given his righteousness to all who repent and trust in him. So if you desire to be one of the righteous saints who are described in this text, what do you do? What's your only option? Turn to Jesus. Put your trust in Christ. And you, like the righteous ones of this psalm, will never be forsaken. You will inherit the promised land, the new creation, and dwell in it forever. When Jesus came in the New Testament and he stood on the mountain and gave his exposition of the law, what was one of the statements he made in the Beatitudes? the meat shall inherit the earth. And the word earth that was being translated from the Greek And the word land that you see over and over again in this passage when it says the righteous will inherit the land are referring to the same thing. They're referring to God's covenant promise to give his people a dwelling place. And so when Jesus came in the New Testament, he was really fulfilling this psalm. He is the way that the righteous will be blessed through him, through his full fulfillment of the law and his gracious work on the cross. He is holding up the righteous by his hand because he has granted them righteousness So these final encouragements, like I said, they repeat much of what we've already seen in the so far in the Psalm. So rather than repeating them, I want to skip down just to the final two verses, verses 39 and 49. And they say, I'll read them again. The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble. The Lord helps them and delivers them. He delivers them from the wicked and saves them because they take refuge in him. So as a final point of application tonight, I think this truth bears repeating. The Lord is your stronghold. The Lord is your fortress. The Lord will help and deliver you from times of trouble and from the wicked. And he will do all of these things for those who take refuge in him. So take refuge in Christ. This fallen world brings all manner of diversity in our life. our li ad adversity, I should say, not diversity, adversity in our lives. And sometimes from enemies outside of ourselves, sometimes it comes from within ourselves as we try seek to mortify our sin. And to trust more and more in Jesus Christ. For many of you, there are apparently insurmountable obstacles before you That you have no idea how to overcome, or even if it's possible to overcome them. It can seem hopeless. And it can seem at times as though the windows of heaven themselves are closed to you and you're not hearing anything from God and no prayer of yours is heard by God. But don't give up hope. Take refuge in Christ by believing His words, by trusting in His goodness, by obedience to His commands. By attending regularly when he calls us to worship him and take part in the sacraments that he's given us for our health and peace. Take refuge in him. Do not cease to trust in the Lord. He will not forsake his saints. He hears your prayers. He does hear your prayers, even when it seems like he doesn't. He hears your prayers. So delight in him, and he will give you the desires of your heart. In Christ Jesus, through the power of the Holy Spirit. Remember, the Lord will never forsake his saints. And let's pray as we consider these things. Father, we come before you and we thank you, Lord, for this psalm that We pray will help us to ease our minds as we see the wicked around us in apparent success, while it seems as though the righteous continually fall over and over again again. Help us to believe that in the last day you will uphold us, your people. Help us to trust that you will never forsake your saints. We thank you, Lord, for this And we pray that you will teach us all to believe and trust in you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.