Please open your Bibles to the book of Genesis. We will read chapter 3, verses 1 through 7. Genesis 3, verses 1 through 7. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. I'm not going to ask the children to come forward. I don't have a picture for you today. But in the sermon, I have an illustration about Ek. Parasites. And uh children, if you've ever had a dog or a cat Uh a parasite is something that gets on your dog or your cat and sucks its blood or bites it and eats from it. And some of the most common parasites, which are gross, and that's why I didn't bring you up and give you a picture, uh, are ticks, for instance. They get on people too, by the way. Ticks are gross. And I had some ugly pictures I found on the internet of dogs who were just infested with ticks. But I thought it wouldn't be very helpful to show you those ugly pictures. And another kind of parasite, well, there are many kinds. We won't try to get into all the parasites, but listen carefully. I hope I've piqued your interest and your attention, children. Listen well. Romans 7, 1 through 13 is the text. As we continue with Paul, this whole thing was one letter to be read at one sitting. But we are taking it in little bits. So Romans 7, 1 through 13. Or do you not know, brothers? For I am speaking to those who know the law. That the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives. For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law of marriage Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man, she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to one another, to him who has been raised from the dead. In order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit, and not in the old way of the written code And then this part is the text of preaching. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment deceived me, and through it killed me. So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous, and good. Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. This is the word of our Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray now that as we approach this Deep teaching from your word, sometimes hard to follow. We pray that you'll give us attentive minds, open hearts. to receive and apply and benefit from what is written and what is presented. In Jesus' name, amen. So in that previous section of Romans 6, which I just read, the Apostle Paul, and I preached this last week, told us how you and I were married. We were married in the Garden of Eden. We were married to a basic form of law under what we call theologically the covenant of works. We were married to that law. And because of our fall into sin, as it is recorded in chapter 3, We became utterly unable to live through that law because we are utterly unable to obey that law. In fact, we died under that law. We died under its penalty because it is just as God said. In Genesis, in the day you eat of it, you shall surely die. And he wasn't kidding or playing around. He meant it. But now, in the covenant of grace, by faith That is personal trust, belief mentally, but personal commitment to personal trust by faith, and then sacramentally in baptism. In the covenant of grace, we died to the old law as a way of life. We died to the old law as a way to gain heaven. That's what Paul was teaching. And he says we came into union with Christ as our divine husband. So we're we were married. Now we're married to another. We're married to Christ. And there are these marriage-like terms throughout Paul's teaching, because we're called members of his body, and that's kind of an echo of Genesis 224, where he puts man and woman together and says they will become one flesh, members of one another, you see And in the whole of Paul's writings, he calls the church the bride of Christ. So it's okay for men to be married to this man, Jesus Christ, under the terms of the bride of Christ. We are married to Christ. But when he brings these discussions up, he anticipates problems with the hearer. He anticipates objections that might come from those who are listening. And so the question arises From a statement like Romans 6. 14, where he says, Sin will have no dominion over you, since you were not under law, but under grace. Sounds kind of negative toward the law. You're not under law, but under grace. Or in our text from Romans 7:6, but now we are released from the law. Having died to that which held us captive. So that's kind of confusing to a Jewish mind. Not under law anymore. What happened to that? And so he is answering a question that is coming up in the minds of the hearers. Is Paul teaching against the law of God? The law, the eternal, unchangeable law of God? Has he gone mad teaching against the law? Is Paul saying that the law was the culprit here? Is it fault? It caused this problem. If he is, it's a big deal. So, verse 7, what shall we say? He says, That the law is sin? And he quickly answered his own question: By no means. The old King James paraphrased and said, God forbid, it is the most emphatic form of the answer, no. And he says, No, that's not the answer. In fact, he says the law reveals sinful acts. It is not sinful, but it reveals sinful acts. And there's a bunch of analogies we could bring to bear on this. It is like Going into a very, very filthy room. You're somehow into a house exploring at night. I don't know why you would be there, but anyway, you have to imagine along with me. And then uh suddenly the lights come on. And it's filthy. And maybe roaches run and hide. It's a filthy place. The light, the law, is the light that shines to reveal the filth. See, it's not the filth itself, it just reveals the filth. You didn't know how dirty it was until the law came and showed you, right? That's what he's saying in a sense. He says, if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. But the light came on, you see. He says, For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. The law, he says, reveals sin's terrible nature. This is sin's nature. This is the way sin operates. He's going to explain this too. This is where the parasite thing comes in. The law's sinful nature is that it takes a seat of operation in the commandment. Sin takes a seat of operation in God's good law, the commandment. He says it in verse 8, but sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. Not that it didn't exist, but just didn't know about it. Weren't really aware of it, you see. He says verse 9 I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive, and I died. I died of guilt and shame. So this is like a this sin thing is like a parasite. It takes up home in a host victim, like a tick. And it operates in that environment to do its work. Verse 10. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. Another illustration, uh the thing that promised life And I have this kind of mental illustration. Here the commandment is like a prison wall I thought I could scale the thing. I was looking at it from a distance. It didn't look that big. I thought I could get over it and have my freedom Out of prison. But when I got close enough to see it, I could see that on top was it was heavily clad with razor wire. And I would never be able to get off. And I died. I lost heart. Because I knew I couldn't get over that wall. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death. I will not be able to keep this law, so it kills me. Verse eleven, for sin, he's got it personified now It's alive, it's a being, sin in his in his analogy, for sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment So we've got a personified sin taking up its residence in the commandment, and then it Feeds off of the commandment to produce sin in me and kills me. And that's what happened in the Garden of Eden. Sin uses deception. Sin is so pathological that it can take even the good and holy command of God and use it to provoke you to sin. And it does this through deception. And that's where I'm going to spend some time today. Deception. The deceit of sin. The deception of sin. Sin is so pathological that it can take even the good and holy command of God and use it to provoke you and me to sin. What is deception anyway? Deception is like this. It's like when somebody makes you believe something is true. even though it is not true. And you lose as a result of the deception. These days, many older folks are being called by scammers. The phone rings, they answer it. And a scammer tells them that they have a bill that they didn't pay. And that they're going to be in trouble really soon, big trouble The sheriff may even come and arrest them if they don't pay this bill right now. And so the scammer says, give me your bank account number, your social security number, your credit card number So that I can take care of this for you and pay this bill for you. The promise of solving a problem, but instead the person who does this is taken, ripped off. For thousands of dollars sometimes. They are the loser. That's one way deception works, you see. It promises one thing, but it gives something quite different that destroys you, that hurts you. And we have deception. We were about to nominate deacons, and our deacons in the future will need To be very careful of deception, because deacons are told some amazing stories, some deceitful stories, of emergencies. Of needs that must be met immediately. No time to consult, no time to investigate, just meet the need now, or I'm going to die. Deacons are often told these things, and it's an attempt to deceit. Why is sin so deceptive? It's because Satan, who's behind it all, is a liar. He's a deceiver. Jesus said in John 8. 44 about Satan, he was a murderer from the beginning, and he does not stand in the truth. Because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Deceit. Satan is the deceiver. He promises one thing, he'll promise you a lot of things. But the thing he actually delivers is a bad thing. Let's look at then several ways that sin deceives. That it takes up its residence even in the commandment, even in the law of God, and then deceives you and me. And so we can be aware of this. Sin deceives in six distinct ways, maybe more. And there is some overlap in these ways. Sin deceives you first by making you think that you are making the right decision. based merely on your limited view of the prospects. The Apostle Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 11, 3, he says to the church there, I am afraid that As the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. Somehow they might be deceived. In Ephesians 4, verses 20 through 22, he says, but you were But that is not the way you learned Christ, assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus, to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life And is corrupt through deceitful desires. He says, all that bad stuff in your old life came through deceitful desires. Satan taking up the commandments And producing in you sin. Hebrews 3. Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. And so the deceitfulness that we're talking about here is making you think that you're making the right decision based on your limited understandings, and the Apostle Paul is busy warning the church against such things. It's this, it's you thinking that you can figure things out on your own. You're a big boy now. You're a big girl now. You don't have to rely so much on others. You can decide for yourself. This was the defeat foisted upon Eve in the garden She was given the idea, you know what, you don't need to rely on your husband or on God. You can make this decision by yourself. Deceitfulness there. Proverbs 14, verse 12, and also on Proverbs 16 says this: there is the way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. And that's what happened in the garden. Death. The deceitfulness of sin. Think that you can make your mind up yourself. The second way is Deceptive sin makes you think you're making the right decision, this time based on your twisting and qualifying the Word of God. Twisting and qualifying the Word of God. Now we always have to interpret Scripture. We have to understand it historically and theologically. We don't just grab a text and apply it willy-nilly. But in this case, this is a twisting of what is clear in Scripture. Sometimes the Bible just gets in our way, you see. It gets in the way of what we want to do. We know what we want to do, and the Bible's in the way. It needs to be adjusted. Kind of like Thomas Jefferson sniffed up the Bible. Here's what happened again from our Genesis text. The serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made, and he said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree? Hear that? Any tree thing? That's not what God said. He's twisting it. And the woman said to the servant, We may eat fruit of the trees in the garden. She tells it right so far. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. That's right so far, too. Neither shall you touch it. Go back to chapter 2. Is it in there? Is that what God said? Neither shall you touch it? No. That's added. That's uh a qualifying of the Word of God. It's uh it's adjusting the Word of God to gain some kind of advantage here. And I think we do that too. We get deceived by the Word of God when it comes to things that we want to do. For instance, the commandment, you shall not steal. Most of the time we don't steal. Except in small ways that are harmless, like maybe insurance claims, something like that. Or, children and others too, honor your parents, honor the authorities that are placed over you by God. Honor them. Obey them. Do what they say. And then here's the adjustment, except when you disagree with their rules or their directives or their advice or when those things have become a burden to your lifestyle. Then you can adjust. Or here's one that's very common these days: you shall not commit adultery Except in the case where you have a very unhappy marriage, and now you have found someone who makes you very happy. You might want to adjust that commandment for this particular situation in case. And as a pastor and a counselor, I can tell you that I have heard Longtime Christians tell me that they have found someone that makes them truly happy, and they have prayed about it. And they are sure now that God is fine with it because they have such peace. What that is, is a twisting of God's word, qualifying of God's word. It's a pious sounding lie. Another way of twisting God's word, which covers a whole gamut of these things, is that the idea that small sins Don't count. Just little tiny sins. Don't count. It's not true. Don't make God a party to your sinful deception, leading you to sinful decisions. Every sin, whether judged to be small or large by your estimation, is, listen to this, it is cosmic treason against your benevolent king. And that's what it was in the garden, cosmic treason against Eve's and Adam's benevolent king. Friends, in our corporate confession each week we say, Oh Lord, the remembrance of our sins is grievous, the burden of them is intolerable. Those were not written by me. Those are written by people wiser than me, and that's why they are kept there week by week. Do you mean those words? Do you understand those words? Even small sins are grievous. And the burden of them Tolerable? No. Intolerable. A third way that sin deceives. It makes you look at outward actions instead of looking into your heart. Outward actions. A person who lives a good life, a person who who keeps most of the commandments most of the time can look around and see people who don't even try. And they can say, you know, I am pretty good. I am pretty righteous here, looking at my outward actions. But the Apostle Paul says he felt that way about himself at one time in the past. He says in Philippians 3. If anyone else thinks he has reasons for confidence in the flesh, I have more. Here's my law-keeping. Circumcised on the eighth day Of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee As to zeal persecuting the church. As to righteousness under the law, blameless. But here's the deception. I'm okay. I'm righteous Looking at the outward only. I'm righteous, I'm righteous, I'm righteous. And then Paul gives us his carefully chosen illustration from the text here today. And it is the commandment, you shall not covet. That's the one that caught Paul. He doesn't say anything about that in Philip Philippians 3, verses 4 through 6. See, covetousness is not outward, but inward. You can't see what someone is thinking. That's where covetousness happens. It happens in the head and in the heart. You can't see them coveting someone else's husband or wife or children or car or clothes or house or cell phone or toys. Covetousness is in the heart. That's why he used that particular illustration to show how sin deceived him and ruined him. So don't be deceived into thinking that you are righteous by your outward compliance with the code. Look deeper. Another way sin disease, number four, it is that sin comes and says, about the commandment of God, this is not fair. How can I be happy obeying this commandment? This commandment is just too much. It can't be right. And our whole television and advertising industry is is yelling at you That you must do this, you must have this thing, you must go there, you must have this in order to be happy, even if God says it is sinful. This commandment is not fair. It just doesn't work with our modern society. And when scripture is cited by a friend, an elder, a pastor, somebody who cites this to someone who's about to wander off in this deception. What they will often say about that scripture is that's just your interpretation. It's not fair. You see, folks, God sends his perfect, unchangeable Holy, righteous law. He sends it to rescue us from sin But sin takes that law and makes it into an enemy of us. Tells us it's just not fair. That's what's happening, by the way, also in the garden. In fact, Satan comes right out with it in verse 5 of chapter 3. He says, For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So I don't believe what God says. He is deceiving you. And now Satan is deceiving her. As he tells her a lie, that that's not true what God says. It's just his interpretation. He's the one who made the law. Number five, sin deceives you by telling you that God is depriving you. That's also here. God just doesn't want you to be happy. God is holding back selfishly. And that's often what happens with children listening to their parents who make rules about their conduct and so forth. Children, your parents make rules, and they're not always perfect, but when they make rules, it is because they want you to be happy. They want to protect you. They want you to be free. In the future, to decide. But for now, they want you to obey them because they want you to be protected. Sometimes we get out ahead of ourselves on that, and children want to be free to decide. They want to make their own decisions now. They don't want to wait for future adult responsibilities. That's what happened here in Genesis 3, verse 6. Again, the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes. It must have been really pretty, this tree with its beautiful fruit. And that it was to be desired to make one wise, according to the deception of the devil. She took of its fruit and ate. God is depriving me. I'm not going to let him get away with it. I'm going to take and eat. And then she gave some to her husband, who was worthlessly standing by doing nothing. When he should have been protecting her. So he's the one who's the most culprit here. Sin deceives you by telling you that God is depriving you. Don't believe it. God is not depriving you. God is good. And sixthly, this is maybe one that really needs to be hammered home. Sin deceives you when it says that it's too late to repent. You might just as well keep on sinning. You've fallen into sin. You've done the thing, so go ahead. You might as well just stay there. It locks you into this feeling of guilt and helplessness. And the feeling that God has rejected you because you failed. And you might just as well give up resisting. It's too hard anyway. You're a total failure. And this produces more and more sin, which drags you deeper into more and more failure. And it is described masterfully by John Bunyan In the Pilgrim's Progress Allegory, he describes it as the slew of despair. Where everything just trickles down into this swampy low spot, the slough of despair. More and more despair, you're stuck in it. The slew of despair is a deep bog into which the Christian sinks under the weight of his sins and his sense of guilt for them. It's too late. I might as well just keep on And Paul summarizes that, I believe, in verse 11, when he says, For sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment. Deceived me, and through it killed me. It killed me. So he is defending the law of God. He is saying it is not the law's fault. But sin takes up its residence. It's like a parasite. It locks onto the law, and through the law, it deceives me in all these various ways and kills me. Well, in summary, don't be deceived by it. First of all, remember this and know this very, very clearly, as Paul came to know it You have no righteousness of your own. You don't have any Your legalistic outward righteousness of being a good American, a good Presbyterian, a good worker, a good whatever you think And your even attempts to keep the Ten Commandments, which you should, are only for show. They're only apparent But God knows the reality. God can see things like covetousness that nobody else can see You don't have any righteousness of your own, so what you must do, always do, what I must always do, is flee to the blood of Christ. And ask him to cleanse us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all. And there's a lot of it: unrighteousness. We don't have any of our own. It's all filthy rags, as Pauls says elsewhere. So give up that whole idea. Don't ever become self-righteous, but let the blood of Christ shield you as you turn to Him in faith. And then secondly Never fall under the deception that God wants to deprive you of anything that is good. He is good, he is wise, and he loves you better than you can imagine. Psalm 73 that we sang that portion. We sang, and that first half, the psalmist is stuck in the mud. Of looking around and seeing everybody else prosper and saying it's all a waste of time for me to live a righteous life. No, it isn't. And he comes to that conclusion at the end. And at the end of the whole thing, he says, about God. He knows that God is going to satisfy his needs. He says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. I really understand what matters now. There's nothing on earth that I desire besides you. You're not depriving me of anything. He says in verse 26, My flesh and my heart may fail. It happens. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Never think that God wants to deprive you. He is good and he loves you more than you can imagine. Thirdly If you fall under sin, and believers do, don't believe the lie that you're finished. God hates you now. God rejects you. You're done. You might as well just stay there. You might as well just settle down and build your home in the swamp. Of sin, no. If you fall under sin, don't believe the lie that you're finished, but go to God who gave Christ for your sins. All of them, the ones that are seen and the ones that are unseen, the ones that are hidden from everyone else's view, God gave Christ for all of your sins. So Paul concludes in verses twelve and thirteen in his argument about the law. He says, so the law is holy. And the commandment is holy and righteous and good, like God is good. Did that which is good then bring death to thee By no means it was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin. The light came on. And through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. So let this be the outcome of your Encounter with God's good and holy and righteous law. Don't be deceived. But let sin become for you sinful beyond measure So that when you say the burden of them isn't childhood, you mean it Turn to your Savior. 1 John 1:9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Sin is your enemy. It will deceive you and seek to destroy you. Christ is your friend, your brother, your savior. Let him receive you and cleanse you and guard you. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the Apostles' analysis of the way things really work. of God's good, perfect, and holy character and the goodness of his law. And his understanding of the way sin takes that law and twists it and turns it and Deceives us. May sin become for us utterly sinful. And may we live lives that please you through Christ our Lord. Amen.