Please open your Bibles to the book of Exodus, where we will read chapter 34, starting at verse 1 and reading through verse 10. The Lord said to Moses, Cut for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets which you broke. Be ready by the morning and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain. No one shall come up with you, and let no one be seen throughout all the mountain. Let no flocks or herds graze opposite that mountain. So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first, and he rose early in the morning and went up on the Mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and took in his hand two tablets of stone. The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin But who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. And he said, If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, please let the Lord go in the midst of us, for it is a stiff-necked people And pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance. And he said, Behold, I am making a covenant. Before all your people, I will do marvels such as have not been created all such as have not been created in all the earth or in any nation. And all the people among whom you are you are shall see in the work of the Lord, for it is an awesome thing that I will do with you. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Reading of God's Word, the preaching text. Romans one sixteen through thirty two one sixteen through thirty-two We covered 16 and 17 last week, but it needs to be reiterated in context. Verse 16. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God For images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Because they exchange the truth about God for a lie And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for even their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women, and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They were full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness They're gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents Foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die. They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this great letter of the Apostle Paul To the church at Rome. We thank you for this wonderful comprehensive look at the salvation that Christ provided, and today the great need for that salvation So we praise you and ask that you bless the preaching of your word. May we hear the voice of Christ. Amen. So in verses 16 and 17 last week, we heard about the gospel and its essence. This is the distillation of the gospel, these two verses. And especially verse 17, which says, For in it, that is the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed And when Luther first heard those words and read those words, he thought that was a terrible thing. The righteousness of God revealed, but he didn't understand That the righteousness of God revealed here is the righteousness that God gives to his people as a gift. That's what's being revealed in the gospel. See, gospel means good news. And if if you just hear A message of the righteousness of God that judges us, that's not good news. That's bad, bad, bad news. But this was good news because it is the righteousness that God gives to everyone who believes in Jesus Christ. For in it the righteousness of God as a gift is revealed from faith for faith. It happens by faith. We receive this gift by faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith, he quotes, as his proof of that doctrine. So it's wonderful good news. Wonderful good news. Couldn't be better. This is the wonderful, life-giving, powerful gospel. The good news that God reckons, declares you to be as righteous as Jesus Christ, the God-man. He does this when you receive Jesus, that is, his perfect person and his atoning work for yourself by faith alone, not by any works. He gives the righteousness of God to you as a gift through faith. Now, that's the gospel. What is the need for the gospel? The wrath of God is the greatest peril facing humans. That's why we need this gift, this gospel message. The text says the wrath of God is revealed or being revealed from heaven. The idea is simple but sobering. God's wrath is revealed from heaven against the human race, and the human race deserves the wrath of God. He's going to develop that. The wrath of God. You may sometimes object to the idea of the wrath of God in a superficial way because you equate it with human anger. Which is motivated by selfish personal reasons or a desire for revenge or something base like that. But the wrath of God in the Bible is completely righteous in character. And it's not a mere mechanical response, as some have said sometimes. Just kind of this happens because of that. You know, just kind of a Back and forth, reaction against something. John Murray says it is unnecessary and it weakens the biblical concept of the wrath of God to deprive it of its emotional and affective character. To construe God's wrath as simply his purpose to punish sin or to secure the connection between sin and misery That is to equate wrath with its effects and virtually to eliminate wrath as a movement within the mind of God No, wrath is the holy revulsion of God against that which is the contradiction of his holy character. In Romans 1:16, Paul spoke about salvation, but what are we saved from? Well, first and foremost, we are saved from the wrath of God that we righteously deserve. Leon Morris puts it this way, unless there is something to be saved from, there is no point in talking about salvation. In this section of the letter, Paul's goal is not to proclaim the good news, but to demonstrate the absolute necessity of the good news. The wrath of God is not revealed in the gospel, but in the facts that humans may observe and experience. And that's where we're going today. Verse 18, the wrath of God is a present participle. It says we could translate it this way, the wrath of God is being revealed. Not once revealed or future revealed, that's true too, but being continuously revealed from heaven. This is the constant revelation. Ever since the fall, every day and night, in many ways, the wrath of God is being revealed. And it says, against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth, for what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. His invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, and the things that have been made so that they are without excuse. So here we go with number one, the wrath of God is revealed in the way God permits humans to treat his obvious truth. The way he permits humans to do this. The phrase here is this: who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. They suppress the truth. Have you ever been swimming in a swimming pool or at the ocean and tried to take a big beach ball and hold it down? It takes real effort, doesn't it? You put it under your stomach and it will roll out on this side or that side or up in front of your face. It'll pop free somehow, sooner or later. That's to suppress the beach ball. Well, they're suppressing God's truth in a similar way. Or have you ever seen someone who did not want to hear something, a child perhaps, who plugged their ears and started singing or saying, I can't hear you, I can't hear you They're suppressing the message that they do not want to hear. The text is saying that humans hold God's truth down. And it's there, it's plain. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. And then he enumerates those things. We sang a few moments ago from Psalm nineteen, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky preaches Continually his handiwork day to day pours out speech. Night to night reveals knowledge There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out throughout all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. God is revealed. Everywhere, constantly, day and night, the creation is pouring forth out speech about God. And what is it saying? It is saying that there is this is a fact, that there is a glorious Creator, and it's obvious to everyone. No one can escape it Even the remaining beauty and obvious design of this creation declares the glory of God. The fact that creation is now ruined is also obvious. Death is seen everywhere. If you go out in the woods, there'll be all kinds of things decaying, falling down, breaking off. rotting. Death is seen everywhere. And God said that that's what would happen, that there would be a fundamental change because of Adam's sin. This is in Genesis 3, 17 through 20. Right after the fall, he said to Adam, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Fundamental change. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. And then difficulty, fundamental change. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. And then death. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. The creation is telling the glory of God in its remaining beauty and splendor, but also in the fact of its decay and death. There's a judgment that has happened. And so as someone, I looked it up, but I can't remember who it was now, said long ago, it was a poet, nature is red, that is bloody, in tooth and claw. Violence, decay, disease, death. These would never have been if not for sin. Now, where we live in this world is not paradise of the Garden of Eden. It has become a veil of tears, as Paul later described in Romans 8, 20 and verse 22. Listen to this. For the creation was subjected to futility. That's a fundamental change, you see. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption. That's that fundamental change again. And obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. This obvious truth is suppressed by people who don't want to see it, believe it, hear it, understand it. And it is suppressed in competing views. I'll just give a few of these. One view is the eternality of matter. Certain cosmologists have posited the idea that matter is just eternal. And that is versus creation ex nihilo, creation from nothing by God, who spoke creation into existence. Creation ex nihilo versus uh the um eternality of matter. Another one is geologic uniformitarianism. The geologic strata that we can observe has always been the way it is. versus biblical catastrophism of the fall and the flood And another competing view is that humanity is the product of gradual evolution versus What the Bible says, Adam, the first human, was created as a direct action of God. These biblical truths about origins are suppressed, like that beach ball, through ancient myths, legends. long ago, and alternative creation stories in all the old pagan myths, as well as in Modern scientism's dogmatic pronouncements, which change constantly, but never consider the Word of God as they make their latest Version of their dogma, and I call that the new paganism. Suppression of truth then leads to a downward spiral. Verse 18, unrighteousness. They suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Unrighteousness is the bad way that humans treat one another. We see this right after the fall. As soon as Adam and Eve sinned, Adam and Eve were at odds with each other. Adam blamed Eve, blamed God. Wouldn't take responsibility, abdicated his role as leader, and it's shortly after that Two brothers had a spat in the field, and Cain killed, murdered his brother Habel in the field. If we are the products of mindless processes, mistreatment follows under the rubric survival of the fittest. And then it's a small step from mistreatment. to murder. Another thing that comes from suppressing the truth is ungodliness. Ungodliness, that is the way humans treat God. How do they treat God? A bring God down. Take him off his throne, shrink him down, put him in another form, change his characteristics, a bring God down. And that's number two. The wrath of God is revealed in the way he gives humans up to idolatry. Verses 21, 22, and 23. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Bugs, I guess Fallen humans can't seem to resist the temptation to recreate God into their own corrupt image or even an image beneath human images. Tragically, we humans inescapably become like morally like the gods we serve. If you ever have discussed God as revealed in the Bible with many people, you will hear them say something like this: that's not the way I like to think about God. But it's absolutely essential that you constantly compare your own conception of God against the reality of who God is as revealed. in his word, or you will inevitably end up worshiping a self-made God, a shrunken God, a God who will never contradict you. The Greek word used here about image, making images, is the word icon. We're very familiar with that word, aren't we, in our technological age? They exchange the glory of the immortal God for icons resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Now, since we use icons all the time on our smartphones, And our computers, try a try imagining this, trying to access your smartphone or your computer icons if they get changed, willy-nilly. You're trying to open your Google Maps because you want to go somewhere, and instead your bank account comes up. And he's going to help you. Or you're trying to check your calendar, but Angry Birds opens. You know? The icons get switched and changed. Man, humankind, is the icon of God. The image of God. Man is the image of God. Mind, will, personality, and social nature. In our case, an image of God scaled down, finite, a finite version, but reflects the infinite mind, will, person, and social being of the triune God who really is. The image of God in humans by this transmuting is downgraded, mutated until it resembles mortal man only, or in birds and animals and creeping things. It's dangerous to change the glory of the immortal God into an icon of your own choosing. And then it says they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. That's another step down in a spiral here. Spurgeon says, I cannot say anything much worse of a man than that he is not thankful to those who have been his benefactors. And when you say that he is not thankful to God, you have said about the worst thing you can say of him But when you glorify God as God and are thankful for everything, when you can take a bit of bread and a cup of cold water and say with the pure with the Puritan What? All this and Christ too? Then you are happy and you make others happy. Verse 21. They became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened, claiming to be wise, they became fools, verse twenty-three, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Here's what it means. Your rejection of God's general revelation does not make you smarter or better. Instead, it makes you futile. And you're thinking, stuck on a tread wheel of naturalistic assumptions. And it makes your foolish heart dark. All the illumination that it desperately needs to make sense of things in the world is gone. You can't make sense of anything without the illumination of God's Word. And then you become in the downward spiral fools. Fools doesn't mean intellectually incapacitated. It means, because some people who have low intellects can be quite right. And good in their thinking. Fools here means morally fools. Morally fools Once a person rejects the truth of God in Jesus, he or she will fall for anything foolish. And trust far more feeble and fanciful systems than what he rejects from God. This futility of thinking, darkening of the heart, and folly must be seen as one example of God's righteous wrath against those who reject what he reveals. Part of his judgment is to allow us humans to suffer the damage which our sinful course leads us. So we get in verse 24 now. Therefore God gave them up. This is the first time that phrase comes. He gave them up in the lusts of their hearts. to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie, and worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen He gave them up. In his righteous wrath, God is continually giving humans up to the sin of their evil heart's desire. Allowing us to experience the self-destructive results of sin. This phrase is so important that Paul repeats it three times. It's similar to a passage in Hosea 4, verse 17, where it says, Ephraim is joined to idols, let him alone. That's what God says. Let him alone. He gives Ephraim up. Let's him go. It is a huge mistake to think that God is being merciful or kind when he allows man to continue in sin. It is actually his wrath that allows people to go on destroying themselves with sin. They exchange the truth of God for a lie. Every rebellion and disobedience against God is an exchange of the truth of God for a lie of our own choosing. And we put the creator in the creature in place of the creator. And here's something to note. This is not, as it's translated in our text, a lie, but It's actually the lie. The lie. The lie, definite article, is essentially idolatry Which puts us in the place of God. And that was what was promised to Eve by the serpent, that you will be like God. You can take the place of God, the lie. It keeps getting repeated over and over. That brings us to number three. The wrath of God is revealed in the way he gives them up to the misuse of sexuality. Verse 26, for this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions for their women, exchanged the natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. You heard it all earlier. Paul wrote this from the city of Corinth, where every sort of sexual immorality and ritualistic prostitution was freely practiced. The terminology of Romans 1. 24 refers to this combination of sexual immorality and idolatrous worship. This begins a passage where Paul describes the sin and corruption of the pagan world with amazing directness. You would agree, wouldn't you? It's so amazingly direct that Spurgeon thought that the passage was unfit for reading in public. And maybe it wasn't his day. He says this the first chapter of the Epistle of Romans is a dreadful portion of the Word of God. I should hardly like to read it. It is not intended to be so used. Read it at home and be startled at the awful vices of the Gentile world. Then he goes on, not Spurgeon but the Bible, for their women exchange natural relations. Paul mentions this perversion both in female and male expressions As an example of God giving mankind over to uncleanness and vile passions. Paul doesn't even use the normal words for men and women here. He uses the words male and female Using categories that describe sexuality outside of human terms, because the type of sexual sin that he describes here is outside of human dignity. So it makes a point by doing that. Paul categorizes this whole section under the idea of vile passions, unhealthy, unholy desires. Nevertheless, Paul lived in a culture that openly approved of such things. We don't know this, but it's true. That culture back then openly approved of such things, even as our own culture does now. The Roman culture had accepted these practices for some 200 years by the time he wrote this. Legal marriage, this is surprising even to me, legal marriage between same-gender couples was recognized in Rome and in Corinth And even some of the emperors, such as Nero, married another man. More than one in his case. And then Paul says, when they do this, they're receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. This, too, is the wrath of God. Again, this freedom to disobey should be seen as God's wrath, not his kindness. Those who engage in such acts are receiving in themselves, Paul says, the penalty for their error. He doesn't tell us exactly what he means by that, but you can imagine various penalties, can't you? So, this behavior, this lifestyle is not progressive as it's being foisted upon us today. It is regressive, greatly regressive. This text that we're studying at the moment could be used as a club. And it is often used as a club by preachers to bash those who engage in these aforementioned acts. But that was not Paul's real purpose in bringing it up. We know this because he goes on to catalog many other things in the next verses that are common, even acceptable sins. That brings us to number four. The wrath of God is revealed in the way he gives them up to a debased mind, leading to all kinds of evil. Verse 28, since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. As a further judgment, God gives man over to a debased mind so that things that are disgraceful and sickening are readily accepted and approved Debased here, or reprobate in older versions, originally meant that which has not stood the test. It was used about coins that were below standard and therefore couldn't be used as money. They were rejected. The idea is that man did not approve to know God. They became, they had an unapproved mind, that God gives them an unapproved mind, a mind that doesn't work right. That doesn't stand the test. Our rebellion against God is not only displayed in our actions, but in our thinking, you see. We are genuinely, listen to this, spiritually insane in our rebellion against God. Insanity. So, why must man be justified by faith? Because of the guilt of the human race in general. He gives that list, that catalogue of vices in the next few verses, filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips. That's a pretty common one, isn't it? Slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil. Disobedient to parents? Foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. This list gives concrete examples of the kinds of things that are not fitting. Notice how some of these are the more socially acceptable, common sins. Right along with the unsocially acceptable, at least they used to be, sins of murder and strife and so forth. Covetousness The the the word literally means the itch for more. When you're itching badly, you just have to scratch, don't you? Covetousness is an itch for more. Deceit and maliciousness, that is, secret detractors who, under the pretense of secrecy, carry about accusations against others, whether true or false, blasting their reputation. Envy. Is this a small sin? Envy is so powerful that there is a sense in which it put Jesus on the cross. Matthew 27, verse 18 says, Pilate knew that they had handed Jesus over because of envy. The commentator Clark says, They who are continually exalting themselves and depressing others, magnifying themselves at the expense of their neighbors, and wishing all men to receive their sayings as oracles. Verse 32. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, he not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them Misery loves company and approves of misery. It's a club. Those who either practice or approve of these things are worthy of death, the Bible says. They are also worthy targets of the wrath of God. And that's what we have here. So, where does all this violence and immorality and cruelty and degradation come from? It follows naturally when humans abandon the true knowledge of God. The miserable state of our society, our society, reflects God's ongoing Present active participle judgment today. And so, my friends. We need the gospel. I need the gospel. You need the gospel. You may not be guilty of all these catalogued acts of ungodliness and unrighteousness. But I've been pastor long enough and have lived long enough to know that you and I are guilty of many of these and are under the wrath of God by nature. The great John Bunyan, author of Pilgrim's Progress, says this He struggled with his conscience. He struggled with the gospel. He said this one day, as I was passing in the field, and that too was some marks upon my conscience Fearing that all was not right. Suddenly this sentence fell upon my soul. Quote: Thy righteousness is in heaven And methought withal, I saw with the eyes of my soul Jesus Christ at God's right hand. There, I say, is my righteousness. So that wherever I was, or whatever I was doing, God could not say of me, He lacks righteousness, for my righteousness is standing before Him. I also saw, moreover, that it was not from my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better. Or yet my bad frame that made my righteousness worse, for my righteousness was Jesus Christ Himself. The same yesterday, today. And forever. That's true. You have been perverse and foolish. You have no personal righteousness To sustain you before the wrath of God constantly revealed from heaven, and the wrath of God that will be inescapable on the day of judgment. But if you have personal faith in Jesus Christ, your righteousness is in heaven And it is complete. And it doesn't waver or change with your mood or your momentary failings. It does not depend upon you. That is good news. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that as we have had these terrible things laid out for us today, of your wrath, your ongoing wrath against sins, and we know ourselves to be sinners. That we have also, in great and marvelous, and wonderful contrast, the righteousness of our Savior Jesus Christ. And by faith we receive and believe and have it as our own. Our righteousness is in heaven. We praise you and thank you. Amen.