Please open your Bibles to the book of Jeremiah, chapter seventeen, verses one through nine. Jeremiah seventeen verses one through nine The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, with a point of diamond it is engraved on the table of their heart and on the horns of their altars. While their children remember their altars and their ashram beside every green tree and on high hills, on the mountains in the open country. Your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory. You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land that you do not know. For in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever. Thus says the Lord, cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength, whose heart turns away from the Lord. He is like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, who trusts in the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water that sends out its roots by the stream and does not fear when the heat comes For its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? The word of the Lord. First Timothy one, eight through seventeen This is our text, and there will be a particular verse that is the focus of the preaching this morning as we do a wrap-up on the Ten Commandments that we have been studying. As part of the Exodus series. 1 Timothy 1, beginning at verse 8. Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners. For the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers, for the sexually immoral. Men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine In accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful Appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer Persecutor and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me. With the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example for those who were to believe in him for eternal life. To the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be glory and honor for ever and ever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Guide us, O Lord, by your Word and Holy Spirit, that in your light we may see light. In your truth find freedom, and in your will discover peace through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, we have been looking at the Ten Commandments, the Ten Words that Moses received and delivered to the people of Israel. As part of our preaching through the book of Exodus, which we will continue. And last week we came to the tenth word, the tenth law, and that is the the thou shalt not covet. And if you remember, if you were here, we explored how Paul Being a pretty righteous guy, like the rich young ruler, felt that he had kept a lot of the commandments, felt that he was a pretty good guy Until he came to that last commandment, the one about covetousness, and then it dug down into his heart The Holy Spirit did surgery and he was caught up short and he was found guilty and he was demolished. under the guilt of his covetousness, which spread out in very many ways in his life, and touched many other of the commandments, and brought him up short, and showed him that he was even an idolater, a blasphemer. So he was caught up short. And now we have this bit from 1 Timothy, where Paul writes to the young pastor of the church in Ephesus. And he says these things about the law, first of all, in verses eight through eleven. What does he say? I just read it, but I'll read it again. Now we know that the law, the Ten Commandments, and the whole teaching of God is good if one uses it lawfully, but understand this that the law is not laid down for the just, but the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers For murderers, for the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine. What we have here is a kind of a summary of the Ten Commandments. You can hear the Ten Commandments there, you know, uh about lying and perjuring. That's a court thing. We talked about that. about murder and about dishonoring parents, it's all here. And he says, if I've forgotten anything, anything else that goes with it, anything that's contrary to sound doctrine And then he says in verse 11, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. So he's naming himself as a purveyor, as a preacher, as a commissioned man under authority to teach all of this truth. And then in verse 11 and following, he goes off into some autobiographical things. And some praise to God for God's work in his personal life. He says, I thank him who has given me strength Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. So he's doing some autobiography here and thanking God for calling him to this work. But then in verse 15, he says something which at first sounds perfectly wonderful and And comprehensive. And then there's a second part that's kind of puzzling. And we're going to talk about that. Verse 15. The saying, he says, is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. So this is kind of like underlining and highlighting and putting an exclamation point on all this. This is really, really, really firm and sure. Trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Ah, that's great, isn't it? That's no problem. Everybody that understands what he's saying can say amen to that. But then this next part, of whom I am the foremost. Of whom I am the foremost. Now, what does he mean by that, of whom I am the foremost? Pastor Dave Harvey. pastor of a church up in Concordville, Pennsylvania. He says, if Sid is pr is a persistent problem for us We're in pretty good company. As bad as we can be, the Apostle Paul seemed to think he's even worse Paul wrote to Timothy, the saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. Pretty stark, isn't it, he says. Not a lot of wiggle room there. Paul leads off by calling this a saying that is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. And that's the ancient equivalent of putting the little exclamation mark on an email to show that it's high priority. And so again, the first part of his statement we can understand. The second part seems to be over the top, of whom I am the foremost. Pastor Harvey goes on to say, how can the original theologian of the Christian faith honestly say this? To whom is he comparing himself? And what is the standard he is applying? We'll get back to that in a moment. I did some research to try to understand what Paul's going on and saying here. And I went to the famous New Testament scholar Linsky, a Lutheran scholar. Who understands Paul's statement in the light of the fact that each one knows his own sins from a personal experience And the sins of others only from what he sees. Let me repeat that. He says, what he's understanding here, when Paul does this, he's saying, each one knows his own sins from personal experience. And the sins of others only from what he sees. Pastor Harvey says the same thing. He says, we dare not dismiss Paul's statement as a passing exaggeration. or an empty exercise in false humility. Because this is the Word of God, and a profound point is being made here. He says, first it is clear that Paul is not trying to objectively compare himself to every other human being, because most of them he had never met. This tells us that his focus is not primarily outward, but inward. He's also not suggesting that his moral character or his spiritual maturity is zero. He's not saying that. He's simply talking about what goes on in his own heart. And that's what he can see He's saying in effect, I know my sin. And what I've seen in my own heart is darker and more awful more proud, more selfish, more self-exalting, more consistently in rebellion against God than anything I have glimpsed in anyone else's heart. So he's basically saying, as far as I can see, the biggest sinner I know is me Paul was a student of his own heart. The gospel had allowed him the freedom to look down deep. When we don't know the gospel, when we don't know Jesus Christ, we hide and run and deny and cannot accept criticisms of ourselves. Especially about sin. We will not accept the indictment that God gives about sin. And so we are the free people who can accept it in the grace of God. Paul was a student of his heart. He paid attention to the desires and impulses that churned within. He knew that he was capable, listen to this, he was capable, given the right circumstances, Of the very worst sins, the vilest of motives. So what we have here is Paul the realest. Who wanted to see God and Himself truly instead of hiding Now that's not very popular in our culture. Our culture is obsessed with self-esteem. Isn't it? Self-esteem. The lack of self-esteem is blamed for every human and social problem. If only we humans could. Have self-esteem, we would all behave well, and everything would be great. Not true. Now we have a hymn in our hymnal. It's hymn 254. You don't have to turn there. I'll quote it for you. And one of the stanzas says This is an Isaac Watts paraphrase, and one of the stanzas says, Alas, and did my Savior bleed, and did my sovereign die? Would he devote that sacred head for such A worm W O R M as I Now that's been changed in most hymnals. It's been changed to, for sinners such as I. Well, that's true too, but worm, wow. The Reverend Jack Miller, who was an OP minister and a PCA minister in the Philadelphia area, taught practical theology at Westminster Seminary also, and he founded World Harvest Mission. He was once asked by a friend, Jack, do you hold to that dreadful worm theology about yourself? I hope you don't. And Jack's reply was, I'd have to come up a level to be a worm. Now he was trying to make the same point that the Apostle Paul is making. As far as I can see, down in my heart, I'm the worst. And I'm capable of the worst. Our member vows, which four of our young people are going to take today, number three, the member vow says, do you confess That because of your sinfulness, you, and the word there is abhor, A-B-H-O-R, abhor. And humble yourself before God. That you repent of your sin. That you trust for salvation not in yourself, but in Jesus Christ alone. Abhor. And I looked at that on dictionary. com and it means to regard with extreme repugnance and aversion. Detest utterly, loathe and abominate. Do you abhor yourself? Well that comports well with First Timothy one fifteen. if you do. And that also comports very well with David's expression in Psalm 51 we read in the Confession of Our Sins this morning. Where he says, I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned. Now wait a minute. David has sinned against a lot of people, hasn't he? Yeah, he had. But he's saying He's saying that in effect all sin begins with a sin against God. And that's where it starts. So that's where I have to start. All my sins are against God. And he shares the awareness of abiding sin as well as abiding salvation. And you see that in Psalm 40. Verses eleven and twelve. Both abiding sin and abiding salvation are are there together. Listen, Psalm 40, verse eleven. As for you, O Lord You will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness ever preserve me. So abiding salvation. And then he says in verse 12, For evils encompass me beyond number. My iniquities have overtaken me. I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart fails me. Right there together. Salvation and sin The point of this sermon today is made by Thomas Watson in his book, The Doctrine of Repentance. And it's summarizing this little saying. So you might want to memorize this one. It's worth memorizing. He says, till sin be bitter, Christ will not be sweet. And then he says a little bit later, the more bitterness we taste in sin, the more sweetness we shall taste in Christ. Listen to the sweetness from 1 Timothy chapter 2, verse 16. But I received mercy for this reason, that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. Oh, there's the sweetness. In contrast to the darkness, he's glorifying God for his wonderful mercy. That God is showing his patience in Paul. And if we apprehend the darkness and depth of our own sin, we will see the sweetness and the glory of what God is doing in His patience with you and me. Your God and Savior sees every dark corner of your heart and mind, every vile attitude. Every covetous impulse, even better than you know yourself. And this God and Savior, in perfect patience, and Kindness rewards you not with condemnation, but gives you, like he did Paul, eternal life as you believe into him Jack Miller, the guy that was asked the question about worm theology, had another famous saying that gets quoted a lot. He says, cheer up! You're a lot worse off than you think you are. But in Jesus, you're far more loved than you could have ever imagined. Isn't that great? Our our larger catechism says, What does every sin deserve? Every sin, even the least, being against the sovereignty and goodness and holiness of God, against his righteous law, deserves his righteousness. Wrath and curse, both in this life and in the one to come, and cannot be expiated, and here's the sweetness, but for the blood of Christ. And that's what we have in verse 14 of Paul's writing, the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Jesus' name. Christ, overflowed. An overflowing cup that you find in Psalm 23. The flow of blood that came from the cross of Jesus Christ. And that leads us to conclude with Paul, the sweet doxology, verse 17. To the King of Ages. Immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Amen. pray. Lord, we pray that by your word and your spirit we will be able to share with Paul that we are the foremost of sinners. That there's no one worse than we are, according to what we can see and know, but that we are loved more than we could have ever imagined And that through the blood of Christ our sins are expiated, and we have been set on a course for glory. Help us to serve out of that wonderful grace. Amen.