Genesis chapter two, beginning at verse twenty-five, through chapter three, verse seven. Hear now the Word of God. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. Neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired, to make one wise She took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened. And they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. New Testament reading is Romans five, twelve through nineteen Romans five, twelve through nineteen, page nine hundred forty-two in the pew version of the Bible. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin. So death spread to all men because all sinned. For sin was indeed in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come. But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many die through one man's trespass Much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation. But the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as trespass, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you and praise you for your word. Your word brings order. It brings peace. It breaks, but it heals what it breaks. We pray that we will be broken and healed by the gospel of your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we are considering these chapters in Genesis, in chapters one and two We learned that Yahweh created everything by his word. And that the word of Yahweh after the initial creation brought order and life. And now we see that the word of the tempter brings chaos and death. First point. The tempter raises questions about the Word of God. Verses 1 through 3. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. The tempter here took the form of a serpent. We don't know what the serpent looked like before the fall. But he was a subordinate creature. It may be significant in the centuries following the fall of Adam that the nations surrounding Israel In the ancient Near East, venerated images of a serpent as the life-giving goddess of the earth Note this. In this narrative, the tempter would not say the name of God, Yahweh. Which recalls what? Yahweh, that name recalls the covenant relationship between God and humans. Instead, the tempter calls God Elohim, a generic title for deity. This would be like calling a governor That guy in Annapolis, instead of the Honorable Governor Hogan The word of the Lord here is quoted three times by the serpent and by Eve, never appropriately. First, he questioned in verse 1. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And then there's a paraphrase with major changes in verses 2 and 3. And the woman said to the serpent in her paraphrase, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden. Good enough so far. But Elohim said, you shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. Neither shall you touch it lest you die. Where was that in God's words before? Did he say that? No. She changes it. She adds to it here. And then the serpent flatly denies what God has said. The serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. And a closer analysis of that answer shows that the word of the Lord has been modified. She had said before, you may surely we may surely eat God had said you may surely eat to your heart's content But she says, we may eat. So there's a difference there. And then you shall not eat is what God said, and she says, Neither shall you touch it, so that's an addition. And then God said, you will surely die, and she says, lest you die. You might die. You see the changes there? In her answer, the woman explained what God was saying, but in the process made significant changes to it. She disparaged the privileges that God had given. She added to the prohibition and she minimized the penalty for disobedience. Westerman says a command that is question is no longer the original command in the mind of the questioner. Second point, the tempter raises doubts about the integrity of God, verses 4 and 5. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. The tempter flatly denies the word of the Lord while quoting quoting it more precisely than Eve did. And let's notice this, by the way, the normal Hebrew construction, which would be translated, you shall surely not die. Is changed. There's an unusual Hebrew construction. The not is put in front. Not, you shall surely die. And what that really is in a modern paraphrase, it would be, no way shall you surely die. The goodness of God is questioned here. God is not good if he says no. Do you ever see that in little children when you say no? You're not a very good parent because you said no to me. This is what's going on here. No. And he's being disparaged as someone who withholds something good. Because goodness here is being defined as complete freedom, no restrictions. Have you heard these slogans, friends? Have you heard these slogans? You be you! Be true to yourself. Follow your heart. Find yourself. These slogans orient us to the philosophy which is current today called expressive individualism, very popular in our culture. History points us back to where that came from. Robert Bella and sociologists with him wrote a book called Habits of the Heart And they trace the origins of expressive individualism back to the 1800s. It's not as new as we thought The authors point to a writer and poet Walt Whitman as one of the best representatives of the philosophy of expressive individualism But individualism itself goes back even further. Alexis de Tocqueville, the Frenchman who traveled extensively in the United States and then wrote the classic Democracy in America Noted certain traits in American individualism in which the expressivist part later grew. Yuvall Levin in the book called Fractured Republic describes this phenomenon well. Listen, it's a desire to pursue one's own path. But also a yearning for fulfillment through the definition and articulation of one's own identity It's the drive both to be more like whatever you already are, and also to live in a society by fully asserting who you are. The capacity of individuals to define the terms of their own existence by defining their personal identities is increasingly equated with liberty. And the meaning of some of our basic rights, and it has been given pride of place in our self-understanding, hence statements such as, I am a woman trapped in a man's body. I get to tell you what I am regardless of the facts, regardless of biology, regardless of anything, because I'm an individual and I can say what I am And you had better agree with me and applaud me too, or my rights have been violated. Australian church leader Mark Sayers helpfully sums up the several beliefs that swirl around in an expressivist individualist society in his book, Disappearing Church He says these things characterize it. The highest good is individual freedom, happiness, self-definition, and self-expression. Secondly, traditions, religion, received wisdom, regulations, and social ties that restrict individual freedom and happiness and self-definition and self-expression must be Deconstructed and destroyed. Three, the world will inevitably improve as the scope of individual freedom grows And technology in particular will, and the internet will motor this progression toward utopia. Fourth, the primary social ethic is tolerance of everyone's self-defined quest for individual freedom and self-expression Now listen to this. Any deviation from this ethic of tolerance is dangerous and must not be tolerated. Isn't that interesting? Contradiction there? Therefore, social justice is less about economic and class inequality and more about issues of equality relating to individual identity and self-expression. and personal autonomy. Fifth is very short. Humans are inherently good. And six, large-scale structures and institutions are suspicious at best and evil at worst. And seven, forms of external authority are rejected and personal Authenticity is lauded. Now, listen for the temptational root of expressive individualism in Satan's words to Eve. What did he say? For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Eve, be you. Be true to yourself. Follow your heart. Find yourself, Eve. And the integrity of God is attacked, as if God is unwilling to share his advantages. He's holding out on you. Be your authentic self. Choose what makes sense to you. And by the way, Eve could have no reason, no evidence to buy this lie about God. All of her experience would militate against it. She enjoyed ongoing communion with God. They walked with God in the cool of the day. In a perfect society. So what's doing here? Satan is scheming to isolate her from this wonderful society with an appeal to. Expressive individualism. It goes way back, doesn't it? Number three, the appeal of sin is described in verse 6a So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, So food, beauty, and knowledge, wise, she says to herself, it looks like good food I've had other trees. I've had other fruit. This one looks good too. It's beautiful. And I'll never know unless I try it. Against this kind of temptation, the Apostle John says in 1 John 2, 15 Through seventeen, do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh And the desires of the eyes, and the pride in possessions, choosing for yourself Is not from the Father, but is from the world, and the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever, gets to live forever. Fourth point, the act of sin itself, verses verse 6b. And she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Rapid succession of events. She took, she ate, she gave, and he ate. Bada bing. It's done, it's over. Fifth point, the aftermath of sin, verse seven. What's the aftermath? Then the eyes of the both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin claws. Eyes opened, naked and ashamed, and cover up. Lessons here for ancient Israel and for us. The Word of God is a sure thing. A sure thing. The threatens of the Word of God are a sure thing. The promises of the Word of God are a sure thing. Parents are taught to teach their children about the Word of God in Deuteronomy 6. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart You shall teach them diligently to your children. Children need to have these things inculcated and reinforced and reinforced and reinforced. Because the word of God is what brings order and peace and healing. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them how often? When you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise, basically all the time. You shall bind them as signs on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, and everywhere the truth of God should be displayed And reinforced over and over again. We recently came across this in the evening. How can a young man keep his way pure? Psalm 119, by guarding it according to your word. With my whole heart I seek you. Let me not wander from your commandments. I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your statutes. With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth. In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. I will delight in your statutes. I will not forget your word. The world, the flesh, the devil still address you and me today. Has God really said You're a big boy. You're a big girl. You're a mature adult. You can think for yourself. You can evaluate for yourself. You can decide for yourself. Just look around. Others are doing fine making their own choices. You don't need that old book to live by. Has God really said Do you trust that book to be inspired? Do you really believe that human written book is from God? Smart people gave that up a long time ago, you fool. You can see what looks good, what will be fun, what will get you ahead. And then we get to the fear and the guilt and the shame and the hiding and the cover-up and the lies. Next. I want to remind you how we started at the end of chapter 2. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. And how do we end in verse 7, chapter 3? They sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loinclaws. What's going on here? Well, the text doesn't exactly tell us, but I think it's reasonably inferred. From what happens afterward. They knew now, their eyes were open. Now they know that the fountain of the human race is polluted. They would bear a shameful race of sinners, lacking original righteousness, and so they're ashamed of the parts of their body that will bring forth that shameful race. The only place now in Christ where nakedness is not a shame Is in holy matrimony. The nakedness with which our culture is obsessed In magazines and online and everywhere, that nakedness is a shame. The only place where nakedness is not a shame is in holy matrimony. Which is a picture of Christ and the church in saving union bringing forth godly offspring through his covenant. Our confession of faith says about what happened here. By this sin, they fell from their original righteousness. and communion with God, and so became dead in sin, and wholly defiled in all faculties and parts of soul and body. Yes, even their their sexual parts were defiled here So in total depravity, which is what's being described by the confession, we are capable of anything. It's all there in seed form. One commentator says, guilt upon the conscience, like rust upon iron, both defiles and consumes it. It tears our lives and our bodies. But we need to see the hope. The hope which will come soon in the next section of Genesis. Verse 6, Eve took and ate, and then Adam ate, and then it was disaster, and there was death. But we need to look toward the victor who is coming soon. And we see what he did when he was tempted, the second Adam. Matthew 4. Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, and after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the the mouth of God. Wouldn't it have been different if that's what Eve had said? Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on a pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you're the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. And Jesus said to him, Again, It is written You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said, to him, begone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve And then verse 11 tells about the defeat at that moment. The devil left him. And behold, angels came and were ministering to him. So this is fine for Jesus for now. He said, Be gone, Satan. And he was gone. But that's not the end, because in order to save you He will have to embrace the bitter fruit of human sin and drink the cup of wrath. He will have to endure the cross and hell and the grave. So that later we will see from the writer of Hebrews, and now we see Jesus. Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste, taste, death for everyone. Adam and Eve tasted rebellion and died. Jesus tasted death for you. And we see even in his institution of the Lord's Supper a wonderful recapitulation, don't we? On the night on which he was handed over to death, the second Adam, the greater Adam, as he was eating, took bread, and after blessing it, he broke it and gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat. She took and ate. He says, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he'd given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant. which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. In all this we see that the way back to paradise Is in and through Jesus, the second Adam. Obeying his word by faith Eating the bread of life, receiving Him. Receiving His blood for yourself by faith. Your only hope and the promise of peace with God He is the victor. If you're united to him by true faith, in fellowship with him through the washing of water by the word and in the fellowship of his holy supper, His victory is your victory. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that though our first parents were deceived and Became expressive individualists. You did not leave them in that broken and fallen estate. In their shame you came and clothed them. And promise to them a second Adam. We praise you and thank you that we are in Him. Amen.