Leviticus 12, 1 through 8. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If a woman conceives and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days, as at the time of her menstruation, she shall be unclean. And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised. Then she shall continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her purifying. She shall not touch anything holy, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying are completed. But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her menstruation. And she shall continue in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days. And when the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or for a daughter, She shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting a lamb, a year old, for a burnt offering, and a pigeon or a turtle dove for a sin offering and he shall offer it before the Lord, and make atonement for her. Then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law uh for her who bears a child, either male or female. And if she cannot afford a lamb, she shall take two turtle doves, or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering, and the other for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. And then we've turned to Luke chapter 2, beginning at verse 22. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. The word of the Lord. Thanks. be to God. I was listening to the radio, WXMD, and uh I listened to Nancy Lee Damas occasionally when I happen to be in the car, have the radio on. She's a very excellent Bible teacher. And uh so this this is material, some of it is from uh uh a Bible study by her. And in Luke chapter 2, we are told that when the time for their purification, according to the law of Moses They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord and in verse 24 to offer a sacrifice for her purification. According to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now, according to the law of God A woman who gave birth to a son was ceremonially unclean for seven days, and then she was confined for an additional 33 days. Now the seven days were because she might be bleeding, might have some continual residual bleeding. So the seven days is to complete that. Because blood, human blood, makes impure. Blood is connected with death And death makes impure. There are many other cases of things that make impure in the Old Testament law. So she was to be uh confined during that period, but then uh she had another thirty-three days where she was ritually impure. That means she could not go into the temple. Uh so and then it would be increased, I don't know why. I tried looking in various commentaries to find out, maybe someone else can do that. Uh it is actually 80 days if she has a dog I don't know why the difference. Um there was some speculation in some commentaries, but so in Leviticus, which we read We see that she shall not touch anything holy nor come into the sanctuary until the days of her purifying are completed. And when the days of her purifying are completed, she shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting a lamb a year old for a burnt offering, and a pigeon or turtle dove for a sin offering. The burnt offering is a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and then the other is a sin offering. And she shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her. Then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. And this is what was going on when Mary and Joseph were following the law of God when they came to the temple when Jesus was 40 days old. Mary came for her purification. Now, we're not talking about the tabernacle at this point. We're talking about the temple, and we're talking about the temple that had been greatly built and expanded by Herod. And there in that temple was the court of the Gentiles as the lowest area So Gentiles were allowed to come into this area. It was enclosed by walls, but it was an outdoor court area. This was the market where the sacrificial animals were sold and bought for animal sacrifices. And this is where the tables of the money changers would have been that Jesus turned over when he came in one day to overthrow them. in the week before his crucifixion. This was the court of the Gentiles. So that would be the first place that she would enter through the court of the Gentiles. In this court was a marble screen in Herod's day that was four and a half feet tall, that had a Greek and Latin inscription on it, warning Gentiles not to proceed beyond this point on pain of death. That's why it's called the Court of the Gentiles. For those Jews who would go from the court of the Gentiles, they would go up a flight of 14 steps into the sanctuary itself. The sanctuary itself consisted of three courts, each one higher than the previous one. The first and largest court was the court of the women. It was so called because women were not allowed to proceed beyond this point. Then there was the court of Israel, which was for men only. And then there was the court of the priests, and each of these higher than the last. The court of the priest was, of course, the for priests only, and then there was the holy place, and the most holy place, where only the high priest could go once a year into the presence of God. After a woman made her offering there in the court of the women, she would go up another flight of stairs, fifteen steps, to the gate of Nicanor. which had an arch over it, that gate was what would then take her into the court of Israel, except she couldn't go there Women could not go through the gate, they could only go up to the gate, and there at the edge of the court, they would provide the money or the animal for their purification ceremony. So this is what Mary and Joseph were doing when Jesus was 40 days old. Mary's purification was going on, and they came to present themselves at this place. to the priest. Now what was offered, as Luke tells it, was not the poorest sacrifice. We've often heard that, but not quite. There was another provision in the Old Testament where if you couldn't afford even the two birds, you could bring some grain or meal And so not being able to afford a lamb, Mary and Joseph brought a pair of doves or pigeons. They brought what they could afford, and that was acceptable to God. We're reminded as we think about it that in 2 Corinthians 8:9 Paul tells us, you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. This is a very poor offering, not the poorest, but a very poor offering. We see a glimpse of that even here when Jesus is 40 days old at the presentation and the purification in the temple. He had not been born to wealthy parents. It's a wonderful picture that God has given us by sending Jesus to be born to common people, ordinary people. Middle class at best, parents who couldn't afford a wealthy offering. But God sent his son into that family to be born into the backside of an inn Where a cattle trough was, probably not even a room, just a place where cattle would go and feed. The whole thing is a picture of abundance, not abundance, but of being poor. We're reminded, therefore, by this, that Jesus stripped himself of his glory and his wealth and took on human form and became man. Why did he do it? As Paul says, so that we through his poverty might become rich. Then also in this purification rite, we get a glimpse of the gospel. The fact that purification is required, and that in the purification the shedding of blood is required. Mary was being purified from her ritual uncleanness because of bleeding, but she had to present an offering that would be a bleeding offering Hebrews 9. 22 tells us that under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. The purification rite that Mary went through required that these birds be killed, and the blood of the sacrificial animals be shed for her purification. It was a picture, a foreshadowing of the gospel that Jesus came to bring to this earth. We read in Galatians 4, when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman Born under the law. She's keeping the law. She and Joseph are keeping the law. Born under the law. To redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive adoption as sons. And he says, and because you are sons, God has sent his spirit, the spirit of his son, into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. We also read in Hebrews that the law was only a shadow of the good things to come. Instead of the true form of these realities. And we read that it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, they would have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. So we see that the need for the cleansing. And that leads me to a brief excursus into the question of why this law is given. It seems puzzling to us. This law about bleeding and purification. Well, God gave the law, and you have to remember this always, after delivering his people from Egypt. The Ten Commandments and the laws that follow that come after God has redeemed, after God has delivered his people. The law did not save from sin Or even create a relationship with God. God created a relationship with His people. So the law told an already redeemed people how to live as such. God's redeeming grace created the relationship. And then the law, including this one, gave shape to the relationship. God told his people to be holy as he is holy, and he set certain boundaries and parameters about how to observe his holiness. And this law about birth and bleeding. is one of those. The law specifies what holiness looks like. It's not just whatever anyone wanted to make it. Whatever anyone wanted to conjure up as a thought of what would be holy, no God gives a picture of what holiness looks like. And without this law, Israel wouldn't know what God required. And so redemption and grace are the context of the law. Here's another statement that you need to remember. The law is about sanctification, not justification. We are not justified by the law, but the law is our guide toward sanctification. Keeping the law, then, for Mary and Joseph and for us is the way to express gratitude and love. That's what they were doing as they climbed those steps, as they went into the temple, as they bought the birds. They were expressing gratitude and love and faith. We could say that the law has to do with identity, the identity of God's people. And our gratitude for his redeeming grace makes us want to obey him. The law tells us how to be like God and to love what God loves. Love, you see, is another one of those words that someone might just fill up with whatever concept they want to use as a definition of love. But in Israel, love is defined, love toward God is defined uh by God's definition. In Romans 13, verses 8 through 10, the Apostle Paul says very plainly, very boldly, what love looks like. Here's what he says. Owe no one anything except to love each other, for the one who loves has fulfilled the law. Fulfilling the law is the way you show love. The many goes on if you think maybe well it's some other law. No, he says For the commandments you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. The law tells us how to be like God and to love what God loves. The law shows us how to love God and our neighbor. Again, we do not know if we love God in our neighbor. How do we know if we love God in our neighbor, I should say We measure our conduct and our motives by the revealed law of God, not by emotions only, but by the Word of God. And I want to remind you, uh people of God, that the Old Testament never considers the law burdensome. Never considers the law of Burdamson. It is the law of liberty that sets people free to do God's will. It is a stream of life-giving water that enables us to bear fruit. It is sweeter than honey, according to the psalmist, and makes life pleasant. Keeping it is the way to return love for love. Disobedience is the evidence of ingratitude and lovelessness. The law sets God's people apart from unbelievers. That's another thing that's going on here. Israel, by keeping these purification laws, were constantly reminded that they were not like the nations. They were different. They were holy. They were separate. They had a redeeming God who gave them laws. Israel's relation with God is shown forth in the law of God given to Israel and then performed by Israel. The same is true for God's people today. We do not live by what comes naturally or feels good. We live by the law of God. Sometimes, as you well know, our hearts The pull of the world, the flesh, and the devil would entice us to break the objective laws of God. We feel like breaking them. It feels good. It seems best to disobey God. But when we realize that God's law is perfect and true and right and just, then we need to disobey our wicked hearts and obey the law of God. God redeemed his people also so that they would be a blessing. He gave them a mission to be a light to the Gentiles. To show forth his glory. This is the people who have Torah. This is the people who have instruction from the God who created them, their God, their Redeemer. This is the people who know how to live. That's what the law would do for Israel. It would show them and show to the world a people who know God, gave them a mission They would be a channel of redemptive blessing in this fallen world. Jesus said that he came to fulfill the law. He came to fulfill it in the sense of take away our law breaking. He came to fulfill it by obeying it first, and then by paying the price for our disobedience. As the second Adam, Jesus, carried by his mother, kept the law And he kept it in our place. Theologians refer to this law-keeping as Jesus' active obedience. God imputed Jesus' righteousness to us who rely on his merit. And in turn, our unrighteousness is imputed to Jesus, who paid the penalty. The same God who Mary and Joseph were worshiping when they brought Jesus in on his 40th day The same God saved the Old Testament saints and saved the New Testament saints. And though the outward forms Of obedience have changed. We don't go through the ritual of purification anymore. The demand of practical holiness remains the same. Jesus' mother and Joseph were faithful, redeemed Israelites. And they were keeping the law of purification with reference to the one whose blood makes all believers pure. They were expressing gratitude to God for redemption, even though they were holding the Redeemer Himself. They were bearing the light of redemption by being faithful to God's word in Israel. Praise God for this act of faithful worship And let us offer up holy lives as a sacrifice of praise and as a mission, as a light to the world around us. Amen. Lord, we thank you for these uh narratives of the purification of Mary. The presentation of Jesus. We thank you that he was born under the law to redeem those who were under law, that we might be the children of God and be heirs. We pray that you will help us to live holy lives. Help us to confess our many sins. And turn afresh to Christ, the Redeemer. In His name we pray. Amen.