Your Bibles to Psalm eighty-seven. Psalm eighty-seven, a psalm of the sons of Korah, a psalm. On the holy mount stands the city he founded. The Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. Glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God. Among those who know me, I mention Rahab and Babylon. Behold, Philistia and Tyre with Cush. This one was born there, they say. And of Zion it shall be said, this one and that one were born in her, for the Most High Himself will establish her. The Lord records as he registers the peoples. This one was born there. Singers and dancers alike say, All my springs are in you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Our New Testament reading congregation is 2 Timothy 1, 1-14. This is the Word of God. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus By the will of God, according to the promise of the light that is in Christ Jesus To Timothy, my beloved child, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God, whom I serve, as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience, as I remember you constantly in my prayers, night and day. As I remember your tears, I long that I may be filled with joy. I am reminded of your sincere faith, the faith that dwelt first in your grandmother, Lois And your mother, Eunice. And now, I am sure dwells in you as well. For this reason, I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling. Not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. And which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death And brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher. Which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that He is able to guard until that day what He hasn't been entrusted to me. Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you. The word of the Lord. Let us pray Gracious God of the Covenant of Grace, we bless you for your plan, conceived in eternity. By your powerful mind, not only able to know that which is right and good, but was able to bring to pass those promises. We bless you and thank you for the holy scriptures. And we pray that as we open up this verse of the letter that Paul sent to Timothy That you will enable us to hear your word and apply it faithfully to our hearts and lives by the Holy Spirit who you have given unto us. Through Jesus Christ our Lord we pray. Amen. Our text congregation is 1 Timothy 316. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit Seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, here's another 316 Not John 3. 16, which you all know by heart. Now here's another one to memorize also. 1 Timothy 3. 16. Let me tell you, this too is food. A veritable banquet. Hear it one more time. Great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit. seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory Great is the mystery of godliness. Who could not be important? Who could not consider it important to be godly? But just what is godliness? And how do we get to be godly? We're sinful, rather. Could godliness be the sum total of Christian doctrine, worship, and life? Is that it? Maybe that is. We have in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church a form of government, a directory of worship, and a book of discipline. These three, together with our creedal standard, are all based upon our primary standard, Holy Scripture. And they constitute the sum total of what we are to believe and how we are to praise and live for God. And that's good. There's something very great about the true godliness that the Church of Jesus Christ holds forth in the world. Ah, but still I inquire, just what is the greatness of that good godliness? Could it be that system of doctrine, worship, and practice that you esteem so highly? Nope. Well then, could it be you, Christian believers? Need I disabuse you of that suggestion The text of our message this morning tells us what is truly the greatness of the mystery of godliness. He. Jesus. Now I'm about to give you a literal translation of our text. The remainder of 1 Timothy 3. 16. Not found in any extant version of the Bible, since it's this Poor preacher's own translation, faithful, I believe, to the language given. So in this Or, similar manner, our text this morning could be put in metric form with content fully faithful to the Greek language in which Paul wrote As follows. Undoubtedly great, the mystery of Christ, as human revealed, by God justified By angels attentively watched, to Gentiles was preached. In this world believed upon To glory received. The greatness of Christian godliness That the Church of Jesus Christ is called upon to exhibit in this world is exactly this That it centers in and rests upon the Lord Jesus Christ himself. And we're going to expose this thought by first calling upon this theme: that he is the revelation Jesus is. Of God's purpose. That is the mystery. Or perhaps I should say, that is the mystery revealed, which we Christians now confess. And just did sing. God's great purpose in sending his only begotten Son into the world is the revealed mystery identified. For first, God has a saving purpose for this world. Good thing, huh? For people in this world The apostle writes of the mystery of godliness. And that surely must mean that somebody or somebody are godly. The verse previous to our text says that God has a household, a family. The church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. Now how is this possible? Because we are sinners and rebels. Yes, we are. Well then, how is it possible that God has his household This way, because God has a church. His church. It exists. And in its very existence, it holds forth, it demonstrates the truth. Truth that God indeed has a saving purpose for this world. He simply will not let the entirety of it languish in sin and degradation. And ultimately fall into the eternal flames of destruction. That is what we confess on this Lord's Day morning together That we, with all God's redeemed people, worldwide and over all time, are God's household. The issue of His saving purpose. We're not a social club or a gathering of positive thinkers who just can't believe that there's anything seriously wrong with us. We are a saved host, my believing brothers and sisters. Godliness is possible And it is possible only because God has willed it so. And He has decreed and implemented the way to make it so through Jesus Christ. Himself. But observe secondly that saving purpose of God for this world, that mystery of godliness Is revealed, not discovered by brilliant theologians The Apostle Paul tells Timothy of it, and his inspired message is for you today, because it is for the Church of the Ages. I am writing these things to you so that if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress. But we ask, what exactly is truth? Jesus Christ Himself has told us, everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. Truth is not of human invention. To know the truth, you have to listen to Jesus, who said, it is written in the prophets. And they shall all be taught of God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Yes, Jesus Christ is the mystery of godliness. That's because In his person and work, you have the ground, the fulfillment, and the hope of God's saving purpose for this world. Thus, our text today, my friends, cannot be rightly understood unless we place all the emphasis upon that one word. He. Great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness. He dot dot dot Then follows who he is and what he did to make godliness possible for you so that you could be and are. But now observe thirdly that this mystery of godliness is in fact a revealed mystery Now, why indeed does the inspired apostle call God's saving purpose in Christ a mystery? Is this some form of mysticism? Are we dealing here when we speak of the mystery of godliness with indecipherable secrets that only a guru could unravel? No, the mystery of godliness is not unraveled. It is not hidden, but revealed by God. You know, there have been a veritable plethora of mystery religions, so-called, both ancient and modern, all of which posit secrets. Hidden from most, but known by initiated followers, of special forms and mantras, mystery readers. Religions. Now is Christianity just one more of those? No. Not at all. The gospel of Christ, his person and work, truly, the mystery of godliness, is set before us plainly in Holy Scripture and brought to our minds and hearts by the work of the Holy Spirit. At the same time, we must realize that it is not analyzed to the satisfaction of all our questionings. We marvel in wonderment every Christmas at the profound mystery Huh? Of the great I am become flesh in the incarnation of the Son of God Then think of Ephesians 3:18 and 19, where Paul prays, that the church may grasp how wide and long and high and deep. Is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the Fullness of God. That's why Paul calls it a mystery, because it cannot be arrived at by the normal process of mental exercise, logic. Or deduction. It surpasses knowledge. Yes, we acknowledge as great that which is beyond our ten. Just think of the discipline called economics. Now there's something that I'm not able to get a handle on. But I recognize at the same time what a mighty force it is, particularly in these past few months and years. Now in our text the apostle says that the mystery of godliness is great, undoubtedly great, and he's going to say some absolutely marvelous things, some mind-boggling things. about the one who himself is that mystery. What he is going to lay out for us are six. Yes, six marvelous things about Jesus Christ Himself. And you earlier sang those six things. He will show us that the greatness of the Christian faith, the religion of the Bible, is not found in our experience. Of God, but in God's expression of his purpose of salvation and in his accomplishment of it in Jesus Jesus Christ, who He is, what He did, and what has issued from that gracious mystery. Godliness. Yes. Salvation for you. Once more I underline it. The mystery is Christ. He is the Word of God. Now, as we earlier inferred, here Paul employs what Pablo is It was a creedal hymn used at that time, a hymn that rehearses Christ's glory, a glory not gained without suffering. That's why I had to sing it together. You sing with the early Christian church this glorious gospel. And as such, the six lines of the hymn could be summarized as a laying out of the Savior's humiliation and exaltation. For you. That's why I suggested you might want to memorize it. You don't have to memorize it in my form, but just as it is in your English Standard Version Now, congregation, I implore you, listen up. If you're going to be godly, you're going to have to know Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ in the Bible. He doesn't come to you mysteriously or within you directly outside of Scripture. You must know Jesus Himself, and He is the theme and the center of that Bible. Stop and think. He is living today. He is revealed in the pages of Holy Scripture, in the gospel which meets your need as a church that is his body, for which he cared You can be godly, but only as you seek Jesus Himself. For He is The way. He is the revealer of God's purpose. Not telling you about it, but himself being it. That's where he copped opposition from the Jews of his time. As long as Jesus kept doing miracles and telling the truth, that was okay Except for certain areas where he clearly departed from their traditions. It was when he said, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man And drink his blood, you have no life in you. That they began to forsake him and fall away. And eventually cry, crucify him. For that they would not accept. That is exactly what the Apostle Paul affirms in our text this morning. The mystery of godliness is great. He. This is your hymn of praise for and to Jesus Christ, for the great wonder that He is and what He did for your salvation. Yes, He is your redeemer And you confess and indeed sing six wonderful things about him. First, redemption was accomplished here on earth. The hymn's first clause, he was manifested in the flesh, revealed as a human being Or as the NIV puts it, he appeared in a body, not any body. He added to himself humanness, human flesh. This wonderful text is laid out for us in detail in Paul's letter to Philippi. He made of himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. He was found in human form Yes, Jesus Christ, the second person of the Divine Trinity, was revealed here on this planet Earth. Two thousand years ago in an obscure village in Palestine I say he was revealed body-wise in the flesh. And in that flesh, he rendered perfect obedience to the will of God the Father, actively and passively. That is, he perfectly obeyed every command of God in his heart and in his actions, and he perfectly took upon himself the punishment that God dictated for every person on the earth. on earth whom God determined to save through his son's sacrifice. You see, the temptation is there to think of religion and thus the mystery of godliness as something outside your real world and life. What does godliness have to do with your struggle, with your human problems, with making sense of it all Answer. Redemption was accomplished on this earth by a true human being. Like you in every respect. Sin accepted. You human beings need a human re Redeemer. And God gave you one. The great second Adam, the son of Mary, true flesh and blood, like you. Manifested in the flesh, indeed, the incarnate Redeemer, Jesus of Nazareth. Second, Jesus Christ's saving acts on this earth did not escape heaven's notice. He was vindicated by the Spirit, capital S. That is to say, he was justified. That's what the Greek verb means. He was justified by the Spirit of God. God in heaven took notice of what Jesus did, and he declared his complete approval of that saving work. In these few words, by God justified, the apostle presents the whole, the complete, the perfect, and divinely acceptable work of Christ. Between, as it were, the two bookends of his incarnation and his resurrection. In another place, Romans 1:4, the same inspired apostle puts it this way: who through the Spirit of Hiness was declared with power. To be the Son of God by his resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord. Those are Jesus' credentials. Jesus was not only manifested flesh-wise, he was also justified spirit-wise. And we have clear affirmation of that at the moment of Jesus' baptism, remember, by John? When the Father from heaven, from heaven, mind you, thundered. This is my beloved son. Hear him. Flesh-wise, he was born. He suffered. And he was put to death. But spirit-wise, he was proven by the resurrection from the dead to be the mighty And successful savior of a whole host of sinners. You Third, here we have yet another, and is indeed a very significant other credential of the one who is himself the mystery of godliness. Seen by angels. Seen by angels. Or as we phrased it on our in our oral other Earlier poetic line that you sang, by angels attentively watched. The Greek verb Paul uses here is emphatic. And seeing doesn't quite cut it. They watched with rapt attention. Now you might ask, why did these angelic creatures look on Jesus and what he was doing so intently? After all, this is only a short hymn. It doesn't have protracted lines Can't the early Christians, please, with their hymn, think of a more important doctrine through a clude among all those other admittedly significant matters than the simple affirmation seen by angels? Answer All four Gospels, when they chronicle the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, include mention of angels. Angels looking on, apparently, with rapt attention. Matthew says that an angel rolled back the stone and sat on it. Mark tells us that the two Marys, when entering Jesus' tomb, saw a man, that was an angel, folks, dressed in a white robe. And they were alarmed. Luke records that two men stood by, the visitors. To the sepulchre in dazzling apparel. And these visitors bowed their faces to the ground. You can believe that they were not, as Mary supposed, gardeners. Yes, they also were, in truth, angels. And John, for his part, adds his detail. Mary Magdalene saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had laid. Then in Ephesians 3. 10, we are told that God's eternal purpose and intent Was that through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms That, as you know, is where the angels live. And also, not to be outdone, Peter, in his first epistle, writes that the gospel contains things into which even angels long to look. The angels watch intently. Christ, the Redeemer of men, not of these angels. They never fell. But men did, and women did, and children did, and the angels were absolutely transfixed. When they witness the capstone of redemption, Jesus Christ risen from the dead. Seen by angels How long is eternity? How deep is the fall of human race? How great a number of them are determined unto salvation by God? Yes, someone was needed to come upon the scene here to deliver them The whole world would gasp and gawk. Yes, here we have redemption. God has done it. And the angels looked on. They are the witnesses of the acts of redemption, just when those acts happen Particularly were they witnesses of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the crowning act of redemption. They were there when it happened, and they saw it. So sings the early Christian church. These angels, in judicial terms, were material witnesses. You could shove a subpoena into their hands and they would testify truthfully Yes, we saw him. And we saw him rise alive from the dead Their testimony would agree, and it would establish beyond all doubt the reality, the success, and the greatness of Jesus. the resurrected Lord. So seen by angels takes on new significance, doesn't it? For today you are his witnesses Because you see the resurrected Christ in your light. And you can add your testimony to that of those angels while these things are being applied. in this world to the objects of his love. Now those first three clauses are all basics of what we might call the Historia Salutus. Latin for it. Salvation history. What Jesus Christ accomplished to provide the ground for God's sinners. Historia Salutus. But we might ask also what of the Ordo Salutis, the order of salvation. How it is applied to sinners and comes into their possession. Our early hymn does not leave that absolutely essential part out of the picture. of the mystery of godliness, Jesus himself. For it goes on to affirm in phrases in clauses four, five, and six, we'll take the phrase Fourth and the fifth together. Redemption's application is still going on. Proclaimed among the nations Believed on in the world. What? Past tenses? E. D. proclaimed? Believed I thought that these things were still to be in the future. Well, there's an answer. And it's this. In the Greek language, these verbs are in a special tense that tells us that what is being described is definite. undeniable. That's why I put in my translation, huh? Undoubtedly. These things are acts. Accomplished, proclaimed, believed. The apostle and the early church, with its hymn, as we said, in all probability recorded here, see the finalness of God's purpose, according to which God has delivered his church in Jesus Christ. Christ by His saving accomplishment on earth. That accomplishment has been applied by His Spirit through all the ages of history of mankind since the fall and reaching to the end of time. They think, they sing, as it were. We see it all as done already. Isn't that wonderful? Don't you agree with her hymn? This is no wishful thinking. Do you not see what this does for your evangelism? The whole number of the elect is fixed already. And Christ is gathering God's people through the witness of his body, the church, as his spirit Works within. Christ Jesus is proclaimed among the nations. Yes, by the church, which is the pillar and buttress of truth. The idea is that God doesn't only work within the hearts of people, though He must do that in every case if the gospel is to have effect on even one single life, but also that he works through his visible people, the church. No wonder then that our Westminster Confession of Faith, when speaking of the church, affirms something that people scratch their heads when they hear and say, Do you Presbyterians really believe this? It affirms that, quote, outside of which that church, there is ordinarily no possibility of salvation. Yes, the whole number of the elect is already fixed by God. And Christ is gathering God's elect through the witness of his body, the church, as his spirit works. Within people. Now, this new choir that we're getting started has its purpose, not just to sing. And not even just to sing praises to God But to sing praises to God that will have an effect upon people who listen to it and hear the gospel in those songs that are being sung. It's an evangelistic effort, Patricia. Proclaimed among the nations. Indeed Heralded by the church. This too is the fulfillment of God's covenant promise, detailed in Psalm 72, verses 8, 9, and 11. May he have dominion from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. May desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies lick the dust. May all kings fall down before him. All nations serve him. Do you have the same missionary vision the psalmist had I hope so. That the early Christians had, as expressed in their hymn, proclaimed among the nations Then the fifth clause. Believed on in the world. This is the outcalling of the church. Compare the Psalter once more, Psalm 877 seven. And of Zion, it shall be said, this one and that one were born in her. And some of the then Gentiles were named in that So do you know what that means? To be born in Zion means not to be a Jew, but means to be in the family of God, which includes Jews and Gentiles. And Jesus Christ equals Zion. Strangers, foreigners, yet born in Zion, extols the psalmist. That should encourage you when you are sadly pretty sure that nobody will ever be saved through your witness. Believe God. in the world. Don't ever forget it. People are going to be saved through the witness of this church. That's why your whole enterprise is so utterly worthwhile. The mystery of godliness is Jesus Christ Himself. And you Christians bear his name And carry his saving gospel in this world. And God will do his thing. Don't ever forget. Forget it. In a real sense, according to this hymn, he's already done it. Yours is to obey, leaving the outcome to him. Okay, we've made it. Sixth. Taken up in glory. Jesus Christ, the mystery of godliness, is glorified now. He sits in heaven. Now is his heavenly session That's why the Heidelberg Catechism affirms with genuine biblical support, support in no small measure from this text and from this song, we have Our flesh in heaven, taken up in glory. But he will rise from his seat one day, and he will come again. True of all places, planet Earth, in his glorious second coming. Meanwhile, he says, all power, authority in heaven and on earth. belongs to me. The prophet Isaiah put it this way in 35. 4. Take courage, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. But he will save you. Yes, Jesus ascended to heaven, but he will descend once more at the end of time. Now all I can ask you this morning, congregation, is this. Are you with him? Or are you trying to achieve godliness apart from him You must trust and obey Jesus Christ. That is godliness. And you affirm it by common confession. That's another translation of our text. Great indeed we confess. My brothers and sisters and boys and girls, are you saying the same thing? As whom? As each other, to be sure. But as Jesus more so. He gave the gospel command. You are my friends if you do whatever I command you. And what is his chief command? That you believe in the name, his name, Jesus Christ, the mystery of godliness. Yes, Christ, lived out by you. I know. That is humbling indeed, isn't it? But it is true happiness. Keep your eyes on him. He alone can make you godly. In fact, as he demonstrated in this text, godliness is him. And he will live out his godliness in you who believe in him. God knows you, Grace and Peace Congregation. He sent this Jesus for you, for you people who are characterized by nothing so much as this, people who aren't godly. But God doesn't see you and your ungodliness anymore. He sees only Jesus. And he is satisfied. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this hymn It also has been enscriptuated now so that we can sing it, we can believe it, we can trust you for it, and we can have confidence and joy and hope in what it affirms These six things that Jesus was and is and has done are the ground, the foundation, and the assurance of our eternal life. In him we pray. Amen