Our Old Testament reading this morning is from the second book of Samuel, chapter 7, verses 1 through 17. 2 Samuel 7, 1 through 17. Now when the king lived in his house, and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies, the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, the ark of God dwells in a tent And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you. But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan: Go and tell my servant David. Thus says the Lord, would you build me a house to dwell in? I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I have been moving about in a tent for my dwelling. In all places where I have moved with all the people of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people, Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be a prince over all the people of Israel And I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you. And I will make you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth. And I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, so that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall afflict them no more, as formerly, from the time that I appointed judges over my people of Israel. And I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body. And I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men. But my steadfast love will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me Your throne shall be established forever. In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David. The word of the Lord Our epistle reading this morning, congregation, comes in Romans chapter 16, verses 25 through 27. Romans chapter 16, beginning at verse 25, hear the word of the Lord. Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. According to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages, but has now been disclosed, and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations According to the command of the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith. To the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ. Amen. And our gospel reading comes from the Gospel according to Luke chapter 1, beginning at verse 26 to verse 38. So Luke Chapter 1, beginning at verse 26, hear the word of the Lord. In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth To a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David And the Virgin's name was Mary, and he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored One, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold. You will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. The power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son. This is the sixth month with her who was called barren, or nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though Christmas is tomorrow Christmas is still not here, which means you have to wait for it, right? Though as much as our little ones want to make it now, can we just have one gift and open it? We must wait. Why do I say this? We're still in the season of Advent, and even if we can see into tomorrow, we're still waiting for the Lord's coming. He hasn't arrived yet. We still must be prepared for it and expecting him. That has been Really, our theme this whole month and the four weeks of Advent is to remember that, yes, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, has come, and we will celebrate that tomorrow. We'll speak about it this morning. But always in remembrance that he's coming again And we must be ready for his return. We've been asking ourselves, right, am I ready? Am I awake from the stupor of sin? Have I thrown off and cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light? If I put on Christ, the new man, and in living in him and waiting for the king, right? Those are the questions We ask ourselves and should be asking ourselves as we keep watching and waiting for the Son of God's return. So I'm going to keep with that theme this morning, but I also uh want to direct this sermon at preparing us tomorrow for Christmas and for celebrating Christmas. And what I say this morning about what Christmas is is also applicable when the Lord Jesus comes back. So This morning's sermon will be aimed at both preparing us to celebrate Christmas rightly tomorrow, but also to prepare us to receive the King. when he comes again in glory. So I want to say three things this morning. All these passages are very wonderful that we read in 2 Samuel and Luke and in Romans And there is not time this morning to say everything contained in them. So what I really want to look at this morning is ask and answer from these passages, what is Christmas about? That's what I want us to focus on. What is Christmas all about? When we mark it and celebrate it, what is Christmas all about? That's what we're looking at this morning. And what I want to show you from these passages, and there can be other things, these are three things focusing on that stand out to us in these passages. Is first, Christmas is about a promise kept. That Davidic covenant that we read about in 2 Samuel, that God's people hope in when they're falling low and sing in Psalm 132, but you said, Oh God, you would give us a king forever. That equates to the same thing as salvation, because it's only the king who can conquer our foes. It's only the king who can put to death our enemies and rescue us. So Christmas is about a promise kept. Christmas is about a mystery revealed, God's kingdom being brought to light in the fullness of time. So Christmas is about a mystery revealed. And finally Christmas is about the impossible happening. God's making all things new. That is not a thing man can do, but no word of God will be without power and Christmas is really the beginning of that world. So Christmas is about a promise kept A mystery revealed and the impossible happening. So then, what is Christmas? Christmas is the celebration of the birth of Christ the King. Christmas is the celebration of the birth of Jesus God's Son. That's what Christmas is. God being born of the Virgin Mary conceived by the Holy Spirit, the King being born, that's what Christmas is, the King being born. But the question we're asking is, what is Christmas about? The king being born, what is the significance of Jesus being born to Mary? What is the significance of the child born to Mary, conceived in her womb by the Holy Spirit. And that's those three points I just mentioned. The significance of the birth of this child is a promise kept A mystery revealed and the impossible happening. You're marking in your Bibles with me. We're going to look first at 2 Samuel and Luke 1. Kind of be looking back and forth where we see the promise given and look to see how that's kept in Luke chapter one. So in 2 Samuel 7 and in Luke chapter 1 Promise being kept. Did you see? If you look in your Bible in Luke chapter 7, verse 16, here's the promise given in its absolute and definite form. God said to David, David Your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. Read it again. Here's the promise Your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever Now this is David's story, is a wonderful story of Rags the Riches, right? David has come into a period of prosperity, rest from his enemies, the throne secure, Saul's finally put away. The kingdom is united under him. David sitting in his house. See, I have a nice house of cedars kind of like a really nice fancy palace, is what he means. And he sees that where is God dwells, that he dwells in a tent. And David thinks that's not fitting to God who made me this king and has so favoured me, and it comes into his heart to make God a house. God reminds David, David, where did this really come into your heart? Because all this long history I've walked amongst my people in a tent. And I never did reprove any of the judges before you who ruled my people. Why haven't you made me a house yet? God will go on and promise that one will build him a house. This is a part of the text we won't get to look at But I'll just say to you and remind you that you are the house. If you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and of a firm commitment and faith to him, United to him by faith and the Spirit, you are God's house, and Jesus is that Son who came and built the house. Yes, it started with Solomon, but it has its finish, its closing with Christ, who is building The everlasting dwelling place with God. But God says to David, reminds him, David, I I took you from following sheep David, you were the youngest son, the furthest away from ever receiving a blessing and honor in your family, and you kept the sheep. Nothing against shepherding, it's just now look where David is. The king and shepherd of God's people sitting in an ivory palace, reigning, enjoying the throne, a very wonderful rags to riches story. God goes on and even explains to David what relationship David's house would have to God, he says in verse 14. I will be to your son a father, and he shall be to me a son. God establishes a relationship of sonship and fatherhood between the line of David and the house of King David. So that's the story in a very brief nutshell, right, of the rags to riches to David, David wanting to make God a house, and God telling David, David, I'm going to build you a house. It's kind of a play on words. I'm going to build you a dynasty. I'm going to ensure that your line continues forever. and that your son will sit upon the throne in your you may be asking yourself, well what is the significance of this promise, right? What is the significance that the kingdom shall be to David's son forever? Well, it tells us that the house of Windsor won't be rulers and kings over the earth, will they? Tells us that the house of Biden won't be the everlasting rulers over the earth. It tells us that the house of David will. God has decided that the house of David, out of all houses of the race of men, shall have the everlasting reign. Of course, that comes to a climax, the very unique son of David, the eternal son of God, but as the house of David will reign It's the laws of David's kingdom that will reign and rule over this earth. He'll have the throne. He'll say what you do and don't do. It's very significant He'll destroy the enemies of God, right? He'll defeat death. He'll cast Satan the lake of fire and his fallers. It's an important thing. A huge promise. In fact, David later in life Sees the kind of fallen place he's come to, remembers that God made an everlasting covenant with me, and that will be my salvation. We need to have in our hearts and minds that when we hear David's kingdom, David's throne, God's rule through David, we need to be thinking salvation. A king who can make us right, a king who can rule us by his word and spirit so that men will love each other. And there'll be peace and righteousness on earth, a king who can defeat our foes who are stronger than us by the might and power of his word and spirit. No insignificant promise that God is making to David here, but is dealing with the eternal salvation of God's people and the kingdom of God on earth. Well that that's the rags of richest story of David. And we turn to Luke chapter 1. We see how God fulfills this promise and keeps his promise. Promise here is kept. When he comes to Mary. Now the gospel isn't a rags-to-riches story. The gospel is a riches to rags to riches story. Because we wonderfully sung in the hymn 324, oh he who is I'm going to create the name of it, but beyond all splendor is how it uh ends. I almost thought that was my text for the sermon this morning. It said many of the things I'm going to say to you now today in the preaching. The gospel is not a rags to riches, but a riches. The Son of God coming to rags, becoming poor to make us rich. We see the promise being fulfilled here. Look at Luke. Look at verse 27. Angel Gabriel didn't just pick the first virgin that he found on his trip to Nazareth, but he went to a very specific woman, one whom God has chosen for this and savored. But what's Important about her is to whom she's betrothed. She's betrothed to Joseph. And Joseph is of the house of David. Now, we quiz you on your biblical history at this moment. Who's reigning in Israel when Jesus is born? Is it a king of Herod? Is it a king of the house of David? No. Herod is the house of Edom, from the line of Esau, not even over the line of Jacob. An Edomite is ruling in the city of David and over God's people at this time. Is God unfaithful to his promise to his people by allowing this to happen? No, if you look in Second Samuel, God Tells his people there in verse 14, if they commit iniquity, I will discipline them. The house of David was under discipline. From that time of the deportation to Babylon to the coming of the Messiah, they were under discipline for their sins. But now God in his faithfulness to his promise to David, which he had kept alive through his prophets, particularly Isaiah. Chapter 9, Chapter 11, many of his prophecies preaching a coming king who would save, redeem, rule, make new. And here is where God keeps that promise, comes to David and an heir of David, Joseph, so that Jesus would legally be the son Of Joseph and of the house of David, and God would fulfill his promise to them. We also see God fulfilling his promise there in verse 32. Notice what he says about this son. He will be great. You'll hear it tonight in the reading from Micah. That the promised child will be great to the ends of the earth. What he means by that, he will have the rule over all the earth. He will be known as the great and mighty king, and all will know him But notice what it goes on to say, he will be called the son of the Most High. All of the Davidic kings were sons of God by adoption. They were mere men, only men, only creatures, only humans, and God adopted them as his son. But not so with Jesus. Jesus is not a mere man. Jesus isn't a man who is created And then the Christ came down on him and adopted him into the Godhead. That's a heresy. Jesus is the eternal Son of God who took on flesh. Jesus is the second person of the Godhead, the Trinity, who assumed to himself a human nature and became like us in every way, but without sin. So the promise, and we'll talk about that here when we get to the next part about the mystery, but this promise kept as a climactic element to it. That Jesus, the King, is not just the Son as a mere man being adopted by the Father, but God's own very Son This is important. We need to have this in our hearts because I'm going to end about what's the importance Of this gospel message, and if you don't get this part right, you won't get the last part right. We have to be convinced in our hearts that Jesus is God. That Jesus is divine, because Jesus requires your worship, your obedience. Your allegiance. And if he's not God, then he can't ask those things. And if he is God, he has every right to demand them from you. The promise being fulfilled here, he will be called the Son of the Most High. God said they would be my children. Here it's fulfilled in the unique way. Promise about the throne. The Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever. In his kingdom, there will be no end. The promise in 2 Samuel really seemed to attach itself to the dynasty that there will always be a son to follow and reign. But here it attaches to one son. There the promise isn't just that the dynasty will go on forever. Here the promise is said that this one son who is a part of this house has come as really the last in time in it. He will reign over the house of David forever. His kingdom will have no end. Romans 5, what reigns over men since the fall? Sin. Death. Who reigns over men now? Jesus. His kingdom shall have no end. So that's the promise kept. Christmas, beloved, when we mark Christmas, when we celebrate Christmas tomorrow, let us keep it in the spirit. And let us observe it to remind ourselves that God is faithful. The birth of Jesus should remind us that God is faithful. He kept his promise, even when it looks like It wasn't going to happen. He kept his promise. That should remind us that God's going to keep all of his promises. None of his words are going to fail. So Use Christmas tomorrow not just a time to tear ferociously into gifts, that's fun and part of it, but use Christmas tomorrow religiously. To remember that God is faithful. To confirm your hearts that God will finish all of His promises That we will all one day see every knee bow to Jesus. See, this good news is a great promise. But do you know what promises are when they tell you bad things? Those are called threats. Now the gospel is not a threat. The gospel is a promise, but it's a promise that's telling you about a king who's reigning, which becomes a threat if you disobey it. Because his kingdom will stand. They'll be left standing in the field, no opposition to him. If you do not yield the knee to Jesus and bow to him and worship him You'll be wiped from the field. You won't be given admittance into his eternal kingdom. You won't come in. And so it's a great promise of salvation. But if the promise isn't received in the spirit in which it's given, the obedience of faith, it's also thus wrapped. His kingdom will stand. Many people liken the gospel to the D. E. Day analogy, right? The Allied forces are here. The Allies are in power and control, right, just marking until victory day. Come now before it's too late, right? His kingdom shall stand. So that's the promise kept. Let's look at the mystery revealed. Turn to Romans chapter 16. Look at the mystery revealed. And the mystery veiled is dealing with God's kingdom. Now, a mystery in the Bible is not something unintelligible that we can't know or have any concept of. It just means something that God has kept secret And as he's made known now we come to see this was his plan from the beginning. In fact, this was his plan even before the beginning. This is his eternal purpose coming to pass. That's really what we mean by mystery. God's eternal Purpose. That is what the mystery being made known is. In the gospel. Look what Romans uh sixteen has to say here Romans 16 is telling us about God who is able to give us strength. God is able to strengthen his saints. In accordance with what? What is he strengthening us for? That you may be in accord with my gospel. Many people hold the gospel wrongly. They don't believe rightly about Jesus Christ's new years. They don't hold the gospel rightly because they don't worship him as king and obey him and serve him. They use the gospel as a get-out-of-jail free card to excuse their sins and never repent. Paul is saying God is able to confirm you, strengthen you in accordance with the gospel that I preach, so you might hold it rightly, believe it rightly, stand in it rightly. Paul tells us what the gospel is, the preaching of Jesus Christ. If you hear the proclamation of Jesus Christ, you're hearing the good news. When Jesus Christ is proclaimed, you should think: that's the gospel. That's the good news. Paul goes on to say that the apostles preached this gospel according to the mystery that was kept secret for long ages, Greek times eternal. But has now been disclosed, and through the prophetic writings, has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of faith. Now, Sikhs being kept secret and disclosed at a certain time, we're all familiar with Gender reveal parties is a big thing today. Pastor Ed Cathy, I saw this weekend, told me about one that his children had revealed to them the gender of their latest grandchild, a girl, by the way, if you were curious Or pregnancy announcements, aren't those fun secrets to keep until the right time? You keep secret that you're pregnant so you can tell your family at the right time and surprise everybody Here God had kept secret since the beginning of the world this mystery And what is the mystery? Jesus Christ. What is the mystery kept secret? Right, what we know as the gospel. When did this mystery begin to be disclosed? Christmas morning, when Jesus was given his name. When the child was born, given the name Jesus, now you can begin, though it took them thirty years to grow up in his ministry and Pentecost. Now you can begin to preach the mystery. Now you know the one kept secret. If you and I could get in the time machine and go back two thousand years, go back three thousand years, go back four thousand years, You know one name you wouldn't hear being preached? Jesus Christ. You wouldn't find churches celebrating the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. You wouldn't see people calling on the name of Jesus. You wouldn't see repentant sinners and their children being baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. That was all kept secret. These were not things celebrated on the earth. Don't misunderstand me Though we didn't know the name, it doesn't mean God had not given these promises and I hope in Messiah and Jesus wasn't there mediating through the covenant by his spirit It's just understanding that what we preach, what we believe, what we practice, what we do today was a secret. Nobody knew it. Now we're in in the secret. God's made us in. We know the secret. We know God's eternal purpose. We know He always planned to bring to pass. This gospel of his kingdom always planned to bring to pass that God would reign over the kingdom of men in the person of Jesus Christ the Son. And all that began on Christmas morning. So when you celebrate Christmas tomorrow, Christmas should be a time to rejoice in God's goodness. Don't you like when people tell you secrets, let you in, and you know? It should be time to remember we thank you, oh God, that we live in a day. Where the secret is out. We live in the day where it's public knowledge. We live in the day of the Messiah's kingdom. And it should eagerly again stir us up to more expectation. Because in Revelation 10, we're told that the mystery of God shall be completed one day. It's not even all done. It's not even all finished. God has not brought to pass the fullness of his eternal counsel and plan yet. I shall come when the Lord returns. And the new heavens, new earth are mean. So Christmas is about a promised cat. Christmas is about a mystery being revealed to us. And thirdly, Christmas is about the impossible happening. Rightly or wrongly, Mary raised an objection. How can this be, right? I'm a virgin. You just told me I'm going to have this child. And it seems like he's saying right now, well, how can these things be? Because I'm a virgin, I don't know man. And the angel answers her objection by telling her how this is going to happen It's going to happen by the power of the Holy Spirit. It's going to happen by the omnipotence of the Most High God. And then he encourages her that your cousin who was barren and late in life, she's had a child. And then tells her, nothing shall be impossible with God. Another way of translating the same phrase is No word of God shall be without power. Mary, you're going to have this child. You're going to have this child. Mary, this is going to come to pass. This is going to come to pass. Why is this gospel? Why is this good news to us? You know, one of the things that we'll see tonight when we mark is John tells us in his gospel: God came and walked on the earth. And he wasn't known. God came and walked on the earth, and he wasn't believed, wasn't worshipped. But God came and walked on the earth that we might maybe rethink who is our God. Because something terribly had gone wrong since the fall, right? We began to believe wrong things about God. To kind of use an analogy out to the season, we began to think God was more like Scrooge, right? Kept something back from us. He didn't want us to be happy. We believed a lie and we revolted from him. The mystery of Christ, the mystery of the gospel, the impossible happening, a virgin given birth, that doesn't happen, except with God. Is that many other things that can't happen apart from God might happen? And one of those things is your new birth If you're going to celebrate the birth of King Jesus tomorrow as happening by the might and power of God, you might also consider remembering your own new birth. The pouring out of the Holy Spirit, because that also is the impossible coming to pass. Given new life that we might know and love and understand who is our God That he would become a man. Who is of God that he would come and dwell amongst us and live with us Who is our God that he would eat with us and drink with us and preach to us and rebuke us and teach us and love us and heal us and help us and become our servants? Who is our God? Who is this God? And would die on the cross for our sins. Rise three days later, and he might baptize us in the Holy Spirit and bring us into his kingdom. Who is this God Let me end with this, beloved, as I said all along, Christmas is a wonderful thing to celebrate the birth of Jesus. As you celebrate and mark it tomorrow, mark God's faithfulness, rejoice in God's goodness in revealing to you his mystery, marvel at his wisdom that he is able to do this And to do the impossible. Let it also be a time to renew your hope. I'm beginning to receive some good news about someone I love dearly who the Lord may be changing his life That person you've been praying that the Lord would save and help, let this renew you to hope that all things are possible with God. But I don't want to end without saying this. I've said it, but I want to reinforce it. Why has God kept this promise? Why has God revealed this mystery? Why has God done the impossible in taking on flesh? Really all the events of the gospel? Why has he done this? Because he wants to bring about this one great end, the obedience of faith. He doesn't want, quote Reverend John Murray, an evanescent act of an emotion for a moment where you make some decision for Jesus because you're really hyped up God gives emotions. Emotions are fine. He often gives strong emotions when he's converting us to help us go the right way. But what God wants is obedience. He wants you to believe the word of Jesus, to repent, and you'll receive forgiveness. He wants you to believe the word of Jesus that come to me and find rest for your souls and I'll teach you. He wants to obey, as I read this morning, the word Jesus so that you'll love and be a good Samaritan. Could you imagine what the world would be like if we were all good Samaritans? Faith is a firm commitment to Jesus Christ. Jesus is a king. He demands allegiance. I really appreciate the old baptismal vows, Book of Common Prayer. Do you renounce the devil and all his works? And the pomp and vanity of the world with all of its desires and the carnal flesh. Of course, the answer should be yes if you're a candidate for baptism. Do you know what the next question asked is? Do you believe? And then the Repostle's Creed is recited. When we say the creed in our worship service, beloved, this is your vow of allegiance to Christ your King. This is the truth of who he is. This is the gospel being made known and declared, and you're saying, I believe these things in him And I firmly commit myself to him in wholehearted devotion, as he, my king, has given all of himself to me. That's the proper way to celebrate the communion, and that's the act that God wants you to do. God makes known his gospel to the nations because he wants every single person who hears his good news To obey the King. Every single person to come in the kingdom and commit themselves to Jesus Christ in wholehearted devotion. That's also doing the impossible You all know the wonderful story of the apostles, right? Fishermen and other things turning the world upside down, right? Again, if we could transport back in time. We would not see a world giving obedience to Christ. And you may say today, I don't see one today either. You do. You might not see it everywhere, but it's coming. It will happen. Jesus will return, and all will swear to him. So let's celebrate Christmas, but when you do it, beloved, mark it as a day when you will also give homage to the king. You also commit yourself in allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ. May God give you his grace, And may his spirit and joy be with you now and always and tomorrow as you celebrate the coming of Christ in the manger. But look forward to the coming of Christ at the end. And the way to look forward to them is by the obedience of faith. Amen.