Congregation of the Lord, let me remind you how we uh got to these questions for today. Last time we were together and looking at a scripture We considered who and who should not come to the Lord's Supper. And uh God Christ invites all those who are penitent. All those who know themselves to be sinners condemned by God's law, but justified and forgiven by his blood and have faith in their blood. And trust that the remaining weakness and corruptions truly pardoned by that same atoning death, and want to grow in godliness, those should come to the Lord's supper But ignorant people who know not the gospel of Christ, hypocrites, though that's when your mouth and heart don't don't match. You say one thing, but you're really different. Openly wicked, scandalous people should not come uh because they will eat and drink judgment upon themselves and and even bring down God's judgment upon a congregation because uh we remember the sacraments are are the same thing as God's Word Just made visible. Man did not come up with it. They're not a human institution. They're to received as the divine and holy word of God, made visible to us. His goodness in giving us signs and seals of of his gospel promised to us. And if we profane those, then we by admitting people unworthy to it who come not in faith and repentance, then we will only eat and drink that judgment on ourselves as a congregation. And therefore, with the power that Christ has given to his church, the keys of the kingdom, which we heard about there in the gospel They are to exclude such until a time and in the hope that they will return repent, reform their lives. And if probably I s out of all I say today to you, if I could get this across to you. is to have in your mind that discipline is spiritual remedies for salvation. They are not to be things to flee from. They are not to be things for the church, to be tentative, but we should tremble in fear as it's executed amongst us and seek fervently the Lord in united prayer and in the presence of Jesus promised to be with us But never be afraid in using them, because they are the spiritual remedies that Christ Himself has given to recover sinners from the personal admonitions that we're called to give each one of us to each other? The personal uh comfort and edifying in the teachings of scriptures that we're called to give, the personal one-on-one dealing we're to give in sin, all that, that is the authority given by Christ to the church to save sinners. And so we should never want to be hesitant or timid in using it, afraid to use them, if we use them in according to the ways that God has given to us to do that. My text for you this morning is Matthew chapter 16, verse 19. Because in that, as we look at it, contains all that uh is there. Now, we're not going to get into an entire discussion on church government and how all these processes and things uh work out We want to talk about the nature of these keys uh this morning. And we want to see who who holds them and why that's a good thing. Uh who has this authority that we're under. You know, if anything this text reminds us. That uh by God's grace we're in his kingdom. We're not the king of the kingdom. Christ is. And we need to honor that by honoring that authority he's given to us in his word and living according to it. So let us hear what God says. Matthew 16, verse 19, it says I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now that text contains two promises. Two promises that the Lord Jesus makes to Peter And Peter being a representative of the apostles that the Lord Jesus is making to his apostles. It's a promise that he's going to give to Peter the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and we'll we'll talk about that in a minute. And it's a promise then that Peter, by them and executing them, will be guided by God and will be speaking for God on earth as he binds and looses according to heaven. So these are two promises that the Christ King makes to Peter Regarding his church and for the good of his church. I think we could all trust and know. We know how much Jesus loves his church. He died for it. And we know that whatever authority he gives and invests for it in exercising it, it also is for the good of his body. Now, it's helpful, I think, for us to really appreciate what Jesus is saying if we remind ourselves a little bit of the context. If you look at verse 12, if we read, then they, the disciples, understood that Jesus did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread. But of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. You remember that Jesus warned them then they thought he was talking about earthly bread, and he says, You guys are of too little faith. Haven't I showed you that I've got enough bread in me to care for you for all your life? Stop worrying about earthly provisions. Let's stop worrying about that too, church. There's enough friend Jesus. He'll take care of us. He is concerned. About the unbelief being propagated by those who are supposed to know the truth and have the scriptures and are teaching people the exact opposite of what they say, that Jesus isn't the Messiah. He's not the one coming. He's not the one God sent. And you shouldn't listen to him and he can't save you. Now the church is surrounded by that unbelief today. There are still people teaching the exact opposite. What the church professes, what Peter professes, that Jesus is the Christ. He is the Son of God. And he is warning the church and warning these men beware of that false Teaching. So in the context of men who are actively opposing the revelation of God, Jesus then asked them, Well, who do men say that I am? And he exposes the absolute inability of flesh and blood Human wisdom, human effort, human endeavor, there's no microscope telescope big enough And microscope small enough, powerful enough to find Jesus Christ out by human searching. Man simply cannot know Christ until God reveals Christ to him. And then he asks Peter, Peter, well who do you say I am? And he answers rightly, you're the Christ. We came to you two years ago believing you were the Christ. And though, and still now, we've seen the same miracles they've seen? We've heard the same teaching you've taught all of them because you taught publicly. And we still believe you're the Christ, even though they say otherwise, and even though they say you're John the Baptist, you're Elijah, you're Jeremiah, you're some prophet We maintain that same profession we made two years ago, by God's grace, that you're the Christ. And Jesus says to them, you're blessed. Churches, remember if you make that profession, you're blessed. He calls him who he is, Simon. Remember that before Peter got the name Peter, he was Simon. Every numus Simon, son of Jonah. That's what bar Jonah means His flesh and blood hasn't revealed to you. My Father has revealed it. This is wonderful. Think about it. Christ Father in heaven, God the Father, was actively Revealing to Peter's mind who Jesus is. Now we we talk about the church having revelation, rightly the church has revelation. It is one thing to have it here. It's another thing to have it here. And to have it here. That takes still the same God revealing it. The same Spirit of God bringing you under the influences and power and revealing work of God to bring you to a saving knowledge and confession of Jesus. as the Christ and Son of God. So Jesus had already talked about how how how he thanked the Father that he he had hid all these things from the wise. And a babe like Peter would reveal to him the true knowledge of who Jesus is, God, God the Son. And you know, upon that then Jesus makes these really four promises regarding his church. I tell you, Peter, petros, means stone or rock. Upon this petra, I will build my church. I know it's debated what exactly that means. I'm not going to get into that debate I'll tell you what I think it means. I think it means Peter. I don't think it means Pope Peter. I don't think it means there's a succession of Peters from Peter. I think it means histor As the confession of Jesus Christ was the one who Jesus built his church on. That's what I think it means. And all the apostles, because they also made the same confession. And he's really representing him here The apostles. Jesus built his church on the apostles. But we shouldn't shy away from saying Peter, because he says Peter. We just don't mean by that Pope Peter, because there's no Pope Peter. And there's no succession from Peter of Popes today, the apostles. There's no succession to apostles. It's an office that doesn't exist anymore. The keys are in the scriptures. The office doesn't exist. There's no apostles on the earth today. They laid the foundation. Jesus built it on them. I will build my church. Now, and again, in the context, there was a church. The people of God that he brought from out Sinai and gave them his law and his revelation, that he had kept existence except their apostate. They're not believing. They're not repenting that Jesus is called to repent. They're not believing the good news that he's announcing to them that he's the Messiah. What's he gonna do? Is he does he fail? And I will build a church, a congregation, an ecclesia, an assembly. It'll be mine. Think about what he's saying. There were about twelve men who believe in him now Maybe twenty, maybe, maybe two dozen, maybe fifty, maybe there's a hundred and twenty after the resurrection that gathered there in Acts before Pentecost. Still a pretty small number to say I'm gonna have a church An assembly, a people throughout the world, as I died as a as a as a as a condemned criminal and the worst death you could die in the world, and yet I'm gonna have a church. I'm gonna people are gonna believe in me. This is an amazing problem. The same revealing activity that his father did to Peter. He's going to do to all of his people. He's going to build his church A big call I want to encourage us this morning, I hope we can take from this is what it means to be the church. What we have in possession given to us by God to be the church. He says the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it, you know, death. Nothing's going to overcome his church. He died for it and rose from the dead and has the keys of death and Hades in his hand, and those united to him by faith will live forevermore. This church 2,000 years is still continuing on earth, and the same unbelieving opposition, the same inability of men to come to the knowledge of it, the same devil opposing it, and yet it's still here. And then he turns to Peter. Peter, a fisherman casting nets in the sea, until two years ago. Peter, not a trained scribe. You remember what they say about Peter and John after Pentecost? These are unlettered men. These are uneducated men, these are idiotes. Unlearned men. Here, speaking boldly too. Jesus takes an unlettered, unlearned fisherman He's just said, Jesus, you're the king. And Jesus is saying, Peter, I'm going to give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. What do you mean by that? What are the keys to the kingdom of heaven? Now I know what our confession just said, and I agree with it, and yet they haven't really got at what the keys are either. Keys of the kingdom of heaven, they're a symbol of authority. As we read in uh Isaiah chapter 22, that Wicked Shebna who had exalted himself in Israel. He's probably a foreigner. God is going to replace him by his own man, his own servant, Eliakim. He's going to be over God's house. He's going to be given authority into his hand. He's going to be a father, because that's how God wants leaders in his church to rule, like a father in his house with tender mercy and love for the children in the house. to exhort them and encourage them and admonish them as a father with his children. And he says, I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of Deed. So Jesus, again, don't miss the significance of profession. He's saying, Jesus, you're you're the Christ, you're the king. And Jesus says, well You're the uh looking for a steward in my house. I'm gonna give to you the keys of the kingdom. Now, you have keys to your house, don't you? If I go to your house and you shut the door and lock it, am I getting in? I don't have authority over your house. You got authority over your house. As you're saying, he's saying to Peter, I'm giving you authority, Peter, over my house. I'm giving to you the keys of the kingdom of God. Kingdom of God means the rule of heaven. This what this doesn't mean is Jesus or Peter sitting at the gates of heaven And we'll let you in then. Because Jesus has told us they'll say to me that day, Lord, Lord, and he'll say, I never knew you if you're an unrepentant person who says, Lord, Jesus will be admitting into the kingdom then. He's talking about God's rule here on earth. As it has come, Christ reigns now. He's saying, Peter, I'm giving you charge over my house. That's what keys of the kingdom means a symbol of power. Again, that doesn't mean Pope Peter. It doesn't mean a succession of Peter. It means Peter. Jesus is saying to Peter, Peter, I'm going to make you the chief steward in my house. And you're going to be over my house. Now imagine you had a kingdom. Imagine you had a large estate and thousands of acres and a palace to run. Do you think you'd find a responsible steward? Somebody can help you manage all that for the good of it? Not to rule in it as a tyrant? Not to do with it what they please? Jesus is not giving up his authority here. He's delegating, right? He's the king And he's investing Peter with authority to be a steward in his house. A steward has a trust and a responsibility. He hasn't set Peter up as the next promise makes clear so that Peter can do what Peter wants to do in his house. Well that Peter will make sure that Jesus' house will operate as Jesus wants his house to operate. That's what the keys are given for. That's what the power and authority is given for. He's the king, and he is put in charge in his kingdom, his steward. To make sure that his kingdom is administered and ran and all the people in his kingdom may be cared for. and receive what they need so they can do the work in the kingdom that God's called them to. So they can have the resources that they need. So they can be given the teaching, the instruction and the wisdom imparted to them. They might know God's will. So the steward is there for the good of the church. Jesus will tell that parable later in chapter twenty-four. Who is a good steward over the house? Who will bring out for the servants the meat they need in due season, right? He's not setting up a Pope, setting up a steward in his house to care for. That's the first promise. Now the second promise, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. If you're if you're reading the ESV or in whatever you buy, You have a footnote. Mine is. You'll see there's a there's another way to translate the Greek here. In most English translations it reads, Whatever you bind shall be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose shall be loosed in heaven. Now let's notice a few things here. Notice that it's whatever you bind and not whomever you bind. It's talking about actions, behavior, not persons. There is a power to judge persons. That's in another passage of the Bible This is talking about before it comes to that determining what are the right actions that a person should be doing in the kingdom. It's whatever you bind. Now let's talk about the language binding and loosing for a minute. You'll hear, you know, Jesus, if you remember in the Gospels, will say, you scribes bind heavy things on the people. You sit in Moses' seat and you bind all these things, these burdens upon them, but you won't even move on with your finger. Binding and loosing is idiomatic, rabbinical term terminology to refer to saying what is permitted And un and not in and what is uh prohibited according to God's law. We know that there were schools of the rabbis, right? And some teach it is permitted for men to get a divorce on any grounds. Remember they asked Jesus that question. Some teach it is forbidden, you're bound not to get it only permitted in one area, fornication. So binding and loosing deals with what behavior is bound. That means you're bound to do it or you're bound not to do it. Loosing means here's behavior that you're permitted to do or permitted not to do. So binding and loosing deals with interpretation of God's law, of God's will. It binds you. It loosens you. And Jesus is telling Peter, Peter, whatever you bind, Here on earth will be bound in heaven. Whatever you lose here on earth will be losing. Peter, whatever you bind here, whatever you prohibit, because you have the keys of the kingdom, will be prohibited here As if it was prohibited in heaven, without authority of heaven behind it. Peter, whatever you loose here on earth and permit to be done in God's kingdom shall be loosed here and permitted to men. With the authority of heaven behind it. It's a promise that Jesus is saying. He's really, we've got to take this to heart. He's really giving Peter power. I hope we trust Christ really has authority. He's a king. He's a real king. And he really has authority. And God really says you all need to repent and come under it, right? Because that's that's how we get saved And he's really given authority to his apostle Peter, and he's really telling Peter, Peter, You're in my kingdom. You're going to be telling men here on earth what is forbidden to them to do And what is permitted for them to do? I can't believe how much time has gone by and I feel like I've only been talking for ten minutes. I'll try to get through this, but uh I'm on a roll here and this is important stuff Um let me make clear what this text is not saying. If you keep it how it's translated here, it sounds like what it's saying is Peter Heaven is going to be responding to you. Whatever you bind here, then it's also going to be bound in heaven so that heaven is responding to Peter's rule. That's what it sounds like in the Engels. But this is not a promise to Peter that he's going to be binding heaven and making heaven respond to what Peter says we should and shouldn't do in God's kingdom. It's a promise that Peter's going to have help and guidance and God's going to be speaking through him. Because another way, again, if you look at the footnote, is you can translate it, and I think you should translate it Whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven. Now that's a mouthful. And in Greek it's a mouthful. It's it's It sounds as awkward in Greek as it sounds in English to say it's it's called a future perfect And there's a lot of smart grammar and people that look through it. And there are some legitimate cases in scripture where you can take a future perfect and make it a m a mere future like it's usually done here, but there are other times when you shouldn't And here's a case when you shouldn't, because there's not intervening words between certain things, and so ask me later if you want to know more detail. But it's important because what he's saying is Peter, you fisherman, whom God is blessed and is speaking to and is divinely inspiring you. You're going to have help in this job. And what you forbid on earth will already have been forbidden in heaven. What you permit on earth will already have been loosed and permitted in heaven. It's heaven's way of life will be revealed through Peter, is what Jesus is promised. He's promising, Peter, you're going to be my royal scribe, my royal steward in my kingdom, and all you apostles. And God is going to be speaking through you men to bind the behavior of members of my church here on earth. That's what he's promising them. And you're going to have help in it. You're going to be inspired. What you say will be what heaven says. That's Jesus' promise to these men. I don't have time, but as you can understand, there's inspiration behind this. As we even see in the text, he says, God revealed this to you. That's inspiration. That's illumination in a unique way that God reveals, is already revealing to Peter the truth. And Jesus, he promised them when I leave, he says, and John, I've got many things to tell you guys. But time's up. But I'm going to give you the Spirit of truth. He's going to guide you into all truth. It's John 16, 12 and 13. He's going to tell you the things to come. God truly spoke through the apostles. What the apostles say truly binds you It truly looses you. It binds you in what to believe. It binds you in what to do and not to do. It truly permits you in what to do. It is real authority God gave to these apostles. Now, let me say something about this because every believer has illumination John deals with that in 1 John. You have the spirit of truth, and that spirits in all of you, and he's teaching all of you. But then he'll also say that in 1 John 4, you need to test the spirits. How do you test him? Well, he says those who went out from us of the church weren't listening to us in the first place, and they're listening to the world. So the inspiration God gives you as believers, the illumination he gives to your mind You're to check it by what the apostles say. That's how you know its truth. That's how you know a believer truly has the Spirit and truly being guided by it. Are they listening to what the apostles said? Or are they listening to what the world is saying? Because the apostles and the world don't say the same thing. Because God and the world don't say the same thing The world is under, if you will, the inspiration of the devil. Deceit and lies. The church is under the inspiration of God. The church has the truth of God. The church has the way of God. And the church has the keys of God given to it in the scriptures. Now with this inspiration then as you can see comes truly as I've made the point binding and loosing. The apostles are truly setting up in their right. Now remember, we we are all blessed. We're used to We think Matthew, Mark, and Luke was there from the beginning. They weren't. What Matthew, Mark, and Luke say was from the beginning. We think Paul's letters and Peter's letters were there from the beginning. They weren't How do they know the truth of Jesus? Remember, what's the context? Beware of these guys, because they're not telling you the truth. And all these men, they don't know up from down, because human philosophy can't tell you the truth of God. Even the philosophy can they can get little glimpses of it. And they shine in little hopeful ways. But they never have the real depth and life-changing and penetrating power of God's Word that really situates for your life. And if you try to walk by human wisdom, you're going to find unhappiness and shallowness. But if you will walk by God's word, if you will be bound by what the apostles say, you will be loosed by what they do, you will have true divine wisdom guiding, directing you. Helping you, setting you free. God did not set up tyrants in his church. Set up a steward. Because Jesus wants you to have the truth. In his wisdom, he picked twelve men to give that to you. And he wrote it here that you might have it. Now they are truly given The power then to judge if you're not going to be bound by what the apostles say in the gospel and believe it and confess Jesus as Lord and Savior If you're not going to be bound by what they say, and if you're going to continue in sin, because remember, binding and loosing is dealing with what is sin and what isn't What is permitted for you to do and what is prohibited for you to do? If you're not going to be bound and loose by that, well, Jesus in giving those keys also gives them judicial authority. He promises them in John 23: whomsoever sins you remit will be remitted. Whosoever sins you retain will be retained. Why and how? Through the preaching of the gospel that we heard. All who believe it's declared. It was declared to you this morning, right? I made the declaration from Scripture. All the prophets say whoever believes in Jesus will be forgiven. That's the declaration, and all who believes that Your sins are forgiven. The apostles aren't personally forgiving. They're declaring how sins can be forgiven and what is the way to repentance and faith. But when men, as Paul says, he had to chide the Corinthian church, because the church wasn't doing what it should be doing. It wasn't judging an open, impenitent sinner. Because God has bound us. We're a holy people. Because of the true doctrine that our Passover has been slain. We're to keep the festival. The purity of the church is at stake, and with the purity of the church, the peace of the church. But the church also, so it has the power to forgive sins, has the power to remit sins or to retain them. And they are held against all who are impenitent, all who are unbelieving, and declare to be forgiven. What is he right to the man, a man that they excommunicated? I tell you now to forgive him. A true pardon. A true welcoming back. A true receiving into the communion. To the carrying out of the keys. Again, because the keys are given as spiritual remedies If you know somebody in your life, beloved, who is in sin, the worst thing you can do to them is be silent. You need wisdom in how to do it, and I hope you're pleading with God for it. Admonitions, who will ever repent if they are not admonished? Who will ever believe if they are not taught the truth? You know, because the keys, as Jesus says, yes, the apostles had in a special way, but in a real way, the church carries that authority too. Each individual Christian is to deal privately first. Each individual Christian is to admonish. That's Romans 15, 14. And only then, when it is not worked out personally, is the church to get involved. And the authority of the whole assembly is to be brought to bear to recover the sinner. So really my my exhortation to us this morning, if I had a kingdom and I set up a steward over God's house, you know what I'd want the people in that house to do? Listen to my steward. Jesus is a king. Jesus has a kingdom. Jesus has a church. And he has set up stewards in that church. The Word of God, the apostles. The best thing we can do? These appointed pastors, these appointed elders that teach only what the apostles ever taught? To correct the faults of the members only according and in the ways and manners that the apostles taught, to not depart one iota from their foundation. But the best thing we can do is pray for it. And put ourselves under the authority of God's word. I know I feel like I'm probably preaching to the crowd here because I know you love the authority of God's word, and yet at ways as sinners we always shy away from it too. So need to be reminded that if we depart away from it All we have is hopeless unbelief. All we have is the wisdom of man that can't know anything, versus here we have what truly pleases God. You can walk by the behavior bound and loosed in heaven. If you will bind and loose yourself by what the apostles have bound and loosed you by. That's a wonderful thought in the church, isn't it? Church is going to stand out from society, don't you think? And then the church will be the church when it stands out. So let me encourage you to, and what this is really getting at then is realize the sufficiency of God's word in all areas of life, because the way inspiration is being attacked today, congregation, is by attacking its sufficiency. It's sufficient for religious things, but it's not sufficient, you know, for science and school and education and and Well, it was culturally okay or culturally bound in Paul's day not to let women teach, but you know, since we're freed and emancipated from that culture, you know, we can be too conform to our own culture today. Churches are doing that, aren't they? Well, the apostle didn't bind and loose you by the culture of God, of the day Paul speaks to you from creation. Paul speaks to you from Christ. He binds you as Jesus says himself, he's promising these men truly were inspired. And what they say truly is my will revealed to mankind. And if you are to be my church, then you need to be bound, and you need to be loosed by this. I I find it helpful to to learn this terminology as you go through scripture as you read your Bibles today later and your daily reading when you Get to all those places and the apostles are telling you what to believe and the apostles are telling you what not to do and apostles are telling you what you can do, think they're binding me. They're losing me, and you should rejoice. I'm not bound by Satan's lies then. I'm not bound by the wisdom of man and human philosophy that'll lead me into a shallow, hurting, empty life But I truly am bound by the Word of God. I truly know what pleases God. And the church will truly be a society that is holy. And helpful and loving and joyful as we walk in God's place. So let us all, congregation Rejoice in King Jesus. Let us all, congregation, listen to the voice of King Jesus. And put ourselves under the keys and the authorities of King Jesus as he has given to us in his word. May his word bind you. May his word lose you. Amen