John 3, beginning at verse 22. After this, Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing. John also was baptizing at Anon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized. For John had not yet been put in prison. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him. John answered A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God For he gives the Spirit without measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. The word of the Lord. Let us pray. Well Lord, help us now to listen with our ears and our minds And give us the help of the Holy Spirit who inspired these words, without which all is vanity and worthless. Amen. So now we come to these verses, and we just read them, verse 22 through 24. Tells how Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside. So they had been down at Bethany baptizing, and that's where Jesus was baptized by John. Now there's a change, a movement, to the Judean countryside, probably not very far, but there he was. And John, it says in verse 23, was also baptizing at Anon near Salim. That's not a very far distant place. And it says, because water was plentiful there and people were coming and being baptized. And then verse 24, for John had not yet been put in prison. The New Testament commentator Barnes says this about the place where these baptisms were taking place. He says, because there was much water there. And discussing that phrase, he says John's preaching attracted great multitudes. That's the point of this being said It appears that they remained with him probably many days, the people who came to be baptized. In many parts of that country, particularly in the hilly region near where John preached. it was difficult to find water to accommodate the necessities of the people, and perhaps also of the camels with which those who came were accompanying. To meet their necessities as well as for the purpose of baptizing, he selected a spot that was well watered, probably with springs and little rivers and creeks. And that, he says, is whether the ordinance of baptism was performed by immersion or any other mode, the point of the waters and the many waters and the much waters is that that was needed for the people to be there. Not for a particular mode to be performed. So he says, the emphasis was not on the water But upon the water for the crowd, but water for the animals, a water for drinking and for bathing and so forth, for cooking And the place was not far from where Jesus and his disciples were who had also been baptizing. It is clear in this little bit that John has been riding a wave of interest in repentance. People have been coming to him, crowds have been coming, and he moved from one place to another so that more people from a different part of the area could come and be baptized into this baptism of repentance. Many were hoping and preparing for God to send the Messiah. They had this common idea that something was about to happen, and so they were entering into repentance. in preparation for it. There were different ideas about what the Messiah would be when he came, but many people agreed that something was about to happen, and so they came and were baptized. Now in verse 25, listen to this. A discussion arose between some of John's disciples, John the Baptist's disciples. and a Jew over purification. So baptism as a purification ritual was sometimes performed On Gentiles. Did you get that? It was performed on Gentiles. When a Gentile wanted to become a Jew, wanted to enter into Jewish life. One of the things that would happen to some of them would be baptism, washing. It was basically saying, you Gentiles are outsiders, you're impure. You don't belong here. So you have to go through this ritual of being baptized and being washed so that you're clean enough to be among God's chosen people. But John was baptizing who? Was he baptizing Gentiles? He was baptizing Jews. Jews were coming. And they were repenting. And they were saying, we're not clean either. We have to be prepared. We're not ready So they were also being baptized, and that probably created this conflict, this discussion that's being discussed, that's being mentioned here. Josephus and Philo tell about the Essene community. The Essene community eventually produced the Qumran scrolls. And the Essene community were probably the people who were involved in these ritual purifications that John was mimicking in some fashion here. Part of their activities included purification by water rituals. And so they were a lot alike what John was doing. And then we get to the provocation of changes in John's ministry. He had been baptizing people, Jews and Gentiles, I suppose. Anyone who wanted to believe that God was sending the Messiah and were wanting to be prepared for it, he was baptizing, and people were coming to him. But then this change was happening. This change was in the air. In verse 26. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, Jesus. Look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him. Change is in the air John's disciples are concerned about this change in popularity. John had been a different sort of person than this Jesus is, who's now gaining the popularity. People are going to him. And John had been very different from Jesus, you see. Let me give you some of that. John had been a Nazarite from his birth. That's described in Luke chapter 1. That no that he wouldn't drink anything, he would be filled with the Holy Spirit from his mother's womb. He would he would keep various things that are described and comport with being a Nazarite. No wine No haircut, many rules against defilement. And John was described as the guy out in the wilderness eating locusts. And it wasn't because he liked locusts, I don't think, so much. and eating wild honey, and he was wearing sackcloth, which is the the robe of repentance. And he was wearing rough clothing. And that's described in various places in the New Testament. You remember from Luke chapter 1. When the angel declared to John the Baptist's father, Zechariah, that he was going to be born. He said, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. And here's the Nazarite part. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And so here's this John, grown up, out in the wilderness. Eating what he eats, wearing what he wears, being rather ascetic, and baptizing people to repentance. What's Jesus like in contrast Jesus was revealing himself surrounded by pleasures and joys of life. Wine and feasting, you see. Jesus had gone to a wedding and celebrated with the couple and created all this wine so that they could carry the wedding on in a wonderful messianic fashion. John's view of the kingdom had been that of preaching in the wilderness away from the world, in seclusion, asceticism, and restraint. And in great contrast, Jesus manifested his glory at that public event of the wedding. A party. But now John was seeing I believe he was perceiving that the kingdom was not to be a fast, after all, but a joyful feast. It was to be a feast of the wedding of heaven and earth, the wedding of God and his faithful remnant. So John's message was what? It was the axes laid to the root of the trees. Fire, judgment, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Where now is that fire that scorches everything and purifies everything and tears down and destroys things? But now he's beginning to see, no, I guess the kingdom isn't just that. It's a feast, it's a party, it's joyful. And so he accepted to some extent this new revelation, and he began to then see his own place in it. And we see that in the next part, the development of John's self-understanding. Verse 27, what does he say? He says this. A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given to him from heaven. When John's disciples questioned him, he said, I'm not complaining that people are going to Jesus. He wouldn't have that popularity if it weren't given to him from heaven. He is the Messiah. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. I'm not complaining about that. It was given him from heaven. And then he says in verse 28, you yourselves bear me witness that I said I am not the Christ. But have been sent before him. He's saying it's okay. I am not the Christ. I don't need the popularity. I don't need to keep people coming to me And then he says this in verse 29, and this is where I want to spend some time. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. It's going back to that wedding thing. The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. And the pulpit commentary says this about that phrase in verse 29. He says, John the Baptist makes use of another remarkable image with which he was familiar. The prophets had often used the figure of God as a husband, brokenhearted over his bride who has become unfaithful to him, yet even marrying her a second time after her unfaithfulness. God's king is set forth as the bridegroom of the true Israel. And that's why we read Psalm 45, which in verses 10 through 15 Tell about a wedding between God and his bride. Listen to it again. Hear, O daughter, and consider and incline your heart. Forget your people and your father's house. It sounds like leave your father's house, leave your father behind, and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your Lord, bow to him. Here's the wedding gifts. The people of Tyre will seek you your favor with gifts. The richest of people, wedding gifts are going to be brought. All glorious is the princess in her chamber with robes interwoven with gold. In many colored robes she is led to the king. This is a wedding. With her virgin companions following behind her, with joy and gladness, they are led along as they enter the palace of the king for this wedding. And John is remembering that. He's saying, you know, I understand this better now. The kingdom of God is a wedding. It's not a fast, it's a feast, it's joyful, it's a wedding. And he remembered pl passages like Isaiah 54 where Where Isaiah says, For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name, and the Holy One of Israel is your redeemer, the God of the whole earth is he called. And Hosea, the story of Hosea the prophet, who plays out this divorce between God and his wife Israel, and then the remarriage. And in verse later on in verse chapter 2, he says, and I will betroth you to me forever. I will betroth you to me in righteousness. and in justice, in steadfast love and mercy, I will betroth you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord. So John is putting these things together and saying, yes, now I understand the kingdom of God is a wedding. God is going to marry his people. It was also maybe Ezekiel 16, where God took Israel as a bride, but she came unfaithful to him, and then he took her back. Or the Song of Solomon. I almost made that an Old Testament reading, but I couldn't find a part that wasn't racy. That wasn't overtly sexual. So I didn't want to ask one of our elders to do that, uh even though it is holy scripture. It's an amazing love story. Even very explicit sexual love in the marriage of Solomon and his bride. But many believe it also prefigures God's love for Israel and Christ's love for the church. So John the Baptist might easily be thinking of these Old Testament themes as he's exploring this question of his place. It's also possible that he had been profoundly touched by the news that he had heard about Jesus attending that wedding at Cana in Galilee. And making all that wine to keep the wedding going. So what does he see himself as? What does he see himself as? He sees himself as the best man, the best man. Now, I have been a best man, but I don't think I really understood the duties of a best man. So I went to an internet website to find out what the duties of the best man are And it says there, being asked to be the best man in a wedding is a great honor. We don't get to be bestowed with the title best very often in our lives. It shows that your friend or family member holds your relationship in great esteem. You've been given, you've been asked to be his go-to guy in life. So now he needs you to be the point person during his weighty rite of passage. So don't just shuffle through your role. Instead help your buddy through the most important day of his life by stepping up and fulfilling your duties with competence. And then here's the list. Before the wedding, the best man is to plan the bachelor party. He won't go there. He is next to get fitted for a tux or suit. And to make sure that all the groomsmen do as well. Then the best man is to go to the rehearsal. It can't start without you, this says, so be sure to arrive on time. Then go to the rehearsal dinner. And if you make a toast there, hold off your big speech for the wedding reception. You don't want to use your best material up. And then on the day of the wedding, the best man is uh is to take the burdens off of the groom, take the stresses off the groom You're to be his go-to guy, supporting and assisting. You're to be his valet. You make sure that things are in place, that the groom has what he needs, gets to where he needs to be, and stays relaxed. If you do your job right, the groom will only need to worry about walking down the aisle, it says. And then before the ceremony, it says hang out with the groom as he dresses for the ceremony. Keep your friend calm and relaxed, although not with spirits, it says, and skip questions like, dude, are you sure you want to go through with this? Uh make sure the groom has whatever he needs. His luggage, his tickets, his passport, put into the car. Drive the groom over to the wedding location. Get there at least 30 minutes early. Distribute the boutine ears and make sure the groomsmen know how to wear them. And then at the ceremony, enter with the groom and make sure you have the ring and you can get it out of your pocket. And then don't faint, it says, because you'll end up on America's Funniest Home videos if you do Escort the maid and matron of honor out of the church at the conclusion of the ceremony, sign the marriage license, and at the reception dance with the matron or maid of honor Kick off the toasting with the best man speech. That's where you use that material. Decorate the getaway car. And then finally, after the wedding, bring the groom's tucks to the cleaners or back to the rental shop. And take care of all these details. Well, enough of that. But that's something about a modern best man, isn't it? And what he should do. Now, Michael Card wrote a book about the Gospel of John, which someone loaned to me, very good book, and it's called A Parable of Joy. And he takes this best man idea from verse 29 and expounds on it in a beautiful way. He explains that in Jewish culture, the best man, who is called the Soshben, Serve the groom during the wedding. There would be various comparisons and contrasts with the modern best man. He would be the groom's closest friend, but he would also be the one who the groom could count on and trust to help guard his greatest treasure, his beloved bride So there's a difference there. He would help make all the preparations for his friend, making sure this day would be perfect for him and his bride. But here's the difference. After the ceremony, it was customary for the Soshben to escort the bride from the chamber. No, to escort the bride from the banquet to the bridal chamber. You've got to get that in your mind. Leave the banquet and go to the bridal chamber. where she would prepare herself for her groom and what would follow that night. The social then would then guard the door. Because in those days, sometimes brides were stolen. Once the groom stepped into the chamber, the sochven's job would be done The stipulation of the custom would be that he would then go away rejoicing. Now compare that to verse 29, what John said Says, the one who has the bride is the bridegroom, the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him at the door of the bridal chamber Rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. And then he says, Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. He sees himself as a biblical best man. Biblical best man. And he says in verse 30, he must increase, but I must increase. decrease. He found his place in the story of God's kingdom. And then we get finally to verses 31 and following, where John gives another one of these summaries or sermons. After what's been said, what's been described, the narrative part, he gives a summary. And he says this: He who comes from above is above all. He who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. Jesus is the one who comes from above. John is the one who's from earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony. He's saying, this is what he said several times before. That he came into his own, and his own did not receive him. Some people don't receive him. But when he says that, no one receives his testimony. He doesn't mean it absolutely, because in the next verse he says, whoever does Some people do receive, whoever does, whoever receives, and that is in the airest participle. F. F. Bruce says That word receives is a decisive act whereby a man decides to accept Jesus. Whoever receives Jesus Sets his testimony and sets his seal to this, that God is true. That God is true. In other words, this is describing conversion. This is describing a decisive act. Many people will turn away. Many will not receive him. But when someone does receive him, He is saying, I certify that God is true. It's like an affidavit that's been signed and witnessed. I certify that Jesus is the Messiah. I certify that God is true. I believe in Him. I trust in Him. That's the kind of faith that John is asking people to have, calling them to. And then verse 34. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God. That's why I know it's true. It's the words of God. And then he says, for he, Jesus, gives the Spirit without measure. He said that he would baptize with the Holy Spirit. And he says it's happening. Jesus gives the Spirit without measure. Jesus pours forth faith into those who otherwise would not receive. And they, in response, certify that God is true. The Father, he says in verse 35, loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. I'm not worried about who's popular and who's getting the crowds, because I believe, he says. And you should believe that the Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hands, whatever it is that happens. And he wraps it all up with this verse. Whoever believes in the Son, And the Greek there has it as a present possession. Whoever believes in the Son has present possession. Now, today. 1052. Whoever believes that 1052 now has eternal life. Present possession. On the other hand, whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. John came as the sushben, the best man for Jesus, preparing all who believe for their union with the Trinity, a wedding party that will never end. And by these very same words, you are invited to come. You are urged to decisively believe And have eternal life now and have it forever. Do you believe in him? If you do, are you calling others around to believe in Him? Do you look at yourself under God's wrath by nature on the one hand? And yet see God's love in sending the Savior. And do you therefore say, I decide to trust in Jesus? I certify that God is true. I urge you to do this now. And I urge you to proclaim it to others around you. Amen. Lord, we thank you for John's ability to think things through. To weigh the evidence from the Old Testament and from the circumstances of what Jesus was doing and saying And to find his place as the best man. We thank you that you are sovereign That you give the Spirit without measure, that you open hearts, that you bring forth faith, and that you cause your people to certify that God is true. And to trust in Christ. We pray that now, even now, if there's anyone present, Lord, who has not yet come to trust in Christ. That they will, by the Spirit's power and by faith given by Him, trust in Christ and certify that God is true. And we pray, Lord, that you'll help us to be a people who proclaim, who stand and say He is the Savior, He is the Messiah, He is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Help us to be willing to decrease so that you might increase. Through Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen.