Please open your Bibles to the book of Isaiah, chapter 25, verses 6 through 9. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. For the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The reading is from John chapter 11, 1 through 45. We're only going to read down through verse 16 today. Because that's what I'm taking. John eleven, one through sixteen. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister. Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to the disciples, let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in a day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we pray now that you'll attend the preaching of your word as you attend the reading of your word. May we profit greatly from your word. Enabled by your Spirit, applied to our hearts and minds and lives, may it heal us and help us. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, first thing I want to point out to you is that the world is an ad in an abnormal condition. It's in an abnormal condition, not normal. In case you children wonder what abnormal means, not normal, not natural. Sickness and death are not. Natural. Uh there's a commercial on TV. I think it's related to some company called CarMax or something like that. And uh it talks about the the process of buying a car and getting the price and and all these things. And then it says at the end as a slogan That's the way car buying was meant to be. And I think, meant by who? You know, you might want to say that's the way car buying ought to be. I understand. Understand that, but meant to be meant means someone meant it. And uh no one means anything about car buying. But guess what? God meant something when he created this world, he did not mean it to be Full of sickness and death. It's abnormal. And we see that here in this condition that is brought forward. Verses 1 through 3. Now a certain man was ill, sick, Lazarus of Bethany. And by the way, Lazarus is kind of an abbreviation or shortened of Eliezer, which means the one who the Lord helps. So it's kind of an easy Interesting configuration of things here. Lazarus of Bethany, the one who the Lord helps. The village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair. So we're talking about a particular Mary, whose brother Lazarus was ill. Abnormal condition. So the sisters sent to him, because they know Jesus is Has power to heal. So they send to him. They send to him saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. Now they don't order Jesus around. They just say, we just tell him. We just tell him that the one he loves is ill, then he'll pack up real fast and he'll come and take care of it because that's what Jesus Oh, he'll do that for us if we if we just let him know. So that's the condition. The world is abnormal, and here's a case of it. Abnormality, illness. And uh I just want to remind you that God created the world good. That's one of the answers to one of the the questions I gave to the kids. In Genesis chapter one God says it over and over. In verse 10, after he creates the dry land and the earth and the waters and calls them seas, and God saw that it was good. And then he goes down in the next bit in verse 12, after he creates the word the seed and the birds and the trees, I mean, um And he says, and God saw that it was good. And then again in verse 18, he created the lights and the darkness, and God saw that it was good. And he created the winged animals, the things that swarmed in verse 21, and God saw that it was good. And then in verse 24, he created beasts of the earth and livestock and all those things that creep on the ground, and God saw that it was good. I don't think God could say it was good if it was red in tooth and claw with death everywhere and violence, predators and Destruction. God said that it was good. It was a peaceful kingdom. I don't know how that is, but somehow it was. That's what God said And then in verse 27 and following, God made man in his image. He made man, and man is the crown of creation. And God blessed them, male and female he made them. And in verse 31, and God saw everything that he had made, and here's the crowning word, and Look, behold, it was very good. That's the way God created the world. Very good. Not a world that's coming apart and decaying. and rotting and sickness and death. That's abnormal to the way God created the world. But as you know in Genesis Genesis chapter 2, the very next chapter, the Lord God put the man in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. Verse fifteen. And then verse sixteen, the Lord commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree in the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And they did, you know. They did eat of it. Now, I wonder if the whole paradise, the garden, looked different ten minutes after the eating of the forbidden fruit. I don't think so. I think it looked the same. They probably didn't say, wow, everything has changed. It's just terrible now. They probably thought nothing happened. at first. But like leaven. A pinch of leaven in a little bit of dough works its way through and Expands and permeates everything, death began to work. And we see that in the earlier chapters of Genesis, where people lived a long, long time, but then they died And then as we go further and further into history, the lifespan becomes less and less. And there's always death at the end of these lifespan genealogies in the Bible We see it also in Romans chapter 5, verse 12, where Paul, the great apostle, says, Therefore just in sin came into the world through one man and death through sin. That's where sin, that's where death came from, through sin, through the first sin. So death spread to all men because all sinned. So that's the first thing I want you to note here. This is an action Abnormal condition where Lazarus is sick, and his sisters call for the great healer, Jesus, to come and heal him. The second thing I want to point out is that God loves us in sickness and death. God loves us. In sickness and death. We read earlier in John, in John 3:17, that Jesus came not to condemn the world, but to save it. So that's his goal, that's his purpose with us. And God loves us even in sickness and death. He's glorified in our sufferings. Verse 4. When Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death, not ultimately It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, it is the glory of God, it is the glorious purpose of God to fix the broken world. That's what he's doing, and that's what he's finally going to accomplish completely. Fix the broken world. And we see See that picture in Revelation chapter 21, where it says this. Then I saw John gets his I saw a new heaven and new earth. John, who's on an island, he has been exiled there for the testimony of Christ. He is being persecuted. He's likely to die there, quite possibly. He is not in a good condition. He's marooned there, imprisoned there, but he sees something. of the glory of the future. I saw new heaven and new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. A spotless bride. Perfect bride. Adorned for her husband. We're going to be perfect. We're going to be that perfect, spotless, adorned bride. Not besmirched and twisted and broken. And I heard a loud voice from the throne, a loud voice Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God, and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And death shall be no more. That's what God is going to do. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain, for the former things have passed. God's glory is to bring about healing of the world, healing of his people. And that's what Jesus says. This is for the glory of God. This is going to happen for the glory of God. God's going to make it for his glory. Now, verse 5. Now Jesus loved, see, there it is again. He loves those who are sick. He loves those who are in distress. Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. He loves them even in this condition. So verse 6 says, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place that he was. That doesn't make sense. If you love somebody, you're going to run and you're going to get there as fast as possible and take care of it. And Jesus doesn't do that. Then verse 7, then after this the disciples said, let us go. Then after this he said to the disciples, He, Jesus, said, let us go to Judea again. Now, he's on the other side of the Jordan at a place called Bethany. And if you look back to chapter 10, Jesus is there. Why? Because at the feast of dedication The Jews were picking up stones, ready to stone him to death, but he slipped out of their presence, and then he and his disciples went over to the other side of the Jordan. So he's been over there. That was in December, and he's probably now it's about January or February. He's been over there, and they're so happy that we've gotten away from Jerusalem, we've gotten away from Judea, we've gotten away from the threat of stoning and death and imprisonment and all that. And Jesus says, let's go back. To Judea. Of course, that's where Lazarus is in Judea, Bethany. And the disciples, therefore, verse eight say, Rabbi That's crazy. Rabbi, the Jews were just now, a couple months ago, seeking to stone you. Are you going there again? And Jesus gives us an interesting answer that we need to understand. It's not that hard, really. Jesus answered, are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because it sees the light of this world. But if he walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. And what Jesus is saying with that little illustration is there's a right time to do something and there's a wrong time to do something. It's not a good time to walk at night because you're going to stumble at night. It's a good time to walk in the day so that you can see what you're walking on. And he's saying, I know what the right time is I'm not in doubt about that. Why? Because I always listen to my heavenly Father. I always do what I hear him say I should do. So I'm not going to go at the wrong time. If I say let's go to Judea, it's time to go to Judea because I know that it's daytime. Time to walk. That's what he's saying in the illustration. My timing, Jesus is saying, my action is perfect. Because I've listened to the Heavenly Father. So that's what Jesus is saying in all these things. He loves us in his in even in our sickness and death. That isn't going to change his life. Love in a broken, fallen world. But then the third thing to point out here: the power of God transforms death into sleep. The power of God transforms death into sleep. Verses 11 through 15. 11. After these things he said to them, Our friend Lazarus. has fallen asleep. But I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he will recover. They think, this is good medicine, you know. Let him sleep. They don't want to go back to Judea anyway. Verse 13. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest and sleep. Jesus told them plainly. Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I'm glad that I was not there so that you may believe, but let us go to him. Now God, the Lord Jesus changes. Death, the term death, he's okay to use the term death, by the way. He said Lazarus has died. But he uses a different way of describing it, sleep. We have this also in 1 Corinthians 15, where the Apostle Paul, the great apostle, says, But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. To die united to Christ is not separation from God. It is sleeping in the arms of Jesus. It's sleeping in the arms of God. It's fallen asleep. That's a good euphemism for it, because it's a true statement. And Paul says, for as by man came death, by man has also come the resurrection of the dead. There's hope. In 1 Thessalonians 4. He says to the Christians, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. That you may not grieve as others who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare by the word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have, there it is again, fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with a voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet sound of God, and the dead in Christ, not just the dead. But the dead in Christ will rise first. So Paul teaches these things. And the Luke recording things In the book of Acts also says about David. He says, for David, after he has served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep. So it's not just Paul who uses that term. He fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and so forth. You'll have to excuse me for this. One of my pet projects is to expunge the phrase passed away as an expression of death Now, if you use the phrase passed away in my presence, I won't snap at you. I won't say anything. I'll try to keep my mouth. I know it's not some sinister heresy, but there are better words, there are biblical words to just talk about death. Death is one of them. Jesus used it. But there are better words. I would offer two biblical expressions as replacements. About someone who dies. We should say they died united to Christ, or they died in Christ, or they are asleep in Jesus. Those are appropriate terms for Christians. And uh I got a Facebook message this week from my dear friend uh um His wife was Mark, his name is Mark, but his wife was mentioning that it's two years ago, August 25th. That Mark, her husband, entered the perfect peace and rest in the arms of his heavenly father. And then she says, in the blink of an eye, we'll be together again. That's what a Christian says. That's what this Mark was my best man at our wedding. He died two years ago, August 25th. In the resting in the arms of his heavenly father. That's the Christian place. That's the Christian way of understanding these things. For a non-believer The kindest thing we might be able to say is that they have died and now await the resurrection and final judgment. That's true. Don't talk like people who are not Christians, who lived apart from Christ all their life and died. Don't talk like they went to heaven. That's ridiculous. You don't have to talk like they went to hell necessarily, but try to put it biblically. They have died and await the final judgment at the Resurrection. Fourth point and final point I want to make here. And we get this in an indirect kind of way in verse 16. It is Thomas, Thomas's prophetic sigh. Thomas is the one who said We shouldn't go back there. They're trying to kill us. He's one of them. So Thomas sighs in verse 16. So Thomas called the twins, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. What he's basically saying, if we go back to Judea, Jesus, you're gonna die And Jesus says, let's go. I know when the right time to go is. I know it's time to go now. Let's go. And then Thomas says, Let's go also that we may die with him. Now, Thomas is just sighing with sarcasm. He doesn't want Jesus to go back there, but his utterance, I believe, is nonetheless prophetic. And here's how I mean it. The only way to be raised from the dead is to live with Christ and to die with him If we're going to be raised from the dead, if we're going to live forever with Christ, we must all go and die with him. He didn't mean it that way, but I think it was prophetic. The Apostle Paul says in Romans 6 to the Christians: Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We have to die with him. Verse 4, we were buried therefore with him by baptism into death. We have to be united with him in his death. In order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we had been united with him in a death like his by faith We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. If you want to be raised from the dead and live with Christ forever, you have to be united with him in his death. And then Paul goes on to say, now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. And he says something very similar in Colossians 3, which I read at the beginning of the sermon. If you've been raised with Christ, set your mind on things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. For you have died You have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. If you want to be raised with Christ, you have to have been buried with Him. You have to die with Him. The Holy Spirit unites us to Christ. We are accustomed to emphasize our being given his righteousness by this union, and that's absolutely true. By our union with Christ, we have the righteousness of Christ, we have the perfect life of Christ as our gift. But also this means that we died To sin as a soul-ruining, domineering principle, and we rise to live a new life Now, if we are united with Christ in the death that he died to sin, we're going to be trophies of God's work. Here and now, and perfect trophies in the future. Here and now The angels look down at us. The Bible teaches that in various places. The angels looked down at this congregation this morning And they marvel at what God can do with ruined human sinners. They're just astounded. They look at us and they say, He forgives their sins. Not by putting them aside, but by justly providing human blood sacrifice to die for them in their place. He forgives their sins. The angels look down. And then the angels look down and they say, look at them as they go out and walk in this world. He cleans them up. He restores them into his image. He polishes them and washes them and refines them and reshapes them and takes away the things that ought not to be. For his glory and their good. If you want to shine for Jesus, if you want to live for Jesus, if you want to glow for Jesus, you die to sin. With Jesus. And I don't, again, I say I don't think uh I don't think that Thomas meant that when he said that, but It was true nonetheless. It's biblical truth. Let us go also that we may die with Him. Let us constantly die to sin and live to God in Christ Jesus Are you in touch with these truths? The world is in an abnormal condition. This isn't the way it was meant to be. And God loves us even in our sickness and death, tenderly loves us. He hasn't abandoned us in our sickness. And the power of God transforms death, a temporary condition, into what is called sleep. Its bitterness, its sting is taken away. And you and everyone you meet must be in union with the death of Christ. In order to be in union with his resurrection. Now, people all around us suffer. Because it's a broken, fallen world. They suffer. All of them do. They don't know what to make of it. They don't know what to do with it. So some of them just become stoic and they just take it And hope for better times, but when nothing is left, they just give up. That's not us. That's not the way we are. People have questions about all these things all the time in their minds. We have the answers. This world is not the way it's supposed to be. To be. But God loves those who are united to Christ. He loves them even in their suffering, in their sickness, even in their death. He changes death into sleep in Jesus. And we must always be in union with Him, in His death and in His wonderful resurrection, by faith, by trusting. And that's what the Gospel of John is about. These things have been recorded so that you may believe and have life in his name. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will help us to live out the truths that are herein. And help us to have the grace of following you in this broken, fallen world. And help us to give answers to the people's questions all around us. For we have the answers in your holy word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.