Things in life don't always turn out as we intend, right, or expect. That Psalmist once went to the house of the Lord joyfully and Now the land is overthrown and he's being mocked by the nations. Where's your Godhead? That's why today's message is so important to us As we remember the hope that is set before us in Jesus Christ and the life to come, and the world to come in the resurrection So if you open your Bibles to Mark chapter 8, we'll take our first reading there at verse 34 to 38. So Mark chapter 8, beginning at verse 34. Give me a moment to turn there Page eight hundred and forty four in the pew. Hear the word of the Lord. And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. But whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. But what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? What can a man give in return for his soul? Whoever is ashamed of me and of my words and this adulterous and sinful generation Of him of the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. Turn now to 1 Peter. We see that our Lord looked forward to the life to come and had an important lesson for us. We'll consider it more when we get to the preaching of the word. But 1 Peter chapter 1, we'll read the first 12 verses. And that's on page 1014 if you're in the pub. Grace and peace. Hear the word of the Lord. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles. Of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Capitacea, Asia, Dithnia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit. For obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor. At the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him You believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your soul. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you, and the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you. By the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Things into which angels long to look. The word of the Lord. Thanks to God. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for the light of the gospel, of your grace and forgiveness. And mercy and infinite riches of your kindness laid up for us in Jesus Christ. The Lamb slain before the foundation of the world. And this grace made known to us now in the fullness of time, as you called us out of our sins and darkness. And gathered us to make us to be your people, and adopted us as your children, sent your spirit of adoption in our hearts, that we cry to you, our Father. And our Heavenly Father, now we seek your favor and seek your help and seek your instruction that you would teach us and remind us and illumine us concerning our hope. That we might set our eyes and fix it upon us as we serve you here in this life. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You saw last week in Genesis twenty-two the great test of faith that God had asked of Abraham. Which he did make, believing in God's promises and that ordeal. We're not sure exactly how much time has passed, but it's probably been another twenty years in Abraham's life And at this point, um it's been about sixty years that he has been walking with his God, and now the wife of sixty years, sixty-two I believe, um has passed. God had given at least 62. We meet Abraham at 75 in their marriage. So at least 62 years of marriage. And probably longer. The text doesn't tell us near his marriage. But we meet them now at a after God had blessed them with 60 plus years of marriage, the passing of Sarah. What do we see Abraham still doing No matter what comes before him in life and the things and the difficulties that he meets, such as death, we still see Abraham, this great man of faith, testifying to God's faithfulness. before his neighbors and before his own family. That's what's going on here today as he's testifying to God's faithfulness And the promises that he made, that death will not be the end of him. Abraham would be raised and be in this land. His children would be in this land. God would give it to him for an inheritance. And I think that Abraham's act is not so much for himself, what he's doing here in purchasing this ground, but he's doing it for the coming generations. This is no surprise to Abraham that Sarah would die, he would die, they would not see the fruition of these promises in their lifetime. God told him that explicitly. Forty years prior to that, Genesis 15, we said, Abraham, you're gonna die and be buried at a good old age. And know for certain your seed will come out of the land, but I'll bring about So this is no surprise what's going on here. Abraham believed the Word of God. I think what Abraham's doing here is he wants to ensure his children believe that. As they always have before them, they'll continue to wander in the land and never have a real grasp of it, eventually go out. But there'll always be a record in the county court of the Hittites, you might say, that there has been a deed and a purchase of this land, this burial site that belongs to them, their only foothold in this land to testify to them that your God, my God, who is your God by covenant, will keep his promise and you'll be back here in the land. And it's no different for us today in Christ when that promised seed has come. He's made it very clear to all of us: unless Christ returns, you and I will die And be buried, maybe in a good old age, maybe in a young age, that is in God's hands. But either way, without seeing the fruition of these promises So in that regard, we're on the same foothold that Abraham was. We've passed many years. Christ has come the promised seed. There is differences. And that, and we're looking forward to a new heavens and earth, and not a promise of the possession of Canaan, but either way, we will not see the fulfillment of everything that God has promised to us On this side of the resurrection and on this side of the day of judgment. And so it raises the question for us as we look at this text, right? What kind of testimony is grace and peace? What kind of testimony are you giving to your neighbors and to your children of God's faithfulness to his promise made to you in Jesus Christ? To raise you from the dead and give you everlasting life. Well, let's look at our passage, Genesis 23. The first two verses we see that Sarah, the blessed mother of the promised seed, dies. Now Sarah is the only woman in all of Scripture Whose age is recounted at the time of her death. And everybody agrees. That is to signify to us her favored status before God, that she was a very important woman And God's plan of his redemption, and his working that out, and giving the promise seed of Isaac. And it even teaches us as we look forward, we think of another very prominent woman in God's plan who sung a great song of the favor that she received from God, recorded us in Luke's Gospel, right? Mary so just Sarah was a very um important woman in God's eyes, favored by her as the one who would bear this promised seed of Isaac. So her years are recorded for us. That's the setting, that's the event that we're looking at here in this passage. But when we look at verse 3, going on to verse 16, we see Abraham's response. His responsive faith to the passing of this important woman, his wife. We see in verse 3 that he gets up from mourning for his dead And he said to the Hittites or the people of the land, they're the ones who have they're the citizens of the land, you might say, and have rights to it I'm a sojourn of foreigner Abraham Sojourn of Foreigner. Abraham is acknowledging to them his legal status. He's he's not a citizen, he's not an American. I'm I'm a resident alien, you might say, is what Abraham is saying to these people. But why could Abraham get up from his dead, right? Why don't we read he laid there and laid there and laid there? I'm not downplaying mourning But that same truth that we hear preach to us and Paul counsels the Thessalonian Church with, because we don't grieve as heirs of the promise, as those without hope. Neither did Abraham. He would see Sarah again, in the new heavens and the new earth, and raised, and God would continue. I'm not taking one iota away from the grief of life But just pointing out again the power and impact that God's promises have in our lives, that we don't act and grieve. Like the nations, and neither did Abraham. A time of his mourning came to an end, and now he had to deal with what was he going to do in leaving a testimony to God's faithfulness to the coming generation Verses 5 and 6, we see the response of these Hittites to Abraham's requests, and we learn that Abraham was a respected man amongst them. Abraham was was acknowledged by them to be a mighty man of God or a prince of God. Can't help but think. We who live before the nations and have these promises? Do we live in such faith with them? We see such a humble spirit in Abraham. I think he knows that what lies ahead of him, what's been promised to him in Jesus Christ, is a great gift of grace. Didn't it make them proud before these people But it made him humble before these people, as he sought a burial place for them, and they knew him to be a great and mighty man, blessed by God That's part of the lesson today, too. It's not as if God has said, everything I'm going to give to you is only in the future. Abraham was greatly blessed in this life, and I'm sure you can all testify to your own blessings in this life. life that God's given you. It's just that there's more to come with our God. The blessings aren't complete here and now. And then in verses 7 and 9, there's this back and forth. Really what we see going on here, and I'm not going to get into all the details. It's a legal transaction. There's rules in our land on how you lawfully go about acquiring possession. Abraham went about in his day going, how do I lawfully acquire possession of this land? And that's what he's doing here. Abraham asks for land and they respond, You're so great among us, and we account you so blessed, you don't need to buy anything from us. Take our choicest burial sites where I one day will be laid and I've already invested a heavy premium early in my life. You have that. I give it to you, we give it to you, and you can bury your dead there. But Abraham doesn't want that. And he comes back in seven in verses seven and nine. He says, Abraham rose and bowed down, and he said, If you are willing. So he learns from these people At least they're willing that I bury my dead amongst them. He learns that it's their mind that they would bury their dead, so he goes on to press his case. And following legal precedent, he requests that they intercede for him with Ephron, right? Abraham was a sojourner. He couldn't go make the case himself. He doesn't have rights to go and get this land, so he turns to the Hipites and he says, you go to Ephraim. You go to the ruler of this city. We read there in verse 10 that Ephron, of all who went in at the gate of his city. So Abraham, you go to the ruler of this city for me on my behalf. Now that I know you're willing, I bury my dead here And you ask that he give me this land. And so they go and they make that offer. Actually, they don't have to go. Ephron's sitting there amongst them, we see in verse 10. And he stands up and he says, No, Abraham. Not just the field will I give you. Now why is he so generous? Not just the field, or excuse me, the cave. I'm going to give you the whole field. Now this is a part where because We don't know all the practices of the Hittites and what was going on and archaeology is digging up more and more of the records of how they conducted these things and what's going on to explain it The text is clear enough, he got this possession, but the details is where you don't know. But it's why is he so generous? Abraham only asked for a f for a cave, and Ephraim's willing to give him not a cave, but also filled with the cave. I think there's a Uh a couple reasons. One of them that could possibly be um there was feudal service tied to this land. The king of the Hittites, because this was prime property that had trees on it that probably bore some sort of fruit Ephon owed um fealty to his king. We would have to give of this land to him. It would be required of him. And so this could be a possibility, an opportunity for him to get out of that service. And no, Abraham, you can just have the whole thing. Now it's your still it possibly still be there. Or again I'm I'm just going off of what the scholars have looked into the Sadoon. I don't know the next thing about Hittite legal treaties. But he could be also favoring his position towards Abraham and offering it up as a gift And then Abraham in turn in kind refusing him, that puts him in a position to name a price that Abraham will then be hard pressed to turn back down because he's already denied it for free So now he can go ahead and name a uh four hundred shekels of silver, which they don't know exactly, but I that what they've said is the normal price of land going in for that line was four shekels of silver. And so he asked the price hundredfold of that from Abraham of this field. So he's probably he's doing something to turn this trade in his favor. And he sees Abraham needing this, and he's going to get the better end of this deal. Well we see there in Verses 12 and 13. He refuses, asks his price, he names it. And it doesn't matter. As soon as Abraham hears the price, he buys it like that. He's not concerned with the cost I don't know what to make that except Abraham wants this land. He has a purpose in mind that he's gonna do for this land and it doesn't matter if it costs him a hundred times the going grade or whatever possible filthy it might obligate him to. And why did he pick this land, we don't know. I can only speculate. Mamre or Hebron was one of the first places God that he went when he was um sojourning in the land after his stay in Egypt with Lot and they come back up and Lot separates and God tells him to look at the whole land And travel through it, he goes down and he's always seen the favorite. So maybe this was a place dear to Sarah. I don't know. Maybe this was a beautiful land that they would walk by and always see and like and he was going to purchase it. Um in the memory of her eye. Yeah, that's only speculation. But all we know is he was determined stubbornly to get this land and to not take it as a gift Because who knows what's going to happen to the next generation if there's no paper trail, right? If there's no paper trail of what happened that actually belongs that the next age just might forget that this belongs Belongs to Abraham. This belongs to the one whom God promised. This belongs to a foreigner. Not to we Hittites. Again, you can see they're not thinking that way, but we get what the testimony is saying. Abraham's saying This will be all land. And what does that mean for the Hittites? Thus you become one of God's people. Turn to the Lord of heaven and earth and call upon him It's not going to be your land. Very much what we proclaim today too. Christ promised the meek shall inherit the earth. The meek mean those blessed of him and in his kingdom Yeah. We don't go around because we know one day this heaven and earth is going to be ours, taking it by sword and forcing people or anything like that. But we are proclaiming to them unless you become a follower of Jesus Christ. Unless you turn from your sins and call upon the living God, this won't be your land that you want to build your kingdoms of trade and empire and name all your houses and the states and think that they're gonna have family names that are gonna get passed down to the generations with the songs laughed at, that kind of behavior, it won't be yours And then in the final verses, verses seventeen through twenty. I'm going through quickly here because there's just really one point to be made in this text. The text is just dealing with Abraham getting this land And I'm going to make a point on that here in a minute. And the final verses are just again summarizing what just took place that now the only piece of property belonging to Abraham and his kin in this land is This burial site. And what I want to say about that is this. And Abraham's concern to testify before his neighbors and his family God's faithfulness regarding his promises. Abraham, we might say in our language, shelled out a lot of money for a property that he would never enjoy in life. Except to visit his own dead. Property that he would never even live on. Except when he was dead. He he the only time he ever, you might say, lived on his own property and possession in the promised land was when he Why did he show it all this money? And I've mentioned before. He was concerned that those who would come after him, his sons and his children, and these people would know That death is not an end to what God is going to do with me and all the generations coming on. But his promises will be fulfilled. And so I must ask all of you this morning Have you considered lately the testimony that you are making before your neighbors and before your family members? To God's faithfulness to his promises made to you and made to the rest of mankind in Jesus Christ. Now our Lord did this as well. At the death of his friend Lazarus in John 11, 41, hear what he says. So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account to the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me, and of course, sending me the fulfillment of me. Of your promises. Our Lord was concerned in his own day while he was on earth, of the testimony that he was giving to those around him. It's an interesting thing, right? Our Lord never doubted that God would be faithful to his promises. Abraham, we see here, had a rock solid faith. What concerned him though, right? We might say came into this assurance of his faith tried by God and known in his heart. I fear God. What else can he take from me? He knows that I only long for him and he has my heart. Right? What's his concern now? This Point in his life. Do my family know that? Do my neighbors know that? And he's concerned about his witness to those around him of God's faithfulness to his Now, what is, Brian, let me remind us this morning, what is God's promise to you in Jesus Christ? Everlasting life, right? 2 Timothy 1:1, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus. Jesus. And of course, that being the new bodies, that being a new name that your Heavenly Father will one day give you That being seeing God face to face, that being in the company of angels and beings and creatures we have never seen or laid eyes on before Sparkling in our majesty, purified from sin. That's the promise that God has made to us and you and Jesus Christ. Christ. And so the main point of application that I want to make today is just there's more to come from God to those who believe in Jesus Christ. God's promises to you are not exhausted here on this earth. So don't seek to get them all Don't seek you might say right to live your best life now. Now, as soon as I say that right, because I I don't remember what critic of Christianity that it was But he was criticizing us Christians that are so hopeful for heaven we don't give a lick about the earth we live in, right? Right or wrong, I don't know all the views he was coming from, but I'm not preaching to you this morning right the hope. And God hasn't promised to you uh everlasting life in Jesus Christ as escapism, right? To escape out of this reality and not be concerned about what's before you and focused on your calling to hear. That's not the message But it's just to drive in and remind ourselves, and we'll talk about why it's important more. There's just more to come with God Do you remember that? There's just there's more to come. The blessings of our children, the blessings of today's worship, which is even a spiritual taste of what's to come, because We might be in St. Mary's County, but the Bible tells us we're actually in New Jerusalem. Worshiping with the perfected saints and the innumerable company and before God, the judge of all, in Christ Jesus There's more to come in even this. And I've just been thinking, oh we, why is this important to us to cultivate that attitude? What use I want to make of, you know, you many of you know me. I have new and young children. I think we all remember when we were young though, right? Remember how vast and exciting the world was when you were a kid And then maybe there's a point when you grew up and you thought, this place isn't as exciting as I once thought. It's kind of dreary and cloudy, right? And all these things happen. And I'm I'm sure it's fairly natural as we become more aware of the true sorrows and pains and misery and evil and the effects of sin in this life. Again, the message today isn't that's not real and you don't need to deal with that or anything like that. But we can start with our children and begin early to speak to them of God's promises so they know always that that there's more to come. The ice cream that they love and the toys that they get, they're good gifts from God. And don't you know our children, God promises you more too So that we're always the people looking ahead and we're able to hold on to things loosely and be gracious and sharing and know it really the point of our hope It's just to have this settled attitude on how we're going to pass through and live in this life rather than grasping at it And being thrown off if if all that we want as far as making a name and a job and whatever here on earth It's to help us remember as important and good and satisfying and fulfilling and God given that everything we do here on earth in his name is there's Just more to come. I just, I'm wanting you all to live in the joy and be reminded of living in the joy that there's more to come. There's so much more to come. There is. If you think you're alive right now and enjoying life, you don't even know anything of life yet, right, is sort of what it's saying. To us. And as full and as lovely as life is, and boating and sailing and fishing and kayaking and all that there's there to do and traveling and working, there's just more to come And it's so important we focus on that because that makes the gospel so much sense. How easy it is when we preach it to people, we're telling them there's more to come. In Jesus Christ, and immediately gets us to preach to people the Lord. Because the only promise is, because he doesn't come to you and say, Mr. So-and-so, Mrs. So-and-so, I promise you, you He makes no promise to you as you are born in Adam. He only makes the promise to you as you're born again in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the heir, right? I promised Abraham and his seed. The only way you have a right to what's to come is because you believe on the name of Jesus Christ and have been baptized into Jesus Christ. So to immediately get us to preach the people the gospel When our hearts are so set on what's coming ahead to tell people there's so much more to come in Jesus Christ and turn to Him So what is this calling us to do, right? It's just calling us to be a living testimony of this truth before men. It's calling us to cultivate an attitude that looks forward to the life to come. That's living in hope. And believe me, it's impossible to live without hope. Nobody lives without hope. Everybody's hoping somehow they'll get in heaven and things will turn out better, right? There's such things as false hopes, but nobody really. That's called despair. And generally despair leads to the tragedy of suicide or The hope is so important to us for our life. You can speak to yourself this way. Whatever I have from God now, what he will give me in the resurrection, is God Again, what I'm don't want you to hear is not that they're not good now and wonderful now. It's just the truth that there's more in store for us to come as on. What kind of effect does that have on us as a people then? I know we'll get to Jacob's story soon. When he came back in the promised land and had so much stuff from God in this life, and he divided his camp in two and made Hem's day before God, I am so unworthy of everything you've given me. When we see how good the things are that God gives us now and knows that there's just going to get better to come, how humble does that make us as a people? And gracious and thankful that makes us as a people. Or if we're in serious trials and afflictions now, this again the context here is death and loss. Could be persecution. How patient it makes us be that we won't be staying in this, no matter how long it might feel like you before you, and you can't see beyond it in your immediate purview. That there is more to come. And I mentioned before, how is it that any of this is ours? Faith in Jesus Christ. Baptized in his name, knowing and owning before God, I'm only an heir of these promises because I belong to Christ, whose Abraham I wanted to make that point especially clear this morning only because the Marine Corps taught me a good thing about leadership. Don't expect what you don't inspect. I wanted to be clear, not that I don't think it's been taught here. I'm just there's been a change of command, you might say, and now I gotta know I gotta unless I expected you guys, I can't expect that you would know, right? That's all this saying here. Just want to remind us again that the gospel is that Jesus Christ is the promised seed Is the Son of David, is God come in the flesh, and the promises of God have been made to him. And the only right we have to them is by believing in his name that he in fact is the promised seed And being baptized into that name and changing our identity. That is the gospel. Because in him our sins are washed away. Our past is gone. What we were is no more. And it's nothing but new going this way with God and walking with him. Let me conclude then with these words from the letter of Hebrews. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland. And truly, if they had called to mind that country from which they had come out, they would have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a better, that is, a heavenly country. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them. May God not be ashamed of grace and peace. church. Because the people there desire God in his heavenly country above everything else. God give us the grace. Amen. Our hearts are filled with joy this morning before you, O Lord, in your gospel. We all confess before you that you have given us such good things. And we love them and cherish them dearly, and our hearts rejoice with joy un inexpressible That this is but the taste of what's to come and what you have in store for your people and all those who believe in the name of Jesus Christ. Christ. Oh Lord, convert the lost here. Convert the lost in St. Mary's County to this hope we pray and make us delay from here. Knowing and professing before our neighbors and family that in Jesus Christ there is more to come. For his glory we ask this in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.