Turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 37. While you're turning there, I'll just remind you We have gathered here this morning to worship the Lord, the living and true God, and part of our worship of him is to give him pride of place, right? He now gets to speak to us He now gets to sit in that position and give us his word that we submit ourselves to and perform. That's part of worshiping God, not just the praising, but to say, Oh Lord, you speak and let me hear So turn to Genesis 37. And we'll be looking this week as we finish and conclude the book of Genesis, the generations of Jacob. And I've had three readings for you this morning. And this first reading will be taken early on in Joseph's life when God made a promise to him of glory. in the form of a dream. And then our second reading will be God fulfilling that glory after his sufferings. And our final reading will come some years later after that, detailing and showing us, well, what was the fruit of that suffering in Joseph's life? So Genesis chapter 37, beginning at verse 2, we'll read to verse 11. Hear the word of the Lord. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilha and Zilpha, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father. Now, Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a robe of many colors. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peacefully to him. Now Joseph had a dream. And when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He said to them, Hear this dream that I have dreamed. Behold. We were binding sheaves in the field. Behold, my sheaf arose and stood upright. And behold, your sheaves gathered around it and bowed down to my sheaf. His brothers said to him, Are you indeed to reign over us? Or are you indeed to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. And he dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold the sun, the moon, and eleven stars were bowing down to me. When he told it to his father and to his brothers, His father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I, your mother, and your brothers indeed come to bow ourselves to the ground before you? And his brothers were jealous of him, and his father kept the saying in mind. You'll turn to chapter 41. And we'll begin at verse 46, and we'll read to verse 57, the end of the chapter. Genesis 41, beginning at verse 46. Hear the word of the Lord. Joseph was 30 years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went through all the land of Egypt. During the seven plentiful years, the earth produced abundantly. And he gathered up all the food of these seven years which occurred in the land of Egypt, and put the food in the cities He put in every city the food from the fields around it, and Joseph stored up grain in great abundance, like the sand of the sea, until he ceased to measure it, for it could not be measured. Before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph. Asanath, the daughter of Potpharah, priest of on, bore them to him. Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh, for he said, God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house. The name of the second, he called it Friam, for God has made me fruitful and the land of my affliction. These seven years of plenty that occurred in the land of Egypt came to an end, and the seven years of famine began to come. As Joseph had said, there was famine in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. And all the land of Egypt was famished. The people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Arrow said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph. What he says to you, do. So when the famine had spread over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians. For the famine was severe in the land of Egypt. Moreover, all the earth came to Egypt to Joseph to buy grain, because the famine was severe over all the earth. And turn to Genesis chapter forty-four. We'll begin at verse 18 and we'll read through to verse 15 of chapter 45. I'm sure the story of Joseph is very familiar to you all. Here you see the fruit of all that suffering. Here you see his office and glory as he's held there and what God had intended for it all along. Genesis chapter 44, beginning at verse 18. Hear the word of the Lord. Then Judah went up to him and said, Oh my Lord. Please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh himself. My Lord asked his servants, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my Lord, We have a father, an old man, and a young brother, the child of his old age. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him. Then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me that I may set my eyes on him. We said to my lord, The boy cannot leave his father. For if he should leave his father, his father would die. Then you said to your servants, unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again. When we went back to your servant, my father, we told him the words of my Lord. And when our father said, Go again, buy us a little food, we said, we cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down. For we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. Then your servant, my father, said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, one left me, and I said, Surely he has been torn to pieces, and I have never seen him since If you take this one also from me and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs and evil to Sheol. Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant, my father, and the boy is not with us, then as his life is bound up in the boy's life, as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die. And your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant, our father, with sorrow to Sheol. For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father. Saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord And let the boy go back with his brothers. For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would find my father. And then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, I got everyone go out for me. No one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it. And the house of the Pharaoh heard it, and Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come nearer to me, please. And they came near, and he said, I am your brother Joseph. Whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves, because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God, has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me and do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children, and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have. There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty. And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth that speaks to you. You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here. And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that, his brothers talked with him. The word of the Lord. Corinthians In chapter four, and we'll read verses seven through eleven. Paul has been going on for a while now to this church. He's not worried about how weak he looks to them, because he knows in his weakness that he is strong. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, beginning verse 7 to verse 11. Hear the word of the Lord. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. Always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. And turn to James chapter one. The letter of James chapter 1. We'll read verses 2 through 4. Very familiar passage, I'm sure. James chapter 1. And we'll read the verses two through four. Hear the word of the Lord. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect. That you may be perfect and complete, lacking and nothing. And finally, turn to First Peter chapter 5. And we'll read verses six through twelve. First Peter chapter five, and we'll read verses six through twelve. Hear the word of the Lord. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, Will Himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. And by Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm and yet. The word of the Lord. Let's pray Our Father in heaven, we have gathered here today to worship you by faith in Jesus Christ and in the power of the Holy Spirit that he has poured out on us. Father, you have now spoken to us in your word. Please give your blessing now to the preaching of it And your blessing now to the hearing of it, that we, your dear children, may be built up in every way. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. So we will finish the book of Genesis, and of course, doing that in one sermon is not going to say everything. So I want to zero in here today on Joseph's life. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, would you like to walk in Joseph's shoes? Joseph was the favorite son of his father. He was a seventeen-year-old boy hated by his brothers because of his father's favoritism. And on top of that, it appears God favored him too. Joseph received two dreams for telling his family's Obeisance. Sometimes old words are the best words. That word means deferential respect. Telling of his family's obeisance to him. Dreams which his brothers did not take kindly to. His dreams, if you will, were their worst nightmare. So given the opportunity, they sold him to Samidian traitors. These traitors took him captive down to Egypt and sold him there as a slave. And this, his brothers would certainly would keep that nightmare from coming to pass. For the next thirteen years, from ages 17 through age 30 The most formidable years generally in any person's life, Joseph lived as a slave in a foreign land. Or he suffered false accusations from his master's wife, was put in prison, and finally forgotten about by a man whom he had helped, and to whom he in turn looked for help. But through all his sufferings, right, through these, plus consider the loss of his boyhood dreams, right? You're seventeen, what plans you might have and visions for your life, gone like that. Agonizing loneliness away from everything familiar to him. Betrayal, heartache, all these sufferings, right? God did not leave him alone but was with him to protect him and to bless him. Through his sufferings, God prepared Joseph to dreams and keep many people alive. As Potiphar's slave managing his household, Joseph learned how to manage a national household, an economy. While in prison, Joseph gained an unlikely connection to Pharaoh by interpreting the dream of Pharaoh's cupbearer. God used every one of Joseph's sufferings to prepare him for glory and to bring about the salvation of others. After 13 years of suffering, God exalted Joseph to the second highest power in the land of Egypt As Pharaoh's right-hand man, entrusted with seeing the nation through the coming worldwide calamity, his famine? Joseph was given a beautiful wife and blessed by God with two sons, becoming fruitful in the land of his affliction. And finally, after the seven good years had passed and the seven famine years had come, God fulfilled his dreams. Joseph's brothers came to Egypt looking for grain to buy where unbeknownst to them They bowed down to their brother Joseph, the striking, glorious, royal figure. Oh, the death of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. Their worst nightmare, which they did everything to prevent, is their salvation. Praise God that He powerfully bounded and otherwise ordered and governed these brothers sin. To his most holy end. These brothers had lain wicked hands on Joseph, but God laid on Joseph his holy hand. And he used their sin to save them and many others. How unsearchable are his judgments! And his ways passed finding out. They sinned and received salvation. Now, of course, it wasn't so simple as that. Before God saved this family and reconciled it, he first worked repentance in their hearts. He made them sorry for what they did to their brother, before he made them partakers of their brother's salvation. God's grace does not encourage you to sin so as to increase that grace. For God's grace. Giving one to suffer for you is the answer to your sin. These brothers looked upon Joseph, whom they had caused to suffer according to God's plan, and their guilty hearts were broken. And now reconciliation and true salvation could begin. I asked you whether you wanted this to be your life, to suffer so much for the sake of others. Let me briefly tell you about another life, after which Joseph's life of suffering and subsequent glories was patterned. A life I am sure you are all well aware of. It is the life of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. Unlike Joseph, Jesus left glory to suffer. Jesus, eternal God, the Son of God, begotten of the Father before all worlds, being of one substance with the Father, by whom all things were made, he came to earth. Incarnate by the Holy Spirit to the Virgin Mary, to give himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time. 1 Timothy 2. 6 Christ, as Peter testified, suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory. 1 Peter 1. 21 and 3. 18. And after the fact of his death and resurrection, which of course Jesus testified prior to. Jesus showed his disciples, and Jesus shows you. From Scripture, thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of sin should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. That's Luke twenty-four, forty-six through forty-seven. By this scripture, Genesis, the story of Joseph, it testifies to Jesus' sufferings on the cross. He, like Joseph, suffered at the hands of those who meant it for harm, whereas God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. Genesis fifty verse twenty. Furthermore, just this life makes you wise unto salvation by faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Like these brothers, you cannot look to yourself to save yourself from certain death. But must look to God's suffering servant, your brother, the brother of all humanity. The God man, the Lord Jesus Christ, to save you. The one who suffered for your sins is the one God sent to save you from your sins. And to grant you repentance and the forgiveness of them. He suffered to bring about your repentance That you might clearly see the exceeding sinfulness of your life and seek forgiveness by faith in his blood. I ask you again, do you want this to be your life, to suffer so much for the sake of others? And if not, what life do you want? Certainly not the baptized life. In Christ Jesus, says the Apostle Paul, you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on faith Christ. Galatians 3, 26 through 27. The life of Christ that you have put on by your baptism. is one of humiliation or humbling obedience, followed by exaltation or glory. It is suffering, then glory. The Spirit Himself, Paul says elsewhere, bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him. in order that we may also be glorified with him. Romans eight sixteen through seventeen So let me ask you one final time. Do you want this to be your life? To suffer so much for the sake of others And I pray that you do. Because there is no salvation outside of Christ. Christ suffered and died for you, that you would stop living for yourself. And would learn to suffer with him, but not for any vain reasons to just suffer here. But you also would see the fruit of your suffering used by God to bring about the salvation of others So to help you live out your baptism in Christ, I want to give you three lessons this morning from Joseph's life. Here's the first. God promises you glory after suffering. God promises you glory after suffering. I think I have made this lesson clear already. You saw it in Joseph's life, right? He received a promise in the form of a dream of glory, but he only entered that glory through suffering or after suffering. He went from slave and prisoner to the vizier of Egypt. And likewise the Lord Jesus Christ. according to this passage in Philippians two, emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of man and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on the cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So that the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. But what about you? Okay, that's Joseph's life. That's Jesus' life. But what about your life in Christ? Is this true for Christians? Peter tells the elect exiles there in 1 Peter. Peter tells the church of Jesus Christ, humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. So that at the proper time he may exalt you. It appeared that suffering for the good of others requires humility A humility that only God can give. Seek it like you seek all blessings from Him in prayer Brothers and sisters, this is the life that you have been called to in Jesus Christ. If we had more time, we could go through the whole letter of 1 Peter. It's the burden of 1 Peter to teach this. And the corresponding apostolic instruction to this life, which is all I ever hope to give you, is this in 1 Peter 4:1. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. Those who suffer name-calling, abuse, threats, or whatever else by the people of this world. Let me remind you, the people of this world are spouses. They are colleagues, they are classmates, they're fellow churchgoers, they do so for one reason. They have stopped sinning. That is, they have stopped running in the ways of the world. And these people, Peter says, we call Christians. Christ suffered in the flesh precisely because he wasn't a sinner. Those born again in Christ suffer in the flesh precisely because they've stopped being sinners. That is in definite ways. Yes, you still battle sin. Yes, you are still tempted to sin. Yes, you still do sin. For your life is not marked by, as Paul says, I was once a fornicator, an idolater, a murderer, a thief, and on and on and on it goes. If this is you, then you probably already know to arm yourself with the same mind as Christ. God's promise of glory after suffering requires you to put on, like armor for a battle, a certain mindset, right? That mindset is suffering for others in the flesh. If you don't, right, if you don't put on armor, then you'll be unprotected for the life of grace, which, among other things, is holy warfare Quite simply, you need this mindset to keep going. Consider right Hebrews twelve one, looking to Jesus The founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God Notice the order, cross and shame then glory. Notice the instruction, looking Jesus is your example to follow. He is also your Savior who has freely gifted you his life of suffering, followed by glory. You do that because the Spirit of Christ is in you, and it's not you who live anymore, but Christ. Marines put on their armor when they're in combat. But combat isn't just an active firefight. It's also an environment. Your environment in this world is a combat zone. Be sober-minded. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Having no idea that these were Peter's words, I gave these same two commands to my subordinates in Afghanistan. At the start of our deployment, be sober-minded. Be watchful. Beloved, arm yourselves every morning with this mindset. Put on a mindset by speaking to yourself. Or you put on a mindset, excuse me. You put on armor, right, by strapping it on you. Well, how do you put a mindset on, right? You speak it to yourself. Say by yourself. Say together with your spouse. Say with your family. Say with your friends in person, over the phone, FaceTime, Zoom, whatever. Say, in Christ, I'm going to suffer in the flesh for doing good in the spirit to others. I'm going to suffer in the flesh for doing good in the spirit to others, and then pray. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Lead us, Heavenly Father, not into the temptation of avoiding suffering, of avoiding doing good to others, that will cause me to scream. Suffer. And I'll remind you that these good works that Christians do, they are the works done out of true faith that conform to God's law and are done for his glory. That's question and answer ninety-one in the Heidelberg Catechism. I commend it to you. Conformity to God's law. Out of a sincere faith, and for his glory will cause you to suffer Shame, loss of friends, family, etc. , and worse, in this life. Be armed for it. Put on the same mind as The second lesson that I wish to give you, to help you live out your new life in Christ, is that God prepares you for glory through suffering. Protecting and blessing you in it. God prepares you for glory through suffering. Protecting and blessing you in it. You saw this in Joseph's life. Joseph learned how to rule over a nation by ruling over a man's house as his slave. Teaches us not to despise small beginnings. Joseph gained access to Pharaoh and ultimately to being the vizier of Egypt by doing good to a man while in prison. Nothing is wasted in God's economy. Joseph, now raised to glory saw so clearly God's hand of protection and blessing on his life and his sufferings that he called the name of his firstborn Manasseh. For he said, God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's health. The name of the second he called Ephraim, for God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. As one commentator put it, the veil of tears. has proved to be the valley of soul making. Joseph was only made ready for glory by what he suffered. And this is also true in Jesus' life. Until his hour came, the Father preserved his son's life from destruction You know all those escapes that he makes in the gospel. Furthermore, his valetiers prove to be the valley of soul making for him, though he were a son. Yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered, and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obeyed him. God of a or called of God a high priest, after the order of Melchizedek. Hebrews five, eight through ten Our Lord Jesus Christ was prepared for the office of high priest through his sufferings here on earth. Sufferings which were the result of his humble obedience to his Father's will. And do we not Rejoice exceedingly in this truth. Because look at what good it has brought you. For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted The more I study this gospel of Jesus Christ, the more amazed I am at its utter holiness. Who would wish upon him those sufferings? But who would go without them? Because we are a hopeless people. And can't do a thing without it. God the Father protected his Son, Jesus Christ, and blessed him in all his sufferings. All the while preparing him, being made perfect, there's a language, for glory by them. What about you? Is it true that God is preparing you for glory by your sufferings, protecting you and blessing you in them? Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or land. for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time and in the age to come eternal life. Mark ten twenty-nine and thirty Jesus promises those who suffer for his sake and for the gospels significant blessings in this life and eternal life in the age to come. He also taught this in the parable of the talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. Those who won't suffer for Jesus for the gospel's sake bury their talent and won't enter into glory. The picture there of glory is to be exalted over much. because you were faithful here over little. Finally, James teaches us, count it all joy, my brothers When you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, knocking in nothing. Your state of completeness or perfection, that lacking in nothing, it comes from begging it from God in your trials. Your trials, right? Your sufferings, they are part or opportunities to ask from God for His wisdom. And when she gives it to you, it becomes yours. It's a part of you. Your fathers taught you and given it to you. When you judge angels in the next life, as Paul says, that wisdom will come in handy. I'd suffer now for it. When you begin a trial or while you're in a trial, learn to say to yourself, the blessing is not behind. How things used to be when everything was seemingly all right, but ahead, and in fact, even in this Suffering. Stay focused on the end of your trials, the glory and the perfection to be yours at Christ's coming The final lesson I wish to give you from Joseph's life, to help you in your baptized life, is that God uses your suffering in Christ for the saving of others. God uses your suffering in Christ for the saving of others. You saw this in Joseph's life And God sent me before you to reserve for you a remnant on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. Thanks to God's hand, Joseph's brother's seed was not wiped out. But survived. Furthermore, as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. Not just the seed of Abraham, but in a partial, typical fulfillment of Genesis 12:3, God blessed many families in Joseph. Abraham's seed. Many came to Egypt to buy bread, whose lives were spared by God's plan of salvation. And of course, nothing could be truer than that God uses the sufferings of Christ for the saving of others Peter testified, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified. Whom God raised from the dead. By him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders. which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. But is this true, right, about your life in Christ? Does God really use your sufferings for the saving of others Paul told the Corinthians, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life, that is, the resurrection life of Jesus. May also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you You are all aware of how much Paul suffered in his ministry to the Corinthians Paul testified that his dying was to give them life. His suffering for Christ's sake as a minister of the gospel brought them life Salvation in Jesus Christ. Here's another proof of this lesson. Paul told Timothy, Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect. That they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 2 Timothy 2. 10. Paul suffered in ministry that the elect would be saved. And finally, Paul ordered Timothy, take heed unto yourself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you shall both save yourself and them that hear you. 1 Timothy 4 16. And remember, Paul told Timothy that a time was coming when the people weren't going to want to hear what he had to say. But if he suffered through this and kept a watch on himself and his teaching, he would be saved And those whom he preached to. So, yes, God uses your sufferings in Christ for the saving of others. Of course, your sufferings are not for others in the sense that Jesus's are. You do not suffer vicariously, that is, in the place of, and for for others' sins to atone for them? No, your suffering for others that God uses to save them is the enduring of all things in life and doctrine to bring them the knowledge of Christ's sufferings for them. And of salvation in His name. You suffer to make the Savior known to sinners. But you might say, all the examples you gave me were of ministers of the gospel. Therefore it is only they who must suffer in Christ for the saving of others by Preaching this gospel to them and by living a godly life before them. Now I think that ministers of the gospel are especially called to this. Therefore, I beg of you to pray for me in this regard. I am weak, and I am tempted to forego sufferings for Christ's sake But I also think every member of the body of Christ is called to suffer for the salvation of those around them By proclaiming the gospel of Christ and living godly lives in Christ. Consider these words of Peter, 1 Peter 3:1. Likewise, wise Be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, the gospel, the gospel is being preached to them, they may be one what can one be mean here but be saved? Without a word by the conduct of their wives. I think a general principle can be made from this: that it is possible for you to win those around you to Christ By witnessing and by the conduct of your lives. And here I marvel. What a life. What a life in Christ. That Christ suffered to give you. Consider what other life you can live. To live who knows what here, for how short here, and everybody's going to suffer. Nobody's exempt in this life. And then to have what? It mean nothing at the end and to live in eternal bitterness, gnashing your teeth at God? Or to suffer in Christ and have them utterly transformed. Now your life might be used. Is it seeking home? I don't know how to drive it home. I want this point to come home because I think Satan has done such a work in our day. Ever since he devised evolution to teach us how insignificant and unvaluable human life is. We're just some planet floating around the millions of other galaxies on some dust that means nothing to God And what does this say? How valuable your life is in God's eyes. It's inestable. I can't even begin to tell you how valuable you are in God's eyes. But hope that you can see in Christ just what your life can be used for. And suffering for his sake and the gospel's sake. But it is not just salvation considered as conversion. But also salvation considered as perseverance that you're called to suffer for others for First Peter four eight above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. The body of Christ must lovingly suffer with one another until sin is finally removed at Christ's return. This suffering for others to see them saved, right? Both converted and to continue to persevere in the faith caused you to suffer gladly. Then they laughed the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name And you all know, because you have the book of Acts before you, what God used their sufferings for by those first apostles and how many were saved by them because they wouldn't stop talking about Jesus Christ. It calls you to suffer humbly. It calls you to suffer reverently and lovingly and knowingly. You suffer humbly that God would use your sufferings, your life for such an end. You suffer gladly that you partake in Jesus' life You suffer reverently that God has such a holy purpose for your life in Christ. You suffer lovingly, living for the one who died for you, to make him known to others. And you suffer knowingly that this is why Christ has sent you into the world like the Father sent him. You are not left here on earth to do your own will, but to suffer in Christ for the saving of others. Let me just say a word here. Individually, yes. But I'm thinking corporately here together as a church. Why we have to stay so united and close. Why Satan loved to see us torn apart? Because then we're very inefficient in our sufferings. We need everybody here that we can continue to suffer for the sake of Christ and St. Mary's County. That the preaching of Christ be made known, and the word of the Lord will increase here. In your daily walks and professions where God's calling you, as we go out to serve in his name, whatever it may look like. This topic that I can hardly begin to exhaust here, right? This is as big as your whole Christian life. Paul says in Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before him, that we should walk in them. The suffering for the good and saving of others is the very heart of Jesus Christ. It's the heart that your baptism into Christ calls you to put on. I'm very thankful to have learned this lesson from the Lord and very thankful how it's utterly transformed my mind on what suffering is for and about for Christ and the gospel. World, right? All face suffering. All do. Everybody faces it. But in Christ it can be for the everlasting good of yourself and others. Were you saved all by your suffering for them? No. To some you are a savor of death. However, that's not what we live for. We live for being the saver of life to those who do believe. Grace and peace. God promises you glory after suffering. God prepares you for this glory through your suffering. protecting and blessing you in it. And God uses your suffering in Christ for the saving of others. So arm yourselves with this mindset and know that this is why you are here. Go fervently to prayer every day. And may the Lord be with you all in the land of your afflictions. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious Lord, we love to gather here and to hear your gospel We thank you for your suffering on our behalf to bring about our complete salvation in you. And we thank you that you have called us such sinners from such past lives to such glory in you And we thank you, Heavenly Father, that nothing is wasted in our sufferings by your hand, but you are preparing us for this very glory, protecting and blessing us now. And we rejoice with humility and awe before you that you have such a purpose for our lives. To make the gospel of Jesus Christ known and to see all his sheep saved. Help us, O Lord, here at Grace and Peace, to suffer gladly and humbly and joyfully and lovingly and knowingly for this gospel. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.