Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel 6. We'll start at verse 1. 1 Samuel 6, 1, and we'll read through 7-2. The Ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and said, What shall we do with the Ark of the Lord? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place. They said, If you send the ar away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but by all means return him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand does not turn away from you. And they said, What is the guilt offering that we shall return to him? They answered, Five golden tumors and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for the same plague was on all of you and on your lords. Images of your mice that ravaged the land, and give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from off you and your gods and your land. Why should you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? After he had dealt severely with them, did not did they not send the people away and they departed? Now then, take and prepare a new cart and two milk cows on which there has never come a yoke, and yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves away. Take their calves home away from them And take the ark of the Lord and place it on the cart and put it in a box at its side, the figures of gold. And put in a box at its side the figures of gold, which you are returning to him as a guilt offering. Then send it off, and let it go its way, and watch. If it goes up on the way to its own land, to Beth Shemesh, then it is he who has done us this great harm But if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that struck us. It happened to us by coincidence. The men did so, and took two milk cows and yoked them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home. And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart, and the box with the golden mice, and the images of their tumors. And the cows went straight in the direction of Beth Shemesh along one highway, lowing as they went. They turned neither to the right nor to the left. And the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the border of Beth Shemesh. Now the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and when they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it. The cart came into the field of Joshua of Bethshemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there, and they split up the wood of the cart, and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the box that was beside it, in which were the golden figures, and set them upon the great stone. And the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices on that day to the Lord. And when the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned that day to Ephron. These are the golden tumors that the Philistines returned as a guilt offering to the Lord. One for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Goth, one for Ekron, and the golden mice. according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and unwalled villages. The great stone beside which they set down the ark of the Lord is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh. And he struck some of the men of Beth Shemesh because they looked upon the ark of the Lord. He struck seventy men of them, and the people mourned because the Lord had struck the people with a great blow. Then the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? And to whom shall he go up away from us? So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirath Jiram, saying, The Philistines, the ark of the Lord, come down and take it up to you. And the men of Kiraath Jiram came and took up the Ark of the Lord and brought it to the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they consecrated his son Eliezer to have charge of the Ark of the Lord. From the day that the ark was lodged at Kiriath Jirim, a long time passed, some twenty years, and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So now here is the New Testament reading from Revelation 6. 15 through 17, and then 7, 9 through 12. Revelation 6, 15 through 17, and then 7, 9 through 12. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful and everyone slave and free. hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the rocks and the mountains Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? And then Revelation 7, 9 through 12. And after this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every tribe, from all nations and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb And all the angels were standing around the throne, and the around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their God. Saying, Amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, you have given your word. In your great providence, you've caused it to be written down, preserved, translated, and we have it here before us this morning. Your word is your powerful change agent in our lives. It cleanses us, it restores us, it corrects us, it reproves us. It heals us. So please come today by your word and speak to us that we may live before you and that we may glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. The text of the sermon from uh 1 Samuel 6 and a little bit of seven is verse 20 in particular. Verse 20, which says this. Then the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? Who was able to stand? Now, let's recap what happened in chapters four and five, so that we get the picture of the context going on here. Looking back to chapter four, you will see that Israel had decided to bring the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh into battle as a kind of good luck charm In times past, at certain times, God had commanded the ark to be transported as part of his defeat of the Canaanites. You remember the Battle of Jericho. But in this particular case, he had not, he had not commanded this use against the Philistines. He had not commanded them to bring the ark into that battle, and they did anyway On their own initiative. And the result was that Israel went down in terrible defeat. We read 30,000 warriors died, scattered out on the field, dead men. 30,000, that's a lot. Tragic also, the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh, the God of Israel, was captured. It was always supposed to be with God's people. It was supposed to be in the place where God met with his people, in the tabernacle. And they had carried it out here, and now it was captured. And it was taken to Philistine land, Ashdod, and placed in the temple of Dagon, their god. And the next day, when the Philistines came to Dagon's temple, they found Dagon fallen down, prostrate, face down before the ark. They picked him up and put him back in his place that day, only to find that overnight, the next night, he had fallen down again. Poor Dagon And now his his hands and his head were cut off. Then some really bad plagues started to happen to the Philistines. The people of Ashdod got it first. And so they arranged for the ark to be taken away to another town, Gath. And then it got to Gath, and then God's plagues came on Gath. They began to suffer. Then it was taken to another town, Ekron, like a hot potato being passed around. Nobody wanted it anymore. These plagues make sense in the Israelite narrative. It makes sense to us that the pagans, the Philistines, would suffer having taken possession of the ark. But we will see something that surprises us in the chapter before us. But before we get there, let's just look back at the chapter a little bit. Verse 1: the ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and said, What shall we do with the ark of Yahweh? Tell us what we shall do, where we shall send it to its place. And they said, if you send it away, do not send it empty, but by all means return him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand does not turn away from you. And they said, What is the guilt offering that we will send? And they answered, five golden tumors and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines. For the same plague was on all of you and on all your lords. So you must make images of your tumor rats that ravage the land and give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from off you and your gods and your land. What happened here? The clergy committee of Philistia was consulted, and they came up with a plan to stop the seven-month plague. Send it home to Israel, but don't send it home without a gift. Make for yourselves. What gift? What shall we make? Um what were they? They were to send five gold tumors. Yuk. Five gold tumors and five gold rats. Uh, what do you want for Christmas? These crafted items were supposed to be recognizing the fact that the Philistines had been afflicted with these real things, the rats and the real tumors, and hopefully also the precious gold would be some form of payment for their guilt. I can imagine gold rats. I saw pictures of them I gave to the kids, but I I wonder what the gold tumors look like. Maybe little hills, you know, with some hair sticking out. I don't know. Um maybe like volcano shapes, you know. I don't know. So then the the clergy also said in verse six, Why should you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and the Pharaoh hardened their hearts after he had d dealt severely with them? Did they not send the people away and they departed? Now, this is truly remarkable. The these pagans knew about what happened in Egypt. That's a long way away. And a while back as well. The stories of the Exodus were widespread even in Philistia. And so the pagan clergy of Philistia knew that they dare not keep offending the God of Israel. They even seemed to know that the Israelites had left with gold plunder. Remember that? They asked their neighbors for gold and jewelry and everything. So they said, let's do that again, but let's use gold and let's try to fix this problem with some gold tumors and some gold rats. Verse 7. Now then take and prepare a new cart and two milk cows on which there has never come a yoke And yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves home away from them, and take the ark of the Lord and place it on the cart, and put it a box at its side with the figures of gold Which you are returning to him as a guilt offering. Then send it off and let it go on its way and watch. If it goes up on the way to its own land, to Bethshemesh, then it is he who has done this. This great harm. But if not, then we will know that it is not his hand that struck us. It happened to us by coincidence. What's going on here? If any of you have any experience with cows and calves, you know that it is nearly impossible. To abruptly separate a nursing cow from her nursing calf. Such weaning must be done very slowly and over a period of days. Cows will jump fences and basically go crazy to get back to their calves. Besides their maternal nature, their udders get extremely full after a few hours, and the cows need to have their calves relieve them by nursing. So it would be a miracle indeed if two milking cows who had never been yoked, who were full of milk and needed their calves would just take off away from home toward Israelite territory. So with these facts in mind, picture this rural road in ancient Palestine and on it two milk cows, their udders no doubt full. and then mooing loudly as they go, pulling a common cart containing the most holy and fearsome item in Israel The Ark of the Covenant, and then a little box with five lumps of gold shaped rather grossly like tumors and five gold rats. There is no driver for this cart. At some distance, the high Philistine officials watch it behind carefully, some of them, no doubt, hoping that maybe it will just be a coincidence and it'll just return and bring back their precious gold. But that doesn't happen. It crosses the border into Israelite-occupied lands. Then it stops by a large rock next to a wheat field. Whereupon the Israelites killed the cows, burned them as part of a religious celebration. That's what the book says. Verses 10 and following, the men did so, took two milk cows, yoked them to the cart, shut up their calves at home, and they put the ark of the Lord on the cart. with the box of the golden mice and the images of their tumors, and the cows went straight in the direction of Beshemesh along one highway, lowing as they went. They turned neither to the right nor to the left, and the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the border of Beth-Shemesh. And now the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and when they lifted up their eyes, they saw the ark. And they rejoiced to see it. That's been seven months. They haven't seen the Ark of the Covenant. It has been away from their territory. Verse 14, the ark came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh and stopped there. A great stone. was there, and they split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord And put the box beside it, in which were the golden figures, and set them upon the great stone. And the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrifices sacrifices on that day to the Lord. And when the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned that day to Ekron. So the Philistines go home. And then it describes, these are the golden tumors of the Philistines, one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, and one for Ekron. and the golden mice, according to the number of the cities, and so forth. But then here's what's alarming to us, perhaps Here's what's alarming to us. Verse 19. The Ark has come back. It's back in Israelite territory. And then in verse 19, and he, that is the Lord, struck some of the men of Beth Shemesh. That's Israelite men. Because they looked upon the ark of the Lord. He struck 70 men of them. And the people mourned because Yahweh had struck the people with a great blow. Then the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? And to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jurim saying, The Philistines have returned the ark of the Lord, come down and take it, and so forth. This is surprising. This is surprising. We expect the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to bring judgment upon the idolatrous and hapless Philistines. They don't know what to do with it. It doesn't belong to them. They have no covenant with God in the first place. But we, along with Israel. Can laugh when the ark causes Dagon to fall down helplessly and he loses his head and his hands But we do not expect the ark to kill seventy men of Beth Shemesh who looked upon it. That's what it says. They looked upon it I guess it means they gazed at it, and I think it was supposed to be covered. Numbers chapter 4, verses 5 through 14 tells us that when the ark is to be moved, it's supposed to be covered up with a skin and then a blue cloth and so forth It's possible that these these Israelite men looked into the ark. The Hebrew isn't absolutely clear on that Maybe they looked in to see if the stuff that was supposed to be inside was still inside, the holy objects, the jar of manna and the rod of Aaron that budded and so forth. The law of God written on stone tablets. But maybe they were just irreverent and curious Georges who looked at this ark this way. We don't know. But it hardly seems fair or just for God to kill them for this error With that thought in mind, switching gears for a minute, occasionally you will still see bumper stickers that say, Jesus saves. These were very popular when I was young, especially among Baptists. About that same time when I was young, and these were very popular, there was another commercial that came out that was put on billboards and bus stop seats and so forth that said, Dotson saves. Some of you don't know what a Dotson is, but Dotson saves. Now I'm sure that many people knew what that meant. Dotson was supposed to save in price and in gasoline. But I wonder if the public had any idea when they saw the meaning Jesus saves. What did that mean? What is that all about? He saves what? Gasoline? No. Saves from something, for something. Some years ago, it is told that R. C. Sproll was at a convention of religious publishers. He decided to ask several of the attendees what it means to be saved. Many answered that it means you have a personal relationship with God. When he asked them from what they were saved, many couldn't answer I guess maybe from not having a personal relationship with God. But they couldn't answer what they were saved from So R. C. Sprohl decided to write a book about this question. The book title is Save from What? Save from What And one of the reviewers of the book by R. C. Sprohl shows that we are saved from, what we are saved from is really a who. We are saved from God Himself. We are saved from God Himself. The glory of the gospel, the Christian message is that the one from whom we need to be saved is the very one who saves us. The very one who saves us. In C. S. Lewis's book, The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, He writes about a conversation between Mr. Beaver and Susan, one of the human characters. And Mr. Beaver tells Susan that Aslan, who is the ruler of Narnia, is a great lion. And Susan is surprised since she assumed that Aslan was a man. She then tells Mr. Beaver, I shall feel rather nervous about meeting a lion. And then she asked Mr. Beaver if Aslan is safe, to which Mr. Beaver replied, safe? Who said anything about safe? Of course he isn't safe, but he is good. He is the king There's really just one point I want to make in this sermon. That's why you don't have an outline today. It's a strange thing to have a one-point sermon, but this is the one point. God is holy to judge. And good to save. God is holy to judge and good to save. The God of Israel is holy and to be reverenced. He is not tame and never will be. Some mistaken folks think that God was very harsh in the Old Testament, but now in the New Testament he is very tame. He is gentle, Jesus, meek and mild. No. The same God who thundered from Mount Sinai is the God who made a covenant with Israel to be a blessing to the whole world. Salvation for the world. The same Jesus in the book of Revelation that we read, who is the lion of the tribe of Judah and the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Is the one whose wrath makes sinners hide and cry for the rocks and the mountains to fall on them and hide them from his wrath And so this narrative in 1 Samuel, which teaches us about the holy God who justly judges sinners, is part of the greater narrative. That tells us that the same God who came to save is the God who saves us from judgment. We all deserve the wrath of God, none of us exempt. The gospel message is a message of repentance from sin against the holy, holy, holy God. To trust in him, God the Son, who came to save sinners. My dear listeners today, trust him not because he is tame, but because he is God who in his kindness And undeserved mercy has saved you if you trust in him, saved you from his own wrath by taking upon himself human flesh. And by dying, bearing the wrath of God in your place on the cross. Therefore, do not trifle with God Presuming upon him, treating him casually, but love him with reverence, serve him with trembling, and worship him in the beauty of holiness. I conclude with this. After writing about Jesus, the writer of the book of Hebrews, Says, therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. See the juxtaposition there. The saving God, who saves us from his wrath, a consuming fire. This is our God whom we worship and revere and honor and love and serve with all we have and are. Amen Amen. Lord, as we think about the Philistines and their hapless, mistaken attempts to use the Ark of the Covenant. And we think about the Israelites who couldn't seem to understand who you really are and what you promised to do. We pray that we, looking back upon those ancient times, will understand better. And therefore, respond in our hearts with reverence and awe and worship and thanksgiving for the holy God who saves us from his holy wrath. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.