Please turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter thirty-nine We'll read the entire chapter. Now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian. Had bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his Egyptian master. His master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands. So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him. And he made him overseer of his house, and put him in charge of all that he had. From the time that he made him overseer in his house, House and over all that he had. The Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. The blessing of the Lord was on all that he had, in house and field. So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge, and because of him he had no concern about anything but the food he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. And after a time his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph and said, Said, Lie with me. But he refused, and said to his master's wife, Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house and he has put everything that he has in my charge. He is not greater in this house than I am, nor has he kept back anything from me except yourself, because you are his wife. How then can I do this? And as she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her, to lie beside her or to be with her. But one day, when he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house was there in the house, she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand and fled and got out of the house. And as soon as she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled out of the house, she called to the men of her household and said to them, See, he has brought among us a Hebrew to laugh at us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. And as soon as he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried out, he left his garment beside me and fled and got out of the house. Then she laid up his garment by her until his master came home And she told him the same story, saying, The Hebrew servant servant, whom you have brought among us, came into me to laugh at me. But as soon as I lifted up my voice and cried he left his garment beside me and fled out of the house. As soon as his master heard the words that his wife spoke to him This is the way your servant treated me. His anger was kindled. And Joseph's master took him and put him into prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined, and he was there in prison But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him steadfast love and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever was done there, he was the one who did it. The keeper of the prison paid no attention to anything that was in Joseph's charge, because the Lord was with him. And whatever he did, the Lord made it succeed. This is the word of the Lord. Reading, including the text, is from Romans 8, 18 through 30. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God, but the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly. but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption. as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with Patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words, and he who searches the hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. This is the text. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called. And those whom he called he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. This is the word of the Lord. The text again is verse 28 And it says, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. These words constitute one of the most cherished promises or statements in the Bible. A lot of Christians know this verse, and they recite it at various times, good and bad times. These words are quoted more often among Christians in conversations than perhaps any others. I'm not sure. Because they are a comfort in trouble, they are light on a difficult path. They offer hope in the face of the last enemy, death. But they may well be quoted when things are bright. It's easy to quote them when things are going well. All things with a nice smile on our face. Beautiful weather. All things work together for good to those who love God, right? That's wonderful when someone gets a job that they needed. And we have a report of a job change that someone got recently. It's good, isn't it? All things work together for good. When someone recovers from a serious illness, and we say, well, you know, all things work together for good. But all things includes all things, not just good things. That's why we read the story from Genesis about Joseph. Think back to the story for a moment. All things included Joseph's being his dad's favorite boy, which was not a good thing, you know, it got him into all kinds of trouble, and it wasn't right in the first place to have a favorite like that. All things included his brothers hating him in great jealousy and plotting his death and selling him to the Ishmaelites and then lying to their father about his whereabouts. All things, including his being elevated, he must have had the gift of administration. Just read it over and over, right? But his being elevated to being the first person in Potiphar's house, where Potiphar could just leave it all to this great manager, Joseph. It also includes, all things include his being cast into prison because Mrs. Potiphar couldn't have her way with him. That's part of the all things. And his ability to interpret dreams was part of all things. You see how that later gets him out of trouble. It takes a long time, though. And his elevation finally to the highest office, except Pharaoh's, in the whole land of Egypt, where he eventually has the wonderful opportunity to forgive his brothers For what they did to him. That's part of the all things that God uses. So you can see it's not just bad things or good things, it's both. It's part of the all things. Let's take another example. Think of King David. We're going to begin a series later in the summer or in the early fall of the life of King David, how he came to your office and all the struggles. We're going through a lot of that in the evening in the Psalms. We're seeing some of his perils there. But think of King David. For him, all things included being anointed when he was just a kid, anointed as the king to take Saul's place, even though he was the youngest son in his family. It includes him slaying that great giant, Goliath, at some time in his youth It includes him eventually joining the King's Court, King Saul's court as a musician. Playing the harp and singing for the troubled Saul who was always depressed and troubled and vexed. The all things included him fleeing from Saul for many years because Saul was so jealous. It included a wonderful friendship with Saul's son Jonathan. which was uh strengthening and encouraging and blessing him so wonderfully for a long time. What a blessed thing that was part of the all things, that that wonderful, deep, loving friendship he had with John. And eventually, all things included his becoming king over all Israel, the whole united nation of Israel, north and south, all the tribes together. The great King David. But you know all things also, included his seeing Bathsheba from the roof of his palace. Deciding to have her. And then subsequently his plotting the murder of her husband to cover up what had happened. That's part of the all things. And the death of that little baby boy, that's part of the all things. The long period of David's repentance. And recovery from all the bad he had done. And finally, all things included David's sons Rebellion against him, Absalom, and Absalom's death. What a tragedy it was. Obviously, all things are not good All things are not good. Some things are bad and sinful and tragic. But God overrules Providentially in all things. That's what our text says. And he uses all things for our spiritual benefit to refine us. To make us more ready to be in his presence forever. All things he uses to teach us to hate sin, And to see our weakness and sinfulness, I wrote this sermon. This is one of my handwritten sermons. It must be 20 years old, before computers, you know. I see myself better now than I did when I wrote this sermon. How sinful I am, how weak I am, how frail I am. And God uses all things to show me that as He shows you. Your weakness and your sinfulness. And that motivates us to seek Him more and more. In the case of our human author, Paul, who wrote the book of Romans, He is one of those who knows what it means to say all things work together for good. In Philippians 1:12, he says to the Philippians, Now I want you to know, brothers, that what happened to me me has really served to advance the gospel. All kind of things got in Paul's way. But he says I see it as a way that God is using to advance the gospel. I'm not late in coming to you because of tragedies that are out of God's control, but no, God uses all things, and even this has caused him to advance his purpose. And later on, when Paul had so much wonderful success and so much blessing in his life, he was a great missionary and churches were springing up everywhere, and he was teaching the churches. He could have gotten pretty high on himself and gotten kind of big too big for his breeches, as they say. But uh the Lord sent him something that he calls a thorn in the flesh A thorn in the flesh. And he says, please, Lord, take it away. He asked three times, please take it away. But that's one of the all things that God was using for Paul. To teach him to trust in God. And he says that the Lord said to him, My grace is sufficient for you, Paul, for my power is made perfect in weakness. So then Paul says, is a response to the Lord, therefore will I boast all the more gladly about my weakness. So that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight, he says, in Weaknesses. For when I am weak, then I am strong. All things are not good, but God works in all things for the good For the good. God's terms are eschatological. He's not focused on the immediate problem and the immediate feeling and the immediate difficulty, he says, no, I've got a long-term plan for you, a long-term eschatological plan for you, and it is good. It is It is good for you. So far, I haven't really finished the whole verse. Second part qualifies and limits the promise that we have here. In all things, God works for the good, the good of those who love Him. Or different translations put that word order a little differently, but you get the point. To those who have been called according to his purpose Look closely at the second part of that, that to those who have been called according to his purpose. This describes something in theology that we call the objective sovereignty of God. God. Bringing people from death to life. Bringing them to faith. The word Kaleo here is a verb Which doesn't just mean like being called to a party, like an invitation came and I was called to this party. No, this is more like Not a party invitation, but it's more like a warrant for your arrest. And then the FBI and the local police and the state police and the federal police all converge on your house to take you somewhere. arrest. It's a very strong word, this Kaleo. It's not just you're invited if you'd like to come. No. This brings the result that it brings forth by its word. When God calls you in this sense You become saved. Those who are called, those who are brought to salvation, those who are dragged in by God's dragnet. There are no ifs or ands or buts about it. When God calls this word coleo here, the sinner can't resist, doesn't resist. Because it's an act of God. It's a sovereign work of God. If you are called by this calling of God, you will come to Christ You will repent of sin. You will believe and trust in him. And if you're not called, you will remain in rebellion and sin. In perfect accord with your will. Perfect accord with your will. So you might well ask, how do I know if I have been called in the word use here? There are religious people who were not called. Jesus rebuked religious people in many places in John John 8. 44, for instance, he said to some religious people, you are of your father the devil. They weren't called by grace And Paul says to believers, even to them, he says in 2 Peter 1:10, make your calling and election sure. How do you make it sure? How do you know you were called? Well, the first part of this second phrase. gets at the answer because it describes the primary experience of those who have this divine call to salvation. And it is that they love God. If you're called by the Spirit's power that drags you into salvation, you, as a result, will actually love God, and that is not natural or normal. Normal. Sinners naturally and normally hate God. We cover up our hatred sometimes, but we normally and naturally, and by our fallen nature in Adam, hate God. Love for God is an absolute 180-degree turn for sinners. Every sinner hates God. That is the God revealed in the Bible Now, people love the gods of their own imagination, God who approves of everything they think and do and feel. They may have love in a distorted image of God, but you can't love the true God as He reveals himself in the Bible unless you've been called into salvation by Jesus. Jesus Christ by the Spirit's power. Some people believe in God, as the demons believe in God. They believe in the existence of God. Lots of Americans would say in a survey that they believe in the existence of God of some sort. But only those who are called to salvation can love the true and living God revealed in the Bible. But every one of them do love God in some real measure. The Israelites We're told in the great Shema, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall what? Love the Lord your God. They were called by God's covenant grace into salvation. So they love the Lord their God. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength. In Exodus twenty, verses five and six, where the Ten Commandments are being given. The Lord says, I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children of the sin for the sins of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing love to thousands Who love me. See, there are always thousands who love me, who have been called into grace, and keep my commandments The Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2. 9, no eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived. He's really getting into this. What God has prepared for those who love Him. You see, it's normal and natural for those who are called by the Spirit. But they love God as He reveals Himself in the Bible. So how does it happen that a sinner comes to love God? It happens by the power of God the Spirit, who calls you out of hate and enity with God and into love and peace with God. And Paul describes it in Romans 5. 5 this way. He says, God has poured out his love. You just think of that picture, huge picture. And our hearts are open. And he's He's pouring out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given us. The love of God is shed abroad, as the old King James says, in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. All true believers love God, even though our love is not perfect, our love is incomplete. Paul says, and this is my prayer in Philippians 1 9. This is my prayer that your love may abound more and more. It may get stronger. So we can have weaker and stronger. Love. He wants us to have stronger love. He's praying for it for us. Now I want you to take this little experiential self-examination with me. Six qualities of those that have a true believer love for God. Six qualities of love that a true believer. Has for God. First, those who love God enjoy meditating on His greatness. Do you enjoy meditating on God's greatness? Psalm 97, verses 1 through 6 says this. The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice, let the coastlands be glad. Thick clouds are all around him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne Fire goes before him and burns up all his adversaries around him. His lightnings lighten up the world. The earth sees and trembles. The mountains melt like wax. That is meditation on the greatness of God. His greatness is unfathomable. Sadly, some folks prefer to think of God only in terms of their own personal needs. He is their personal assistant. They pray to Him when they need a little help here or there with a problem, this or that. And it is true that God does come to our help. He is our assistant. He is closer than a brother, as the scripture says, but he's also great, like we just heard. From Psalm 97. He is great, and he has loved very small persons like you and me. And that contrast, you see, his greatness, we can meditate on it because when we see it in contrast to our smallness, Our frailness, our need, it shows us His wonderful grace to us, how much a great, great, great God can love little persons like We are. We love him because he first loved us, as the Apostle John says. And so So we meditate on the vast difference between how small we are, how insignificant in a way, and how great and vast God is. Those who love God enjoy meditating on his greatness. Secondly, they trust in his saving power. Psalm 116, verses 1 through 8, says, I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. He has inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encompassed me. The pangs of Sheol laid hold on me. I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, He saved me. Those are words of love and trust. God's saving power. I was in great peril. I was brought low. But God has saved me. So those who love God trust in His saving power. Those who have really seen their sinfulness, who know how it clings to every deed, every word. Those people dare not trust in the efforts of their flesh. They dare not think that they have arrived. Made it. Their only hope is in Jesus Christ, the crucified, risen, ascended Lord. They don't trust in themselves. They trust in God's saving power. So have you come to grip this fact, my friends? that you are not good enough for God. Our culture says everybody is good enough for everything in every way. But no, the Bible teaches us that we are not good enough for God, and you will never be good enough for God, no matter how good you may become. The longer you live, in fact, the more you must account for. Your only hope is in God's saving power through the death and burial and resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ. Now let's go into a third quality of love that true believers have. That is that they seek communion with God. They seek Communion with God. Psalm 63, verse 1. O God, the psalmist says, You are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you, my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. They seek God. Is it nothing to you to stay away from public and private worship? Do you operate just fine without prayer and without the Word of God? No. A true believer cannot go on and on without communing with the Lord in word, in worship, and sacrament. Because these are the food and drink of eternal life. This assembly is the assembly before the King and his throne. And it is the place where he gives us himself. Spiritually, in the eating and drinking, and in the praise of Israel. These things are a foretaste of the wedding feast of the Lamb. And if you want to be there someday, you'll want to be here very often. If the fellowship of God's people and of the Lord's table are precious to you, then you show real signs of loving God, the God who created the church and ordained the sacrament. Fourth sign of those who love God, fourth quality, is that a true believer loves those whom God loves. Do you love each other? Do you love other Christians? Other believers in Jesus Christ? In 1 John 3, verse 14, the apostle says, we know that we have passed from death to life. Here's the causal clause. Because we love our brothers. We know that we're saved. We know that we have it because we love our brothers Anyone who does not love remains in death, he says in contrast to that. Now, I can't control who God chooses. I can't control who he puts in his Saints, his body. I like all of you, by the way, very much. And I hope you like me But sometimes when I've met some Christians here and there, not too many, but once in a while I've wished God would be a little more choosy about who He chooses. I wish he would choose more clear-minded people like me, more right-headed people who get their theology straight, you know. As one of my seminary professors used to say, he said, To live in love with the saints above in heaven, oh, that will be glory. To live below with the saints we know, that's another story. But if you really get in touch with what a mess you are and what a mess I am When we really get in touch with that and see how far God has loved us anyway, in spite of who we are and what we are, and then you won't find it so hard to love those that God loves. To care for those that God has chosen as His people. Matthew 18, we have that parable of the unmerciful. Merciful servant who has been forgiven millions and millions of dollars in the parable. But he won't forgive his friend who owes him just a little bit. And he's condemned for that failure to forgive. If we love God, if we have been forgiven by God, this great debt of our sinfulness, then we will be able to extend To others, the love. Fifthly, the true believer shows love for God by hating what God hates. This doesn't sound very politically correct, does it? We're not supposed to hate at all, are we? But no, the Bible teaches that we are to hate some things. Proverbs. Let me turn there for a second. Proverbs 6, 16 through 19. This is a very famous passage. Proverbs 6, 16 Through 19. There are six things that the Lord hates, it says. What does he hate? Seven that are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers. A lot of the Ten Commandments are right there. God hates sin. He hates those who do sin. He hates them in a way. Psalm 5, verse 5 says, You hate all who do wrong. So it's not just the sin, it's sometimes the sinner that God hates. You hate all who do wrong. Psalm 97, verse 10 says, Those who love the Lord hate evil. Proverbs 8. 13, the fear, to fear the Lord is to hate evil. We're to hate some things, friends. Isaiah 61. 8 says, I hate robbery and iniquity, says the Lord. And Romans 12. 9 says that we are to hate what is evil and clean Cling to what is good. So if you love the Lord, you will not fail to hate what God hates Even as you see sin clinging to you against your own will, you will hate it more and more. When you do sin, and you will, and you do When you have recovered from your latest fall, you'll hate it. You'll say, I'm so sorry, my lord. Lord, for sinning against you again. I hate that sin. Please deliver me from that sin. I hate it. You won't get used to it and coddle it and keep it as a pet. You'll hate it. Forsake it because it is displeasing to God, as the catechism says. And you'll hate sin on a worldwide scale as you see it pervasive in the world system. As we see all kinds of terrible things happening in our world, we hate the sin. As first John two says, Do not love the world, either the things that are in the world, for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the And this world, the sinful system that is, is passing away Because Jesus Christ's kingdom is growing. It's passing away. But those who do the will of God abide forever. If you love God, you will want to see the world turn. To Christ. And so you'll hate the world turning away from Christ. You'll want to hear about our missionaries and like the Hastings coming tonight. You'll want to hear what God is doing now. He is bringing the nations in. And you'll hate the evil that corrupts the whole world system. You won't be content to have salvation for yourself alone. You will want To see all the nations and your neighbors saved, set free from sin that enslaves them. When you see people living enslaved lives, it won't be an amusement to you It'll be sad indeed. And finally, the sixth one: the true believer has the quality of love that he loves and obeys God's commandments. No one can truly love God and despise his commands. Anyone who knows God knows that his commands are never meant to harm us. When God says Thou shalt not He's not saying it to harm us. He's saying it to protect us, to keep us from trouble, to help us and heal us, not to make our lives a burden, but to make a burden. Jesus said in John 14, Whoever has my commands and obeys them, he is the one who loves me. That's a test. Loving God's commands, obeying him, means you love him. He who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I too will love him and show myself to him So the pattern for a true believer is to obey God's law more and more. So over the years, if you're getting older, are you obeying more and more Sin is a transgression of commandments of God, and so we should sin less and less. And obey more and more. Out of love for God. So if you love God, none of us is going to get 100% on this six-part test, right? That's why we have Jesus Christ, our Savior, who died for our failure, even to meet the qualification of loving God perfectly. But the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit if we are the called. And if we are the called according to his purpose, those who love God Then we have this promise that we started with that whatever happens, whatever comes, good or bad, weal or woe, vain or blessing, God will use it for our good. God will use it for our good. I'm going to ask you to take your Psalter hymnal. And read with me in closing on page 872. Isn't it nice that we have this now? In this old sermon I had it written out and I just read it, and you probably wouldn't listen. But now I'm going to ask you to read it out with me aloud. On page 872, numbered at the bottom, the Heidelberg Catechism, Lord's Day 1. I'll ask the question and we'll all answer it together and you'll see that it captures. The verse that we've been preaching today. What is your only comfort in life and in death? That I am not my own, but belong body and soul in life and death. to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood, and has delivered me from the tyranny of the devil He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Father in heaven. In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. Because I belong to him Christ by His Holy Spirit also assures me of eternal life and makes me wholeheartedly willing and ready from now on to live for Him Brothers and sisters, may you pass the test by the grace and power of Jesus Christ, who gives us his Holy Spirit. May you pass the test of love for God. And be confident that these words that we just read are true for you, that in all things God works for your good and for his glory. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you are the sovereign God who calls people into relationship with you. Who breaks down the natural fallen barriers turns our natural hatred of you and rejection of you Into acceptance, repentance, and faith, and love for you. Teaches us to love others, teaches us to love one another. Brings us to greater and greater sanctification in the course of our life by your wonderful providence. We thank you for these words of your word today. Amen