I'm going to read from a couple of places. First of all, please turn to the toward the end of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 31 Deuteronomy 31, beginning at verse 16. Maybe we'll back up to verse 14. Deuteronomy 31, verse 14, and following. Deuteronomy, of course, is the second giving of the law after God's people had received the law and failed to follow through and enter into the land. They wandered in the wilderness for 40 years. And a whole generation died. A disobedient generation died. And now this generation is being commissioned. Moses is old. He's about to die. And Joshua is going to be the one who leads the people into the land. So we pick up at verse 14. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, the days approach when you must die. Call Joshua and present yourselves in the tent of meeting, that I may commission him. And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the tent of meeting. And the Lord appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance of the tent. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers. Then this people will rise and hoar after the foreign gods among them in the land that they are entering. And they will forsake me, and break my covenant that I have made with them. Then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide my face from them. that they will be devoured. And many evils and troubles will come upon them, so that they will say in that day Have not these evils come upon us because our God is not among us? And I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil that they have done Because they have turned to other gods. And then also we will read from Deuteronomy 5, so go back to Deuteronomy 5, where the Ten Commandments are given for the second time. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. And then the New Testament reading from 1 Corinthians 10, 1 through 22. And Paul here recounts some of that very same history. He says, I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them, God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things took place as an example for us that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were, as it is written The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No. I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? We'll end there. Take the catechism. I'll ask a question. What does God enjoin in the first commandment? That I, as sincerely as I desire the salvation of my own soul, avoid and flee from all idolatry sorcery, soothsaying, superstition, invocation of saints, or any other creatures, and learn rightly to know the only true God Trust in him alone. With humility and patience. Submit to him. Expect all good things from him only. love and fear, and glorify him with my whole heart, so that I renounce and forsake all creatures, rather than commit even the least thing contrary to his will What is idolatry? Idolatry is instead of or besides that one true God who has manifested himself in his word to contrive or have any other object in which men place their trust. Pluralism and syncretism, syncretism means combining two things. Like synchronized swimming is people swimming in the same way at the same time, all their movements are the same, right? That's syncretism. So syncretism in the area of religion is combining religions Having one religion and another religion, practicing both religions. Syncretism was Israel and Judah's constant temptation. Now they they believed in Yahweh. In the psalm that we sung, the word is Jehovah. And the truth is that no one knows exactly how to pronounce the name of God because it exists only in consonants. There are no vowels in Hebrew. And the Hebrews wouldn't say that name when they would come to it in the reading of the Word of God. So they would simply say Adonai, which means Lord. Or the Almighty, they would say El Shaddai, the Almighty, when they would see the word with the four letters of Shadd Y-H-W-H in our in our English. But Y H W H how do you pronounce Y-H-W-H you don't know how What earlier scholars tried to do is take the vowels from the word Adonai and put them in between the four letters, and that's how they come up with Jehovah. But that's just someone's idea of how to do it. No one really knows. So we we figure that maybe one of the best possible trays to say the word is Yahweh. So that's what we have. But uh they believed in Yahweh. They trusted Yahweh. He was the one who delivered them from Egypt. And yet, when they would go into another territory They would get interested in the culture around them. They would meet people and talk to them and they would hear, oh, oh, so you know how to You know how to get um the crop to grow. Oh, how do you do that? Oh well we have a God of the crops, and uh we make our sacrifice and we pray our prayers. Uh how do you get water? Well we have a god of the water and the rain and we pray for the the crops and the fertility. And how do you how do you have such good flocks and how many how many children that you have, how many sons you have? Oh well we have a a god of fertility and we make our duty to this god and we uh become pregnant and we have lots of flocks and we have lots of children and that's how we do it. Oh, that's interesting. Uh well, you know, maybe I'll try that too. You know, I want good flocks and I want more children And I want uh rain, uh you know, so forth. And I want protection. And there's the God of the mountain up there who protects and various other things. So Yeah, I I think, you know, I believe in Yahweh. Yahweh's the one who brought us out of Egypt through the but I don't know, you know, now we're in a new place. Yahweh's Maybe with us, maybe not, but we know these other people have these other gods. Let's let's just add those gods, syncretize our religion. Add those gods to our God. We'll worship both. We'll just make sure all the gods are happy. No. That syncretism, that was Israel and Judah's constant temptation. It wasn't so much that they just rejected Yahweh. the God of the covenant, the God of of uh the Exodus, but they wouldn't add other gods in to make things go better for them. And so we we have a number of places in Scripture that talk about how they did this. And they would they would uh They would worship something called Asherah, or in plural form, Asherim. And that is the gods of the groves or the trees. And these were the names of sensual Canaanitish goddesses such as Astardi. Astardi was a feminine of the Assyrian Ishtar. And its symbol was the stem of a tree deprived of its boughs and rudely shaped into an image and planted in the ground. So they would put this kind of big stick in the ground that they had pulled the branches off of and worship it. Isn't that brilliant, you know? Um such religious symbols were frequently alluded to in scripture. I'm going to read a few of those scriptures in just a minute. Sometimes they got elaborate with Ash Asherah or Ashereim. And they would make these images out of silver or of carved stone, these graven images. So that was uh one of the things that they would do, that they would get from the people around them, the Canaanites in this case. And they would also go to what are called high places. High places, you know, the idea is if you go up higher, you're closer to the heavens and and the gods who might be overruling in that area. An elevated site is a high place, usually found on the top of a mountain or a hill. Most places were Canaanite places of pagan worship And the heathen worship in these high places would have an altar. It's described in 2 Kings 21 and in 2 Chronicles 14. We're not going to look that up. He would also have a carved wooden pole that depicted the female goddess of fertility, Asherah. We just talked about that. And then a stone pillar symbolizing the male deity. And other idols might be there too. They're described in various places. At these places of worship, the people would sacrifice animals. At some of the high places, children were sacrificed, according to Jeremiah chapter 7. And they would burn incense there and pray and eat sacrificial meals And then they would be involved with male and female cultic prostitutes there, as described in the Old Testament. And although most of the places were part of the worship of Baal or the Ammonite god Molech and the Moabite god Kemosh, They were also worshiping in similar places as well as Asherah. Scripture speaks very, very negatively about these heathen places. But they played a central role in the lives of most of the people who lived in Palestine before the land was defeated by Joshua, and then, of course, the syncretism. would come back and the people who had conquered and God had given them the victory would say, Well, you know, we live in a new place now. Um let's learn about their culture and their religion and see what we can get out of it. That's why God said in the first commandment, and said it again in Deuteronomy 5 in the first commandment. I am the Lord, and the word there is Yahweh, or Y-H-W-H. I am the covenant God, the Redeemer, who brought you, he gives the Description who brought you out of the land of Egypt. You want to know which one I am? I'm that one. I'm Yahweh. I did that for you. Out of the house of slavery, where you were slaves And then you shall have no other gods before me. And he's not saying there, you know, I'm number one, and these others can be number two, number three, number four. He's saying No other gods. I'm the only God. You shall have no other gods. In my face, really. Don't put them up. Don't have anything to do with them. No loyalty to them at all. So now I'm going to read a series of uh verses which describe the things that we just talked about. Deuteronomy 12, 2. You shall surely destroy all the places where the nations whom you shall dispossess served their gods. On the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree. These groves of trees is where they would all do some of these things. in these high places. 1 Kings 14. For they also built for themselves high places and pillars and asherim on every high hill and under every green tree. There it is again. 2 Kings 16. And he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. Who's this? This is one of the kings of Israel that did this. 2 Kings 17. And they set up for themselves pillars and Asharim on every high hill and under every green tree. 2 Chronicles 28. And he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the high hills and under every green tree. Isaiah 57, 5 Isaiah condemns. God condemns this idolatry. He condemns those, he said, who burn with lust among the oaks. That's that. Cult prostitution under every green tree who slaughter your children in the valleys under the clefts of the rocks Jeremiah 2, 20. For long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds, that's long ago when they were delivered from Egypt, but you said, I will not serve. I will not serve the Lord. Yes, on every high hill and under every green tree you bow down like a whore, it says. Jeremiah 3 The Lord said to me, In the days of King Josiah, have you seen what she did, that faithless one Israel? How she went up on every high hill and under every green tree and played the whore? So it's not a very pretty picture what it means to syncretize, to worship other gods, to add a God to the true and living God. It's to be a whore. Spiritually. And maybe actually. Jeremiah 3. Only acknowledge your guilt that you have rebelled against the Lord your God and scattered your favors among men foreigners under every green tree, and that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the Lord. Two more. Jeremiah 17, 2 While their children remember their altars and their asherem beside every green tree and on the high hills. Ezekiel 6. This is post-exile prophecy. You shall know that I am the Lord, when their slain lie among their idols around their altars. on every high hill and all the mountaintops under every green tree and under every leafy oak, whatever they offered pleasing wherever they offered pleasing aroma to all their idols, God's going to destroy it. That's what that's about. And then finally, Ezekiel 20, verse 47, say to the forest of the Negev, Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will kindle a fire in you. And it shall devour every green tree in you, and every dry tree. Blazing flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it. That's the background of what is being forbidden here, idolatry, syncretism, adding any other God at all to the worship of the true and living God. You think, well wow, that's the Old Testament. That's um that is a great uh thing that they were told these terrible th things and God was going to punish them. But even in the New Testament, we are still prone to wonder, as the hymn says, prone to wonder, Lord I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. And we read from 1 Corinthians 10. He says, I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud. What's that? The cloud that brought them through the Red Sea. and carried them into the land of of Sinai. And all passed through the sea And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and the sea. So they were in union with Moses. Baptized always means union They were in union with Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and they all ate the same spiritual food. What was that? Mana, right? And the other things that God supplied, quail and other things. And all drank the same spiritual drink? What's that? Water from the rock. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Nevertheless. With most of them God was not pleased, that generation that had been redeemed. For they were overthrown in the wilderness. And then Paul says, this happened for your benefit. Not that they God planned for them to be disobedient and sinful for our benefit, but the telling of it, the recording of it, is definitely for our benefit. These things took place as an example for us that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. That what's that? That's telling of the story of making the golden calf and having a great big party And getting crazy, sinful. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction Our instruction, and then listen to this, on whom the end of the ages has come, when the Christian When the full trinity was revealed, the Christian Church was formed, including all nations The end of the ages had come. When Christ was risen from the dead and ascended to the Father's throne, the end of the ages had come. The end of the old age and the beginning of the great new age, of the new creation. of the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, which will never end, which will grow and prosper and continue on and on. So because we're the people on whom the ends of the ages has come, that is our great privilege We're the people who have the full revelation of God in Christ, his resurrection, his glory, his power. Let us not Fall into this idolatry that these people fell into. And this is the instruction the Apostle Paul is giving very, very clearly here. I don't have what I thought I had here. I guess I didn't print the right uh version. But I was going to quote from Timothy Keller. who defines idolatry, and I'll paraphrase uh what I think I remember from his quote. Idolatry, in our case, as it applies to us Is making anything ultimate other than God. Now there are many, many good things, and Keller says that the thing we most often fall into as Christians When we fall into idolatry of any sort, is that we make something good into something ultimate. It's a good thing to have good health, isn't it? I mean I want good health, but if I if I become obsessed with everything I eat has to have these vitamin and mineral qualities and I can't touch it if it's not Because I am so obsessed with with my health at every moment that that I can't enjoy anything and that I'm always on guard, I may have made health into an idolatry Or if I if I love money and rely upon money, and I think if I get up to a certain amount of money, then I will be secure and and my whole future will be completely uh sound. No, it won't. A fool and his money are soon parted, right? And uh those who wish to get rich fall into a multitude of sins So uh making money ultimate is one of the ways to be idolatrous. Again, it's a good thing to plan, it's a good thing to have money, it's a good thing to have plenty of money and give away money But to make money ultimate, to make it my security, is a form of idolatry. It can be a form of idolatry. You have to kind of think for yourself what what might be ultimate to you What goal or wish or desire might be ultimate to you. Now again, most of the things that might come into that category of good things. I don't think many of you are thinking of bad things and I want that really evil thing. I want to pursue that that bad moral uh practice or something like that But even good things, if they're placed before God and made ultimate, are leading into idolatry, and we're warned against it We need to have as our whole trust and our whole confidence God. The first question and answer of the Heidelberg Catechism. What is your only comfort in life and in death? That I belong not to myself, but to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ, who has shed his blood and purchased salvation for me. I'm paraphrasing now. Some of you might know the real answer. And nothing can happen to me apart from the will of my Heavenly Father. Not even a hair can fall from my head without His will. And all things must work for my salvation. Well if you have that kind of faith and focus on God, then you won't be focused on, I have to have that or I won't be happy I won't be fulfilled or or sure about anything unless I get this goal accomplished or that thing happen. So that is the possibility. And I will add to that that we live in a pluralistic society, a increasingly pluralistic society. And it used to be when I was younger, and when some of you were younger, that most people believed most of the Ten Commandments. as moral standards. Even if they didn't go to church, even if they didn't claim to be Christians, they lived by the basic pattern of the Ten Commandments. Don't steal, don't commit adultery, don't lie. Things like that. But that is going rapidly out the window. And people are saying, so who says? And change the rules. And And then you you can be bombarded with those ideas. You can be shamed for believing in the Bible and believing in the Ten Commandments and believing in God. How narrow you are. You're not very pluralistic. You're not very accepting. You're intolerant. And you feel the shame and oh maybe I should change my views, maybe I should get along and go along more. If you do, that's syncretism Because it's not just that they're old ideas and that we grew up with them, they're the biblical ideas. That's what makes them sure and sound and certain and unchangeable That's what grounds us to the truth, the Bible, what the Bible says, what God teaches us. And if we stick to that and resist all of the siren sounds around us of a decaying, rotting, filthy, miserable culture, then we'll be able to stand. Against it. That was, by the way, the chief reason that Israelites were not to intermingle and intermarry with the pagans around them. The chief reason. It wasn't so much that our race has to be pure. It wasn't racial. Because God always had the program of bringing the gospel to all nations, all races, all kindreds of people. He wasn't saying I like this race and not anybody else. No, it was these people are my people. I'm giving them my word, and if they're going to keep it, they need to keep it carefully. And therefore, they can't get mixed up in their minds and their hearts by marrying the pagans around them and adopting their ideas and their ways. That was the main reason. So there we have it. Those are the reasons from the first commandment. I mean, I think the catechism says it very well Flee from all idolatry, sorcery, soothsaying, superstition, invocation of saints, or any other creatures. And learn rightly to know the only true God. Trust in Him alone. With humility and patience. Submit to Him. Expect all good things from Him only. Love, fear, and glorify him with my whole heart, so that I renounce and forsake all creatures rather than commit even the least thing contrary to his will. There we have a very good description of what it means to be committed to worshiping our God only, our triune, holy, holy, holy God. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you have called us to be holy in all of our thoughts and words and conduct and ways. We pray that you'll keep us from Taking on water, being diluted in our thinking and in our practice by the world around us. May we be faithful to you. Amen.