Preach to us. You are being transformed and renewed and made new by the power of the Spirit and the body of Christ. He's been baptized. He's the Lamb who takes away the sins of the world. That's a colloquial way of saying when someone sort of butts into your business, you politely say, Why are you butting your head in there? And I remind you, right, that where the glory of Christ, according as John tells in his gospel, is really seen is on the cross and the self-sacrifice that Jesus made for you and me and all who believe in him. And give your life to him in offerings of sacrifice. And I have been anointed. The work he's doing right now is proclaiming the Lord's favor. When you are crossing paths with people who are evidently captive in sin, saying, Let me tell you about the Lord's anointed that can set you free, Jesus Christ. It's his gracious counsel to do it, and it's Jesus Christ as the one through whom he will do it and is doing it as he renews his church. You know that he stopped at proclaiming the Lord's favor and didn't go on to the day of vengeance, not because he's not going to do that work. What is the renewal and restoration that this great Redeeming Lord is working out joyfully? This earth has not been repaired since its fall. You're the Lord's priest to me. Or a bridegroom would put in getting ready for a wedding. He's talking about what each of you and I have in common who believe in Jesus, the faith. You prophets, immediately inspired by God, don't say anything to the people that is incompatible with belief in Jesus Christ. Don't do that, because it is God's word to you. And the jumping point of our of the passage of teaching is God's Word, right? And sermons that are full of heat too, right? The government of the church in correcting abuses, preventing disorders, and in the administration of discipline calls for constant vigilance and fidelity. Before things get out of hand, and such is the service that our rulers do to the church, constantly aware and thinking of the needs and things going on, it requires constant vigilance, zeal. We don't always want to receive it, especially if we're AIDS, if we're sick, if we're poor, losing our health, we're strength, or oftentimes sin brings us into those positions Because love doesn't do harm to anybody. One day there will only be people who recognize male and female here? Don't just wait for the stranger to show up. You're going to be asking those who are making your life very miserable for the sake of Jesus that God would bless them. I can't imagine Jesus was very gloomy at that wedding we read about this morning. And that Gentiles in some sense would say to them, You guys are the priests of the Lord. And it's recognizing that as the redeemed in the Lord, as we intercede for the nations in prayers, as we share the gospel for them, you're performing a priestly function as God's people. And all equally committed to his service as Lord. applying it to our congregation and in our lives. or sharing or pretending to share their presuppositions of this evil age, right? You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast. Chapter twelve, beginning at verse six, where we continue to look at the reasonable service the saints are to offer to God by His mercy shown to us in the Lord Jesus. And receivers of that everlasting covenant that God promised there in verse 8. So if you have your Bible and you want to follow along, we're in John 2, that is where we ended. For the renewal and restoration of creation has come with him. Uh Moses, uh when I read the old covenant, I thought if God had decided Damon Young was supposed to live four thousand years ago, I hope Damon Young lived in Israel, because those are good laws. They just did not have the grace and truth that's come through Jesus Christ. He's doing something at the wedding. It must have been a really old tasting wine, and Jesus made it like that. And his disciples believed in him. and ascension as he has been enthroned because of what he did. And the now that's come can really be summed up in renewal and restoration. So what's underlying all this is already Isaiah 53 and the redemption through Jesus Christ. Our disinheritance to inheritance because of who God is, the righteous God, the just God, who in our salvation is just But what God's saying is I hate that he's really turning around to himself. That everlasting covenant is God saying, I'm faithful to my word, and I'm faithful to the work of my Messiah to give you this everlasting covenant and blessings. So we can bring forth this righteousness. You don't take a whole lot of care, right? Hopefully you've all received a word already, because it's going to talk about a lot of different people in the body of Christ, and it's going to talk about us together. First thing is if you look at verse 3, sober evaluation is taking place. Really, but I mean the measure of faith gifts. So we are being renewed so that God will be at the center of our lives again, and others will be at the center of our lives because we're members in a body. If you're to do that in your serving. But Paul does also mean here, and it's the case of teaching next and exhorting. You know, spiritual qualification for this isn't just because you have a lot of stuff that you can give and share with, because the word here in Greek is talking about sharing from what you have And purely give because you want to bless others with your giving. Say that again, it requires constant vigilance and fidelity. And you know this right as parents, because that's how elders are likened in the church or the parents of the church. Caring for aged and disabled people. So Paul is saying, look for that person who just has a very agreeable disposition, a very cheerful person, who is particularly entrusted by the church to care for those in need and the sick and the aged people. He's the one who cried, there's a lion out there. Being on fire for the Lord isn't to be something that some of us are on, but all of us, but it's to be reined in by that zeal is to be focused towards serving the Lord and not just enthusiasm for enthusiasm. Since serving the Lord may very well mean carrying the cross because you're serving him. I'm going to you as Lord, because you're Lord and I'm your servant, and so I'm asking according to your will. Well if you don't do that, he doesn't. I'm sure doors and ways and avenues will open up to us that we never thought of ways we can be hospitable to each other They shall build up the ancient ruins, they shall raise up the former devastations, they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations. Therefore, in their land they shall possess a double portion, they shall have everlasting joy. I will faithfully give them their recompense, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that He may be glorified All who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are an offspring the Lord has blessed. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water, and they filled them to the brim, and he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him To drink and partake of. And his disciples believed in him. God truly appeared in the flesh, and we think we might see something of God in the flesh and his glory. Through this act, through this sign, that the now of the messianic age with its new order for renewal and restoration is here. But Jesus, beloved, is the good wine. They have no why. And that's not a statement just a fact saying, did you know they don't have any wine? Again, we saw that last week. His wrath is turned by the judgment that fell on Christ on the cross for us to his mercy and love. That anybody can turn to and believe in and receive. The love that you can never get to the bottom of, as he shows, the grace that you can never exhaust, there display on the cross for us and in his resurrection Turn from what doesn't satisfy and come to Jesus and get life. Yes, he authoritatively pardons our sin. and restoration and not just right of my people but ultimately in in all of creation, the whole universe, renewing it Restoring it, right? And nobody can fix the breach. Point isn't don't care for the earth. Sheep are very important in Israel at that time, right, for the sacrifice. And they will recognize that it if you've ever brought someone to Christ, you know that that there's a sort of dependency and they trust and there's this evident Finally, verses 10 and 11 tell us something about our Lord. God calls us to great task. as your Redeemer and Lord. Jesus says, in the same manner, God is going to cause righteousness and praise to shoot up from the earth. And God is renewing us so that we can do God's will. And he is going to bring forth that righteousness that's so pleasing to God. So Romans 12 then is talking about the Messiah's new covenant renewal. Before we inflate ourselves by what gifts God has given us and called us to, let's remind ourselves what we all have in common by the bare admission of our faith that we are all equally dependent upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Who would immediately reveal his word, his truth to them to build up the body of Jesus Christ. It caused people to despise this gift. Try to do both. But because you have a God given capacity and you want to give and bless others. Meaning let none of us give for ulterior motives to get favor in the church, to be known by the church, to kind of, you know, I remember I kind of gave in this way, and so next time congregational meeting comes around Because if you've ever had the shit mirror, we get in we when we get needy and need mercy, it's a tight situation And Calvin has a wonderful comment here. Because we're talking about the kind of love that Jesus shows on the cross, talking about that kind of sacrificing love where we're willing to cover sins, willing to help when we see a need Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit serving the Lord, it that all hinges on serving the Lord. Once, yeah, you might be troubled for something, but he is finding every reason to just roll back over and bad. If you're using the pronouns that God authorizes we use because He's made us male and female, that's serving the Lord. We need to be renewed so that we have a joy that transcends anything here, right? A gladness that is rooted in what God has promised and will do for us is where our joy is to be at. It's going to and together as partners, right? You can't stay here as much as you try. Bless those who persecute. human in themselves without partaking of their evil because I think Paul's not talking about just Christians, but anybody. What kind of color carpet should we have? You can have that. to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor in the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks, foreigners shall be your ploughmen and vine dressers. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations The word of the Lord. The one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Be constant in prayer. Live in harmony with one another. Bless those who persecute you, bless, and do not curse them. What does this have to do with me? life and blessing and peace and healing to the nations. that the son of David, he will be the everlasting Lord of the world. This child isn't just any ordinary child, but he is the son of God who must always be about his father's business. Jesus begins his hour. Here's the preaching today. That Isaiah depicted there in Isaiah 61. We're going to look at some of that. renewal, restoration of all of creation. Jesus is letting us know that the now of the Messiah and the Messianic age and of his salvation, the new order that's come with it, or the new covenant that's come with it He's the one through whom we have access to God alone. And this is not disparaging to the Old Testament, but in light of the fullness that comes in Christ, you could kind of sum up the Old Covenant in this way. Jesus was invited to it, his mother was there, at this point notice he has disciples. And there's safety and security in Yahweh's land. This isn't historical event. yoke themselves. But they're not following him because they think he's some random guy. Make that known exactly what that means, and you're aware of that. But then we get his response, right? He is to be totally about the father's business, and his mother can have no place in his messianic vocation. But must solely reveal his Father's sovereignty to us, because he is making known to us God through his ministry. And that is as free as the gospel is. Takes it to him, tastes it, and immediately thinks, this guy's not following custom. Yes, we've received the Spirit on being renewed. presence with us as his people as he continue again Jesus is the wine. You get a friend above friends, a Lord above lords, a king above kings, a God above gods. If you have a broken heart, come to the Lord's anointed. Heartache, all kinds of pains, because of the sinful and miserable state we're in, and Jesus is appointed to give us comfort So many things, the ancient places being built up. Not natural to see things in bondage to corruption and breakdown. Jesus and call men to put their hope in that. Paul, who were the first people that brought the good news to the Gentiles? He's redeemed them. God not treating us how we treat him, and in that grace we see ourselves and we turn and we love him. It's always that grace that changes us. Nobody can find fault with what God has done in the salvation of his people and of this world. He's so glad that his father gave him this work. You know that you've got to put the right clothing on to go do something. Everything needed for righteousness, that's God word. On your wedding day, was it like Saturday morning and you woke up with your jeans and a t shirt on? We looked at Isaiah 61 and filled that out briefly. Still more of the days where we serve ourselves and I and me is at the center, but now God and others are at the center of our lives. It also means in beginning at verse 6 where we started today, spiritual gifts for service. But renewal and restoration looks like spiritual gifting for service. Say nothing that does is not incompatible with believing in Jesus Christ. I'm quoting Paul here, right, when he says, nobody can say Jesus is accursed and say that in the spirit. serving in that capacity. He's talking about they had two different aims. Teachers do that by aiming at imparting knowledge, right? Interesting, the Westminster Divines uh also divided these up and saying, if you have multiple ministers in a congregation, one's really gifted at teaching, let him teach. How many people say they love you and they are harming their spouses, harming their children, harming their friends? Abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good. We naturally abhor what's good and cling to what's evil. We want people to honor us. This is the new creation? I call God Father, I'm Son, and now I've started learning what it's like to pray in fellowship. He's gonna win. Paul uses the word for persecute, pursue. So let's not bless and curse our enemies because he did not curse us his enemies, but became a curse that we might receive a blessing. It's really hard to enter into people's joys 'cause usually by our pride and envy and covetousness we kind of want what they have and that's what they're joyful for. What child is ever happy that their older sibling got that toy and they really wanted it? My mind, obsession's mine, whose mind is it? They don't know what they're talking about. Now you can be renewed in this way. Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. Which we can draw forth forever as those who receive him and believe upon him and called by God. They have Jesus and promise, yes, but they don't have him in substance. And uh maybe he's sitting at table with his mom and she leans over and says or comes and finds him, 'cause maybe he's dancing. And vindicated him and sat him down at his right hand. Well, it means this. A reasonable soul and body subsisting. Helpful that remember that that's the faith, that's the standard that God's meted out to all of us to judge ourselves by is remember who we would be apart from our faith in Jesus Christ. Causes thankfulness week to week as we get together that in the body of Christ we have gifts. I better be having an ear, right? The one who leads, talking about the rulers and the church. I think in the first year of pastoring here I was amazed by our deacons and the service they provide to the church and probably in the last year or two I've been amazed by the elders and the service that they do to the church. And we're not willing to just put on a face and say, Yeah, I love you, and then not get down to the busy work of loving. Abhor what is not of God. Father's glory and came down here and served us. You gotta like wrestle from his hands what you want. We need renewal for that. It's a wonderful thing in the gospel, right? That's what Paul's calling us to do. If service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation. And our gospel reading this morning comes from John chapter 2, beginning at verse 1, and we'll read to verse 11. And the mother of Jesus was there. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Then we had Christmas, where that Messiah came. If I could sum up in a really big overhead view of these three passages we read, it would go something like this. And so are all of his followers ever since. I really appreciate what one comment saying this is really what the whole Old Testament should have been about, right? This is that believing response of, okay, not yet, but get things ready for when his glory does come. The verge of the Messiah is coming, fills it all the way up. Now she doesn't have to wait long, but you hear what she does, she really responds in faith. Because that's what it means to preach the gospel, to tell everybody, the Lord's risen. And so he says, now John, take it to the master of the feast. sensitive to know things about God's creation. I know these words are familiar to most of us, and you who know the gospels know that Jesus quoted Isaiah 61 in a synagogue in Nazareth. To do the work of the anointed conqueror in the day of vengeance. As I didn't explicitly stated here, but right, you understand and know the gospel, we get joy for sorrow. That's an important point. But think I love righteousness, I hate this robbery, I know my people at times you fall and do that, but I'm not going to treat you how you treat me. There's a way in which we can say, but Jesus is talking about himself, saying, everything to bring about your salvation and this world's salvation, I've been clothed with clothing is a metaphor for prepared character and being prepared for a task If you were to treat me as I deserve, cast me into hell now. Lord, I thank you for your mercy that you've not done that and that you've renewed me and given me these gifts so that I can serve you and your body, right? I think it tells us of as many of them. Now these gifts differ according to grace, but it's the same grace given to us. We'll get what continues in the church in a moment. Stay in your lane and teach. I think as we say this right, we get, remember, I'm I'm wanting to encourage you that this is the work Jesus is doing. Right, naturally, we want to be praised in the church. Serve the Lord. I mean to constantly be praying, sloth, discouragement, and self-sufficiency is what keeps us from prayer. I never felt Jesus just speaks over my head. That's a hard one, isn't it? Because our Savior associates with all of us and receives us all. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. Let love be genuine. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory. And finally, as those who have seen Jesus' glory and believe in him, our lives are being renewed and transformed as members of his body. Dear woman would bring it about the pointed git is notice what he doesn't say. He is making known that he is the servant of the Lord through his ministry and not the servant of his mother or any of us. The wells of salvation are opened up, right, Isaiah 12. You can have grace upon grace, it doesn't matter who you were or what you did, come to me. But the now is huge, right? Maybe just a throwaway comment. Let's jump back to Isaiah 61 briefly because Isaiah 61 paints for us a bit more in this language of what's come with the now, right? repristine this creation and even transcend beyond what uh it was in its original glory. Verses five and six aren't talking about Gentiles having a second rate status in Israel and we tend all their sheep and they just sit around and don't do anything God makes it clear in verse 8, I love justice, I hate robbery and burnt offering. And by fixing ourselves on Him and reminding what we all are, remember, saving faith is going to Jesus and saying, Lord, I have no righteousness before you. Renewal and restoration looks like God-centered and other-centered living, right? If service, I'm convinced that this is talking about our deacons here, those who serve the needs of others. Clinging to what is good and everything. Be fervent in spirit, that word that pretty much translates to our modern way of saying, be on fire for the Lord. This is the work taking place in grace and peace. Rejoice in your hope. Need to be renewed. Not your old simple heart, your renewed heart. Do we have time in our busy lives to enter into other people's joy and other people's sorrows? But can we just weep with him, regardless of who they are? There can't be a feeling but uh and an unwillingness to associate with ordinary and even outcast and think that's beneath me. Our Old Testament reading is Isaiah 61. Love one another with brotherly affection. John chapter 2, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. Renewal and restoration that God had entrusted to him. Jesus is the good wine. Business is not yours and belongs to you. And then Jesus did not choose just any vessels to fill with water. These are a lot of water. My hour will not come at anybody else's choosing, timetable, or anything, but by my father's. Now, Jesus is saying, Men, women, boys, and girls can draw forth from me. That is really good wine. Every week as we commune with Jesus Christ, we are receiving Him and having fellowship with our risen Lord and His. Comfort to those who mourn, brought low because of our sin. We get freedom for captivity. Perfect justice. He loves this work. Jesus says yes and rejoices in it. Now that's talking about particular gifts in the church, but here's something Paul calls us all to do here. That you can't do but for the renewing grace of the Holy Spirit Constant in prayer, patient and tribulation. Open in homes, open in yourselves to treat people, to make a home for strangers. And Paul, and what is driving at is appreciate one commentator, we need to be able to enter into other people's joys and sorrows when they're most Because Jesus Himself says, I'm meek and I'm lowly in heart. The new has come in Christ. He's reigning. Captives to death, captives to sin, captives to darkness, and evil will come to Jesus Christ. That you can't save yourself, that the judgment of the cross would be yours apart from Jesus taking it, and we have equally received mercy. Spiritual gifting and service is happening amongst us in the body of Jesus. Because it's not quote unquote spiritual. And the one who does acts of mercy. We all must agree in who the biblical Christ is. Don't answer this question. That glory of God and His righteousness and His mercy revealed to us there at the cross. His was the grief of being forsaken of God, and the wrath and judgment of God poured out on him. The renewal and restoration Paul's talking about in Jesus Christ and Romans 12 and and of course the good wine that Jesus is telling us that he is and that is here now for us. Talking about giving from their own and this is a person who just has a God given gift for giving I want to emphasize before I can finish these, this spring, this is a renewal of the mind, is the only way that this is can take place. If you're doing it for the Lord, don't be slothful in it. And now you do have that, beloved, in Jesus Christ. John came so that he could make known the Messiah to the people. That means I've been called to this, I've been appointed to this, and I've been provisioned for this to bring about personal renewal of my people God alone is the one who can take the curse away. They believe already he's the Messiah. You are making known to me this Christ and who he is, and you're giving it to me. I won't say much there. A burnt offering was something to be wholly burnt up to God and devoted to him. You might even not do your hair, just put a hat on. I didn't research what I know Jewish dancing goes on. We'll look at Romans 12. Here's the proclamation. There's that tension of Jesus is the first one born not of the will of man, not of the flesh, but of God. Not that vented technologies are fine. They belong to him. It's on the third day. Now they had believed in him, but what he means is they've seen more of Jesus. So it's not derogatory to her. So may that renew your mind and remember who you are in Christ as you pray. But that's the big picture. It is somewhat of a comment on the Old Testament. This is the great probably the best comment in the New Testament on this is a joy set before him, right? We want sermons that explain to us God's word. So you're saying don't have ulterior motives and you're giving to the church, but purely give because you want to give If you are positively harming somebody, you're not loving them. Remember what Jesus did. That's what we're being renewed to do. And notice what Jesus says. And then verse 11 gives us his confidence in this text. God's renewed my mind probably this past week. Remember, Jesus came down here and lived very unhospitably in this world. How many of you love the gospel? Nobody can point and say a new world, a redeemed people. Don't over evaluate yourself if you haven't received that, don't think you get it. The one who exhorts is not talking about two different people. And you're not gonna just get it out of him no matter how much you lay on the ground and kick your ankle down a tantrum about it. It's talking about the person who doesn't want to listen to other people's counsels. Let's not miss that. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Romans chapter twelve. Jesus told them, you know, fill the jars up. And then John makes it certain that we get the point. You want to see a beautiful world? And what Paul means here is, let not a deacon and let not any member of the body of Jesus Christ underesteem the ministry of deacons. The one who teaches, that would be the pastor. And one commentator says it may be evidence of their gifting for this of a particularly cheerful and agreeable disposition, because Paul says you need to do it cheerfulness There's a lion out there. As teammates, as as his sons and as his servants and praying in that way. The point is don't preach that we can save it. That yes, you carry a cross, but it's not vain or empty. Apparently in the early church there are people identified who particularly served the congregation to tending sick, relieving poor. That's the good. And he calls the bridegroom, whose responsibility it was to make sure there was enough wine for the celebrations. Yes, he bestows righteousness on us. We're talking about in the first century, God had given a gift to men where he would immediately inspire them for the edification of the body. It's like one of the greatest blessings when you see somebody come cheerfully help you in your need, but it can easily turn into a great affront if they come with a sad, gloomy face. And ethically, you're no longer of this world. We really actually need to be seeking opportunities to be hospital. You know this one, right? He's the Son of God. This is the kingdom of God. That in God's presence and Jesus' presence, the ordinary and outcast felt very much at home. And they're an intellectual autocrat. This happened. Christ can and Christ will. He's talking about, did you know that Jesus finds great joy in the work that he does? He is rejoicing to do this work. Jesus saying, I have everything needed to bring about your salvation. God calls us to great work. What kind of building should we worship in? The same Lord you can read in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, who will weep with you and care for you and love you and never let go with you is the same Lord Jesus in heaven. Yes, we'll bear His glory. Everything to do to please God and do what is right in your salvation, I have received. And so I'm not making this a sermon on spiritual gifts. In in in modern church today it sort of devolves into the ministry of the pastor, right? The cross is really going to turn that upside down for us, isn't it? By you prophets, do this. So that if that you have that gift and have a God-given capacity to give of what you have or God has given to you, the apostle's word is do so in simplicity. Now you can be restored. God's redeemed you. There's provision for the poor and needy and just. There's death and resurrection, ascension, and pouring out of the Holy Spirit. And so they didn't stay if someone said, I'm a prophet, I have a word for the Lord, they probably said, please sit down, or there's the door. Well, there you go. This is the word of the Lord. He preferred his disciples an honor. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. I'll make that clear. It's not a dear mother, it's woman. It's talking about cooperation between Jews and Gentiles. But that's not how I'm going to treat you, my people. He's certain of it because God's going to bring it forth. He was born according to his promise. Jesus is the servant of the Lord, beloved, and he is returning as the anointed conqueror. It is a mild rebuke saying, hang on there, right? We get new hearts for broken hearts because Jesus took our place on the cross, right? You know, yes, it's talking about Israel. That means renewal and restoration of the cosmos, renewal and restoration of God's people is taking place in him People that argue about looking at the it has to be a really old earth, because things look old. And Jesus is whom we receive in the suffering. Jews. Instructing you, giving you knowledge. And they have to do it with zeal or diligence. He says, the times come, the wine's here. There's no lion out there. He's the replacement for the water jars of purification. And then he says, look at verse 8, now draw out. The ultimate aim of teaching and exhorting of the body of Christ is to build the body up and to glorify God. Jesus is the servant of the Lord. This is history. Wouldn't it be awesome to go take it to a wine taster? That you can come to God and be reconciled to him through Jesus Christ, be restored and made new. So prepared I have been in this task to serve you. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. You and I know Christ and draw from Christ because he said now you can do it So let's turn to Romans 12 and look at that and in there. So that's how we're supposed to have a sober judgment of ourselves. Jesus blessed us and died for us we know his enemies. It's talking about through this renewal we need to learn to honor people above our own selves. Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. They don't un they don't believe it right in the way in which Jesus is going to get through to them. Tastes like an old wine. And that's what he's preaching here to his people. And cling to that. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Abhor what is evil. He's the Christ. Here would be an impartial judge. God can't repair saying these things that have lined ruined for so long and so many generations. Jesus is saying there has been great care. And so there's that tension, right, of his public ministry's beginning. Turn from your sin and trust in Christ and you will. Remember these men in these prayers. And if you've raised children, you know. These are things that are happening. As we endure the cross and afflictions, we need prayer I don't know, it just happened this week. What Paul's talking about here is God's mind. My hour has not yet come They don't have the why, the substance of the Messiah, which we have. Because everybody's needy, and everybody is in need of forgiveness and reconciliation with God, and Jesus says, you can have it to the bread. Those are all the benefits of His redeeming death. Why am I saying that? As those who've received Christ are members of his new covenant, what is the renewal that's taking place in our lives and together as a body of Christ? Now you can drink. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. We began the year, or ended it, with Advent, where God has put us in hope of His coming Messiah. Jesus is the good wine. They believe the preaching of John. You belong to you. Does he equip us for it? So he's talking about expounding the Bible to God's people. We want sermons that rouse us up and move us to obey and serve God. It's so broad, it's the broadest principle. The wine is important, the wedding, it's great. God the Father has recognized the Son in his righteous life and his self-sacrificing. God alone is the one who can remove sin. That's what we're talking about. And those who see that glory, to you whom that light has shined in your heart, you see the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, and you believe on him, right? They go fill them up. So we're not saying joy for them the same reasons they may be joying, sorrowing for the same reasons they may be sorrowing. Be in agreement with one each other, this really means have the same mind, and you ask, whose mind are we supposed to have in the church? The Messiah is coming. She's like, Okay, I receive it. It's in man to do it. He greatly rejoices in his Father. And that's what we're going to end here looking at in Romans 12 together. Because that is the furthest thing from the case. This isn't a myth made out to explain something about Jesus. Clearly she is bringing this to his attention because she wants him to do something about it and believes that he can Come to Jesus Christ. That's a devastation that none of us and all of our inventive technology can overcome. Remember you are called to be a deacon and not a ruler of the church, so it's kind of a stay in your lane too, and that's for everybody, you know. I often find how maybe you find it this way too. There's really a text on the priest of all believers when it says here, and they shall call you priests and ministers of the God. Jesus is this person that I can't come to as a man, as a man and talk to. And we all must be agreed in our obedience and service to Him that we serve the Lord. 3, because God has put away our sin Love what you heard read this morning, foretold in Isaiah. He's the one whom the Spirit came upon. We had Jewish dancing at our wedding, so I know it's a thing. So that's that. But we can't preach a man-centered hope to the nations. So the earth sprouts forth and it grows up and the garden causes what it so you know, put seed in the ground, what comes up, whatever you planted We've been made members of Jesus' body, and Jesus lives evermore to God. In the words there's the same kind of clinging spouse is due to be one flesh. Yeah, I want to be a part of that Sinners will be removed from God's creation, so tell them repent now so you can be in it? So you can go read Isaiah 55, which I read this morning. You don't just get benefits from Jesus, right? But right now he is working on broken hearts. Interceding for them. And Paul's saying, if that was you, you need to speak according to the proportion of your faith, he means Um the one who contributes, this is a particular person or the one who gives. And he's saying if that's you, Paul is saying you need to do it, not in generosity, that's one interpretation of the word, but I think he's meaning in simplicity. Go to the anthos, sluggard, right? Maybe once in 400 days a lion's out there and The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He joyfully performs the work of redemption. That means his public ministry has begun You're very strange to people. There cannot be any social aristocracy in the church of Jesus Christ. Jesus is saying, this is a momentous moment. So let's not be fooled by how much we can trust our. God kept his word to David to raise up his throne and his house forever. You do. Again, that's not despair, that's God's ordained way He's done it. And he makes clear what kind of business he's talking about. They fill them up to the brim. He doesn't like it when he doesn't get all of you because it robbing him And can we be joyful with him regardless of who they are? He is wonderfully and divinely equipped for it, like you would be for your own wedding, carefully prepared for this task. Yes, we are reconciled solely by this. There's redemption. And these men, Peter and Andrew, Nathanael, Philip, they believed that. And so there's a wonderful role that we have as the priesthood of all believers, interceding and sharing the good news A bridegroom decks himself as a priest, a bride adorns herself with jewels. There's different ways to interpret this. This is humanity. No, I don't think we're looking to see a renewed Israel on earth. I think that's a fine way to interpret it. Now, I don't think the New Testament, and I'm not alone in thinking this, gives us an exhaustive list of spiritual gifts He's saying don't get up and under the pretense of being inspired say A joy that can't be taken away from us Outdo one another in showing honor. And really what uh this text is about, the main thing here is that Jesus is proclaiming He didn't observe the miracle. We're just going to look at these ones are here. You are marrying and how he says to marry, right? Again, I'm saying when we pray, Lord, renew me in this way to make me pursuing of hospitality Get everything ready. This was the first sign that Jesus did. There's a preacher and there's an exhorter I'm going to read a quote from Charles Hodge. He put on an apron and washed their feet. We want to be rewarded, we want to be recognized for what we did. May God finish the work that He has begun in you. What does that mean that God hates robbery and burnt offering? And God hates it when his people don't give him his whole self to them. I mean how much time and effort do you put in in getting dressed on Saturday morning? One thing to note here, Paul says you have these. The grace given to us, the same source, we have different gifts. We don't have that gift anymore today in the church. And we need to be renewed so that we abhor evil. Imagine he entered into the joy of that married couple and shared in their joy with him. You get Jesus who will be with you and love you and will bond you and care for you and provide for you as you seek to serve Him and worship Him. We're supposed to be saying, I'm so glad you got the new car. On and on, right? His kingdom will be without end, and will end and destroy all other kingdoms. Because Jesus was holding fast to the good in his life and abhorring the evil and he was crucified for it, right? You have an eternal inheritance through the cross of Jesus. Congregation with a joy and privilege to be gathered together this morning, assembled in the name of Jesus to hear his gospel. And we looked at that for two weeks, and last week we began what's known as the Epiphany season or the appearance of God. And so what I want you to, we'll look at it, but what I want you to really hear and get, right, and know and believe in your heart And finally, never be wise in your own sight, beloved. Their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants, in the midst of the peoples Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons. There's jubilation. Dear mother Something else is happening here because this is really good wine We can be certain that our shame will be changed to honor. Because I'm a just God, I'm faithful, I'm going to give you your recompense. He says, Why? Remember everything you do And so prayers beside this wrestling match where you try to wrench something from God For I, the Lord, love justice, I hate robbery and wrong Here's something that by the renewal of our mind, we need to love genuinely. Harming them through words, deeds, actions, it's not love. We'll read beginning at verse six to verse sixteen. He's the coming one. And Jesus is saying, come now. That's probably about 300 years old. Now we may express that in various strengths, but one thing everybody has in common in Jesus Christ is you believe that you need a Savior. You serve the Lord, beloved? Here it's going on He endured the cross. And that's going to give us a good jumping point to go to Romans, right? Constantly gotta be on top of things. He can heal it. Paul, in many places in the New Testament, likens his ministry, gospel ministry, to a priestly offering and priestly work and priestly sacrifice. But you have kept the good wine until now. This had to come out by an unjust way. Have you been given a gift of the Holy Spirit to perform the function of a deacon in the church? And last week we saw Mary began to see that even twelve years of age Your hour's not come, but she does turn to the servants and say, You better be ready when it comes. Not a lot of room to boast then. The realization, I call Jesus Lord and I'm servant And you've got to mean it from your heart. There can't be any of those in the church either. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. Constantly to be rejoicing. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. We actually read that last week in Isaiah 51. He chose in particular these vessels that were used by the Jews for their washings, required by God for their cleanliness. In Jesus, all those glorious benefits he brings to his people. God alone is the one who can raise the dead. That should cause us thankfulness every day, right? It means that person has nothing to tell me. Without partaking of their evil Did we get all that? They're coming to know him more and more But the chief one is you get Jesus. That Jesus says, I am Yahweh's servant, my father. That's just not the work he's doing right now. It's not natural to see things decay. Can we be confident and believe that what he's called us to do in his name will provide? This is not to disparage anything of that. I saw it rest upon him What he says to her, you know, what does this have to do with me? Now we taste this wine every week, right, in the Lord's Supper. Preach the only one who's been appointed by God and anointed to do it Exhorters or exhortations do that by applying the gospel to you in your living Uh pray for that zeal and diligence that it takes It may be costly and costly. We're in this together. As a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels His soul exalts in his God. And if you have these gifts and apply to you, then heed the wisdom of God saying and we'll go on with it. Like God alone is the one who can do it The slugger is the one who doesn't want to be inconvenienced or troubled. But you shall be called priests of the Lord. And Jesus said to her, Woman So I want to start with John, look at Isaiah, and finish with Romans this morning. That's not a derogatory term The old covenant has the time is fulfilled. Now Romans 12 is going to have a word, I think, for everybody here today The measure of faith, some means God's That's that's ideal. We want sermons that give us light And I think we'd all agree as he looked at this going, I want to be a part of this body, right? And that's helped me to be constant and not be discouraged in prayer because have you ever tried wrestling with God Remember that the saints are strangers in this world. We need to have open homes. I love this one. Hold fast to what is good. But they're following him, he has disciples, so his public ministry is on the verge of beginning Because my God has clothed me with the garments of salvation, he's covered me with the robes of righteousness. I've been clothed with it. I prefer the interpretation that says what he's what Paul's talking about before he goes to diversity Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation And in some sense, I believe it's a commentators who would say So let us encourage our deacons, our deacons, be encouraged that your work is important. And the difference here between the pastor and the prophet was not immediately inspired Um contribute to the needs. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee. I don't know. What does this have what do you and I have to do together here? Certain of it because we are God's planting. So I don't leave everybody behind. That was the manner in which they were to do this. How doing one another and showing honor Now you can draw from Christ. This is something that took place at a wonderful couple's wedding on their wedding day Born in a state of a born in a state of misery, suffering, loss. How many of us have a picture in heaven that Jesus is kind of mean and not happy with us? I think it's very good. But really, as even all the patristic commentators point out, All of us mean it must be in agreement about two things. We do, as God's people today, right? It's appointed to do it. God has taken great care in clothing me in this way as the same amount of care, a bride Instead of dishonor, they shall rejoice in their lot He's the new. He's the Christ. Um I don't know if Jesus particularly I do. Jesus has brought that about that Jews and Gentiles would cooperate in the work of God These gifts are being used. Children do this all the time, right? But the mind of God is clear on faith in Christ and obedience to him. Never be wise in your own sight. This is what it means to be made an image God. Anybody, just come now. Yes, we have the status as God's sons. Isn't that wonderful? He's got infinite patience. If prophecy in proportion to our faith That's about three seconds old. And love the earth. He's looking on Jesus. It's not a wedding. We can't say, yes, what we need is a greater world coalition. The one who does that Genuine, real love. He is the coming anointed conqueror. Jesus was manifesting his glory, that he is the only begotten of the Father. Do you ever feel like you're on opposing sides with God? Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Never be wise in your own sight. These signs can't reveal his mother's will. And so she says, do what he says. Come all ye who thirst and drink right now, that's open, the feast is here Grace and peace has these. Paul will talk about this later, Romans 13, the laws fulfilled through love. I think again God's speaking in language known today, but talking about ultimately what's fortunate Again, it's going to require a renewal because And he begins to show his glory, that grace upon grace. He's appointed by God to deliver you. My soul shall exult in my God My hour has not yet come. We're talking about his divine equipage from the Father. The foundation of the apostles and prophets have been laid down for us. If one's really gifted at exhorting and applying the gospel, let him exhort. It's to say God says, I'm going to come, I'm going to save you, I'm going to deliver you. Here he's speaking, he's saying, My God, and he has a soul. And Jesus is gonna All right, let's look briefly at this text then He's the one who says, I rejoice in God. And God has given to him, the Son, the task of redemption So I think what Paul's saying, we need to He's the temple, right? God alone is the one who can And so We give in. Out of law. Rejoice in it. The law is good and holy and just what God did to He took our sorrows. Amen. We need to make the needs of the saints our needs, have fellowship and share in them and seek to show hospitality. But he is coming again So at least at the bare minimum, Paul's saying this is a willingness to be open. The messianic age is here Because at the end of the day, right, who can match up to Jesus? So Paul says, rejoice in your hope. So that's what we'll be looking at this morning. Because that we're talking about in Romans 12 is God renewing us He's not some aristocrat that is at a better social, higher standing than me. And so he's saying, my hour has not yet come, Bob. God calls it robbery. Not because you earned it, because I promised it Jesus writes a good wine. Like Christ left Can't be wise in their own sights. So Romans Evidently that was the case in some churches And Paul said. We have wine. It's at the brim. That's a task given to Jesus to heal. Isn't that the good news of the gospel? They shall speak of you as the ministers of our God. What is this now that's come with Jesus Christ? So you can see how He's enjoying himself at the wedding and his mother comes and says, They have no wine. I'm so happy for you, and what's happening? Now you can have this life That is a good life God's will is being performed through them. This is what it means to be a human being. And so Jesus is sort of saying this First one's prophecy: this is not a gift that continues in the church. And this week You can drink. Beyond that, we can disagree about lots of things And they cry out and say, God, wake up and do it He's talking about So in your serving, don't under evaluate it, but make sure that it's Faith in Jesus Christ. He's the covenant. That's sowing the seed. It's talking about They have no wine. And they have now discipled themselves to Jesus. That will be our world savior. Isn't that wonderful? Here he is in the flesh, right? Your mind? Don't forget Jesus has told us now is the messianic. They need to be renewed. So do everything he says Um They must have agreement there We have the New Testament scriptures. He bore our sicknesses. Paul says, Do this zealously. I thought you you're getting well, I thought that was talking about me. There can be no disagreement about who Jesus is. And now But if you just have one He would bring Like you and I. So they took it. That's the point.