Congregation of the Lord, my text this morning will be from Exodus chapter 20, what we know as the sixth commandment. Exodus chapter 20. And verse 13, you shall not murder. Or as you know, I printed there for you, thou shalt not kill. We'll talk about that in But that will be our text this morning. You shall not murder or thou shall not kill. Now my plan will be to just follow through the outline that the uh catechism gives us it's very good looking at the murderous fruits that we produce sinfully in our lives which flow out from the murderous roots that we have in us, but then also looking at what is that good fruit, that fruit of Christ, that God by His grace and His Spirit work in us that we are to put in place of those. So we'll follow that as our outline this morning. But I wanted to say a few things just by way of introduction. First one is this. We're in the section here on gratitude And uh we're considering the good works that we want to gratefully give to our God, who has graciously and mercifully saved us from what our sins. deserve, right? Redeeming us from all the ways here that we see this morning that we violate and break this commandment and commit these crimes and these atrocities that God has chosen to show mercy and show us grace. And to redeem us in in the Lord Jesus and to give us life instead of death as we deserve. And so we are looking at how how then do we begin to greatly, excuse me, gratefully uh live before for our God and and we're considering God's law here as the sort of rule and guide for the good works that we are to offer to Him and praise and by His spirit. But secondly, maybe it has stood out to you, because it has certainly stood out to me as we've been studying these now for a number of weeks. Why maybe you think American culture looks so different than it did fifty years ago ago for you who were alive fifty years ago and grew up, maybe even twenty years ago, maybe even ten years ago. Because we see less and less by less and less Americans living less and less by God's law Right? And less and less are these enshrined and upheld uh in our nation's capitals and in our places of justice, as the laws of the lands that we seek to follow. And rather we see the the unrighteousness and and wickedness of men. And so it stood out to me as we wonder why does the America seem to be strange to me today? Because less and less Are we departing from the authority of Christ? And less and less are we departing from his law, his ro the law, his royal law of his kingdom, and enshrining it not only in our hearts, but even in places of of public justice. You know, uh one commentator talking about the culture did remind us that it actually takes actual Christians to have a Christendom It's not enough that they're enshrined in our places of public justice. That's good and great. But it actually takes actual born-again Christians. That's right. And so hopefully this sermon and all these sermons as we study God's law together will lead us to repent Lead us to Christ humbly to pour out your spirit upon us, O Lord, and fill us with your ways. Because here's the last thing I want to say One thing they have to do to you in the infantry is they have to desensitize you to death. Some of you probably know I've spent eight years in the infantry. And uh you have to they you have to enculture a culture of death. You've got to be and begin to dehumanize the enemy, right? And give them names and generally derogatory names. And you gotta say kill, kill, kill, and it's gotta be written, and you gotta have skull and crossbones, and you just live in this culture of death. I see more and more, that's what's happening right in our American culture. We live in a culture of death Where does the culture of death come from? Because it's not a new thing. Where did the culture of death begin at? Before Cain Satan. Why did he tell his lie? He wanted to murder Adam and Eve? Why did he lyingly slander God's good name and tell false things about God that he's just holding back? from you. Because you wanted to murder our parents and us along with them. Murderous lies are what lies behind euthanasia and its growing practice across the world. Murderous lies are what lie behind the continual spread of abortion That's not a child, it's a fetus, it's an embryo, it's just a part of the body. I can do whatever I want, it's my body, I have this authority, etc. All these murderous lies That we believe and adopt to sanction unjust killing. Intentional killing. Murder. And so what we are called, beloved, as a church, is to reject this culture of death and to embrace Christ's culture of life To put off the murderous lies and the murderous intents of Satan, and to put on the meekness and mildness and mercifulness of Christianity. Christ and be together in the world a light and assault, a culture of life as we we'll look at this morning. Because as you can see the catechism kind of follows, here's the murderous ways we're to put off But it ends with, here then are the meek and mild and life-giving and saving ways we're to put on as God's beloved and redeemed people. Than the Lord Jesus. So it'll be a challenge for us this morning to say no to that culture of death, to say no to the lies that our neighbors embrace, and instead to say yes to the truth. and to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to begin by saying a quick word about the text because If you grew up reading the King James, you know that it says, Thou shalt not kill. But if you read other modern English versions, you know that it says Uh thou shalt not murder. So wha wha how should we translate the Hebrew word there? Rasach. How should we translate uh that verb? Is it kill? Uh is it murder? It's important for us to know because it will help us understand what is God saying to us here? What's what's the truth that we need to believe and have our minds renewed with so that we can be sanctified as God's people? Because it's the truth Well, why did we read from Numbers 35 that besides just what it teaches there? Because as we read through that, that uh it talks about this city of refuge for the manslayer But not everybody who fled to the city of refuge was a manslayer. They could also have been a murderer, and they were not to find refuge there, and there would be a trial to determine But in those verses, in in Numbers 39, the word kill, slay, manslayer, and murderer are the very same Hebrew word throughout. It's just different form of the verb. Sometimes a participle, sometimes in the preter and past, sometimes in the future, but it's the same Hebrew word. But in English we have to bring it across sometimes as a manslayer and sometimes as a murderer. Uh manslaying happens any time someone's life is taken. Even by accident, if you still slayed a human being. It might have been by accident, it's still called manslay. You may have intentionally taken a human life and that's called murder. What God is saying then through this, as he makes clear in his law, it's not only murder that he forbids. What he forbids is all unlawful killing. He's got laws talking about if you just recklessly endanger your neighbor's life as you talk about here, not keeping that animal that is prone to kill and hurt You can forfeit your own life. And depending on mitigating circumstances, the judges might impose a ransom and you could redeem your life, or you might be guilty of death. Yeah. You may not have intentionally sought to murder anybody, but through your reckless living, you still forfeited your life if you were careless. So God here is i so let me put it this way, thou shalt not kill is too broad. Because we'll talk here in a minute. There are some killings God sanctions. But thou shalt murder is too narrow. Probably the best way to translate it then is thou shalt not kill unjustly. And thou shalt not kill unlawfully. That raises the question then, well, what is unlawful killing? Unlawful killing is killing somebody without divine sanction, without divine proval, without God allowing that and commanding it and requiring that death. That is unlawful. Now it is outside the scope that I want to keep for this sermon to deal with the lawful killing though the catechism mentions it here, so I'll just briefly mention what those are, but I want to focus on what the catechism is focusing on this morning. The unlawful killing that we do and the roots of it and what we're to put in place. But if you read there in the catechism it says at the uh end of question one hundred five, the answer there, prevention of murder is also why government is armed uh with the sword. Let me see if I can put it to you this way. Unless God has put the sword in your hand, you're not authorized to kill anybody. The sword Romans wore, and it was a sign that they had the power of life and death. You remember what Pilate said to Jesus, right? Don't you know I can save you? And don't you know I can put you to death? And you remember what Jesus says. Don't you know you wouldn't have this power if heaven didn't give it to you? But you remember in Romans thirteen, where does Paul begin? All authority begins with God. And uh those whom God has given the sword to, the higher powers, are his ministers. And when they carry out a just sentence against crime, that is not so much man's wrath, that's God's wrath. They are the revenger of God's wrath. And that's God's justice being meted out. And I hope that all awakens us up to some of the horrible place and laws we have in our land and eagerly have us beseech the Lord for righteous magistrates Because they perform the work of God in carrying the sword prevention of murder. Now I'll it's also beyond my uh scope here to want to argue for capital punishment for you or anything like that. I don't want to get into the discussion. Let's just take us farther than we want to go this morning. But public justice is the first sanctioned killing that God gives, beginning in Genesis 9 verse 6. Whoever sheds man's blood by man his blood will be shed. And so public justice God allows that's a lawful killing when you execute a murderer. or capital punishment and other crimes that deserve it. The second one is uh is lawful warfare. You might just say that's just the same magistrate extending that role uh to foreign invaders I know that's a huge topic and I know war is going everywhere and and God deals with war in Deuteronomy twenty, but just necessary war I if you are invaded by the avarice and ambition of a of an invader who just wants to rob you and take your land from your people and rape and pillage and kill, the magistrate has been entrusted with the or to defend the lives of his citizens, and God sanctions that warfare. And so again that's beyond the scope, but lawful, necessary warfare. But again, the the what I want to drive home is unless God has put the sword in your hand, He has not authorized you to kill. The third one is necessary self-defense. You read in Exodus 22: if a thief is struck down at night, breaking into your house. No blood to be shed. You're not guilty of murder. But if that happens in the cover of in in daylight, you are guilty. What's the difference? Well at nighttime you don't know. Is there more than one? What kind of power are they coming with? Are they armed or not? What's their intentions? It might not be hard to know. Are they just here to steal? Are they high and just having fun? Or have they come to murder? You don't know. So necessary self-defense. God puts the sword in your hand for that one case of necessary self defense. But it's not a blanket case. Just because they come on your property and come in your house and and without that intent to kill and harm your life then you can just kill the person God does not sanction that What we have to hear here is how much God loves and values life Even the person, as we read in Numbers thirty-nine, who accidentally slayed somebody, the furthest thing from his mind when he got up this morning that he would be a manslayer by the middle of the afternoon when he's out working with his buddy and tries to chop a tree down and his axe had falls and kills him. And yet that man had to live the rest of his days in the city of refuge. Until the high priest would die, and through that symbolic atoning death of the high priest, he'd be redeemed and could go back out because God hates the shedding of blood. Any loss of human life, unjustifiably. is a terrible thing. So what we need to hear this truth because I just did some looking this week and looking into it and You know what reasons do people justify euthanasia? Just Google that sometime. What reasons do people justify abortion with? You know what reasons they give? I have the right to kill. I have the right to end my life what I want to end my life. I have power over my body. Says who? Because God says right here to his people, You do not have the right to kill unless I've given you the right to kill. Thou shalt not kill. The power of life and death is in God's hands. And I'm saying it loudly to you because the world is saying it very loudly the other way to you, and it is everywhere. You and I have not the right to take life when we want to. God may give us the right. And He has given some the right for the reasons He's sanctioned and public justice. Now let's look together here. As I said, I want to follow through the sort of outline that catechism gives us and now then focus our the rest of our time looking at all the unlawful ways we Look how it begins there in uh the answer of 105. I'm not to belittle, hate, insult, and kill my neighbor. That is essentially a summary for us of what Jesus says that we heard in the Sermon of the Mount, right? Raka, calling somebody Raqqa was a term of belittlement, of trying to make somebody small, making them seem worthless and insignificant. And you know what? I just wish you were dead. Belittling people is in no way affirming the life that God has given to them. It's an attack upon them Hatred. Hatred is some people call it an intense anger. Some people call it an inveterate anger. You know, sometimes we get worked up, but it's just this lying anger. Some will some people call it an extreme ill will, uh just an enmity. We want to harm the other person. And that's why I I think the proper you know, the ESB leaves it out, they put in a footnote But we Jesus says you're guilty, you'll come before God and stand before his judgment seat if you're angry without cause towards your brother. Now there are justified reasons to be angry We don't have enough time to talk about all this today. But let's just remember this thing. Be angry, but don't sin. If your anger is leading you to sin, you can be certain that is not justifiable. But anger without this cause is hatred where you just want to kill the person. You just want to do ill will to them. Your desire is not their good but their harm. That hatred is condemnable before God. Insulting, the fool, the word insult, we verbally abuse the person again. That's another way of attacking who that person is. You know, and we do it today in such ways we we put theological labels on people, all those Arminians. Who's whose said that. You can use the term Armenian in a fine way. There's a good way to use it. And then there's a way when you say it to insult people, right? Insulting another person that does not come from love, that comes from hatred. It's an attack upon them. It does not affirm their life. It does not build them up. But it is It attacks. And lastly, right, kill. Killing is the actual taking of a human life, ending it. Now you'll notice that in this question and answer, because this was written in the 1500s and it wasn't even a question in that day. Whether euthanasia and abortion were allowed. It doesn't even talk about the topic, but I want to just add for our day by kill here. That means abortion. God does not sanction Abortion, even if you might think, well, it might save the mother's life. We don't kill, we don't violate God's law and do sin and intentionally take away someone's life to do good. God does not give us the right to do that. Euthanasia today. It doesn't mention here, but euthanasia today. God does not, as miserable as they may be. They should be turning to the Lord in their misery and not hardening their heart against him and defying him and saying, I'll end my days when I want, because I am I'm God and not you. It's just rebellion, sinful rebellion. But killing is also we should extend it to those I want you to know. And I'm so thankful for Kernet. I'm so thankful for other ministries that are seeking to offer hope. We should always be offering hope. I'm just making clear to you because you know the lies that are out there that we understand very clearly this morning when we leave here that God has the right over life and death, not you and me Not me. Now notice what it goes on to say, not even with your thoughts. You you can't even think an insult towards somebody. You can't even think the littling thoughts of your You can't even think murdering thoughts. You can't use them in your words. You can't use them in your gestures. We all know what people do with certain fingers they have and Certain gestures with their arms, and we all know what it's like when you make that gesture that just says, I want to kill you. Sinful. Well, not even to make those gestures. And our gestures, our looks. We probably all have given a murderous look. We've probably all received a murderous look. And God forbids murderous looks We're not even to be party in this and others. We know peer pressure and the crowd mentality can take over. That's That's why the Bible tells us be careful who you run with. Be careful who you live with. Careful who you walk with. Because we're not to join in when others begin belittling people. Online forums Social media, all the easy ways it is for us today to engage in this unlawful activity of attacking people and belittling and insulting. We just live in this culture of death Rather, we are called to put away all desire for revenge. I think Lamech is a good case study for us. Remember Lamech, Cain's seventh son? Remember what he boasted to his two wives? I killed a man for hurting me. I killed a young man for harming me. How didn't he turn the cheek Okay, he harmed you. Okay, he hurt you. Why didn't he diffuse the situation? Why didn't he act in the mildness and meekness of Jesus? Why did he have strike back? I'm a bit fearful today of a masculinity propagated in the church that looks like Like drinking beer, growing beards, and shooting guns. Spouses, what if you're out with your husband and someone insults your husband Tax him. And what if he did what Jesus said? Would your thought be, I have a wimpy husband? But wow, I have a true man. And he can control his anger. Because you know what Proverbs sixteen thirty-two says? Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than who takes the city. Don't we boys? I remember sitting in church and I went to the adult, young adult children's church, and I just daydreamed about being a Navy SIEL while they were singing songs. Worshiping, right? We've got these heroic ideas of men. They may do some heroic things. Can they come but When we compare that Navy SEAL to someone who can control their spirit and anger, and some may, the point I'm just trying to make is the Bible says that's a mightier man. That's a manlier man who can turn to child Who can swallow his pride? Who can seek peace? Who can control his spirit It's the masculinity of Jesus that we should be inculcating in our men, and on our women in the church too. In the sense that we're all to put him on. I don't know what provokes women, because I'm not a woman. I'm sure probably some of the same things. But we must put all desire for revenge away to not hit back. To not revile when revile, to not threaten when we suffer. All that we have to put away I'm not to harm or recklessly endanger myself either. In Israel, God required you, if you were to build a house as you know, Deuteronomy 28, you had to put a parapet, right? The parapet is just a breast high wall. God's saying, don't cut corners and building cost because you're greedy or you can't wait to get in there. And therefore build a house that isn't safe for your neighbors to live in because they had flat roofs and everybody had flat roofs in those days because they often lived on those Because blood would be required if somebody came over and fell off your roof. We're not called to recklessly, carelessly, and cautiously danger our neighbors. We don't have a right to just build what we want to build in the world, do what we want to do in the world, whether people survive it or not. You don't have the right to take someone's life. Even at the enjoyment of your own pleasure in a house. Or the ox, right? The ox that has gored somebody. You're to keep away Not to well just let 'em go out, not to heed it, and then someone gets killed. We don't re not we cannot recklessly endanger our neighbors if we have destructive things. If you own guns, I hope they're locked up, especially if you have young children. Drugs as a way of recklessly endangering our lives Drugs kill us and harm us and lead to other drugs? Excessive use of alcohol is recklessly endangering our lives, excessive use of tobacco, ways of recklessly endangering our lives and others lives, secondhand smoke. He's also a great killer. How about Daredevil? Who likes to watch evil Knievel? Might be entertaining, but evil Knieval should not be jumping in Doing what evil does. It's recklessly endangering his life. For what? Did God put man here to just seek more speed A bigger number in the Guinness Book of World's Record? To have that vainglory to last forever long, because I've climbed that highest mountain? What about boxing? There's a sign going down 235. Come see live fighting. Should men be punching each other in the face? Should we be paying money to see it and entertaining ourselves and that? No. It's recklessly endangering your life and another's for no reason. God has not authorized you to take another's life because you're going to get paid for it and you want to have fun. Speed chasing. What about the extreme sports? What about the people that strap on wingsuits and jump off high things and fly? Sounds amazing. I remember being in my backyard as a kid going, God, I wish I was a bird But that doesn't mean I can just, for the pursuit of whatever joy I want to chase, do something as extreme as that and recklessly endanger my life. life. When you go before God, what are you going to say to him? What will be your ex what will be your answer to why you did that? So we always lose sight of that don't that we're accountable. God. There's a day of judgment and reckoning. And our lives are a gift from Him. And we're answerable to Him. I'm happy to see in uh some of these recent school shootings, parents being elderly responsible for recklessly endangering the lives of those people because they gave their kids guns who never should have guns. No oversight of them. Children Do you listen to your parents? Because you recklessly endanger life when you don't heed them and they tell you don't run across the street or put your helmet on. You too can also sin in this way. Because they're there to preserve your life, to be your last thing, to honor your mother and father. You might live long. Live well in the land. All of us can do this kind of behavior. And what's what's being missed here is that we are the image bearers of God. And that we are of the same flesh with one another. I remember years ago, like a decade ago, Pastor Bob Harding and the OPC Church in Middletown Delaware going on a tract handing out campaign with him and his apartment complexes there in Delaware and and meeting a man from Africa. I don't even remember how he ended up in the same apartment, and I can't remember if he was a pastor or not. He was definitely a Christian. But watching him, he was so full of joy So kind to people, so benevolent, so goodwilled to say all these street strangers living in this apartment complex, I just asked them, what is up? You know what he told me? They're all image bearers I thought, wow, if that's how you treat an image bearer? I'm horrible at it. Made me thankful to God for the global church. And I thought, wow, the African church is doing a great job at enforcing this basic Truth. That the people you and I run into every day and everywhere are here by God's ordering and they represent God, whether they do it badly or poorly, they're still his image bearers and to attack unlawfully God's image bearer is an attack upon God. If you had a nice statute you built in town as the mayor or whatever, and your citizens ripped that thing down and broke it in pieces, wouldn't you take it as an attack upon yourself? That's what it is when you attack one of God's image bearers. It's an attack upon him. The greatest crime you can do to somebody is to take their life. God writes in Isaiah 58, talking about these people instituted these these fasting of their own. Trying to uh appease God with these man-made fast, and God through his prophet enters into this dialogue with them about what kind of fast he really wants from them And he says, Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, to bring the homeless poor into your house, when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh? You know, uh we were watching uh one of these nature shows not too long ago as a family, and there's this apparently there's this kind of sand shark on Australia. They eat each other in the womb. Doesn't that kind of make us shocked to think about eating our own flesh, meaning people of our own species? And yet God's saying you hide yourself. You see someone coming for help and you just duck because you would rather not how many of you done that? A person you don't necessarily want to see, you don't want to be bothered at the moment, I don't know what it is, and you just hide, hoping they'll just Go by. I won't have to do it. Hiding from your own flesh, God said. We forget that and Adam were one family Now we know what's simple and torn apart. We're thankful for what God's done for us again in Christ, but it doesn't change the fact that we're all of the same flesh. It's a crime against humanity to attack your own species, to murder them unjustly. These are the truths we need to have ringing in our ears today, right? Image bearers. That person wears the flesh that I wear. How dare I kill that person unlawfully? Belittle and insult and hate him. Well, that's the murderous fruit, but what's the root of that, right? Well that's question 106 God also hates the root. Envy, hatred, anger, vengefulness, and God's night, all these are disguised forms of murder. We heard there in 1 John 3, right? Those who hate their brother are murderers. Just hatred. Whether you actually take the life or not to have hatred. A desire to unjustly kill that person. You're a murderer on God's eyes. And he condemns that hatred. You know that we don't have time for this, but I just want to just put the question to you. Why are you envious? Why are we so envious as a people? Why are we so angry as a people? Why does it just take getting behind the wheel and all of a sudden we're angry Why are we so vengeful? Do you do you ever put the question to yourself when you get provoked by someone in the church or your spouse or child or someone else? Do you ever stop to ask yourself, why am I so angry? There's a I won't tell you the pastor. There's a pastor in our presbytery and he would say to himself, uh and and I heard it in his ears, you'd say, You would never think I was an angry person, and yet he had to go to counseling for anger because he said anger's like an elusive slippery eel. Maybe you're angry and you don't even know why you're angry. You need to find out why you're angry. And and I think oftentimes as we ask that question and put to myself, Why can't I forgive? Why do I just want to pay him back? Why am I so filled with ill will towards this person? Why am I so jealous of what they have and jealous of them? You're probably going to get back to bad, selfish reasons. Ungodly, ungod-glorifying reasons that you feel like, well, I'm owed this. Or I don't know what the case is. But these are the roots from which the belittling speech and the murderous looks and the insults come from And the change that we are called as Christians as we grow in sanctification does not go far enough if you're just trying to control your looks and speech and hands. You gotta get to the root You've got to go before God by prayer and own the fact that you're envious of that person and you're angry at that person. And you are vengeful, and you've got to bring that angry, vengeful heart before God in prayer, and have the root of it attacked, and that you may begin to be renewed with holy feelings by the way. That truth, that they are God's image bearers, that they are your flesh, that everything we have comes from God, and what God in any way re differs done by God, anyways. Whatever truths and lies, whatever truths you're not living by, whatever lies you are believing, but you have to attack the root. It's not enough to just pluck away the bad fruit. Sanctification involves getting at the root of the matter, the feelings and sinful emotions we have. And lastly, though, God calls us to put on different fruit in Christ. You know, I love those words in 1 John 3. That great passage that we have passed from death to life. Isn't that a joyous passage? You know, it might have been a great passage for our forefathers on the Mayflower to go from the old world to the new world and all that they had before us, but what about the new birth congregation? What about a passage from death to sin to life? Isn't that a glorious passage to me? That's the passage I hope you have made. If you have it made, I pray that you will make it, that you'll turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, that you'll trust and believe in Him, and then you'll put on together here. God wants us to love our neighbors as ourselves. Now who here wants to be belittled? Who here wants to be hated inveterately? Who here wants to be insulted? Who here wants somebody laying hands upon you and taking your life? And don't do it to others. Who here wants to be on the receiving end of murderous looks, gestures? Love your neighbor as yourself. God wants us to be patient. You know, if you don't have patience, beloved, you can't endure wrongs and grievances done to you. You can't endure annoyances And you can't endure inconveniences. Because if we're honest, those are generally the things that provoke us to murderous things. That person in front of you that you think is inconvenient to you on the road, they're just an image bearer of your flesh getting where they want to get, just like you trying to get where you want to get. Why are you so annoyed at them? If you don't have patience, you can't endure these things. And you'll do something simple. God wants us to put on peace loving. He wants us to be peace-loving. You know, without peace-lovingness, without a peacemaking, without a peaceable heart, and a you know, blessed are the peacemakers, the Lord says, right? You can't end hostilities and you can't prevent hostilities. Matthew Henry, I know a lot of you know Matthew Henry and read his comments. And he was telling a story of Richard Baxter, which was a Puritan in the sixteen hundreds, who walking down the street, some rude guy just started heckling him and he walked on The next guy, the same rude guy heckled, you know what he did? He pulled out a sword and mischief ensued, he said. One was peacemaking. One was not peacemaking. One prevented bloodshed, but his peacemaking is spirit, this peacefulness. The one did it. Without peacemaking horse, you will not end hostility And you will not prevent hostilities. God wants us to be gentle. Without gentleness, you cannot diffuse situations, tensions. do. Proverbs tells us, right? The soft answer turns wrath away. Children, I over here bickering a lot, and I bicker too, so guilt Have you ever thought to speak to your brother and sister in a soft word to get them to stop doing what they're doing to annoy you? Parents, have you thought about a soft word? Or do we just get louder and louder and want to shout the other person down? If you're not gentle in your bearing, you can't diffuse situations We need to pray for gentleness. Mercy. God wants us to be merciful. Without mercy, brother, without just bows of affection, that's what the word mercy comes from. You know, like when you see the animal shelter videos and you're just hitting your gut Mercy is pity that's brought to action. Without mercifulness, you won't save lives, right? You'll see the brother and sister in need, and you'll say, Be warm, be filled. But you won't be led to give, and they'll die of starvation, they'll die of coldness, right? Of hypothermia. It was Christ's merciful bowels by he Endured the cross and save them. Without mercy, you you won't save life. You'll just look the other way. Especially in the church when it's your brother and sister. God wants us to be friendly. You know, without being friendly to people, you can't communicate to them, you know what, I'm glad you're alive. How many people you meet that have attempted to suicide or done other things because that's I didn't mention it, but suicide is forbidden here. Just needed a friend Just need to know somebody cared. And that's why Jesus will go on to say later in the Sermon on the Mount, it's it's nothing if you only salute your friends. It's the enemies, it's the other people that need to hear a friendly hello from you To communicate to that person, I'm glad that you exist. Because not that God put them there. Just as much as He put you here. And we need to have a friendly, cheerful attitude about us, a friendliness to people that is inviting to them, that affirms them. Not in sin or anything like that, but just to communicate to them, I'm glad you exist. I'm glad you're alive. Let's be friends. Friendliness, the Lord says. And we're also to protect people from harm as much as we can. You know, that's why we lock our guns up, that's why we have child safe things for pills, you know, you get all those things. We need to ensure that our homes and churches and places are safe. people around. And lastly, God wants us to do good even to our enemies. And I'll just end that point by saying, let's remember Romans five eight That God commended his love to us, that when we were his enemies and ungodly, Christ died for us It is a call congregation to pick up the cross. It is a call congregation to say no to the murderous lies in the world. And to be willing to die for the truth. That person is an image bearer, that person is my own flesh, and God has not given me the right or you the right to take life That is a truth worth dying for. There's a cross worth Carry, as we put before the world by the Spirit of Christ, a culture of life that affirms the people their value and dignity as image Show them something that is out of this world from heaven itself, the very love of Christ. I know you want to stamp out the word Let's do it together. It's have nothing to do with his murderous lies. Let's hold out the word of life together as we Your cult Amen