Please open your Bibles to the book of Isaiah, the book of the prophet Isaiah, where we'll read chapter 52, verses 13 through 15, and then continue on in 53 all the way to verse 12. Isaiah 52, verse 13 through 53, 12. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations, kings shall shut their mouths because of him. For that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard, they understand. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as from one whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed Him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is before the shearers is silent. So he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the who I'm sorry Who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him He has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for guilt. He shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. The word of the Lord. Thanks. Be to God. New Testament reading is John chapter 19, 16b through 37. So they took Jesus. And he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but rather, this man said, I am king of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts. One part for each soldier also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture, which says They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus, were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of sour wine on top of a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Since it was the day of preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day, the Jews asked Pilate, That their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other, who had been crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead. They did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, that you also may believe. For these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled, not one of his bones will be broken. And again, another scripture says they will look on him whom they have pierced. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we pray now that these words which have been read, your holy scriptures, inspired by the Holy Spirit, recorded for us by the Apostle John Will be used in the moment, this very day, to bring us to faith in Jesus. To renew our faith that we might walk in Christ with joy and understanding and with all zeal. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Now, John shows you in this passage, he shows you the complete fulfillment of Holy Scripture. And he uses at least seven quotations and allusions to the Old Testament prophecies in order to do this. We begin with verse 16b, where it says that so they took Jesus and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. The early church fathers saw this very thing as an anti-type of Isaac. carrying the wood for the burnt offering up to Mount Moriah where God had commanded that Abram, Abraham, sacrifice his one and only, uniquely one and only son on that mountain. It says in Genesis 22, 6, and Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son. Can you see it now? The piece that Jesus was carrying is not the cross that we have with the vertical and the horizontal beam. The piece that Jesus is carrying is the patibulum. uh which is the horizontal bar that he's going to be nailed to in terms of his hands. And by the way, if you doubt what the early church fathers thought about that, carrying the wood, think of this. Mount Moriah is the same mountain where Solomon's temple was built. It is the hill in Jerusalem where the temple stands at the time of Jesus. It is the place where where Abraham nearly offered his son Isaac on the altar there. This is Mount Moriah, part of that same hill. And now God's only begotten Son is carrying the wood for the sacrifice. He himself being that sacrifice. Isn't it amazing? As John weaves these things together, the second thing we see here is that he is numbered with the transgressors. Verse 18, there they crucified him, and with And with him with two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. That's an allusion to what we just read in Isaiah 53, 12. Therefore I will give him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong, because he poured out his life unto death and was numbered with the transgressors. Numbered with the transgressors. Right between two of them. And then verse 19, Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Aramaic, three languages, Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write King of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am the King of the Jews. You'll remember that Pilate's hand has constantly been forced by the Jews. He didn't want to have Jesus crucified. He wanted to set him free. He offered that option. And they chose Barabbas. And Pilate is ticked off at them for forcing him to do this, putting him in a squeeze between the Roman government and the Jewish rulers. And so he writes what he wants to write. He puts it on the cross in these three languages, King of the Jews. So we see here Jesus fulfilling things. He's being lifted up in the sight of the nations. He had said that earlier. If I be lifted up, I will draw all peoples unto myself. He is now lifted up on this cross. And it's John tells us where this happens. It's just outside the city, on a road. And as I said before, there are probably As many as three million people attending this Passover feast, going in and out and around the city. And so so many people from all nations see Jesus hanging on this cross and read these words in these three languages. It's a fulfillment of Jesus being lifted up as the serpent was lifted up in the wilderness and other places like Ezekiel 5. Verses 8 through 15. Therefore, thus says the Lord the God of hosts, Behold, I, even I, am against you, and I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations. But the judgment now is not falling on all the Gentiles and all other evildoers. It's falling on the one Jesus, who is bearing the sins of all evildoers. Verse 14 of that same passage, moreover, I will make you a desolation and an object of reproach among the nations all around you in the sight of all who pass by. There it is, always passing by. And that's a fulfillment. Lamentations, chapter 1. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by, look and see if there's any sorrow like my sorrow which was brought up on me, which the Lord inflicted on the day of his fierce anger Jesus is being lifted up and all the nations are passing by, bearing the sins of the world. The official charge against Jesus that had to be recorded in the Roman Ledger was probably that he had to be executed for sedition. Something had to be written down, you know? Sedition. But Pilate gets a bit of revenge against the Jewish leaders by writing King of the Jews. But it's in these three languages. Where do these three languages come from in the first place? You know where they came from. They came from the time when God had commanded that all his people should spread out and fill the world after the flood. Subdue it, fill the world, spread out everywhere. What did they do instead? They came together and built a city and built a tower. And said, we'll go up to heaven this way. We'll make a name for ourselves that we may not be scattered against God's will. So that's why you have these three languages to start with, because of sin, because of disobedience against God, rebellion against God from the earliest days. Well, in about 52 days from the day that we're hearing about here, God will pour out his spirit on the day called Pentecost. And all will hear the preaching of the good news together. There will be a miracle of the reversal of the divided languages. And the one language of God's grace will be heard by all. But until then, even now, Jesus is outside the city, beside the road. So that all going in and out might see and read. He is a public disgrace. He is exposed. He is naked. The pictures you see, the portraits of him wearing a loincloth, there's no place the Bible says that. And in fact, most who were crucified were naked. Shamed in the fullest possible way. So Jesus fulfills these things. Fourth. The division of Jesus' clothing. Go to verse 23. When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier. also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill, here it is again, this was to fulfill the scripture which says, and then he quotes, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. The soldiers had a right to do this. It was a perk for the duty that they were performing. They could keep the clothes of the crucified. You think, why would they even want to keep the clothes of someone who's being crucified? Clothing was expensive. It was very labor-intensive. And good clothing was hard to come by, so it was really valuable for them to receive these things. The Jewish historian Josephus says, I'm not sure whether this is a fulfillment or not, but he says That the seamless tunic, which is mentioned here, the seamless tunic was the particular garment of the high priest. How did Jesus get one? I don't know. Go on. So the soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. Here they are, looking upon this scene of their the one whom they had hoped to redeem Israel Mary, with faith in her heart, believing the words that she had been told so long ago, a sword shall pierce your own soul, too. Here they are standing around. And now we see, fifthly, that Jesus keeps the fifth commandment. The fifth commandment. He keeps all the law, all his life, but here we see a bit of it, an example of it. Verse 26, when Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, John, behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home What does the fifth commandment say? Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you Mary is by now a widow, and Jesus' brothers and sisters are not caring for her, perhaps because of her love and loyalty to Jesus. They have forsaken her, evidently But now John is commissioned and would certainly take Mary as his own mother. What do we see here? We see here that when all the world forsakes you Brothers and sisters, the church is family. The church is family. And God shows us that Jesus fulfills the fifth commandment. and gives his dear mother into the hands of John. Six, the sour wine Finally, here we see that Jesus is also aware of the fulfillment of prophecy. John has been showing us these things all along. This happened, this happened, this happened, this happened. Now Jesus is brought into it very personally. Verse 28. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said, quote, to fulfill the scripture, said, I thirst. He's going to fulfill the scripture. Verse 29. A jar full of sour wine stood there. So they put a sponge full of sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. Even there, friends, hyssop. Hyssop was used for the sprinkling of blood in Old Testament ceremonies, and yet this hyssop now is put on, used to put this sponge up to Jesus' mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. Tetel esti in Greek. He didn't say it in Greek, he said it in Aramaic, but in Greek, as we have it in the New Testament, tetelesti, a commercial transaction has been completed. A price has been paid, purchase has been done. It is paid in full. It is finished, Jesus says And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. The sour wine. Jesus fulfills this one himself very personally and intentionally. And that was prophesied in Isaiah, that is Psalm 69, 19 through 21. There it says, You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor. Doesn't that sound like what's going on here? My foes are all known to you. Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. You see how intentionally Jesus fulfills this. Jesus is aware of what's going on, but even Jesus reassures himself that it is God's program, God's plan that is being accomplished here. By intentionally fulfilling this last bit, taking the sour wine, after saying, I thirst. Let me stop here to apply this to you listeners today. Jesus is in a very, very difficult moment. But he's in God's will. God's will is not always easy. It's not always a smooth path. It's not always, that's we see at the retirement ceremonies around here, it's not always fair winds and following seas. Sometimes it is excruciatingly painful. And it is then that you must be aware of God's plan and know that it is good. Jesus reassures himself that he is in God's plan. He fulfills this last word of prophecy. We need to know that when we're in a difficult spot. In one of our bedrooms at home, written on the wall in chalk by my daughter, Olivia, is this. Jeremiah 29, 11. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans for welfare and not for evil. To give you a future and a hope. That was said in the midst of Babylonian captivity. I know the plans I have for you. It may seem like it's terrible right now, but I know the plans I have for you, declares Yahweh, the Lord, the covenant-keeping God. Plans for welfare and not for evil. It may look like evil right now, but no, I've got plans for your future and your hope. And Jesus knows that deeply as he fulfills this last word. Finally, one more. Verse 31 Since it was the day of preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day, the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken. And that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, below the knee, usually in that shin bone area, you know. And of the other who had been crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead, and they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness, his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, that you also may believe. For these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled. Here's the last fulfillment. Not one of his bones will be broken. And again, another scripture says they will look on him whom they have pierced. Psalm 34, verse 20. He keeps all his bones. Not one of them is broken. Zechariah 12, 10 through 14. And I will pour out on the house of David, on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, a spirit of grace, and please for mercy. So that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. So here we have the whole picture, crucifixion. Perhaps the cruelest method of execution ever devised. Roman citizens could not be executed by this method It was not allowed. But when it happened, the condemned man carried the crossbeam of the cross to the site of the execution. His arms were tied or nailed on the cross piece, and then he was nailed to a pole. And under the person's feet was a block of wood to make sure that their weight did not tear their hands from the nails. And the person's feet were also nailed to the cross. And to add to his suffering, they experienced thirst in the hot sun, and their sweat and their blood attracted flies and other insects. Death was eventually caused by asphyxiation as it became more and more difficult to breathe. But death could take days, although sometimes it was often hastened by the breaking of the person's legs. This is a description that I found. What do we have here in all this put together? John wants you to know that Jesus fulfilled all of the scriptures. He kept all of the law for you. He has made a list of allusions and quotations. And the purpose of it all is that you might believe. Zechariah 13, 1 said, On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David. and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. That promise is for you. All of you. So now there is nothing that will keep you from being cleansed. Nothing that will keep you from being forgiven, made perfect, if you will believe and receive Him. I don't know if this actually happened, of course, but I have imagined, going back a bit, that that soldier with his spear Piercing the side of Jesus was perhaps surprised by the gush of blood and water that poured forth. Seems like it in the text. John saw it and said, At once there came out blood and water. It's a surprise. If so, maybe it splashed out on him and soiled him. Maybe he later came to understand that this blood, far from soiling him, was cleansing blood Cleansing him inside and out. Whether or not that happened, I don't know. I imagined it. But it can happen to you. By faith. By faith, the blood of Christ cleanses us. As William Kuyper's old hymn says, there is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Then it says it three times, lose all their guilty stains, lose all their guilty stains. That's what we're so concerned about. Sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. And a song from my youth Ask the question, are you washed in the blood, in the soul cleansing blood of a lamb? Are your garments spotless? Are they white as snow? Are you washed in the blood of a lamb? Then it Prescribes, lay aside the garments that are stained with sin, and be washed in the blood of a lamb. There's a fountain flowing still for the soul unclean. Oh, be washed in the blood of a lamb. Back in the beginning of John in chapter 1, it says, He was in the world, and the world was made through him. Yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, Who believed in his name, Savior? He gave the right to become children of God. The same John, who wrote this gospel, writes in Revelation chapter 7, the vision that he sees. Looking up into the heaven where he's visaging these things, then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where had they come? And I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me, these are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. This is the final scene. The gathered, washed in the blood of the Lamb, wearing white garments of purity and cleanliness, having the righteousness of Christ attributed to them as their own Will you be in this final glorious multitude, the bloodwashed? Will you be? Are you now? To all who receive him, who believe in his name, he gives the right to become children of God, to join this blood-washed throng. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we praise you and thank you for what Jesus did, how he fulfilled everything. Concerning himself and how he paid the price, final and full, for all who receive him, who believe in him May we be among that final eschatological finished crowd of bloodwashed saints. Amen.