Congregation, it is a great joy for me and privilege to be together with you again and have God's word opened up. And to be able to hear God speak his truth in our lives, be able to sit under uh the ministry of the Holy Spirit, and to make use of these uh means of grace to our uh edification together. We have been now for uh most of the year, I guess we're rounding up in the last third or quarter of it, uh going through uh What's just known in the hist in the church world as the Western lectionary, or you might know it as the church calendar So we're going through a set of readings. We've had Advent to Pentecost, and now we are in post-Pentecost, and these readings focus on uh life now in Christ We have been redeemed by God's Son according to his mercy. We've been called effectually and united to him by faith, and now is God's new creation, new creatures in him, we enjoy what is available now of God's kingdom, serving him, and living in anticipation of all that is still to come when Christ returns. We're going to look this morning and focus in the passage in Galatians, verses 16 through 24, and see what these tell us about life in Christ. Well these tell us about uh having the Holy Spirit and really this morning what it is to walk uh in the Holy Spirit. If you look there at verse 16, after Paul says these great words, but I say, and I tell you they're great words because other people in the church have been saying other words and they haven't been so great And they've troubled the church and they've distorted the gospel. So we should always give thanks when God raises up men who are going to speak faithfully his word at a great cost. to return the church back to God and to his grace. That's really what Paul means when he stands up and says, but I say, because these guys have been telling you a bunch of nonsense, and we'll talk a little bit about that when we when we go through the text But then look there at the fourth word, that word walk. I trust everybody here knows what it is to walk, and I won't have to explain that word to you. But walk in the Bible takes on more than just getting up, putting on shoes and walking or slippers or bare feet. Walk is a metaphor for a certain way of life uh uh how to live a habit of life. So what we are talking about this morning is the Christian way of life. And uh the point I wish to make and drive home is that what we're going to see here about walking in the Spirit, we're talking about the only way for a Christian to walk. There's no other way. If you're going to take upon you the name of Christ and walk in this world, this is the only way to walk. And I trust right is the only way you intend to walk, Congregation. And by God's grace together we will walk. But this is the way. And there's no other way. This is it. Now if you just were to read this and happen not to read the other chapters before it or go on to read the ones after it, and you just Open your Bible and thought, I'm going to read this paragraph for whatever reason, you would immediately begin to see two ways set out here before you Let me give you one of the ways. Here's one of them. And it is the way of gratifying the desires of the flesh. That is one way men live, and that is the way men live in Adam. And that is the way of gratifying the desires of the flesh. It's one thing to have a desire of the flesh. Those aren't good. But it's another thing then to gratify it. And to fulfill it, to act on it, to satisfy it. And that's one way of life here. See, the people then that gratify the desires of the flesh. They're the ones who live a life entirely opposed to God and to his spirit, because they're opposite They're the ones, even, who may be claiming we're pious and holy because we're God's people under his law. Like many of the Judaizers troubling this church. And yet, Paul says, it's evident. It's evident to everybody. Everybody knows because the law has made it evident what these Works of the flesh are. A work of the flesh congregation is just a desire of the flesh gratified. And the desire is gratified, then it becomes So one way is to gratify your desires, do these works of the flesh, sexual morality, impurity, sensuality, on and on it goes through And to live your life in this manner, a life that will not inherit God's kingdom, because it is opposed to God And is under his sentence of condemnation, which the cross of Jesus Christ has made clear to the whole world Cursed be everybody who does not continue in all the things written in the law to do them, and cursed be the one who hangs on a tree. So this way is just a dead end. And yet it is the way left to ourselves we will walk in. Gratifying the desires of the flat. But then you see another way God's way, the way God has given to us in His grace and in His mercy, and that's the way of walking in the Spirit, which is the way of not gratifying these desires. It is a life which is opposed to that other life stands as its antithesis It is a life of being led by God's Spirit, utterly dependent upon God and dependent upon his free. Spirit given to us through the crucified and ribbon risen Christ, it is a life in which these evident works of the flesh are evidently not seen. Because they're not being done. And it's just as evident that people aren't doing them. And it is a life by the blessed presence of God's Holy Spirit. And let me say to you that God's Holy Spirit is not just a power in you. God's Holy Spirit is God's presence. To you and God's presence. Oh, only God's presence creates this fruit in your life. Because when God comes back in your life, When by faith you believe the gospel and are called and you encounter the risen Christ, and he indwells you by his spirit, this will be. The fruit of your life. Love and joy and peace and patience and kindness and goodness and Faithfulness and gentleness and self-control. These are people who God does law which God's law condemns doesn't say a word against. Because there's no law against these things. God doesn't have to say, stop loving, stop being joyful, stop being peaceful, because those are the things He wants. The law restrains. The law says no, but God has planted us in Christ so that we might grow and grow and grow as we sung together in Psalm 1. The life of someone who is in Christ and meditates on God's law, it never stops being fruitful. That's the other life. The life that is conformed to Christ in which the flesh is crucified and its passions and its lust as well. Those are two very different lights on Two very opposite lives lived by men. And they are lived by men. You are either living in Adam in the flesh, gratifying these desires, and maybe hiding it as best as you can. But the works will come out and it is evident. And usually they're the people that don't get very close to the church, very close to Christ, not very close to people, because they don't want people to see them Because they're still hiding. And they haven't had the good news that God loves you in Christ. You don't have to hide. He knows how sinful you are. But he's more gracious. He didn't wait for you to get better and find him. He sent his son to come find you. You don't have to hide from him. But we still do, and that's part of the tragedy. That's part of the heartbreak, isn't it? That's why Jesus weeps over Jerusalem, because it is heartbreaking. To have God in your life by faith in Christ bear this fruit and see many people not doing it either. How do we even begin to live this life? Right? Well Jesus gave us that answer in the gospel when he told the lepros man. Was it going to the priest that made thee whole? The priest's job was just to declare clean. What made that man whole? Thy faith. It's coming to Jesus, the risen Lord. And saying, heal me. I'm that leprous. I'm that sinful. There's no hope in me. I'm dead. I can't I can't even pray this prayer without you working in me, right? It's Hopeless is what we are. But Jesus says it's your faith that has healed you. It's hearing the gospel message of God, Son, and His love for man, taking on flesh, living amongst us, not treating us as the law deserves when he lives amongst us, but giving us grace for more grace. Calling us into his loving fellowship, being betrayed and crucified by men. So Jesus was made of a woman and made under the law. And yet he was anointed by God, and he was crucified by those who were under the law, but yet gratified the desires of their flesh. Because they were just like Paul says here, they were conceited, they provoked each other, they bit each other and devoured each other like they did to Jesus. Because they were hypocrites, and he was the real deal. But God raised his son, having put him to death in our place, and all who received that good news And turn to Jesus Christ, identifying yourself with him in his saving death, identifying yourself with him in his resurrection. Confessing Jesus is Lord with your lips, believing in your heart that God raised him from the dead. These are the people that Jesus gives his spirit to. These are the people who walk by God's Holy Spirit. And you know, God promised this, didn't He? Did you hear those words from Jeremiah? There was a lot of bad, but they ended on a very sweet note, right? God's people were called the outcast. Here let me uh turn back. I hate butchering for you God's word because it's so wonderful. And let me read it to you and it's Purity and clarity. Here's what everybody's saying about God's people. It is Zion for whom no one cares. As God's people have been exiled to their death in Babylon. But what does God say? He says, Well, they've called you outcast. You know, that was a leper. Pass out of God's cousin. So what does God say? Verse 17 in Jeremiah 30, for I will restore health to you. And your wounds I will heal, declares the Lord. Here's how God restores health to us God restores health to us by restoring us to Himself through Jesus Christ. Amen. Health isn't just a byproduct that God just sprinkles on you. Health is living with your God. He's his life-giving presence. Only when you are before God will you know who you are, and will you have the freedom to be somebody other than who desires to gratify their flesh Because you live in fear, anxiety, worry, concern, for whatever reason. God restores us to health By restoring us to himself. And that through the gospel of the Son, as we've seen, right? Because remember, we're not in Adam, right, as believers. We're in Christ. And where is he? You can't get closer to God. He's gone into the holy of holies. In the very presence of God, God restores us to himself. And in doing that, he restores life and health. Alright, I'm going to give you four reasons with our time remaining. Twenty minutes or so. Hopefully in twenty minutes I can give you four reasons. Why you should be walking in this path if you're a Christian? Paul gives you four reasons here. We've got to look a little bit broader in the context. I happen to read the whole letter, so I didn't just dive in here. Four reasons why this is the only way for a Christian to walk, to live, and that is in the sphere. One second. Here is the first reason. You need to go back up to verse 13 if you have your Bible. Paul says, For you are called to freedom. That is really the context of the letter. They were free in Christ. Paul preached the gospel of Jesus by God's grace. They believed. They were delivered from the condemnation of the law. So they're no longer under its death sentence because their guilt had been transferred to Jesus when they believed? They also were not no longer under the Mosaic Law, being redeemed out from under them And now made God's Son, now made to have Christ formed. And so that's the freedom that we're talking about. And also freedom from that imprisonment of sin. So they've been freed from the law's condemnation, freed from sin's power, and also freed from, as Paul will say those elementary principles, the ABCs of living, whether you are a pagan or even calling the Mosaic Institution ABCs and living under that manner of life and keeping all that the Torah said. They've been redeemed out of that now. And yet, Judaizers were coming in to lead them to live a sub-Christian life a sub Christian life because they were trying to enslave them again and put the law back on them and that's not Christian To live under the Mosaic Institution, to submit to circumcision, to live by its dietary laws, to keep its peace, and to regulate your life in that manner. That is sub Christian, because that's what God did for his people before Christ came for that particular period of time from Moses to Christ. So seeking him to live in a sub-Christian way of life and even an anti-Christian life, as he says, whoever is circumcised, you must now keep the whole law and you are severed from Christ. Because they're bringing in a principle of works for their salvation, and it's either circumcision with works to be saved, or it's Christ crucified. And there can't be any mix of these things. And they are bringing them off of the one of resting on Christ and severing them is Paul's language to be now living before God under a principle of work. So not only a sub-Christian man of life Even an anti-Christian manner of life. And Paul says, God called you to freedom. But he says, brothers, Don't use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. That word opportunity is an interesting word in the Greek. It means like a battle camp or a vantage point It's saying, now that you are freed and out from under the law which said, don't do many of these things. He's saying, now don't let that be an occasion now so that flesh can have a a starting point, a vantage point in which you can launch an assault and now you can live a fleshly manner of life because you've been free. And I think we can build on Paul's analogy to to to make it clearer to us. This would be like a child who uh, as all children are, we're under a fairly heavy yoke as children. That's good. It's for our good. We would do all kinds of terrible things. If we didn't have mommy and daddy putting us under good rules and good regulations, we'd stay up way too late. We'd eat all the worst kind of stuff. We'd wander out in the road and get hurt. So these laws are wonderful, and God puts us under them And our parents put us under them. But maybe that child grows up, gets that rightful freedom of growing up, becomes more responsible, but now says, you know what? Now I'm just going to use this freedom to do what I want and to gratify my flesh. So glad I don't have mom and dad tell me I can't play video games past 9 o'clock or 10 o'clock. I'm going to play it at 3 in the morning And I'm not gonna study for my exam or just whatever the occasion may be. I don't know what it is, but that's the illustration, right? Paul's saying don't let that happen God called you this freedom, which means God wants us to walk in this freedom, but He didn't set us free so we can say, yes, flesh, have a heyday, right? No. So the first reason then, what I'm driving at, beloved, is the first reason why you should walk in the Spirit that He gives you. It is the only way to use your freedom rightly, is what Paul's saying Because it's only by walking in the Spirit, Paul says there in verse 16 that you will not gratify these desires. So if you're not walking in the spirit, you'll be gratifying these, which means your freedom is now being used for an occasion for the flesh Paul is saying, so therefore, here's the first reason given to you, beloved, why you should walk in God's Holy Spirit is because that's the way you will use your freedom rightly or not abuse your freedom. I I almost when I read verse 16 I go, this sounds too good to be true, right? Because you you really need to hear what it says. Paul says, walk and you will not And if you're a reader of the Greek, you know Paul uses two negatives there to tell you this will not happen. You you could translate it just as well, and you will never gratify the desires of the flesh But here's where we first need to stop and say, thank you, God, that you have given to man a way by which he will not gratify the desires of his flesh. Because Paul's already hinted at a few of the bad things about that in verse 15. But if you bite and devour one another Watch out that you are not consumed by one another. Because God set us free not for an opportunity of flesh, but through love to serve one another. There's actually a paradox there. You're free And yet Paul says, uses the word do los here, but in your freedom you make yourself a slave to your brother and sister and serve them through God. So our freedom isn't I can live my life how I please. My freedom is from that Jewish manner of life Out from under sin's imprisonment, into Christ, to like Christ, I can make myself a servant to those around me and through love, serve them. And Paul says, here's the way, because the Judaizers are probably saying guy's flesh is powerful, and rightly so, so you really need the constraint of the law. Paul saying, no, no, there is a better way. There is another way. Walk in the Spirit. In verse 17, Paul tells you why this works. Well look what verse 17 says. And the ESV here interprets and doesn't translate. Verse 17 reads, the flesh desires, desires of the flesh is a is an interpretation. It's it's fine, but I like what the Greek says and what other English translations give you. It says it makes bless the subject, it says the flesh desires. And then Paul tells you how the flesh desires He doesn't tell you what the flesh desires. He's just saying whatever the flesh desires, this is how it desires, against God's spirit. And then he says in the next instance, and let me tell you how the spirit desires. He doesn't tell you what the spirit desires. He says, here's how the spirit desires. This is the way the spirit desires, and it is against the flesh. Now let me give you an illustration. You can imagine at a this is a congregational meeting and someone stood up and says, I'm for this, and immediately someone on this side of the room stands up and says, Well, I'm against that Or if someone on this side of the room and stands up and says, I'm against that, and someone on this right side of the room stands up and says, Well, I'm for that. You're saying that's how the flesh and spirit work. The spirit says, I'm for this, and flesh goes, I'm against this. And the flesh says, I'm against this, and the spirit stands up and says, I'm for this. And then Paul says there, these are opposed to each other. So. And why are they opposed to each other? They keep you from doing the things you want to do. Right. If this were a congregational meeting and something was trying to happen and someone said, I'm for this, and the other person get up and I'm against it, does anything get done? So if we are walking in the Spirit, de facto we are walking in a realm. In God's person, saturated by desires that we know one thing about them. They are the complete opposite of what the flesh wants. So that if we are truly being led by God's Spirit and walking in God's Spirit, here's one thing you can know for certain about it: you will not be led into sin by the Spirit. You will be led into sin by your own temptation, of which then you give in and gratify it. But the Spirit leading in our lives. leads you in a path that is utterly opposed to the flesh, right? If the flesh goes this way, a life and the spirit's going this way The world walks this way and the church walks this way. They are completely opposed to one another. So that's why Paul says, brothers, it is only by walking in the Spirit then that you are not going to misuse the freedom God's given you in Christ. But you're going to use it rightly to serve each other through love. So that's reason one. By walking in the spirit is important. Otherwise, you will abuse and misuse your freedom And Paul says, Don't do that. So walk in the Spirit. Secondly, the second reason why you should be walking in the Spirit congregation and continue walking in the Spirit is it is how you maintain your freedom. Look at verse eighteen. Walking in the Spirit is how you maintain your Christian freedom. Paul says in verse 18, but if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. That is a redemptive historical statement. God, not man, God We read last week, by angels, through the hands of an intermediary Moses, put his people under the law. God did that. God put them under them. Well now in Christ, God has redeemed you out of the law, and God has put you under the leading of the Spirit But Paul says these are two opposite redemptive historical things. You cannot be, I need to be circumcised, I need to keep everything that Moses says. And I'm going to have salvation, at the same time be a person who is trusting and resting and receiving Christ alone for salvation and led by the Spirit, right? You can't be someone who rejects Christ crucified And living under the law, and at the same time be someone who receives Christ crucified and is led by the Spirit. So verse 18 is a redemptive historical statement That Paul's making in context against Judaizers saying, guys, I just guaranteed you the way that you cannot gratify these desires and use your freedom rightly. In its walking in the Spirit. And oh, by the way, nobody is led by the Spirit who's under the law and hasn't been redeemed out of it by faith in Christ. That's Paul's point. It's a redemptive historical point. God put his people under it, and God in Christ has sovereignly brought us out of it when we were redeemed in Christ, no longer slaves under the law, but adopted as sons no longer under the bondage of elementary principles in in um Paul's language, but now made after the image of Christ. So Freedom is always in the Bible, freedom from one thing for another thing. You've been freed from living under the yoke of the law so that you may be freed for the Spirits leading in your law. So that's the second reason why you should be seeking to walk in the Spirit. It's the only way to maintain your Christian liberty. Because Paul, this is Paul's frustration. This is really where the Paul Paul gets at the nub at it back in chapter 3 when he says, guys, just tell me one thing. Did you get the Holy Spirit by doing works of the law? Meaning you guys were complete pagans, living up here in our Galatia, away from Christ, away from God's providence, away from everything. Did you receive the Holy Spirit because someone came and preached circumcision to you and told you to start drinking this thing way and eating this way and dressing this way? Or did you get it when someone preached to you the gospel of Christ crucified and you heard that with faith? And the answer is obviously hearing with faith brought this. So this was Paul's frustration with him when he says, you began your new life in the Spirit. Are you now going to perfect that in the flesh? Are we now who have received God's Spirit going to go back under a manner of living that says, don't eat and don't drink, keep this day, keep that day, as if that's going to sanctify and make us holy? Paul in Hebrews says those were carnal ordinances that could only sanctify the flesh, and they can do nothing for forming Christ. So we're not going to put ourselves under laws, are we? Let me be very clear. Because what Paul is saying is Freedom in Christ is not lawless living, right? We live under the reign and rule of our God. We do fulfill God's law, which says love. Paul actually says that back in verse 14, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word. Love your name. We're not talking about lawless living. We're saying being under the law as the way in which we will be sanctified. Because Paul links law with flesh. Beloved, you do not need God's Spirit to circumcise yourself. You do not need God's Spirit to keep a monthly festival. Keep a yearly festival. You do not need God's Spirit to not eat these kinds of foods. You do not need God's Spirit to do that. I trust anybody in the strength of their own flesh. if they were disciplined enough, could regulate their lives under what not to eat, what not to drink, and how to dress. I'm not saying it won't take effort. I'm just saying I think that is fully in the capability of the flesh Let me tell you what's not in the capable of the flesh. Jesus Christ. And walking in him and dying to self. And living like him. That is utterly out of the realm. That's Paul's frustration. You were running well, Paul said. But you've gone back to the flesh. You've gone back to depending upon yourself to finish with God started. Come back to God. Come back to Him. He will give you His Spirit. Trust in the one who died for you. The third reason, that's the second. The third reason why you should continue, beloved, walking in the Holy Spirit. Because it is the way to enter your inheritance. Paul says after he lists that list of evident works of the flesh, he then there in verse 21 gives a warning. He says, I warn you, this is so so if if you and I were to arrive at church the day in which this letter arrived You would get a warning. Paul says, I'm warning you, church. And then he also says, as I warned you before, I was with you before. This must have been part of regular gospel preaching by the apostles, this kind of warning And Paul says, I warn you as I've warned you before, those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. A Paul's point is also contextually saying this. They're trying to wean you over to their camp of being under the law. But if you just open your Bible and read from the time of Moses all the way down to the time of coming of Christ, tell me, did being under the law keep people from doing these works of the flesh? No. And if you go to their churches, Paul's saying you're going to see these works of the flesh done there, and you're dwelling a bunch of amongst a bunch of people who are not going to inherit God's kingdom. Because they are seeking it by works and not by faith. They have not come to Christ. They're not resting on Christ. They are not in Christ, and they're not drawing the Spirit of Christ by which they may walk in these ways, because God has ordained a way for us to walk, to enter into his kingdom, and that is in Christ. Living these new lives in the Spirit, putting to death these deeds of the body. Paul says, here's the way, church, you need to walk in the Spirit, because if you are gratifying the desires of your flesh, Carrying all these works of the flesh, I warn you, right, you'll never inherit God's kingdom because you've never come into Christ You've never come to Him to save you. You've never reached out to a principle higher than yourself, but you're still trusting in yourself to manifest the life pleasing to God. And nobody can do that. But God freely gives it. Oh, I I I wish I had a better mind and a better tongue and extol better to you the outer loveliness of Christ and graciousness of him. And I hope it's clear that God's grace has always been first. We looked at that last week. God made a promise to his son in eternity to save sinners. His grace comes well before the law came that made us all know that we're sinners. But we have to come and know how we're sinners. So we'll turn to him for the life that he alone can give us. So the third reason Why you need to continue walking in the Spirit, beloved, is that is the way to enter the fullness of your inheritance I'm well aware, I know that the Apostle Paul calls the Holy Spirit the down payment of the inheritance. So again, nobody gets the Spirit who doesn't have faith in Christ Which means and nobody inherits who doesn't have faith in Christ, because it's only as we're one with Christ, He's the heir that we inherit. We're co-heirs in our union with Christ. And in our union with Christ, we receive the first part of our inheritance. The Holy Spirit. And we walk in that inheritance and live that new life and enter into the fullness of God's kingdom when Christ returns. So you need to walk in this Spirit so that you can all enter the fullness of God's kingdom. Fourth and finally, you need to walk in the Spirit so that Christ, this or walking in the Spirit, is the life of Christ formed in you. Walking in the Spirit is the life of Christ formed in you. Look at verse 24. And those who belong to Christ Jesus. Have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Jesus Christ did not have passions and desires of the flesh to crucify. He was the sinless Savior, the sinless Son of God who was crucified. So that all who believe in him and identify with him may finally and fully and rejoicingly kill And I would even say excitingly that old man, because it's horrendous. First 24 is pretty much a statement against humanism. The principle that man is good on his own. Because God says, No man, you need to die. There's not one part of us coming out of Adam that doesn't need to be crucified and put to death. We sung this morning in hymn 352 that Jesus came to save what kind of sinners? Ruin sinners. I hope you all understand that apart from God, we are a devastation. Because we are so filled with all these desires, because God's not in our life. I don't know all the reasons people get drunk. Is it because they don't think God Cares enough for them, can comfort them. They don't think God is pleasurable enough for them. I don't know all the reasons people commit sexual morality. Do they not think there's enough pleasure in God that he can satisfy them by himself? If you are someone who is struggling against these desires, And it is evident sorrowfully to you that you're committing these. My word of encouragement to you is Pray that God will show himself to you. And I guarantee you, you get a glimpse of God That bottle, that website, that fits of anger, those jealousies you have for your colleagues and friends in the church will be nothing. Because God will be everything. And you'll just be so happy you have God. And you'll just want everybody to know this God because you finally know who you are in the light of God. So I've given you four reasons, congregation, why we should all together continue to walk in the Spirit. It is the only way for us to use the God-given freedom rightly in Christ. It is the only way we're going to maintain this freedom, this true freedom, and not putting ourselves under a heavy yoke we can't bear, but a true freedom, being led by God's Spirit. It is the sole way, beloved, we will walk together and enter together our inheritance. The final kingdom of God when it comes. And fourth and finally, it is the way in which Christ is formed in us. Because as Paul said, the Spirit is opposite the flesh. The man who walks in the Spirit is just as much a man who has crucified the flesh with its passion and its desire. Congregation God has promised that He will heal you and restore health. There is no psychologist, psychiatrist. Textbook counselor, they can help. They can do this for you. God alone can heal you. God alone can make Christ him. Seek him by faith and especially on the Lord's And God promises to you to enter into his wrath. May God continue to give you his grace, Congregation, as you walk in the Spirit. Amen.