And let us uh also read from the Heidelberg Catechism, and then I'll have a sermon text. That actually is last Sunday's sermon text. That doesn't not belong there. We already have the sermon text before us. And the third petition, what is, which is the third petition done on earth as it is in heaven? That is, grant that we and all men may renounce our own will, and without murmuring obey thy will, which is only good. That every one may attend to and perform the duties of his station and calling as willingly and faithfully as the angels do in heaven. One of the most striking moments in the Gospels is this prayer that we've just read, that Jesus prayed in the garden three times, where he said, Not my will but thine be done It is recorded in Matthew 26, in Mark 14, and in Luke 22. First, let us observe in those moments that we are given compelling evidence of Jesus' humanity. His true humanity. This is not a story that the Gnostics could tell or ever did tell. In fact, the Gnostics denied the goodness of the material creation. And so they could not conceive that God would become flesh. The Gnostics were early church heretics that Became full-fledged in their doctrinal views in the second century. The Jesus character in the Gnostic writings only appears to be human The Gnostics and the Docetics were convinced that he could not actually be human. And that is where we get their name, docetic, is from the Greek word dokeo, which means to seem or appear, but not to be really. So they got their bad Christology from their philosophical view that Jesus couldn't be human, that God could not take on human flesh, God being pure spirit, could not be contaminated. With material things like human flesh. But the real Jesus of the gospel narratives is true God and true man, as we confess in the Nicene Creed. In that prayer, he was not faking it. He genuinely struggled. Listen to his sorrow and grief again. From verse 38. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. It's about to kill him. His sorrow is about to kill him. And he said, remain here and watch with me. And going a little farther, he fell down on his face and prayed. He fell down. So hard was this grief, this sorrow that he was feeling as a human being. And he said, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Great struggle of the human Savior But he said, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And that is the phrase that we're considering from the Lord's Prayer, also, isn't it? His request was that the disciples would watch with him, and from his prayer three times that the Father might permit this cup, what is that, this cup, to pass from him. Second thing to note is this phrase, thy will be done, makes us uncomfortable, doesn't it? We don't want to say that sometimes. We want my will to be done. And it's hard for us to say, nevertheless, thy will be done. When someone is very, very sick and they might die, it's hard for us to say, thy will be done. The narrative is meant to make us uncomfortable. It was one thing for the disciples to be sleepy and careless. It's another thing for us who live in the light of the cross, who know better now than the disciples did that night. Why our Lord prayed as he did to duck the implications of the text. The hard truth is that our Lord knew what was about to happen. It was not his arrest about which he was portray which he was praying and grieving. As revolting as that scene was. It was neither his humiliation before the Roman soldiers or his illegal trial that he was troubled about so much. It was not even the taking up of his own cross and carrying it to Calvary, the place of the skull, which caused him to pray so. It was not his. People die in terrible ways. The cup to which he referred here is his office as mediator and substitute He knew that he was to carry our sins into judgment, which had been prefigured in the Old Testament in places like the flood of Noah And by the ritual offering and burning of countless animals, and by countless circumcisions, the cutting of the flesh and the bleeding And by the destruction of the Canaanites in Israel's history. Judgment pictured there. God's holy wrath against sinners. And by the ten plagues that fell on Egypt, and by the destruction of Pharaoh's army in the Red Sea. We can't make those things pretty. Those are divine judgments, but they were small in comparison to the judgment that Jesus was to bear carrying our sins. To judgment, in his office of mediator and substitute Again, all those anticipations were mere shadows of what was to be transacted at the top of that hill. It was not the physical suffering only, but the spiritual abandonment. And the outpouring of righteous divine judgment that troubled him as he prayed in Gethsemane. The heroic thing was not the endurance of the physical torture, but that he kept the covenant he had made with his father in John 17, as it is recorded, from before all ages. Listen to that from John 17, beginning at verse 1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do, and now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. And then in verse 19 of that text, these words, and for their sake, the sake of the elect. The sake of those chosen before the foundation of the world, the sake of those given by the Father to the Son for redemption, he says, and for their sake I consecrate. Myself. Now, the word consecrate here is the same word that would be used for the consecration of a sacrifice. the bloody physical death of a lamb on Passover being having its throat cut and having its blood poured out to make atonement for the sins of the people. to stand in the place of the people. And Jesus says, I consecrate myself. Be sanctified in the truth. And work with all that. So knowing what was to come, he said to Peter in John 18, Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? There it is again, this judgment, now depicted in the drinking of a cup of the wrath of God. The Old Testament prophets had prophesied that the nations and even Israel would drink the dredges of the cup of the wrath of God. Several places in the Old Testament. And Jesus said, shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? That's the cup he's talking about, the judgment of God. So, when we think about the third petition of the Lord's Prayer, we must do so only against the background of his prayer in Gethsemane and his prayer in John 17 and other places. What is the third petition? We read it. Your will be done in earth as it is in heaven. That is, grant that we and all men renounce our own will. and without murmuring obey your will, which is only good, so that every one may fulfill his office and calling. Jesus had an office and calling, didn't he? Everyone may fulfill his office and calling as willingly and faithfully as the angels do in heaven. We pray this prayer as those for whom the perfect, obedient, suffering servant laid down his life. We do not pray this prayer in order to be accepted with God, but because we have been accepted And we have been saved by what Christ has done for us. And because his Spirit, which he gave us, has made us alive with Him and united us to Him. Through faith alone. Because we are united to him, because his spirit is at work in us, because he has adopted us as his sons, he is enabling us to say, As he said, and as he taught us, not my will, but yours, to say that to our Heavenly Father in the Lord's Prayer. A third thing to note, this prayer is perhaps the most counter-cultural thing we could possibly say, isn't it? We may live in the most narcissistic age in human history. Vanity is having one's portrait painted repeatedly Which kings and princes and popes have always done, but we do it with our selfies. We have turned the entire world into an opportunity for self-portraiture. It's all about me and my expression of myself everywhere I can It really is, as our culture keeps reminding us, all about me. In contrast, our Lord said, His food was to do the will of his Father, John 4. 34. So the first aspect of our prayer under this petition is for the grace to renounce ourselves. And our own interests, and for the grace to give ourselves and our will over entirely to our Father's interest and will According to Paul, the Holy Spirit is working in us, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Titus 2. 12. So that's the third thing we should consider here. It's a very counter-cultural thing to pray this petition. And fourth, we are praying that we might fulfill our calling in this world. The Apostle Paul gave us a general rule that upon Our conversion, we should leave not what we're doing and go do something else, but we should do what God has called us to do to his glory. He says in 1 Corinthians 7, 24 that we are to continue in whatever condition each was when called. Let him there remain with God. So if we have a calling to do a particular job, we should continue to do our job. If we have a calling to be a student, we should be a student. If we have a calling to be A parent working as a parent hard, we should continue in that calling. We shouldn't say, I've been converted, now I'm going to go do something spiritual. But the spiritual joins with the calling that God has already given us. This is a biblical notion, And it's the notion of the old Protestant Reformed notion called the calling. And Paul commands us to aspire to live quietly, to mind our own affairs. 1 Thessalonians 4, and he taught Christians to do their work quietly and earn their own living. 2 Thessalonians 3. And they knew that Paul taught us to pray that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. And there's much more explicit language in the New Testament about Christians living quietly amidst the pagans than there is about Christians seeking some new spiritual work. When Paul thinks of transformation, he means do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what the will of God is, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Then the transformation of Christians may have an effect upon the surrounding culture. So when we pray, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, it is a modest prayer That we might be enabled to do those things to which Paul exhorted us. If we deliver papers, does anyone deliver papers? I don't know. Probably not, that we might deliver them well each day. If we cut hair or grass, or teach school or students, that we might do it as unto the Lord, Colossians 323. Calling, vocation. And fifthly and finally, in this regard, as the catechism says, we are to do everything as the angels do That was the last phrase of the catechism question and answer. That comes from Psalm 103. 20. I'm going to turn there right quick. Psalm 103. 20, just so I can read it out carefully. That's the great psalm that begins: Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. And it goes on to extol how he forgives us our sins and iniquities. and redeems our life from the pit. But notice this at the last bit, verse twenty. Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word. The angels do his bidding perfectly. And so when we pray that God's will might be done on earth as it is in heaven, we are not praying to know what God knows Nor are we praying for secret knowledge about His will. Rather, we are praying for the grace to do what has been revealed to us. And our prayer is that the Holy Spirit would work in us that which is pleasing in our Father's sight through Jesus Christ. Like the petitions that we've already considered, this too is a prayer for spirit-wrought sanctification. that our union and communion with Christ might be more fully realized in this life in anticipation of the life to come, and behave more and more through sanctification Be more conformed so that we actually do as the angels do, always doing God's bidding, always doing God's will. And this is brought out again in the Westminster larger catechism, I think it is. Yes, larger catechism, question 192. on the same topic. And it says, what do we pray in the third petition? Listen, in the third petition, which is thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Acknowledging that by nature we and all men are not only utterly unable and unwilling to know and to do the will of God, but prone to rebel against His word, to repine and murmur against His providence and wholly inclined to do the will of the flesh and of the devil, we pray that God would by his spirit take away from ourselves and others all blindness, weakness, indisposedness, and perverseness of heart, and by his grace make us able and willing to know, do, and submit to his will in all things with the like humility, cheerfulness, faithfulness, diligence, zeal, sincerity, and constancy, as the angels do in heaven. There it is again So going back to the gospel that we read earlier, as my old friend in Wilmington, Delaware used to say, we are saved by works. We are saved by works. The works of another, the works of Jesus Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ in the garden there, going to the cross, was in a covenant of works for us. The covenant that we failed in and with our first parents, so that we who now trust in Christ. might receive all the benefits of the covenant of grace, justification, sanctification, glorification. And as we pray, not my will but yours, may the Lord gradually realize in us the conformity to the image of Christ So that our lights may shine, and that we may glorify our Father, his Father who is in heaven, even as the angels do. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this phrase that is repeated by you in the garden Was acknowledged by you in John 17 in the great high priestly prayer, was taught by you to your disciples as you taught them how to pray, what they ought to pray. Thy will be done. And we pray, our Father, that as we go forward in life, may we have courage. May we believe in your love and your mercy and your providence. May we so cling to Christ that we will gladly acknowledge that your will be done. And that you are a good God, may we grow in our likeness to you and say, Thy will be done. Amen.