I'm torn this morning, Congregation, between great joy, because I very much look forward to the help I received from this text this morning. And meditating all week and what I hope to be a great blessing to you, and yet at the same time, extreme solemnity and gravity, because Jesus just told us some very serious words, didn't he? And Paul talked about some very serious realities, didn't he? Eternal death and eternal life. Living to the flesh, guaranteed death. Living for God, killing the flesh, guaranteed life. Telling us there will be people who will take on their lips, Lord, Lord, they will look Christian Sound Christian. They will bleed like a sheep. Lord, Lord. And yet they aren't. They have not a good root in them. We do not therefore bring forth good fruit, and yet they think they are. And Jesus has to tell them, no. And he tells us very clearly, who will enter into the kingdom of his father? Who will enter into heaven? Those who do the will of his father. Those who come to Christ to be saved come to Christ to receive a new life. Who know they have not in them anything but are death, and come to Jesus Christ, trusting in his sacrifice. His grace, casting themselves upon his mercy, and taking from him his spirit, that therefore might they might be this good tree, have this good root, bring forth this good fruit, and enter into. This kingdom Sun Torn Batween is great gravity of of the text this morning before us, but also the wonderful good news that it has for us as God's children. So I I'm also I'm aware that there's about fifteen sermons sermons worth of material here in in Romans eight, twelve through seventeen. And I won't try to preach all fifteen of them this morning. I'm aware that this deals with sanctification. I'm aware that this deals with good works. I'm aware that this deals with adoption. I'm aware that this deals with assurance. And these are all themes, and I'm going to focus on any one of those on their own. What I want to focus on is Fighting sin as God's children. That's the point I want to make this point. Fighting sin as God's children So let's look at it. You can see verse 12 begins with these words, so then uh that's telling us that these verses 12 through 17 are sort of a Conclusion, a practical conclusion to what the Apostle Paul has been talking about. So then, brethren. So Paul has a point he wants to make, an application, a conclusion that he wants to make to what he's been saying. Now he's been saying a lot. We'll just step back and look at verses 9 through 11 real quick. Paul tells us in Romans 8, verse 9, beginning there, You however are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. He's talking about Christians, he's talking about believers, you're in the Spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, so if the Spirit of God dwells in you, that means you're in the Spirit, not in the flesh. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him that is to Christ. So Paul says it is axiomatic that a Christian has the spirit of Christ. If you don't have the Spirit of Christ, because you never come to Christ, and never received it from Christ, because you don't have faith in Christ, then you're not a Christian, you don't have the Spirit. You need to come to Christ right now and get the Spirit He is ready, waiting, sitting on his throne and says, Let them come freely and take it from me. You can come to Christ right now and get the Holy Spirit from him. Because as Paul says, if you don't have the Spirit of Christ, you're you're not a Christian, you're not in the body of Christ. You're you don't belong to him because he purchased for his people the Holy Spirit, his body when he laid down his life, this gift of the Holy Spirit. Then Paul says, But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. So we might think, well, yay, we're fully redeemed, we'll never die. It's like yes and no, right? These bodies still subject to death. Because of sin, but because of Christ's righteousness, the Holy Spirit is in us, and we have life. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give you or give life to your mortal bodies. So we have hope for these mortal bodies That God will raise them up through his Spirit who dwells in you. So Paul's point is he's making the Christian. He said already in Romans 7, sin indwells in you Sin dwells in you. Even as a regenerate Christian in Christ. Sin dwells in you. And it will be there to frustrate you. As you seek to serve God. It is why you fail. Even though your heart is set upon doing the right thing and you delight in God's law, you still fail And you're frustrated. And when you go to do good, you find why is there this constant principle to do evil? Paul tells you why. Because sin still dwells in you as a Christian. That's not the only thing that dwells in you. Spirit of God dwells in you as a Christian. The Spirit of God dwells in you as a believer. And that's Paul's launching-off point then towards these verses. Yes, sin indwells. But praise God. His spirit indwells in us. And Paul says, so then, here's the point. We're not deafers Paul talks earlier about in this letter that because God made him an apostle, an apostle to the Gentiles, he said he had a debt then to uh preach the gospel to everybody. There's a d to be a debtor here means to have an obligation. We have no obligation to the flesh. If I could sort of illustrate, I think it might go something like this. I I trust everybody here knows uh what adoption is. Adoption is when you raise uh uh take a child that's not yours and raise it as yours. And you bring it up in your house. But I think what Paul is saying here is uh uh at one point right we weren't God's children. But by his grace, being redeemed through Christ, we now are. But you you can imagine a child out of out of loyalty to that that other parent, even if it was a bad parent, right Still has that kind of loyalty, that's my parents. Or or maybe he has a child who grew up on the street, kind of that street loyalty, these are the laws of the street, you know, tough it out and get by. Is now brought into this new house. He might think he still has obligations to that, right? No, I gotta I gotta hold hold to my old way of life and have obligations to and Paul saying, No, that's utterly cancelled and broken. You have no obligations then What God has done for you gives you no obligations in any way ever to live for the flesh. You only live for God The old dad. He talks about slavery, spirit of slavery. He talks about spirit of sonship, right? One thing true about though there's a vast difference, we'll look at that too, there's a vast difference between a slave and a son, but there's something that they agree on. They have obligations. Children, you have obligation. Right? Honor your mother and father, and many other things. Christians, you have obligations as God's children, to live and and serve Him and do His Holy Real, right? It's a slaves obligation. Sons. Obligation. Both have duties but a very different foundation. Very different kind of life. Very different reasons for it. Very, very different. And yet they unite on this one thing. I think that may be why Paul uses the language here. of debtors. Because we do have obligations, not to the flesh, to the spirit of God. What's the flesh? Sometimes flesh is neutral. The word became flesh. Sometimes flesh purely means human mode of existence. God has given us a as our human mode of existence in this world, this first creation We live in the flesh, and sometimes it's purely neutral because the Word of God, the Spirit of or the Son of God became flesh, right? The Logos became flesh, John one fourteen But very often it means sinful flesh. And it means that principle of enmity against God. And that's what Paul says in Romans 8:7. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. That doesn't sound good. Like that's gonna turn out well. Be God's enemy? It's not gonna turn out well. You're God's enemy, it will not turn out well for you. Today is the day of grace. Today is the day when the enemies of God can lay down their arms, called to not crucify Christ, but to confess him. Come to Jesus Christ who'll be forgiven everything. Become the friends of God through his reconciliation of his son. Receive freely his pardon, his grace. Paul says the mindset of a blessed is hostile to God. Why? It does not submit to God's law That's the whole problem at this world. For whatever reason, we fleshly creatures think we can just defy God to his face and nothing's going to happen Can upset his whole created world order and turn it on its head. We will not abide by our genders, we will not abide by our relationships, we will not abide by anything you say We're going to violate your commands, break them and transgress them, and tell others' people to do it and tear them down. That's what the flesh does. So to me, he's hostile to God and will not submit to I think I I know as parents you've seen it. I know as children you've done it. And we still do it too. I learned a whole lot about being a child of God when I became a father, as I'm sure many of you when you became parents have learned how much the Bible becomes illuminated by being a parent and understanding sin and relationship of all these things. But Paul's saying there is no way No way that God has given His Son to redeem us, put His own spirit in us, that we should then be obliged to the principle in this world against Him, hostile to Him. No way did God show us his grace that we would continue to violate his commands, upset his order, break it, and tell others to do it. No. Oh, God's grace is that there might be a just society, a peaceful kingdom, a kingdom of life. kingdom of joy. There might be love and order and people doing what they should be doing, right? That's what God's grace is for. I'll just pause there real quick on Romans 8 twelve because I think it's so important to make. Another thing. I think it's a very powerful text against antinomianism. You don't know what antinomianism is just teaching in any form that says Christians are no la Christians are free from the moral law. There's no obligation to keep God's commandments. And that's not true. What this text is saying is we have been saved from antinomianism. We have been delivered from living against God's law, from being hostile to Him and not submitting ourselves to Him. That's what we need deliverance from, not deliverance for. Never get it in your mind that grace has somehow said, now sin. Now do as you want, and nothing bad's gonna come of it. Because it says God's children. Don't we as God's children want to see our righteous father's law enshrined? More than that. If somebody sought to kill your own father, would you defend your father? Do you know what sin wants? It wants God dead. It just wants sin dead, off the throne, changed, which is much as dead, because so sin can have its reign and do it at once, because God always and will always oppose sin. Jeremiah Burroughs wrote a wonderful work, English Puritan, The Exceeding Sinfulness of Sin. That's where I got that from when he opened my eyes to how exceedingly sinful it is. And then he had to preach a series of sermons to his congregation on the great grace of Christ, because he was afraid he had utterly dis just brought them to despair by seeing how sinful your sin is. But that's that's the that's what I'm driving home here You only see how sinful it is if you're really regenerate, and it means you're God's child and you fight against it as your heavenly father. But it is frightening to see sin. And see what it wants. It just wants God dead, off his throne, his whole world turned on in, his order wiped out, so we can just do what we want. Paul say, if you live that way, you'll die. Why can Paul be so certain that if you live that way, you'll die? Look what he says in Romans 8 verse 3. For God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do. We could have keep God's command and justify ourselves to life, but what did God do then? By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, that doesn't mean that he only appeared to be like us What it means is he came and was made sin. Jesus came as if he was the one who tears down God's order in the world Not that he ever did, the month of point is in the likeness what it means is he came as for sinners if he was the sinner. That's why he died. Because all of our sins were imputed to him. He came in this world as if he was that chief violator of God's law and breaker of it. And what did God do? He condemned sin in the flesh. When you see Jesus hanging on the cross, you see God condemning sin in the flesh So if you think you're going to live in the flesh and sin, why do you think it's going to turn out any different for you when God condemns sin in the flesh on the cross? If you want to ask yourself, will God punish sin? And if you're unsure of that, you look at the cross of Jesus Christ. Yes. Yes. But you also look there at his grace, that there doesn't have to be URL, and you're a pound. And you trust in Christ. And you be reconciled to God. You know what that means is? I'm sorry I live as your enemy. And I have lived as your enemy. And I'm sorry I break your laws and won't do what you say. Nothing I can do can reconcile me but but what you've done and I'm going to trust you now. The whole cross is meant the gospel is meant to bring us evil, sinful children of God back to trusted, that He's good And his ways are good, life-giving, and to give ourselves to our God. Paul says, if you live according to the flesh you'll die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body you will live. There's a whole lot to be said here. I'll just say these few things. Notice what it says, if you put them. It's something you do. But you do it by the Spirit. Spirit enables it. Spirit makes it possible. Spirit leads in it. Grammatically, I think he leads you to prayer because he illumines your mind with the truth. That's what we need to hear. See we're used to our sinners, looking at our job, our children, our bank account, pretty much anything in the world, our egos, our names, and we say, My God, and then we serve it That's the lie. So you need the Spirit to illuminate your mind, and he says, He's God Jehovah, Yahweh, who made the heavens and the earth, and the Son Jesus. And we say, that's my God, and I live for him. Or we look at our other neighbors, we look at their praise because we're envious. Whoever it is and and and we think we say mine. That's not yours. You see you need the spirit to illuminate your mind to bring the truth of the eighth commandment. Not my his. We don't take it. The Spirit makes this possible. Large, I think, through prayer. We're bringing truth to bear on our lives, renewing our minds, and out of the truth and believing in the truth and acting upon the truth, we therefore then kill these sins. But notice what it says. Put to death means put to death. Praise God, there are some sins in Pastor Damon's life that have a gravestone with a death state on them. Don't hear me say I put every sin to death. You can kill sin. There is hope. You might kill that one, you'll find another one comes up. But you can put him to death. It can happen. You know what happens. None of us actually put any sin to death. We'd all just be excommunicated, right? That's an immediate church discipline on everybody here. So you know this is true. Because if it wasn't true, we'd all had to be excommunicated. We'd all just be unrepentant. So we truly can repent by God's grace. We truly can kill sin. You can truly have a death day. And I give that to you for hope. It may not be tomorrow. May not be next week. I don't know when it'll be. I don't want to say when it'll be. I just want you to hear what Paul says You can put it to death. And you must put it to death. John Owen said in his word, you best be killing sin or sin will be killing you. Truth. Truth and outer. You can. Put it to death. And you'll live. Life will begin to flourish now. Because life is always life with God. Again, sin just doesn't want God around. You will do the extreme thing of killing him, which is what we did on the cross. God manifested himself in the flesh and the world gave its verdict. Rejected God. It's a verdict of the world. That's also its condemnation. The light came into it. And it chose darkness Over life. So you begin to live as you do this. And Paul's also talking about eternal life, life with God forever. As much as he's talking about eternal death If you live according to the flesh. Eternal life if you live this way. Now, you might get from this sin sin, right? I also want to pause and say this as you've noticed on all these post Pentecostal sermons Um they're very heavy on the Christian living, right? Very heavy on sanctification. And I know how much it can that can be a burden, right? At times. If we're always hearing do do do. So I don't want to just I don't if you're coming here if you've had a hard week, a trying month, trying times, I don't want you to go away more burdened. I'm really wanting to help you out this morning and and focus on the grace here of being being children But we are called to do, one of the great things we're called to do here is prayer being led by the Spirit. But notice You might get the ideal from this text that the gospel goes something like this. Come to Jesus to be forgiven. Get the Spirit, and then spend your whole life killing sin. If you kill enough of it, you'll earn heaven. Don't hear that from this passage. The foundation of our salvation is not in anything you and I did, but what Jesus Christ did, shedding his blood for us. And yet And yet, this is an absolutely necessary precondition to eternal life, putting sin to death. We do it as God's children. You do it as those who've been redeemed and say unregenerate people don't do this, but unregenerate people don't have the spirit. Paul says you do this by the spirit. So it is under the grace of God, but it has to be done. It will be done. The Spirit leads to be done. So don't hear, come Jesus. Be forgiven on your own effort or or kill enough sin and then you'll get to heaven, right? That and that'd be miserable, right But it does say, come to Jesus, be forgiven, receive adoption, receive the Spirit, and feed and trust in Christ in your whole life, and you will put the sin to death and you will live. It is saying that So it's not saying you are in heaven because you put enough sin to death. It's saying you trust in what Jesus Christ did for your salvation. And those who do that live as God's children in this world and put it. So I just want you to hear that because that's what Paul makes here, right? Notice there's these present spiritual things. You put to death that's present tense. That's a present spiritual action or call to do, but but look what it's grounded in. As we look transition out of verse 15 as God's children, it's grounded in the past reception of the Spirit. Paul says you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, for you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry out, Abba Father. This fighting against sin, present spiritual action. Rest upon or has begun and be initiated on a past reception of the Holy Spirit and an even more foundational spiritual action of crying out to God in prayer. Which crying out to God in prayer is a testimony, you're a child of God. In which when you testify and cry out to Him as daddy through prayer, the Spirit's joining with that to testify you're a child of God Slaves in the old world had no standing, you had no rights, you had no privileges, you had no protections, you couldn't even defend yourself in a in a legal system. It's a very anxious and fearful condition to live in, right And and you very often didn't have a master who loved you. So no confidence to get anything from them, right? Well saying that's it's not the kind of spirit you've been given. What kind of spirit have you been given as one of adoption? Christians have been given the spirit of adoption. Very different in the ancient world. If you were a son, you had all rights All privileges, all protections, and as Paul drives home in verse 17, you also were heir, you had hope. You were going to inherit something. You had security. It was good. And hopefully you also had a loving father right here who loved you and you could draw near to, right? Paul's saying that's what we have as Christians. That's the kind of spirit we see Now notice what Paul says is this that we do by this spirit. We cry out, Abba, Father. All right, children. We've got the attention of all of our children here this morning. Children, when you fall down and hurt yourself, what do you say? You can speak. I've authorized you to speak. Ow. Okay. After you say ow and you can't get yourself off you get if you get lost, if you get hurt, maybe you've had a potty accident Who who do you ask help to? Who do you cry out to? What do you say? Mommy, yeah, mommy's fine. Did anybody say daddy? I've got constrained to say daddy here. Also the children do something else for me. Every child, take your hand, I don't care which one. Point to your daddy. Every child I and I don't mean the little ones, I mean even the big ones. If your father's here, point to him Point 'em Point to Yeah, I I see some very some some some theological yeah, some people are pointing out, that's true. Point to your earthly father. Now, you notice what happened. Not every finger pointed at one person, did they? See Potter children didn't point at me. I'm not the daddy. I could be children that didn't point at me. I'm I'm not their father. I thought two children point at me, some I'm the dad. Beloved, when you cry out to your parents, why do you do that? Isn't it because you're their child and you know it? Don't the Potter's kids know who they're Potter kids never come to me and say, Daddy, Daddy, they don't say that. Well, not their daddy. They know whose child they are. What's Paul saying here? Christians know they're children of God. You know that. See if you if you instinctively, when you get in trouble, that's really what this word cry out means. If you look through the scriptures, particularly the Psalms, It's always using a context of trouble, distress. It's always a cry to God for help, for deliverance out of it. It's saying, Daddy, help me. I'm overwhelmed. I'm anxious. I'm fearful. I'm in turmoil. My enemies around me. Death's around me. Psalm 119. My sins are around me. I would walk in your way. I would do it. Help me. It's the very act of crying out to God as Father that testifies you're his child. Why would you ever cry out to God if you weren't his child? Why would you ever say, Daddy, why would you turn to him in your overwhelmed state and especially sin, right? Because sin is generally that thing that makes us flee from God. If you end your turn to God for help, you're bearing witness, you're his child. Paul's made it clear it's because you have the sphere of adoption. But Paul says it's a joint testimony. When do we most need to be assured we're God's child? When we're in sin. Paul says, Mad hour, when you cry, what's being you're testifying you're God's child because you're turning to him in your sin. And you're asking him for help against your sin. Let me make something clear when you pray to God and prayer, let me help you a little bit in how to do that. When you talk to God about sin, I have never found, I've never put a single sin to death, beloved, that I didn't first tell my Heavenly Father I like that sin. That is my sin. And I do really desire that. Because I think until you get the point where you really acknowledge you're a sinner, You're really wired that way. You really desire it? I don't think you're really dealing with sin serious yet. I think God knows you're not really dealing with that very serious yet. Rather than it can be overwhelming to do that. To really face something on the facts of your sin. And it really was that selfish, spiteful, mean, hurtful. But if in that, that's a conversation going on between you and your Heavenly Father, why are you having that? But that you believe in your heart, because you have faith in Christ and He's your Father And you know what also is happening at that time? The Spirit at the same time is bearing witness that you're a child of God. Notice at the time we most need assurance in our fight and struggle against sin. If you're calling upon God, there it is. If you're turning to him to do it, there it is, because you are bearing witness he's my daddy and I'm your child and the spirit's doing at the same time. You know the very interesting thing about this passage is In in this text, verse 15, it says, we cry out. Our spirits cry out. But in Roman, excuse me, in Galatians chapter 4, it's either verse 6 or 7. As God has given his Spirit and sent it into our hearts, the Spirit cries out, Abba Father. And you go, wait, is it the Spirit crying, Abba Father, my heart? Or is it my Spirit crying, Abba Father? And the scriptural thing is, well, it's both. It's one cry But it's a joint testimony. As you are crying out, really crying out, the Spirit too, and you have the witness, you're a child of God. When I was in seminary was the time when God finally brought me up to face up to one chief sin of my life, and that was I desired a wife above everything else. And I said, I'm gonna have that above everything else, including you, and I just lived for that. And it wasn't until one late night at eleven o'clock in the night I was sitting on a couch in a common space And I said, God, if it was a choice between you and my future wife, I'd choose my future wife. I had been living that way for ten years. Finally I just owned up to him. It's not like he didn't know it He knew he knew it because he saw it in my life. Saw my actions. Finally had to own up to it. And it wasn't very long after that I met my wife. Very wonderful. But beloved, you will not put sin to death until you take it serious. Until you get back to desires. What you want. And own up to those to God. But again, what I'm wanting to impress upon you, that you'd hear. Your chief ally in this is your father. You're his child. You go to him for your sin struggle, in your sin struggle, and you ask for help. I thought that's all I'd done for the decade. It's just continuously calling out to God and and and hell I've been so refreshed and renewed by this this week. That's a time when we most need to hear. God loves us, most need to be assured. What Paul's saying is that you are crying out to your father as you are fighting against sin, you have that assurance, you're as child. And isn't that immediately peaceful? Because now it's as God's child. Now there's hope in this situation. Now there's peace. Now there's going to be patience. And yes, when we sin And and we mess up relationships and we do things, it it's gonna bring hard things. And there may be hard realities that face up to it, real hurts, real loss. We're gonna have to make real restitution, and yet we can be at peace that whatever apologizing we need to do, whatever uh humbling ourselves we need to do, whatever we need to make it right God's in it. You're his child. And the Spirit is leading and guiding and determining in this situation. And it's going to be okay. You can face up to the reality of sin and of its consequences as a child of God, and nobody else can do that. See, nobody can face up the sin and its consequences who is in the child of God. Nobody can face up the sin and consequence. Who doesn't know God as our heavenly Father? Doesn't have that spirit of adoption, which you only get by faith in Jesus Christ. By turning to Christ, coming to him as an all-sufficient Satan. God knows how sinful you are. You come to find out how sinful you are when you come to Him and live in His light. It's only because we live in His light. It's only because we walk with Him in the light. As we continue to become more holy and walk within the light, we continue to see what we used to think. Oh, that was just a light comment. We come to see that light comet carries a weight of hurt. And then we begin to think, oh, how terrible it is. And yet the blood of Jesus cleanses us as we walk with cough. We're children of God as we fight against sin. This crying out, it's it's presented in scripture as a bitchal, Psalm 57, 2. It's presented as prolonged sometimes, Psalm 69, verse 3. It's presented sometimes as a daily thing. Psalm eighty six verse three. Psalm eighty six seven Let me close then by saying this. I hope I made my point clear. We fight against sin as God's children. Your chief ally in the fight is your Heavenly Father. Is God is Jesus Christ, is the Spirit. Your chief means is prayer, real, honest prayer. Real heart-searching prayer. It's frightful. So frightful. To own up to motives, desires, and yet If you're crying out to God as you're owning up and facing sin and consequences, it's because you know you're his child. And you're reassured there by the testimony of the Spirit. And you're under the Spirit's guidance, and it's going to work out no matter how hard and difficult those consequences may be to face up to, then write out. It's as a child of God that you're doing it. Beloved, your fight is against sin. You do kill sinful deeds. You do fight against everything. Remember, let me remind you what sin is. It's everything that opposes your Heavenly Father's rule. Everything that opposes him. This great God who is so kind and merciful and loving and tender and his bosom is so wonderful to lean in when you're a sinner. And sin is saying, we don't want this God. That's the fight against sin. We want God. We want him here. Because he's for us. You do so as his children who love him and are loved by him. So know God is your chief ally in the fight. May he give you his grace. Amen.