Our Old Testament reading this morning is 1 Samuel chapter 15. We'll be reading the entire chapter. First Samuel chapter fifteen. Hear now the word of God And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people Israel. Now therefore listen to the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I have noted what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them on the way when they came up out of Egypt. Now go and strike Amalek, and devote to destruction all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep. Sheep, camel, and donkey. So Saul summoned the people and numbered them and Telam, two hundred thousand men on foot, and ten thousand men of Judah. And Saul came to the city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley. Then Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites. Lest I destroy you with them, for you showed kindness to all the people of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites, And Saul defeated the Amalekites from Habelah as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt. And he took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive And devoted to destruction all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep. And of the oxen, and of the fattened calves, and the lambs, and all that was good and would not utterly destroy them. The word of the Lord came to Samuel. I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. And Samuel was angry, and he cried to the Lord all night. And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, and it was told Samuel. Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, and turned and passed on and went down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed be you to the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen that I hear? Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice to the Lord your God, and the rest we have devoted to destruction. Then Samuel said to Saul, Stop. I will tell you what the Lord said to me this night. And he said to him, Speak. And Samuel said, Though you are little in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? The Lord anointed you king over Israel. And the Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go, devote to destruction the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you pounce on the spoil and do what is evil in the sight of the Lord? Saul said to Samuel, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord. I have gone on the mission on which the Lord sent me. I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and I have devoted the Amalekites to destruction. But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the things devoted to destruction to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal. And Samuel said, Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams, for rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king. Saul said to Samuel. I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the Lord. And Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel. As Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the skirt of his robe, and it tore. And Samuel said to him, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day. And has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. And also the glory of Israel will not lie or have regret, for he is not a man that he should have regret. Then he said, I have sinned. Yet honor me now before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I may bow before the Lord your God. So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul bowed before the Lord. Then Samuel said, Bring here to me Agag, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came to him cheerfully. Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. And Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless. So shall your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hacked Agag to pieces before the Lord in a Gilgal Then Samuel went to Ramah and saw in Gibeah of Saul. And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death. But Samuel grieved over Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. All right, Matthew twenty-five one through forty-six. Twenty-five, one through forty-six So we just heard this awesome, scary, disconcerting command. But let us look at what will happen at the end of the age from Matthew 25. Beginning at verse oh 31, not one. 31. That's right. The final judgment. When the Son of Man comes in his glory. and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as shepherds separate the sheep from the goats And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, ye who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you a drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you And the king will answer them, Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison, and you did not visit me Then they will also answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them. saying, truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment. But the righteous into eternal life. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, as we approach this narrative in 1 Samuel 15, we pray that you will attend by your Spirit. the words that will be presented in preaching, be with the preacher, be with the hearer Give us the Holy Spirit to apply your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. In this chapter, the words listen and hear is used seven times. Seven times. Things like that are not by accident, but the emphasis then on this chapter is on listening to what God says, hearing what God says. Listen, hear, listen, hear. And since King Saul did not, he rejected the word of the Lord. We are told the Lord has rejected him from being king over Israel. A famine of listening and hearing God's words. What do we have, first of all, in this outline before you is God's just and comforting vengeance. Just and comforting vengeance. Verses 1 through 9 and then 32 and 33. God's severe judgment against Amalek, devote to destruction. That means to be delivered over to destruction. Don't let it live on. Completely destroy it. That's what this idea means. Verse 2: Thus says the Lord of hosts, I have noted what Amalek did to Israel in the way of opposing them on the way when they came up out of Egypt. So God is remembering and recalling the time of the Exodus, the wanderings through the wilderness, and specifically what this nation, Amalek, did. The way they treated God's beloved, cherished covenant people, Israel. It's recorded in Exodus 17. We're not going to turn there. And then it's reiterated in Deuteronomy 25. 17 through 19, where it's told there how when Israel was coming through, there were the weak and the ill and the older folks that were straggling behind the main body. And this group of people, this nation, this Amalek, would come out like wolves after a herd of cattle and attack the weak, the stragglers, the ones that were left from the main bunch. and they would destroy them. And God says he took note of what Amalek did to his people. You also might remember in the narrative that there was another group that's hanging out at this time with Amalek called the Kenites. And they didn't do that. In fact, they were kind to Israel when they were coming through the wilderness. So the Kenites were told to get out of the place, get out of Amalek, leave it alone because God is going to come after Amalek at this time. This, you see, is not just some random genocide against people. as if the Hebrew religion was a genocidal religion. No, this is not that at all. This is a matter of justice. Amalek gets their due, their past due and their present due. So it's a terrible, terrible thing. But God is getting his vengeance on these Amalite Amalekites and their king, Agag. I know that's hard for some of us in the modern era to think about, this terrible kind of uh revenge this This kind of justice. And we would never take revenge on anyone. We're told not to take revenge on our enemies, but we're told to leave it to God's justice, God's vengeance. So God isn't against vengeance. God is not against justice. He just says to us, you don't take it upon yourself to do these things. But he did tell those people in those days, he did tell Saul to be his instrument of taking vengeance, and Saul refused But I want to show you again, we just read it from Matthew 25, the final judgment. This is not just something from the Old Testament, this is something that's coming. The final judgment, when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, and you heard it read, what will be the basis? For God's judgment, either going into everlasting fire and punishment or going into eternal life. What will be the basis? The basis is the way you treated me. And how did that work? It's the way you treated my people. If you treated my people right, you're treating God right. And what God is saying here in this vengeance that's been put out on Amalek is, if you treat my people Israel, badly, you're treating me badly. And if you treat God badly, he will take justice and vengeance upon you. We see the same sort of thing coming in the book of Revelation, chapter 6 We see it there, verses 9 through 17. Listen to the seals being opened, the seals of justice. The seals of the scroll, and the scroll opens, and there's a sentence of justice. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. So there's going to be some vengeance against those who did this to them. Verse 10. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. Then they were each given a white robe, and told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been. And then verse 12, when he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. These are graphic descriptions of what we call a collapsing universe, the end of an old age. God finally opening that sixth seal to bring about vengeance. For all the injustices that have ever been done. And then we see the result, verse 15: the kings of the earth, and the great ones, and the generals, and the rich, and the powerful, and everyone slave and free. hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us From the face and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the lamb. You think of lambs being animals that are full of vengeance and wrath Well, this one is, because it's God, the Son, the Lamb, who died for sinners, who took a judgment for sinners. But now he is the the wrath, he is the Lamb who brings the wrath of God. The wrath of the Lamb, verse 17, for the great day of their wrath, that is the Father and the Son. has come and who can stand. So I just want you to see. Old Testament, this sounds pretty crazy. This vengeance, this sounds like genocide, but no, it's justice. And in the New Testament, Jesus says there will be justice based on how you treated God, which is shown in the way you treat his people. The Amalekites had treated God and his people very badly, and God brings justice. So, what we can take from this in the modern day is I would say this: watch out rulers and politicians and dictators and terrorists. Watch out ISIS, who attacks churches and Christians all around the world. Watch out, North Sudan Watch out Eritrea, watch out Burma, watch out Myanmar, watch out North Korea, watch out Boko Haram, and all those who attack. The apple of God's eye, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because God is a God of justice. We see it again in Psalm 2, verses 10, 11, and 12, where the psalmist says, Now therefore, O kings, be wise, wise up. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve Yahweh with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Then it says, Blessed are those who take refuge in the Blessed are those who take refuge in him. So we see here this is vengeance on the one hand, but it's also comfort on the other hand. The comfort of God's vengeance is that evil will not go on unpunished forever. There will be a day of just revenge against all that is evil. And we're going to see a little bit more of that later and how it works for us so that we're not left in trembling and fear as we see ourselves sinners. But let's go on to the second point, the depth of God's sorrow. We see that in verses 10 through 35. That's the biggest chunk of scripture here The death of God's sorrow. Verse eight and nine tell about a transition. About how Agog, uh how King He took that Saul took Agag, the king of Amalekites, alive, and devoted to destruction all the people with the edge of the sword. So that's partial obedience. But it says, Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the best of the oxen and the fatted calves and the lambs and all that was good. It would not utterly destroy them All that was despised and worthless, they devoted to destruction. So they they killed all the lame and all the sick and all the old uh animals that were uh worn out. But they kept the best. They kept the best. And now we see in verse eleven the depth of God's sorrow. We see God repenting. God regretting. It says, I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. And Samuel was angry, and he cried to the Lord all night. There's some depth there too, some passion. Samuel has followed God by anointing this king, and he's got good hopes for this king, even though he's seen some bad things from this king. But God says, I repent or I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. And Samuel doesn't like it. Then again in verse 35, and Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death. But Samuel grieved over Saul, and then it says, And the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. So we see two times there, the Lord regrets. Now, in the Old Testament, the word regret, or in the King James, the word repent is used with emotional contexts Emotional context. What it means for us is that God has emotions. He feels things. It doesn't mean that God changes his mind or changes his plan or something like that. And God says, you know, I had this plan, this idea, but it didn't work out. I wish I had made a different plan. God does not do that. But when we see in these 29 times when God uses this word, it's in the context of emotion. It shows us that God has feelings and God has emotion about what happens, even with things that He's ordained. And sovereignly decreed. And then we see, in contrast to this, in verse 29, where it says, Yahweh does not repent. So it said it twice that he repents, and then in verse 29, also the glory of Israel will not lie or have regret or repentance, for he is not a man that he should have regret. What does that mean? How does that fit into this picture? In this way, God will not change his mind about the decision that he announced at that moment. What did he announce? He announced that Saul would not be king, but one of his neighbors better than him would be king. And he is announcing this through Samuel that Saul is not going to remain king. And God is saying, I won't change my mind. This is my decree. This is my declaration. It's not emotional here. It is his sovereign declaration. I will not change my mind about my decision to reject Saul and raise up David. But in those other two places, we see that God is sorrowful. God is sorrowful. He does have a sense of emotion. And what does he have sorrow about? He has sorrow about man's sin. And about man's rebellion. What we have here is something called anthropopathism. Anthropopathism. You probably heard of anthropomorphism, that is speaking as if you're a human. God sometimes talks about having hands and having an arm and his eyes. Those are anthropomorphisms. It's because God is a spirit. He doesn't have arms and hands and eyes. So it's anthropomorphic. But this is anthropopathic. It's a figure of speech to accommodate to our way of experiencing things It shows us that God is like us in that He experiences things, has feelings about things, has passion about things. God can truly say, I feel your pain. God truly feels here the tragedy of Saul turning away from following him. Even though it is his decree, his sovereign decree, he truly feels the pain of this loss. And Samuel certainly does too. We can say that, therefore, that God feels sorrow over sin. When you sin, when I sin. God feels sorrow over our sin. God has feelings He has sorrow over Saul's sin, even as Samuel did. He has sorrow over Saul's excuses. He has sorrow over Saul's selective obedience, and yours too. He has sorrow over Saul's putting him to the test with carefully crafted apostasies. God feels things. The depth of God's sorrow. And then the third Point I want to bring to you from this passage this morning is God's priority. Verses 22 and 23, just a little bit there. 22 and 23. So I'm going to read it again. And Samuel said, has the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as a sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord. He has also rejected you from being king. This is not a diatribe against sacrifice or against structured worship. God does not say that he rejects sacrifice here, or he rejects formal gatherings, or he rejects covenant renewal ceremony. But God does want these not in lieu of obedience to his word. Obedience is the most important thing. Obedience to his word. We see that in Luke chapter six, which is, by the way, Luke is full of the word of the Lord. The word of the Lord, the word of the Lord. how the word of God is the most important thing in the book of Luke. Luke 6, 46. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like. He is like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on a ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. Jesus cares about hearing and obeying, doing the Word of God. And Luke chapter 8, 20 and 21, and he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you. But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. To come to worship on Sunday morning and to perform it flawlessly And to sing all of the hymns and say all of the words and recite the creed, but to reject God's word to you on an issue Where you disagree with what he says or you fail to practice what he says is it's the same thing as pagan worship As going to a pagan ceremony and participating in that. Or it is like offering your children to Molech to get a better crop. Or consulting witches and mediums to find out the future for yourself. Because it says in verse 23, For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Idolatry. Why perform an empty show is the basic question. Why why say all the right things, do all the right things, sing all the right things? when your heart isn't in it, when you don't obey the word of the Lord. Why perform an empty show? It is to cover up an empty reality. This is an occupational hazard of politicians. And of clergy. I fear it for myself Is it your reality? Are you covering up rebellion and disobedience? Saul wanted Samuel to pretend for him at the end of all this. Saul's repentance was formal but not real. Verse 30, then he said, I have sinned, yet honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I may bow down before the Lord your God. So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul bowed down before the Lord. What's he concerned with? He's concerned with his stature. He had made, in fact, a monument to himself. He's concerned with his stature, not with God's word, not with God's honor, not with God's covenant. You see, God's word must actually matter to you and to me. Saul has been rejected. David will come to the throne. David will sin grievously. But David will repent sincerely with honest words. We will shortly sing some of his honest words in Psalm 51. And David was truly forgiven and truly restored, not because of his perfect memory of all of his sins, not because of his perfect repentance, but because of true. Honest, sincere repentance that would rely upon his greater son, David's greater son, Jesus. Jesus is the only ticket, the only way out. We are all deserving. Of the fate of Amalek and of King Agag, all of us, every last one. There is none righteous, no, not one. All have sinned and come short. of the glory of God. But Jesus, the future king in this context, the future king of Israel would come, and he did come, and he suffered the just judgment of God in the place of all who turned to him, repenting of sin and relying upon him in faith. He is the ticket out. True repentance, sincere, honest repentance, honest owning up to what we have done. And turning to Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the King of Israel. What Jesus requires is described in Psalm 51, verse 17, in David's words, the sacrifices. Of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. So let us turn always and only to Jesus and find in him The just punishment for our sins and release and freedom from them, that we might honor and obey God for all eternity. Amen. Lord, we thank you for these narratives which point to dark times and difficulties. But point forward to our Savior Jesus Christ. We pray that you'll help us to honor your word when we fail, when we sin, help us to truly repent. And turn back again to Jesus Christ, our only Savior and Lord. Amen.