And the text is Psalm thirty-one, a little longer than they've been so far. In you, O Lord, do I take refuge. Let me never be put to shame. In your righteousness, deliver me. Incline your ear to me. Rescue me speedily. Be a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me. For you are my rock and my fortress, and for your name's sake you lead me and guide me. You take me out of the net they had hidden for me. Me, for you are my refuge. Into your hand I commit my spirit. You have redeemed me, O Lord, faithful God I hate those who pay regard to worthless idols, but I trust in the Lord. I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love. Because you have seen my affliction, you have known the distress of my soul, and you have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a broad Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am in distress. My eye is wasted from grief. My soul and my body also. For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sorrow. My strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away. Because of all my adversaries, I have become a reproach, especially to my neighbors, and an object of dread to my equipment. Acquaintances. Those who see me in the street flee from me. I've been forgotten like one who is dead. I've become like a broken vessel. For they I hear the whispering of many, terror on every side, as they scheme together against me, as they plot to take my life But I trust in you, O Lord. I say, You are my God. My times are in your hand. Rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors. Make your face shine on your servant. Save me in your steadfast love. O Lord, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon you. Let the wicked be put to shame. Let them go silently to Sheol. Let the lying lips be mute who speak insolently against the righteous in pride. Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you, and worked for those who take refuge. In you, in the sight of the children of mankind. In the cover of your presence, you hide them from the plots of men. You store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues. Blessed be the Lord, for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city. I had said in my alarm, I'm cut off from your sight. But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cried to you for help. Love the Lord, O you his saints. The Lord preserves the faithful, but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride. Be strong. Let your heart take courage, O you who wait for the Lord. And now Luke 44 to 49. And there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. While the sun's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. Now when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent. And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home, beating their breasts. And all his acquaintances and the women who had followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. Here ends the reading of God's holy word. Let's pray. Almighty God, to you all hearts are open, all desires known, and from you no secrets are hid. Cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may perfectly love you and worthily magnify your holy name Through Christ our Lord. Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ Have you troubles? I'm sure you do. Everyone does The question is, how do you respond to them? Sometimes events Difficulties, pains, and just plain sorrow over how your life is going does get the best of you, doesn't it? And you have a dickens of a time putting on a happy face, especially when among your acquaintances. You don't like calling attention to the fact that you are distressed and when asked, How are you? Try to find something positive and pleasant with which to respond. Am I right? And furthermore, the matter might be quite complicated, and you don't want to burden your friend with a long answer. Well, I'm here tonight to announce that there is someone whose ear is always open to your cry. Someone who doesn't mind listening to your complaint. Yes. Pray. Your Heavenly Father will attend to your need and will not turn aside when you express to him your deepest feelings of distress. And you may be sure that he can read your inmost thoughts. And so don't hesitate to be very open and truthful. him. In fact, if you're not, he will know. It's in those times that you need confidence and support Even if it means being brought to repentance. But you may be assured that your God in heaven is the most faithful counselor. Whose insight and words will truly be help for you. You will find that insight in those words in one place particularly Yes, in the Bible. And particularly in the Book of Psalms. There you will have the testimony of a man like you, who, even though thousands of years ago faced very similar troubles as you And he tells you what he did. King David was a man tempted in the same way to give up hope. And chuck it in. But he didn't. He prayed to Yahweh, the same God, who is your heavenly father And he found help exactly suited to his need every time. Now, tonight we come in Psalm 31 to one more expression Of the help he got. David had troubles. Boy, did he ever have them. He was raised a sheepherd, the youngest of his siblings, but found one fine day that he was thrust into the role of king of Israel. Israel. He had no formal training whatsoever, and no preparation for such a lofty position. But woke up in the swamp of political intrigue from without and from within. Not only were there citizens of the land who he ruled, who wanted him ousted. He was sort of an ancient-day Trump. And suffered constant criticism and even outright physical harm. Think of that day when King Saul, his predecessor, In a rage of jealousy over David's popularity, actually threw a spear at him while all David was doing was seeking to Assist the king that Yahweh had elevated to the throne. And later, when David himself became king of Israel, And Saul was seeking to kill him. David found Saul asleep in a cave and resisted the temptation to do him harm. Because he was asleep. David was surely a man of principle. Then there was the opposition and downright hatred of all people By his own son, Absalom. That was the cruelest cut of all Even when Absalom was killed by Joab, David's general of the army, remember, who thrust three javelins into Absalom's heart It was Absalom was hanging by his hair in an oak tree that pulled him off his horse. Only then was David sorrowful. Crying out when he heard of his son's death. Oh my son Absalom! My son! My son Absalom! Would I have died instead of you O Absalom, my son, my son. No vindictiveness, only deep sorrow for the trouble that came as close to his own heart as anything could Besides that, if it were not enough, there was always the enemies of Israel, the Philistines, the Amorites, and their descendants, the Gibeonites, who proved to be a constant thorn in David's side But opposition was suffered even by his own Israelites, like that worthless man Sheba, a Benjaminite. Who blew a trumpet and said, We have no portion in David, and we have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his house, O Israel He's a terrorist. Those are examples of the trouble David constantly faced. And to add to that sorry record It was also, and it may not be downplayed, David's own grievous sins of adultery with Bash. And the murder of her husband Uriah. Enough to bring about the utter downfall of the best of men. Yes, he has was not only sinned against, David was the chief of sinners himself. Trouble on every hand. What will become of him? The answer comes in Psalm thirty-one. Where this Old Testament saint pours out his soul to the Lord, tells him the absolute truth, and doesn't hide anything And what do you praise should be a model for all of you today, who face troubles, perhaps not as severe But surely discouraging and even grievous. It will be good for you to pay attention to what David did. Does what he says to God and what God does for him. This psalm is gospel, my dear believers And you need to hear it. There are five points, I think, in this this came to be on Wednesday As I was thinking, what in the world am I going to preach from this psalm? And as I thought about it, five things came to my mind as I read it. Through and through. And all of those points happen to begin with the letters T, R. The troubles that you believers face The trial of faith that drives you to God, the trust in God that proves to be the answer to the troubles you face from without and within The triumph that God brings to all you who plead for His mercy. And yes, finally The tribute that belongs solely to the Lord. First, the troubles That you believers face. Verses 1 and 2 and 9 and 10. Like David, you too face distressful problems. Perhaps a health issue that defies cure. Perhaps unjust criticism from others in the workplace. That seek to shame your standing on principle. Maybe discipline problems in the home, or maybe bullying at school. I don't know your particular situation, but you do. And you need deliverance, or at least relief Psalm 104 says that the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. Actually, the Hebrew word is translated konies in the King James Version. And maybe that is more accurate. I don't think we have any conies. In Southern Maryland. These apparently are small mammals in the Near East. Something between a rabbit and a rat. And they are quite weak and defenseless against most predators. So they seek refuge in the rocks where they can successfully hide from danger David says that he seeks a rock of refuge, like a coney, a strong fortress to save me. And that might sometimes also resonate to your soul. Troubles Troubles that seem to defy relief and that cause you to lose more than a few hours of sleep. You can only cry the words of verse 9 Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am in distress. My eye is wasted from grief, my soul and my body also. And even more, if the trouble is extreme, as David puts it in verse 10. My life is spent with sorrow and my years with sighing Sometimes, as we saw last week when we considered Psalm 30, we bring the troubles upon ourselves. As David once more confesses further, my strength fails because of my iniquity. Again, that's not always the case of our troubles, but it is sometimes. And then it is that the divine discipler, discipliner, is at work bringing you to repentance. And once more you must say, that's good. But when that's what's going on, your prayer for deliverance from the trouble must be qualified by what David It says later in verse 15, My times are in your hand. The trouble may indeed persist. Until you have been brought to full repentance. That time is most important and trumps your Sin sickness, or as David describes it, saying, My bones waste away, is troublesome indeed, and it needs Healing, but only when its purpose, your sanctification, has been satisfied Troubles. Two, the trial of faith that drives you to God. This is verses three through eight Then it is when faced with troubles galore that you with David need the kind of faith that moves you to Prayer. God is your rock and fortress, and his ear is always open to your cry. You don't need a shrink. You need the Lord God. David affirms exactly that in the words of verse 4. And for your name's sake, you lead me. And guide me. God's name is Yahweh, the I Am. He is the faithful God who has redeemed me Verse 5, and I can be sure that when I am in trouble, he knows all about it, and will not turn his ear away for my cry for help. He's the divine psychiatrist. That is exactly the ground for David's confidence that he expresses in those memorable words. Into your hand I commit my spirit. I say memorable words, not so much because you remember them. But because Jesus did. Only Luke records in his gospel account of the crucifixion, chapter 23. Verse 46. Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Why is it that Luke alone, of all the four gospel writers, records those words? I don't know. Perhaps as a physician, he was particularly aware of the enormity of physical distress the Savior was experiencing being crucified. But whatever he tells us, in that exact moment of extraordinary and immeasurable trouble, all Jesus could do Was quote the Bible. What the Savior of the world was experiencing drove him to the Father in heaven in anguished prayer. But in his case, unlike that of David, who first uttered those words, it was not prayer for deliverance from trouble. Because it was time for him to suffer the full outpouring of judgment, do the Entire company of sinners destined from all eternity past to receive the salvation of God. But one more thing must be said. When your Savior cried out loudly, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. I doubt not. That he knew fully that when the trouble was exhausted, after he had indeed given up the spirit in Death, that he would rise again from the dead and be exalted at the right hand of the Father in heaven. Yes, what Jesus experienced was the fulfillment of David's cry: You have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy, you have set my feet. In a broad place. Your Savior is exalted, and He stands today in the broad vista of heavenly glory. The third TR, the trust in God that proves to be the answer to the troubles you face. From without and from within. This is in verses eleven through eighteen. Note particularly that David doesn't rest his plea upon his own worthiness. We already commented upon the fact that David confesses his own Iniquitous lust and action. And it's no wonder that he faced opposition by even his closest acquaintances, who charged him with hypocrisy. He had truly become a reproach and an object of dread. People who passed him in the street would turn aside from him. him. His adversaries, acquaintances, relatives, and especially his son Absalom, plotted not only to impeach him from the throne. But more to take his life. The conclusion that David reaches was that he had become like a broken Vessel smashed. Maybe you have never come to such a sorry end as did David But you may be aware that your testimony has sometimes been scarred by your own failure to live in constant obedience to the Lord's commandments, right? And it does grieve you. You would like to change and bring your behavior more closely into conformity to what you profess. How to begin? Follow David's example. Seek God's grace. And trust him to sanctify you from within. You simply haven't the power To resist temptation, to give in to baseness. You need trust in the Holy Spirit of God to move you From within the depths of your soul, so that you will not be put to shame. Say to the Lord with David, make your face shine on your servants. Serpent. Save me in your steadfast love. That's the only cure that works. And you must remember through it all. And it is only by God's wonderful grace that you have received mercy, because your Lord Jesus Christ bore your sins upon you. his cross. And that exactly brings us to our fourth TR word. The triumph that God brings to all you who plead for His mercy. Verses 19 through 22. Now you will remember that we learned from Psalm 30 last week that some of the trouble that we experience, we've already. Said this under God's sovereign plan is designed actually to promote our sanctification as we repent of our sins. Specifically, it leads us to pretend to repent of of our particular sins that preceded the occurrence of the trial. That's what it was for David, as he wrote in Psalm 31. Our text tonight. However, we also pointed out that sometimes such is not the case. It might simply be that God, again, in his overarching providential ordering of all things, has determined to use your trouble Especially the opposition of God's enemies, and ours and yours, to bring glory to his own name. Perhaps David is speaking of such situations As he writes our text for tonight, Psalm 31, especially verses 19 and 20. Maybe we better read them again. Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you, and worked for those who take refuge in you, in the sight of the children of mankind. In the cover of your presence you hide them from the plots of men. You store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues. There the emphasis is not upon David's sin, although he was always willing to be faced with that possibility. and was ever ready to acknowledge it. This time he speaks about evil men who through the strife of tongues plot against those who fear God. They no doubt accuse falsely. They gossip and sneer. David was not free from such trouble. But he says that God is. Good, and has stored up goodness for those who fear him. And he does it in the sight of the children of man That's particularly important, I think, because it means that wicked people oppressing you cannot help but observe that their schemes Come to nothing when you hide yourself in the cover of God's presence, doesn't it? The only defense is to take refuge in Him who is the righteous and Just sovereign of the universe. And that's all you need. They can do nothing to thwart his will that brings about victory in every attack. against his people and upholds them in safety, all to his glory. For as David confesses You heard my pleas for mercy when I cried to you for help. And you too, today, who sometimes face opposition from evil people People who want to discredit your faith in Jesus Christ, such as has happened to that Baker Who found himself in a besieged city and refused to make a wedding cake for homosexuals may take confident defense in the refuge of God Himself. And it was enough for him. God's people will always triumph. Now I recognize that it may be God's will to delay that triumph for a time. But your times, remember, are in his hands. And the time will come, perhaps not until Jesus returns again When all evil will be extinguished, sent silently into Sheol, and the wicked will be put That will be the ultimate triumph enjoyed by all of the Lord's own. As they experience the eternal goodness of perfect Personal presence with God forever. Then there will be no more trouble. any kind. And you who trust him will have no need to cry anymore out for deliverance. Because he will have brought you into a broad place, a new heavens and a new earth Well, we end with our fifth TR word, the tribute that belongs solely to the Lord. That's verses 23 and 24. Love the Lord, you his saints. The Lord preserves the faithful, but abundantly repays the weakness. One who acts in pride. Be strong and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the Lord. That's where the tribute belongs. You've all been to athletic events, particularly when your close relatives participate in them And you stand and cheer when they score that touchdown or hit that home run. You celebrate their victory, and rightly so. But it's somewhat different with The situation in our text tonight. Here the victory is attributed not to the participants, but to the coach, if I may call him that. And God is more than a coach who can only advise, train, and compliment the athletes. He is the one to whom all credit is due for the victory. David says to you who enjoy the redemption purchased by the Lord Jesus Christ, love the Lord, all you his saints. It is He who preserves the faithful. Now it is true that you have put your trust in Him. You've been faithful, yes. But it is God who has preserved you Don't forget it. Be strong and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the Lord. The tribute is his, not yours. For if you thought it was yours, you would be the one who acts in pride, and as such would be abundantly repaid. And that would be eternal death, which is trouble that you cannot imagine You see, my dear brothers and sisters, boys and girls, it all comes down to worship. It's what you do every Sunday, isn't it You gather together with brothers and sisters in the family of God to pay tribute to God. That's why you're here. So don't sweat the small stuff. Whether the minister ever picked your favorite hymn, whether or not he remembered to pray for your particular request, even whether or not you agreed with every detail of his sermon. Pay attention to what matters supremely. Whether or not you came here to pay tribute. To God, to whom all glory and thanks belong. When you face troubles, let this remind you Uphold you. God is behind all your days, and all your time is in His hands. Don't fret. Pray and cry for help, pleading not your merit, for you have none But the merit of Jesus Christ, who took willingly upon himself the extreme trouble. That you deserve. Finally, let this command resonate in your heart, congregation. Direct your will. Define your action. Love the Lord, all you his saints. Amen Let's pray. Oh Lord, it doesn't come naturally to us to hear this kind of biblical Advice and commandment. Wasn't easy for David, but he got it. And he passed it on as a vehicle. for you to bring it to us. Thank you for that. And we pray that it will be so. For your glory. You to whom all the tribute belongs. Our blessed God in heaven. In Jesus and by the Holy Spirit we pray. Amen.