The Old Testament reading comes from the book of Isaiah, chapter 40, where we'll read verses 25 to 31. Isaiah 40, verses 25 through 31. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these? He who brings out the host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might. And because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel? My way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles, and they shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The New Testament reading this morning is 2 Corinthians chapter 12. I'm going to read verses 1 through 10. And that will be the text for the message as well. Second Corinthians twelve, one through ten. I must go on boasting, though there is nothing to be gained by it. I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And he heard things. that cannot be told, which man may not utter. On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses Though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain from it So that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me. So, to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh. A messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities For when I am weak, then I am strong. The word of the Lord. Let's seek the Lord, shall we, and pray for understanding. Lord, we pray that you would be with us now. Give us understanding of your will. Give us power to believe. And to live according to what you have given in these precious words. What we know not, teach us, what we have not, give us What we are not, make us. For the glory of your holy name. Amen. Is it possible for you to be too strong to be useful to Christ? I ask the question because I think that it is, if strength is understood in a certain way according to the Bible And I get this from the paradox in 2 Corinthians 12, 10, and you've already heard it: when I am weak, then I am strong. When I learn the deep limitations of my own resources and face debilitating hardships that make me cry out for relief. Then I am in a place where the strength of Jesus comes and does what I am not able to do. But when I am strong, self-reliant, confident in my own abilities Forgetful of my need for grace and my reliance upon grace, then I fail. So, brothers and sisters, let me say to you and to me, let's not be strong in our own eyes. Together, let's boast in weakness and enjoy the power of Christ that rests on those who call on him to come in strength You may know that 2 Corinthians was written during a time when its author, the Apostle Paul, was under attack. There were people in Corinth who wanted to discredit him. They belittled his ministry and insisted that the church do the same So Paul wrote this letter for many reasons. To convince his brothers and sisters that he loved him. That was one reason. You can see that in chapter 11, verse 11. God knows I do. That's what he said. To urge them to keep gathering resources for him to take to Jerusalem to help the poor there. You can read about that in chapters 8 and 9. And then to address the views of those who are trying to turn the church against him. What an extraordinary set of circumstances. And what a difficult letter to write What kind of letter would you write if you were under Paul did some really great things in the almost two years. He spent with his friends in Corinth, and now people were turning against him, calling him names. And yet Paul loved Christ. And he loved the church. And so, under the power of the Holy Spirit, he wrote this letter. And now we have that letter. And that's good. Chapter twelve contains an amazing confession I don't think there is a more profound self-disclosure in all of Paul's letters than what we have here. Every honest person admits to experiencing highs and lows in life. That's the way life is. That's the way we are. We never stay long on an even path, do we? Well, it was true of of you, it's true of me, it's also it was also true of Paul. And I believe that it's fair to say that in these ten verses, we have a report of the highest peak. And the deepest valley in the life of the apostle, the greatest positive experience with God? And suffering so great that he pleaded three times for Jesus to remove it. Paul's report, his testimony, mean something to us. Let's not be proud of our experiences And let's not despise our sufferings. And I want us to receive these lessons under these three points. They're in your bulletin if you want to see them. The danger of privilege, the uses of suffering, and by that I mean the way God uses suffering in the lives of his children. And then we'll turn our hearts more directly to Jesus and speak of the weakness and the power of Christ. You might be surprised to see the weakness of Christ, but it's in the Bible, and I'll show you that in a little bit. First, the danger of privilege. The Apostle Paul was a special servant of Christ, wasn't he? God used him to do amazing things And to give us explanations of the gospel that are glorious. We know these things? But of course, there is much about Paul that we do not know anything about. In fact, if he were not slandered by his enemies in Corinth, We would probably never learn about a certain experience that he had with Christ. Here are the words again. I'll begin with verse 2. I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. It seems strange to us that Paul should speak of himself in the third person, but that's what he did. Jesus did this sometimes, didn't he? The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. He was talking about himself. And it's a very good thing that he was talking about himself, because no one else could have ransomed us. And here Paul's words tell a story, and it's a story about him, and in humility, he told it from the sidelines, in the third person. He must have had himself in mind because he owns the boasting associated with the experience. And he did boast. Paul is a boaster. We don't ordinarily advise boasting, but Paul's is a good kind of boasting. And I'm going to give you some reasons why. First of all, he was addressing the ungodly boasting of those who were promoting themselves in the church. They presented letters, perhaps lists of references and accomplishments as well, to certify their value as leaders and teachers. They were really something, you see They had letters. Where are your letters, Paul? Why should we listen to you? You're short, you're ineloquent, why you don't even charge fees for your speaking engagements. What kind of apostle are you? These kinds of accusations were being made. And the Christians at Corinth were hearing them and they were beginning to believe them. So Paul took up the uncomfortable task of listing his qualifications. And you can find them throughout the letter, and especially chapter 11. And when you read them, notice that they do not include fees and letters. There is no list of earnings, no references from satisfied customers, no reports of church planting successes or sell-out crowds of applauding ticket holders. Nothing like that. He reported on his trials, his weaknesses God's certification came in the context of suffering. Then consider that even the report of the vision Is presented 14 years after it happened. He didn't parade himself as Jesus' best friend and prove it by talking about this vision that he had. He gave his conversion story repeatedly, but never this 14-year-old vision, at least not until he feels almost forced to do so in this letter. And then finally, remember that Paul really was boasting in ways known to the saints throughout history. In boasting in his weakness, he really was boasting in the Lord. Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches. But let him who boasts boast in this. That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight. Declares the Lord. That's Jeremiah 9. You boast like that And you will honor your Savior. Now what was this vision? I really don't know. And you don't know either. In fact, Paul himself didn't know it completely, did he? In the body, out of the body? He couldn't tell. What he did know, and what he reported in this letter, is that he was drawn up to heaven, the third heaven, as he put it, paradise. And that he heard things that cannot be spoken. What did he hear? Where exactly did he go? How long was he there? How did he get back? We don't know. And it's good that we don't know This is not an experience that you and I ought to seek. It was unique and for the most part unknowable to us in this life. What a blessing this was for Paul. He enjoyed it. He remembered it as he was able. But he was also put in a place of risk, the risk of inflating the value of the vision. And thus inflating his own value in his own mind. And I say that because of what is coming in the next verses. Now, while you and I cannot make a claim like his, and we ought not to seek an experience like Paul's We can experience, and probably most of us have experienced, special times of blessing from the Lord. Positive, feel-good, spiritual moments when we really enjoy the blessings of God and may be tempted to think more of ourselves than we should. That we really are special gifts to the church, right? God does some great things for you, and you begin to own them. As if you deserve his favor, or are better than other people, or are somehow singled out as privileged. We're all privileged, aren't we? We're in the family of God. We have Jesus, who is our friend, our savior, our brother And our King. And we have so many blessings because of the act of adoption where God has brought us into His family. But we must never allow any of those blessings to puff us up. Don't let that happen. Humbly give thanks. Enjoy what God has done, and boast in your weakness and in the Lord. Paul was a privileged person, a VIP, we sometimes say. But there was risk in this even for him. Paul was placed in danger through privilege. And the danger was a temptation to boast in his own strength. So God put suffering into his life. And he puts suffering into all of our lives, doesn't he? So let's think a little about Paul's particular trial. God's design in bringing it. And then also, if your own struggles come to mind, things you're currently going through now which are painful. If they come to mind, you can have those as well before you. And pray as we continue on that God will give you strength to endure the hardships that have come. Christ sent Paul a thorn in the flesh. It was a messenger of Satan, that's how Paul puts it, but as with all of Satan's intentions, God overruled. He used the darkness for his own good purposes. In this case, the Lord's purpose was to protect Paul from pride. Verse 7. So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations A thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. As the pastor mentioned, my family lived in Uganda for a time in a place called Karamoja. And Karamoja is called by some the land of thorns. And that's a very good name because there are thorn trees everywhere. The thorns are hard, they're pointing, of course, and they're very strong. The Karamajong people surround their villages with thorn fences to keep out intruders. And I'm here to tell you that is a very effective approach to security. I once got a bloody cut on my balding head by just walking under a tree and lightly brushing against a thorn. They can really hurt, but they can be managed. Just watch where you're going, watch where you're stepping And if a thorn gets you, wash your wound and wait. Healing will come. Paul's image is stronger. He didn't want his reader to think that his trial was a manageable irritant. Paul's thorn, some say steak would be a better English word here, but his thorn was not a mere nuisance. It was an abiding agony. It's not known exactly what it was. You can read the studies and and collect a nice list of possibilities. Most say it was a physical affliction of some kind. It's not known. Whatever it was, it was painful. And it brought Paul to a place of pleading. It must have been really bad because, as far as we know, Paul did not repeatedly beg for relief from his other really painful trials, like receiving thirty-nine lashes from his enemies. Five times. Five times. Second Corinthians eleven twenty-four What was it like for Paul to endure that kind of torture a second time, remembering the pain of the first? Would you have pleaded for relief if you were faced with a second, third, fourth, fifth meeting? No record of Paul seeking such relief. He might have, I suppose, but Scripture doesn't record it. And yet this thorn, this verse 7 thorn, was so painful, so agonizing. That Paul repeatedly begged that Christ would take it away. But it remained. Why did it remain? I want to give you two reasons, two ways that God used suffering in Paul's life. The first is specifically mentioned in the text. God's design was to keep Paul from becoming conceited. And this is not difficult to understand. Christ blessed Paul in ways unknown to anyone else. And he loved Paul too much to allow blessing to stand alone. He combined it with suffering to protect Paul from himself. So, brothers and sisters, do not despise the hardships that come to you. And they do come. We all know they do. They are God's loving instruments. Things that He uses to show you that He is great, that you are weak, and that He is strong for you. Because if you experience only positive, affirming, comfortable things, you will begin to think too highly of yourself. And that is far more dangerous than any trial that might come. If everything always goes well, then how will you know that you're trusting Christ? How will you recognize your own weakness? And if you don't recognize your own weakness, how will you discover Christ's power? You won't. And that's the point. It's not that Jesus delights in your pain. We're never to think that. Not at all. He's a sympathetic high priest. He knows you. He understands you. He gets how you feel because he's been here. He has compassion on you. Never forget that. But in his sympathy, he wants you to trust him, rely on him, and receive power from him. Your weakness and your recognition of your weakness is the means that He has given for you to call upon Him and receive And that's why Paul can say, when I am weak, then I am strong. And weakness exists in many forms. For Paul, it was a physical weakness, perhaps. Along with a trajectory toward pride, maybe we can say that. For you, it may be other things. But I would be very surprised to learn. That there's one person in this room this morning who is not conscious of some kind of weakness. And if you're like me, and I think like most people There are times when you feel spiritually dull and drained, tempted even to put off prayer. And distract yourself so that you can avoid thinking about the deeper matters of life. That's another kind of weakness: prayerlessness. Spiritual sloth, some might say. Do you ever feel that? I wonder if these words From C. S. Lewis resonate. Let me read them to you from one of his letters. The truth is, I haven't any language weak enough to depict the weakness of my spiritual life. If I weakened it enough, it would cease to be language at all. As when you try to turn the gas ring a little lower, and it merely goes out. If you ever feel that way, I have good news for you. You are in the place of recovery If you seek him, now seek him. Confess your weakness and believe that he has the power to energize you and to bring you along in holiness He has the power to give you strength to endure the physical hardships that come so that you can honor him in your suffering. He has the power for you to put down your pride. He is able. Believe that he is able. And seek him. It is to the humble that God gives grace. First Peter five five Paul's problem really wasn't the thorn, as painful as that must have been. That affliction, that thorn, whatever it may have been, was not the real disease. In truth, it was the treatment. And it was the treatment for far deeper conditions, namely pride and self-reliance God's design in all of this was to protect Paul from pride. That's one thing. The second is this. Christ did not remove the thorn so that Paul would learn to pray and to rely upon grace. And Paul did pray. And Jesus was listening. He didn't do what Paul begged him to do, and so Paul kept on praying. He knew when to pray, and I suppose he knew when to stop praying. And we know that Christ heard him And not only do we know that he heard him, we know that he answered the prayer, and we have the answer in the Bible. It's there in verse 9. Did you say it? See it? But he said to me, that is Jesus said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And then Paul goes on, therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. There it is. The grace of Christ is sufficient. Do you believe believe that? It was for Paul. And it is for you. It really is. Never be embarrassed to go to him in weakness. Rejoice that he will receive you and provide for you. Do you want the power of Christ to rest upon you? Face your weaknesses. Go to Jesus and plead with him. Not to make your life easy, but to strengthen your faith and your walk with him. I have heard it said that you will learn that Christ is all you need if Christ is all you have. And sometimes God seems to remove much of life's support in order to draw one of his children close. I don't know this personally yet, but I know some people who do. They know it well. And maybe you know such people. Perhaps you're among them. I should say that Paul did not sin in his prayer. It was good for him to want relief and good for him to pray for relief. You do the same. But life may not shape up the way you want. Well, go to Jesus and tell him that too. And then rest in his love, plead for his strength, and rely on his grace, which is always, always sufficient. For you. When you are weak, then you are strong. So let's think a little bit about Christ, his weakness, and also his power. Near the end of the letter, Paul wrote these amazing words. 13 verse 4. For he was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. So Jesus was also weak Not in every way he was without sin, but in many ways, we might say in every other way, he was weak. His whole life was weakness. Despised, rejected, falsely accused. He was called a demon. Can you believe that? He was called a drunkard, a glutton. An illegitimate child, Sabbath breaker, promise breaker, and a blasphemer. He went to a funeral and wept there. He was deeply troubled by the betrayal of a friend. He felt every blow that came to him. And every word of mockery hurled at him. Did Jesus feel the weakness that Paul felt and that we all feel? Indeed, he did. Is he able then to sympathize with us in our weakness? Yes. But can he really appreciate what it means to plead for relief the way Paul did three times? Yes, again. Turn back the clock in your mind from Paul's day, just a couple of decades, to the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus prayed three times for the cup to pass. This is the Jesus Paul was praying to. But with that prayer was the recognition that his Father's will must prevail. And that's the way to pray, always, for all of us. Jesus did not sin in his prayer because he was willing to accept the will of his Father This does, by the way, put to rest the idea that you can discern God's leaning through feelings of peace. Jesus was in agony as he thought about what was coming. The climax of Jesus' weakness, of course, came when he gave his life for your sins. He was crucified in weakness. Not that he had no power, but that he chose not to use his power to destroy his enemies or to escape their judgments. But he submitted to weakness and suffering and death for you, for your sake. It's so good to think much about the cross, isn't it? God loved you by giving his son. Jesus loved you by giving his life The fullness of God's wrath, for your sins was poured out upon Jesus, so that you would be freed from the condemnation. That you deserve. For he was crucified in weakness. But we're glad the sentence doesn't end There. But he lives by the power of God. The grave was not able to hold him. He rose in power. He lives by power and provides power to all who come to him in weakness. I hope you believe this. I hope that you can say with Paul, when I am weak, then I am strong. Jesus knows you. He is present with you. He is tender toward you. And he will provide for you. He completely gets how broken the world is, and how difficult it is for us to live among the pieces. He understands, he sympathizes, and is very pleased to give you the strength you need. To face all that life brings you. He is able. Hallelujah. Praise his name Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for the promises and commands of Scripture. We thank you for the word that you have given to us today. And so we pray that you would help us to know your truth, to believe what you have said, and to live happily, faithfully under these precious truths, how glad we are to have Jesus as our Savior. We do confess that we are slow. To learn the truths you have given and how best to follow our Master who came before us. Help us to set our hearts on heaven And to live by the power of Jesus as we confess our weaknesses to you. We do need you to come, increase our faith, and enlarge our hearts for you, for your word, for your church, and for your world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.