And now Matthew twenty one, verses sixteen to twenty-eight. Woe to you, blind guides, who say, if anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath. You blind fools, for which is greater the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred? And you say, if anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath. You blind men, for which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift save So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it. And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For you tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier measures. of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. You blind guide straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee. First, clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs. which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others But within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. This is the sobering word of God in the mouth of Jesus Himself. And now, beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, Thursday It's Thanksgiving Day, as I'm sure everyone realizes. And that's a happy day, isn't it? Thanksgiving. Turkey, stuffing, gravy, mashed potatoes, cranberry sauce, pumpkin pie. I think I had all of that this morning, even the the uh green beans. Why do we do Thanksgiving? Well, Webster says that it is, quote, the fourth Thursday in November, observed as a legal holiday in the U. S. as a day appointed for giving thanks for divine goodness. Now, given the broad definition of what is divine by our countrymen, if even such is considered at all. It is something of a stretch to assume that true heartfelt thanks will be extended by the vast majority of Americans to the God of the Bible. One gets the impression that Thanksgiving, for the average American, if the truth is told, is rather a family day. Of upbeat optimism for all the material wealth we possess. Now I hope that you don't say that I'm being too harsh with that generalization. True, I don't know what's in the hearts of 320 million people, but I do pay attention to statistics that describe their behavior by and They don't, for the greater part, assemble for corporate worship of Almighty God on the fifty-two Sundays of the year But for some reason they do Thanksgiving once a year with a sumptuous timely meal. Why? Could their reason be that they just want to demonstrate that somehow or other perhaps their lucky stars have favored them with lots of stuff Maybe that's why we call it stuffing. And I'm sure that you will agree that as Christians If we are going to do Thanksgiving Day at all, we will need a loftier reason than that In God's providential ordering of things, Grace and Peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church comes tonight, according to our systematic schedule of psalm texts. To number 50. I say that because when I looked at the contents of Psalm 50 I couldn't help but notice that the giving of thanks to the true and living God takes on a position of prominence. And then I realized that this coming Thursday will be Thanksgiving Day. So I was excited to pay careful attention to the two particular verses of the psalm that apparently have something to say about what ought to be the true thanksgiving that we Reformed Christians are to offer God also. Always, and not just on one Thanksgiving day each year. Whatever the majority of Americans do will not concern us tonight But what God the Lord wants from us will. So then I read the psalm in its entirety. And I found that the focus is not at all upon how thankful we ought to be for all that God has given us. It turns out that the whole thrust of the psalm is to issue a severe warning to the church. Yes, a warning. This is not a comforting psalm, folks. It is rather a sober declaration that something is wrong with the church. Not the world of unbelievers, but the church. God will deal with the people of the world outside of covenant with him elsewhere. But not here in Psalm 50. It might look at first, especially when you read the first words of verse 16. Like God is indeed addressing unbelieving sinners. Ah. But to the wicked, God says, dot dot dot But as we will see later, God is talking about the church here, not the world. And he's doing so throughout the entire psalm. And what is he saying? He's saying that he judges the church guilty of two particular sins. Or should I say, two particular sinks of their worship of Him and their behavior before Him. We will name them in a moment, but stress just now that they are serious matters. So serious that he calls ASAF to lay these charges. In this psalm, before his own covenant people, to which they absolutely must pay attention. Repent thereof And seek his forgiveness and salvation. And so that leads me to state the proposition of this message. It's this. The Church of the Living and True God, guilty both of formalism and In their worship of Him and of hypocrisy in their life before Him, glorifies Him alone by repentance for this sinning And thankful trust in His saving grace, without which they must surely face His judgment So not a happy psalm, but we need it. Let's get at it. The first point is to state that God Himself is our judge, and that's verses one Now, why is God a judge of human beings at all? Who authorized him to occupy such a lofty position as to sit in judgment upon the entirety of the human race? Aren't we free to behave ourselves according to whatever pleases us and pleases us to be and do? Apparently not, as Asaph declares in verse 1, the mighty one, God the Lord, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. The entire race of men in all of time and space is bound to appear before God precisely because He created them. In his own image, and after his own likeness. As we read in Genesis 126 God does not judge inanimate creation, nor even all animate creatures other than man. And why? Because they were not created into God after God's image. As God goes on to tell us in the rest of Genesis 126. six. And let them that's man have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping. thing that creeps on the earth. Then there follows verse 27. So that way. God created man in his own image. so that we are to reflect his ability and power and right and authority to judge. That way. Human beings have been made like God in this respect. They are endowed with the capacity to judge. They are to rule. And because they are like Him in this respect, They themselves are to be ruled. They will be judged according to how they have ruled in their purpose as image-bearers of God Himself. Now Genesis 1. 31 says, and God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. That's because he himself is good, and everything he does is good. All his judgments Decisions and precepts, according to Psalm 199, are perfect altogether He is a righteous judge, and he has made man in that his image. Thus they may know for sure that they themselves will be judged according to how they have judged. That's the thrust of Psalm 50, our Psalm tonight, verse 6. The heavens declare his righteousness. For God Himself is judge. I take that to speak about the angels. And we could say that even those angels could and would testify. That it is right and good that the entirety of the human race will be brought before the bar of God's justice. That's indisputable. And we will spend not a minute But now having said this, there is something that we had better not fail to see in this first stanza of Psalm 50, verses 1 to 6. And it is that God here is declaring that although he is truly judge of all human beings, he has a word for a certain class of people. Who are they? Well, he begins by saying that he is speaking out of Zion. That's the particular place where he meets to be worshipped by the Israelites. No wonder then that the hearers of this psalm cry out. Our God comes. And the psalmist says that he has come there to judge his people. His faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice. Yes. I'm afraid this is not a court into which the whole of the human race has been brought. This is a special judicial case, and it concerns charges that are about to be laid upon a certain class of people, namely the Church of the Living God. Not just the Israelites of old, furthermore, but also the covenant people of God throughout all of history. Us Today. Thus, when we come to verse 7, hear, O my people, and I will speak, O Israel, I will testify against you I am God, your God. Whatever we do, let's not bow our brows, wiping them, saying Glad he's not talking to us. But he is. God himself is our judge. And he has two charges to lay before us. The first charge is found in verses 8 through 13. Here, God is accusing them of mere formality in worship Near. We know that this is the trouble because he begins. Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you. Your burnt offerings are continually before me. He's not being sarcastic. He's stating the truth. Nothing wrong with the elements of their worship. They're doing what he commanded. Yet still he shocks them with this sobering announcement: I will not accept a bull from your house or goats. From your folds. Whoa. What's wrong? What's wrong? He explains in verses 10 through 13. And we need to hear. Hear them again. For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills, I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you For the world and its fullness are mine. Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? The only thing that I can conclude from this is that the church, his covenant community, when worshiping him was copying the pagans. Worshiping, say, Ishtar The Hindu goddess, who grew hungry and raged against her worshippers because they were not bringing her sufficient goodies to munch. And brought severe condemnation down upon them. Or any of the other gods and goddesses of the ancient world who were perceived as being owed stuff. From the poor people under their heels, whose sole religious activity was to satisfy their stupendous appetites. Not so with the covenant people of the true and living God. He has everything and cannot be given anything. Not only is his every beast of the forest, the cattle on a thousand hills, all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field. But also He's not hungry, as they might be tempted to think he is for any flesh or blood of sacrifices that they might offer. Him. How can they ever give him what's already his? But apparently, those Israelites were acting like that was exactly what they were doing. They were doing Yahweh a favor. By providing him with delicacies by which they would secure his blessings. What a gross misconception of the heart of worship. They are guilty as charged, for they are merely going through the motions of worship. Their hearts were not in it. And Yahweh could read that Now, when we read these chilling words, we cannot help but ask ourselves: is our worship pleasing to God? We're not talking here about particular liturgical activity. Christians of various stripes confessing one undoubted salvation by grace through faith in Christ alone. Have nevertheless varying worship styles. Some sing only psalms. While others sing off the wall, new compositions. Some observe communion weekly, others quarterly We could go on and on and on, but we're not going to do that. Our point is to allow the force of Psalm 50 to come down upon us, not to crush us, but to raise us up. How is it with our worship of God Almighty, howsoever we do it, anyway? Could it be that it is sometimes merely formal? Nothing wrong with it being formal. All churches, even true ones, have some form of worship or other. But with what heartfelt worship is that worship? Is our worship. Brought before the all-seeing, all-knowing God. Congregation, my message to you, and I think it's God's Is this don't just go through the motions. Think deeply about all that God says to you when you Come to church and all that you say back to him. That's all I have to say about the first charge. Now the second charge. It's found in verses 16 to 20. God is charging them here with hypocrisy. Yes. Especially that although they worship him outwardly according to his commandment, they are not living lives that demonstrate that they are truly his people. They worship well, but at the same time they live sinfully without repentance. That's hypocrisy. And it will not escape God's judgment. Once more, it needs to be said that although verse 16 begins with these words, but to the wicked, God says We're not free to conclude that he is addressing unbelieving pagans. For the ones he calls into the dock are those said to recite his statutes. And take his covenant on their lips. No, these who are charged are not the surrounding nations who oppose Yahweh and who attack his church. The ones brought before God for judgment here are the Israelites themselves, his church. And they are described as the wicked. And the specifications of their wickedness are laid out in verses 17 to 20. Summarizing those specifications, we may say that the church is charged charged as guilty of violating the second table of the Ten Commandments, Numbers six through ten, giving examples of their sinning against all but two of those laws. But you can well imagine that they had broken Those other two also. The seventh commandment: you shall not commit adultery. And the charges you keep company with adulterers. The eighth commandment says, you shall not steal. And the charge is: if you see a thief, you are pleased with him. The ninth commandment, you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. And the charge is you give your mouth free reign for evil, and your tongue frames deceit. You sit Even the fifth commandment doesn't escape notice. It says, honor your father and your mother, and the charge is you You hate discipline and you cast my words behind you. They were living lives that broadcasted their defiance of God's command. That they loved their neighbor as well as themselves. They were hypocritical, clearly. Even though they worshiped Yahweh outwardly, as Charge 1 indicates. They were doing so merely outwardly. That was charge one. And now, as charge two indicates, they were doing so hypocritically. They looked on the outside, particularly in their worship behavior, as godly believers, but God saw that their hearts were not in it. And that was bad and needed judgment. But now it appears that the situation was worse still. For their behavior outside of worship reveals that they didn't care any more for God's commandments than they did about worshiping Him. They wanted to look good. By claiming to be free from sinful behavior, but the reality is that they were not so free. And maybe other people didn't notice it. Perhaps if they did, they excused it. But the judge didn't. And here he calls them out. Now, Congregation, this must be said. Just as we sought to make application to ourselves When it came to charge one, and that was hard enough, that of mere formalism. I'm afraid we need to apply this scripture, charge two, to ourselves as well. And doing that will not be any easier than it was with respect to the first charge. For now it's not just formalism, now it's hypocrisy. And there it is that each one of us must search our hearts and examine our behavior Do our lives back up our profession? Or are there nagging, persistent, and unrepented for sins? In our lives, that, if brought to the surface, would fly in the face of our outward profession. Hard as it is to face such a humbling charge If true, it would surely be better for us to do so than to continue on blithely thinking that all is well. What does this do for eternal security? Well, the Bible teaches us that believers in Jesus possess it. John 3. 16 is clear enough that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but shall have eternal life That is to say that we who are saved by grace through faith will stay saved. But at the same time. Believers need ever thereafter to examine their hearts and lives, and if needed, to repent. Now, congregation, that's not the end of the psalm. Because the psalm tells us that there is a defense. And that defense is found in verses 14-15 at 22 and 23. Read them again. Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving and perform your vows to the Most High. And call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. Verse 22 Mark this then you who forget God lest I tear you apart and there is none to deliver But now, verse 22 tells us that what we need so badly will be given. The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me. To one who orders his way rightly, I will show the salvation of God. And all of that is summarized in one word next Thursday. Thanksgiving. Not thanksgiving for what we've gotten from him, so much as thanksgiving that we bring as a sacrifice. to him. Those words in verse 22, offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, could better be rendered, and I think it's in the footnote. Make thanksgiving your sacrifice to God. That's to say, there is absolutely nothing that you can bring to God to pay for your sacrifice. sins. Nothing. The only thing that you can do, if God has worked it in your heart by his Holy Spirit, is to cry, God, be merciful to me. Sinner. That's your sacrifice. You give up defending yourself and you cast yourself upon his mercy. All he can do is thank God for Jesus. Let that praise resonate in your heart Dear friends, next Thursday on Thanksgiving Day. And on every day, he told you in Psalm 50 tonight, Call upon me in the day of trouble That is a day of trouble, isn't it, indeed, when you're brought into the dock and charged with mere formalism and hypocrisy. I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. Do that, my dear friends Your sins are indeed troubling and mine. And you will never escape judgment for them by yourself, nor will I. We've got no defense. But there is indeed a redeemer. If you cast yourself upon him without reservation and claim alone his perfect righteousness and atoning death, God will wipe away all your formalism. All your hypocrisy, whatever it might be, and howsoever it might stain your heart and life. And he will cast all your sins into the depths of the sea, never to remember them anymore. Truly, as the Psalm concludes Thus as I conclude, the one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me. That's what it means for that person to order his way rightly. Not straighten up and fly right and be good from now on. That's not what orders his way rightly means. He orders his way rightly when he gives up self-salvation altogether and renders God thanks for his salvation. Go home tonight, congregation, with this prayer ringing in your heart. I thank you, merciful God, for the gift of your Son, Jesus Christ. Christ, who alone is my defender, and who both can and will bring about my verdict. Not guilty. Lord, what a psalm. When we first look at it, we say, we wonder, this couldn't be us, could it? But we know that it is. For we are people who have taken your covenant upon our lips. We've called upon your name, and we praise you and we worship you weakly. And even more so than that. And O God, we pray that you will speak right into the depths of our heart by your Spirit. And enable us to repent and to trust evermore so in the Redeemer Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.