Isaiah fifty-two, starting in verse thirteen through Isaiah fifty-three. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance. And his form beyond that of the children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him For that which has not been told them, they see, and that which they have not heard, they understand. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised And we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of five people? And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. This is the word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul's letter to the Philippians, chapter 2, verses 1 through 11. Philippians 2, beginning at verse 1, through the word of the Lord. So, if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, Any participation in the spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love. Being in full accord and of one mind, do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. That each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interest of others. Have this mark among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Our gospel reading comes from Mark chapter 15. It's a bit of a long reading. We're going to read from verse 16 on through the rest of the chapter, verse 47. And look at this obedience of the Lord Jesus, or its a culmination of his obedient life, his offering himself on the cross So Mark chapter fifteen, beginning at verse sixteen, hear the word of the Lord. And the soldiers led him away inside the palace, that is the governor's headquarters, and they called together the whole battalion. And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on him, and they began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews. And they were striking his head with a reed, and spitting on him, and kneeling down in homage to him. And when they had mocked him, They stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes on him, and they led him out to crucify him. And they compelled the passer-by Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. And they brought him to the place called Galgatha, which means place of a skull, and they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what each should take And it was the third hour when they crucified him. And the inscription of the charge against him read, The King of the Jews. And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, Aha. You who will destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. Though also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those who were crucified with him also reviled him. And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Alo I, Alo I, Lama Sabakfani. Which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders hearing it said, Behold, he's calling Elijah And someone ran and filled the sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And when the centurion who stood facing him saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly, This man was the son of God. There were also women looking on from a distance. among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joseph and Salome. When he was in Galilee they followed him and ministered to him. And there were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. And when evening had come, since it was the day of preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath, Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the council. who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Pilot was surprised to hear that he should have already died, and summoning the centurion he asked him whether he was already dead. And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph And Joseph bought the linen shroud and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud, and laid him in a tomb that had been cut out to the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb. Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joseph, saw where he was laid. This is the word of the Lord. We will look at some of these events kind of briefly. I know they are familiar to many of us and all of us by God's grace. We know these events. We love these events. So I do want to look at them as Mark gives the narrative, but then I want to focus, you know, on the meaning. What do they mean? Because nobody understood what this meant as they beheld it. One guy closely got to this ensuring, at least in getting at the identity of Jesus. Though he may have understood he was the Son of God, did he have any idea what the Son of God was doing though? And so I want to make clear to us this morning is, after looking at it, is what was the Son of God doing on the cross? What is the Word of God to each one of us on the cross of Jesus Christ? Let me start by asking a question to you all. Get your memories jogged and mind-thinking and engaged here. Pop quiz: Where do our blessings flow from as Christians? Where do all of our blessings as Christians flow from? Or where does our Christian life come from? What is the source of our Christian life? Where do our blessings flow from as Christians? Where does the our the our Christian life come from? Answer. Well, it's in the passage. It's the cross. I want to make clear, it is the cross of Jesus Christ. We can say God's grace, and that's true, but God's grace is not a vague thing. God's grace has definite form. God's grace is a definite event. And so we want to look at that and see. I'll show you that from Isaiah 53 as we look at it, as you heard it read. You see it there in Philippians 2. All of our blessings as Christians, our Christian life. comes from the death of Jesus, the death of the Son of God on the cross. I want that point to be clear this morning to us How many of you like John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress? I remember reading it as a as a young Christian And my favorite line in all of it, and my favorite encounters very early on in Christian's journey, even before he makes it through the narrow gate to get that burden off his back Already being led astray by Mr. Worldly Wise Man. Oh, you don't need to go that journey, you don't need that way. I can Help you get that burden off. I mean, steer your course over to legality, the town of legality. All you need is just a little bit of law to get yourself better Or if or if or if those gates are closed, near next door to that is his son, Mr. Civility. All you need is a yes, sir, a yes, ma'am. Just You know, dress up your behavior a bit nice and you'll be fine and you'll be accepted before God. If you just get rid of some of those more outward social, civil sins. Just start applying the law of God to your life and you'll be good Christian thought, well, if that keeps me from going on this dangerous journey, okay. Except he turned aside, you remember the book, he saw the fire of Sinai, the impending cliff, and he thought it was gonna fall and crush my head. He didn't know what to do. And at that point, by God's grace, the evangelists came back across his path And he gives them the answer, but first he chides them quite strongly for ever turning out the way of the gospel of Jesus Christ, ever turning aside to that The wrong path to Mr. Legality's town to make yourself right to amend for your sins by your law-keeping, your doings. But then he explains to him why Mr. Megality loved that town. Do you remember what he says Because it saveth him from the cross. Beloved, do you want to be saved by the cross? Or do you want to be saved from the cross? See, many people want to be saved from the cross. They want to give God a little bit of Sabbath observance. Want to give God a little bit of not committing adultery? Want to give God a little bit less stealing from him and we'll give a little more on the offering plate? But what they don't want to do is stand before God and say, I have nothing to give you but sin. You give me. You save me. You give me new life. That's what it is to be saved by the cross. It is to die with Jesus there and to rise again to new life. That's the importance of the message this morning, beloved. I hope and pray none of you want to be saved from the cross. I hope and pray all of you want to be saved by the cross of Jesus Christ. I haven't said a lot to you on the meaning and purpose of Mark and all the reasons it was written. Some of it's because it's kind of vague. But I will say one here. Now, I. Howard Marshall, his commentary, he titled it, The Apology of the Cross. And he sees Mark's gospel, one of the chief things he's doing, because this is really lost on us today. It was really lost on us the idea of telling the world that your Savior was executed as a criminal by the state. You know, imagine if it had happened in the twenty first century and we have gas chambers or something, we'd be saying that guy that was executed on Fox News and CNN of the gas chamber who died last week. He's alive today and he's your savior. We might feel some of that kind of hardness of preaching this wait I just saw him put to death by our country. What do you what do you mean he's he's my God and my Lord and he died for my sins, right? So he saw Marx he's writing here. Giving a defense and answer to the cross of Jesus Christ. That it be not that stumbling block to us, showing us as we've seen long time now, Jesus knew it was coming It must happen. It was God's plan. He was executed, not as a criminal as anything he was, but by envious and cowardly people. But he did it For our salvation, he did it by the will of God, and he did it as the Son of God. And so what we are looking at this morning as we finally get to this necessity: why must Jesus die And it is for man's atonement. The necessity lies in that God would save you. God would give you life. God would bless you rather than curse you. Well that means, because God is a holy and just God and a loving God, that means An atonement. That means a substitutionary atonement. And that's what we're looking at this morning. Let's briefly look at these four scenes and we'll drive home this point. The first scene that Mark presents to us is Jesus being mocked by the soldiers. We see that after he is sentenced to be condemned as uh criminal and crucified. They take him into the governor's headquarters there. They call together the battalion, about six hundred men, unfortunately being a Marine myself and understanding this kind of depravity and things that can happen I can understand all too well the little bit of diversion from serving in an outpost you probably don't want to be in and the monotony of life to mock somebody. And they just have a bit of sport and fun because I'm either going to be going to the gym again for the fifth time today, playing Xbox with Xbox with my buddies or doing something. Oh, this sounds fun. Yeah, what's going on? They clothed him in a purple cloak. This is a mockery. Kings were purple, it's probably a Calvary, a faded Calvary cloak of theirs. Put that crown of thorns on them. Kings were crowns knitted together. And they spit on him. This is probably in mockery of the kiss you would give in greeting to a king, but they spit on him. The beating him in the head with the reed is just brutality, just whacking him in the head And then they give him the address they would give to Caesar, Ave Caesar, Hail Caesar, and they bow down to him in homage as if he was their great king, as if he was a Caesar, as if he was their Lord, and they mock him as a king And then after they mock him, they dress him back up in his clothes and lead him out to crucify him. I'm not gonna say a lot on that other than Jesus submitted himself to that for your salvation, and you could meditate and and think more upon that. So they mock him before they go crucify him. They didn't have to do them, just man's cruelty They mock him, show what they think of his claim to be king, a ruler, a lord, and what they thought of that Second scene Mark gives us here is is Jesus being crucified. We see that he's physically weakened by this point. They press gang. Simon uh of Cyrene, who was coming in, he was coming in from the country after finishing a day's work. Well they're heading out of the city to go outside of it, so they say, Nope, about face, and here take this cross. You are now carrying it for this man, this criminal, we're going to go execute. Now criminals didn't carry the whole cross, that weighed about three hundred pounds, but they carried the cross beam, which is about seventy to ninety pounds. Or if you ever want to pick up two SUV tires, that's about the weight of the cross beam that criminals were required to carry. At this point we see our Lord Jesus was so exhausted he was unable to go further with it. We also see that our Lord Jesus is even reigning and sovereign here in his grace because it Mark apparently Rufus in in Romans sixteen was known to the Roman church. This probably ended up in the conversion of Simon and Cyrene, being press ganged into carrying the cross And look at King Jesus reigning using this event to bring him to the knowledge of the truth. Confess Christ as Lord, His children Apparently were born again baptized members of the church, and apparently the church at Rome that Mark's writing to knew Alexander and Rufus enough that he can just mention them by name. Oh, by the way, it was Simon of Cyrene, Alexander and Rufus' father who did this What a legacy in history to talk about now. Remember being a grandchild, being grandfather telling grandkids. Let me tell you about when I carried King Jesus' cross steal. This gospel's not something that happened in outer space, is it? But right here in history and people's lives. It's one of the things that amazes me. I look at it. All this depravity, wickedness going on, and God is sovereignly working and orchestrating his reign, his kingdom. Nothing's out of control, changing men and women's lives for the better and forever. So he is weakened at this point. He's brought to Golgotha, plays with a skull, because there's a little heel that looked like a skull. That's where it gets its name from. And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he didn't take it. This was a thing that pious Jewish women did coming from Proverbs thirty six to a man condemned to die, give him wine in his you know his end days or whatnot. So this is something they gave to Jewish criminals executed as an act of mercy. It was a strong narcotic. It was anesthesia. He basically would have if you go to the dentist and you get drugged and passed out. passed out, out of his mind, just dying on the cross, a helpless victim. And Jesus says no to that, because he's not defeated, as we're about to see. He's not going to the cross as a helpless victim. He's going there as a willing sacrifice. Imagine though next time you go to the dentist and not asking for the gas, for the pain bed. That's the excruciating pain that Jesus did endure here. How do you preach on this, right? We'll be preaching on this forever. Who can Paul says it takes every church, everybody, not even all the elected have been redeemed yet to contemplate it The breath, height, wealth, death, and love of Jesus Christ. I'm not even going to attempt that's I'm not going to attempt to scratch at it. I'm just going to go on. Because who can plumb the depths of this love? Who can say it all? And we see here that he was executed as a criminal. They crucified him, divided his garments among them that belonged to the soldiers. That's what they get, that was their right as the executioners, whatever articles were left on the criminals that could be there. We know that from Phil, Psalm 22, they were casting lots, deciding what they take. It was a third hour, nine in the morning. We read that Jesus was brought to Pilate very early because he liked to have his leisurely afternoon as Romans and rich people did So we want to get the work done early. They're getting the work done early. It's nine o'clock in the morning and he is now crucified. Uh you either had your hands Tied onto it or nails impaled through it. That was done on the ground. And then you were hoisted up on the vertical erect beam that was already planted in place. Um the way that he had the usually it was no higher than than man's height, so you could walk up and be almost eye to eye, but in Jesus' case having the reed to lift up, he was probably in an elevated way So that much more can see and see this is what happens if you want to say, I'm king of somebody besides Caesar and try to lead a rebellion. And so they're making an example out of his His death. The charge against him when he was king of the Jews, it makes sense. If you're going to be executed, tell everybody why did he get executed? What for what reason? What was the charge? What crime did he commit? Well he said, I'm the king of the Jews And so he was executed as a criminal, someone who had apparently committed high treason. We see there on the cross The next scene Mark tells us he's derided. Those who pass by derided him, wagged their heads, say, You know, this guy said he was going to destroy the temple and build it up, but he can't even save himself The Jews had a maxim, never ask flesh and blood, that's another human being, to save you or to help you unless he first saves himself from death. And then you know you can trust him, right? So they're mocking him He can't even save himself. Why should we trust in him as a savior? He's derided, mocked, he's reviled here as a savior, said, I'm your king. That meant in Israel a savior He's going to defeat your enemies for you. He's going to give you just rule and land. King and Savior, and it comes from the Old Testament. Oh God, give us a king who will save us. King and Savior go hand in hand. And they are mocking him as their savior, because he can't even save himself from this horrible death. Chief priests get their opportunity here to have fun with Jesus. They mock and they say, look, he saved others. Look at all those healings, all those miracles he did. He even raised the dead girl. He brought others back to life. He healed them. And he can't even save himself Let Christ write. They say, okay, let the Christ, you're the Christ, you t you bore witness to us. Let the kid, you said you're our king. Let him come down now. If you do if you come down right now, we'll believe you. You come down right now and let us see this salvation. then we'll believe you. And you and I know the irony and the horribleness of the blindness. If he comes down, you won't be saved. If he gets off the cross, there's no salvation for any one of us. But that's what he endured to save you and I. When's the last time you wanted to do something good for somebody? They just made fun of you for doing it. No idea what you're doing to help And that's what Jesus endured from the world. Here to do you the greatest good possible, to save your soul, so you don't have to pay for your sins in hell forever. And he's mocked for it. Laughed at. Who is this God, right? Who is this God Who can take it all? Who is this long-suffering, patient, forgiving, kind, good, merciful, loving, wonderful God? He's the only true and living God You see that also those who next to him were crucified also reviled him. Uh I forget which gospel tells us at some point one of them came to their senses, probably in seeing the way in which Jesus suffered and died and took all this suffering. Holy Spirit used it and he confessed faith in Jesus, and you will be together with me in paradise tonight. But he started reviling him. Third scene that we see here in the crucifixion of Jesus is now his his death. It's the sixth hour. It's been three hours later. Darkness now comes over the whole land. This is signifying the curse of God against Jesus. Amos talks about when God brings judgment or curse, darkening of the sun, the final curse or before the Um Angel of Death went through Israel or Egypt was the darkening of the land. Is there darkening of the land before this Passover is sacrificed. So this is darkness pictures, the curse of God against Jesus helping to explain to us his death. He's dying here accursed. At the ninth hour, so three hours of suffering the curse and wrath of God against our sins on the cross, or six hours of doing that, or in the third hour for three hours of that, he then cries out on the cross with a loud voice, right? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Appreciate the strong way John Murray writes about this. We must stay here, because the Bible tells us this is God and our nature being forsaken by God. Know the way to soften it? You might not understand that. How can God ever live together, though distinct, three separate persons, one God? How could they ever be separate? How could one ever say I I can't explain the mystery to you? I can only tell you, God in our nature, because he took our sins upon him, was forsaken of God Of course, why? So that you and I will not be forsaken of God. But be brought in the nearest relationship you could possibly be to Him, made one and united with Him, here on the cross for our sins, forsaken of God. He was also mistaken in his death. These bystanders, this is a bit of Jewish folklore. They thought Elijah was basically the patron saint of sufferers. But it's oh he's not crying out to God, he's crying out to Elijah. We're gonna get to see a bit of sport here. We're gonna get to see Elijah come and rescue him. Totally mistaken in his death. He's forsaken of God, but notice what he still says, my God. My God. Jesus' trust is still in God. He's not asking Elijah to save him. My God. My God. He's mistaken in his death by these Jews who knew folklore better than their Bibles, didn't understand the writings of the Messiah. Jesus then uttered, or after that point, to keep him alive, they go offer him some of the soldiers' drink of sour wine. That wasn't a bad drink, it was part of the rations drink. Apparently, it hydrates you better than just pure water So trying to hydrate him, give him breath, see if he'll keep calling out Elijah and see if mayji maybe Elijah will come. That's not what happens. You know, Jesus as a sacrifice lays down his life. It says that he he utters a loud cry, he breathes his last, and the curtain of the temple was torn into from top to bottom. That veil which separated the holy place from the holiest of holies, which nobody can enter but one has now been torn in two, so that all can enter And that God's glory may burst out upon us and we can come into His presence. So here, this was a sacrifice that made the way available to all nations and all people to come into God's presence. And it's this death. It's this manner of death. Jesus dies there as the Son of God, and this centurion gets it. The centurion who had seen the beginnings of his crucifixion when he was handed over this band, watched him mocked, watched him crucified, watched him there for six hours, and now sees him in a Loud cry. Where does his strength come from to muster up the energy to shout a loud cry? And then he breathes his last. Now what does that mean? What does that mean that he summons up this strength? Because he's almost saying, if I've got all this strength to shout in the loud voice, I'm nowhere near death, because death on the cross was essentially death by exhaustion You just die by wearing out weaker, weaker, weaker, weaker, and weaker, till you just have no strength and you die. That's not how he died. He died looking like he had there's a massive reservoir of strength in him, enough to shout out loud, and then he gives up his life. The centurion seeds. Have you ever thought about that? We are considered the man on how Jesus died shows he's son of God He wasn't a helpless victim dying of exhaustion caught up in something outside of his control. But he died as a sacrifice. He laid his life down. He had suffered, endured there the exact appointed time God had given to him to endure his wrath, his hell upon sins on the cross. And then in signal showing to the world that he was dying for them and as an offering and sacrifice as the Son of God. Musters up this strength, shouts in a loud voice, and lays down his life. Now, whether this man meant and knew he is the true God or whether he meant he's kind of like Hercules or one of our heroes, son of God. That's not the important point. The important point is understanding he knew that this man was submitting to this humiliation and to this death. Because he was serving a higher power and higher authority. That's what his cry means. There's something more going on here than just some guy getting executed, and he can't do anything about it. And that led him to say, I he's probably seen other men executed. He's watching two more doing it. He knows what it looks like to die on a cross by just exhaustion. And that's not what happened. And he saw it with his own eyes and he's, What is this? He it truly was the Son of God If you do take it to mean that he God shined light in his heart, that creative work, and he saw the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Appreciate one preacher's comments on this then and we understand why it is that we worship the God of grace, because this man led the death squad against Jesus and God saved his life. That's the gospel, isn't it? It's the grace of God. I'm going to make that point very clear today. That's the death of Jesus. We also see that Jesus' death was witnessed by all these women. His disciples had fled, but his women followers who supported him in his life were there to see it at the end and watched him die. Let's go on to Jesus' burial real quick. What does this mean? Because this is important to make Mark's point. It was a day of preparation, getting ready for the Sabbath. Joseph, Arimathea, a respected member of his council, buries Jesus. See that Jesus is buried by the courage of a former secret disciple We learn in uh John's Gospel that that Joseph was a disciple, but he kept his secret because he was in fear of the Jews. We learn from Luke's gospel that Joseph was a member of the Sanhedrin, but he did not consent to what they did. Well now he sees this. And now he no longer stops being a secret disciple of Jesus and becomes an open follower of Jesus because it's no small thing to go to Pilate, so he says he summons up the courage. He says, You who you just execute as a high criminal, I want his body. I'm told normally when Jews were executed if they wanted to come ask for the body, usually that was respected, but it was never respected if he was executed as high treason. It required a special dispensation. So to go and say, give me this great criminal, this high treason, his body, was a sort of come out of the closet, wasn't it? Stop being secret and to side with Jesus Christ because all the Sanhedrin was happy, they'd be happy to see his body to rot on the side of the hill. They don't want to see him get burial rights like a pious dead person. They learned, Joseph, you did what? You did what? You buried him like he was a pious Israelite? You can imagine already why you've got to follow Jesus. You've got to follow him openly. You can't follow him secretly. And Joseph comes here at this point, stops becoming a secret follower. Well, Pilate is surprised at this. He knows people don't normally die in six hours on the cross. He asks, was he already dead? He finds out he's already dead. He gives him the corpse. And Jesus is brought down from the cross. Joseph goes, buys linen, washes his body, wraps him Puts him in a tube. Probably a couple hundred years ago this was a cave excavated and now people built tombs. There's a little two foot high hole you would crawl through. This wasn't a giant rock But it was only about a two foot high. That's what it says. I forget which gospel. They stooped down and entered into the tomb, and they would roll a rock in place and spill it off to keep critters out of it and grave robbers. And we see that Jesus' burial was witnessed by the two Marys. This man truly was the Son of God. This man, Jesus, who died on the cross in this way, in this manner, buried in this manner, truly was the Son of God. What does this mean? What does the death of Jesus mean? I was debating on how to preach this sermon because there's so much there. You want to see it together. Pilate understood Pilate would never have given Jesus' body to Joseph of Arimathea if he thought that he was It's really an omission by Pilate to give his body, yeah. We just got rid of him. And he's not really this great criminal. But it doesn't change Pilate's heart, does it? Since Charion has heart changed, we saw Jesus die. Joseph of Arimacea came an open follower of Pilate. Not a heart change. What does this mean, beloved? One principle, one thing I want to say, I hope this is a word you know, a phrase you know, substitutionary atonement or vicarious satisfaction. What we see clearly here in the death of Jesus Christ, you saw it was an accursed manner, forsaken of God for our sins. God does and he will punish sin and sinners. Never be mistaken. God does and God will punish sin and punish sinners. He punished Jesus Christ for your sins. Everybody who believes in Jesus Christ, God punished Him for your sins and your place. That's the vicarious nature. What does that word vicarious mean? It means done for you and in your place. For you and in your place, Jesus bore the punishment for your sins. God will punish sin, and he will punish sinners. To say otherwise is to deny the whole meaning of the cross and to have no gospel to share and preach to anybody. But it also means vicarious satisfaction and substitutionary atonement that God does and will forgive sinners who are covered by Jesus' blood Just as much as God does and will punish sin and sinners, God does and will forgive sinners who trust in Jesus Christ, who believe the gospel, who are covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. Vicarious satisfaction means this. It means that Jesus took the punishment for my sins and he buried them away. The old has passed. And we're waiting three days here for the new, the resurrection. Jesus comes out, a justified, righteous man and a new body never to return to corruption. that new creation which he has pleased to bestow upon us in his heavenly exalted reign. But that's what this means. That is what vicarious satisfaction means. It means Jesus took the punishment for my sins And Jesus buried them away in the grave. Father, this is God's redeeming and God's forgiving thought. What you are seeing at the cross is God's redeeming love and God's forgiving love. 1 John 4, right? We've seen God's love. He gave us his Son that we might have life through Him He didn't give it as a gift because we so deserved it. He said, no, no, no. But it's not that we loved him. No, he gave Jesus to be the propitiation for our sin. You see, God's love is a concrete thing. He has shown it to you in a concrete way. He says at the cross, I forgive you. He says that the cross be reconciled to me. This is God's forgiving and redeeming love. 2 Corinthians 5 talks about that. What was God doing in the cross? What were they going and telling the world about what their God who nobody's paying attention to doing? God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their transgressions against them. That's God's message of reconciliation. I've counted them against my son Jesus. I made him sin. That's a substitutionary atonement. I counted your trespasses against him, so that I won't count them against you. and not treat you as your sins deserve, but give you blessing upon blessing upon blessing. So the cross is the statement, and it must be preached and shared as the statement of God's redeeming and forgiving love. But secondly, this vicarious satisfaction, the substitutionary atonement Jesus taking my punish, my place, bearing it away. Not only is the message of God's redeeming love. If you struggle with that question, the God's love me, you need to believe the gospel. You don't find it, but look and believe the gospel You just believe it. He says it at the cross. Don't look in you, don't look around you, don't look to some higher decree behind it. I'm not saying it's not there, I'm saying look and believe the message at the cross. That's where you know and ask says God love me. Jesus died for my sins. God wanted him to do it. Jesus wanted to do it. Yes, he does. You need to believe it Secondly, though, this also means that this is the only reason why you and I and anybody who's been redeemed by this blood knows a life other than a life of sin. This substitutionary atonement This idea that Jesus paid for my sins and buried them away is the only reason you and I and anybody else who trust in Jesus knows a life other than that of sin, and namely that life of being loved by Jesus, that life of loving and living for the exalted Savior. We saw that in Isaiah 53 For your sufferings, you will have a spiritual seed, he says, right? It's because of Jesus' sufferings that a spiritual children is given to him. Or a regenerate race or a new humanity. It is because he bore our transgressions, our iniquities, that we have peace, and not the wrath of God, but peace and life of God, that we have health Peter quotes that and says, How do you know a person has health? Well he's no longer an erring sheep, but he follows Jesus. You have returned to the shepherd and bishop of your souls. If you have returned to the shepherd and bishop of your souls, praise God, that's a healthy soul. But if you haven't returned to Jesus, you're just an erring sheep. And you need to come to Jesus. Not only is this substitutionary atonement the message of God's redeeming love It is the soul, soul, only reason any sinner knows anything other than a life of sin. And knows the new life of the living for and being loved by and loving the exalted Savior Jesus Christ. Did you see that in Philippians 2? There was that great therefore he offered that obedience. Jesus' whole life was a life of obedience, from his birth to his death The culminating act of his obedience was offering his obedience on the cross and dying for our sins. Therefore, because of his righteousness, because of his obedience He has been exalted. His exaltation was meritorious. There was no getting out of this for Jesus once he was born of the woman made under the law, but to make that satisfaction This is the only way he returned to the Father and returned to glory in heaven as because of the merits of his righteous, obedient life. And there from heaven, as our exalted mediator, showering upon us forgiveness of sins, repentance, the Holy Spirit, that we would know a life other than a life of sin. So how should you respond to this? Well, as I said, God says to you through the cross of Jesus, I want a new life with you. Don't we say that when we come and make peace and reconcile ourselves to others? Aren't we saying, I want to start over? I want to put the past in the past. I want to go forward. But if you are hearing any other message of the cross of Jesus other than your God says, I want a new life with you, you're not hearing the gospel. He's taking care of the old life. He doesn't say to you, you make amends, you deal for your sins, you fix up your past life. He says, No, I've done that. In Jesus Christ. What you need to do now is be reconciled to me. That means put on Christ. That means start calling me daddy. That means start praying for your daily needs. That means start asking for my spirit so you can lead a holy life That's the message of the cross. That's what it means to be reconciled to God. I want to have a new life with you. It also means This is something I was brought to my knees in tears this week seeing. It means the Lord when Jesus laid down his life, he wanted to do it. Do you get that? He wanted to do this. Not only that, the Father wanted him to do it And the Father gave him the eternal Holy Spirit so he would do it. He offered himself to God through the eternal Holy Spirit. Let me tell you what brought me to that understanding. I was watching a program with my wife this week I can tell you the program. Yes, Pastor Young watches television. Minimally. But he was dealing with uh cold case files and This they found these bones of this person, they started uncovering the life history of this person. He was a gay man involved in that and was killed by a straight man, well, another gay man's wife. How it all worked out You're usually so reviled by homosexuality, but I have this in my mind. You know Jesus wanted to die for homosexuals too. You know, he wanted to suffer the punishment that homosexuality deserves. I was brought to this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Paul writes to the Corinthians, But ye were washed. But you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of God. Where did that happen? On the cross. By the gift of the Spirit. Washed from what? Jesus says, such were some of you, Paul says, What were you washed from? You know Jesus wanted to suffer the punish of the sexually immoral Jesus wanted to suffer for people that look at pornography, people that sell their bodies as prostitutes, people that engage in other illicit sex acts and traffic it. Do you know that Jesus wanted to die and pay the punishment for idolaters? People that bow down and worship carved images, bow down and worship their checkbooks, bow down and worship their careers, their friends, their relations, their own selves. Jesus wanted to suffer the punishment for that and the Father wanted him to suffer it. Adulterers. People that have sexual relationships outside the marriage union, before marriage or in the marriage union. Jesus wanted to suffer the punishment for them. He says, This is what you were. You were men who practice homosexuality. You were women who practice homosexuality Well, the only reasons I tried to make clear you aren't that anymore is because Jesus paid the sins for it and buried that life away. But it means you were that and he wanted to suffer the punishment for people that practice homosexuality. Thieves. We think of big bank robbers. How many people don't pay their tithes and offerings? How many people don't care for their neighbors because they're lazy and won't go work and steal from them? Theft is more than just robbing a bank. He wanted to die and suffer for thieves, people who steal. Greedy people that are never satisfied, never can have enough. More, more, more, more, more So God gives them everything. Gives them breath every day. No, I need more, it's not enough. Gives them life every day. No, it's more, I don't have enough. Gives them Himself. No, it's not enough. He wanted to die for them, suffer their punishment. Drunkards. People got a wreck their whole families and lives and society for a bottle, to drown their own sorrows in, won't deal, won't go to God and deal with them, just want to have fun Whatever the reason is, he wanted to die for drunkards. He wanted to pay the penalty for drunkards. Revilers. They would just say nasty and mean things to others I'm trying to make the point, beloved, because I think what happens is Christians who get on the other side by God's grace and yay, thank the Lord we are holy and we practice holy lives, but let's not become Pharisees and forget what we were Forget on what ground we stand before God. Forget what He did for us and forget that Jesus wants to pay for all these people who live around for us. He wanted to suffer their punishment too, and you have good news to go tell them about it I'm speaking in my own heart. I'm the biggest Pharisee here. Swindlers. We think of people that run big schemes to get You know, widows, checkbooks from them and whatever. You know who some of the biggest swindlers are? Children. You ever seen an older child swindle a toy from a younger child? Our children, Jesus wanted to pay this penalty for those sins too. Here I'll give a word to the children too. I just gave one, but Children, have you ever done that sin of getting caught sticking your hand in the cookie jar? You know, I used to not like those words from the hymn I crucified and I thought I didn't do that. And I came around and realized, yeah, I did do that. All of us have our hand in the cookie jar. What do we do? That same act that we have our hand in the cookie jar God pardons us right there by the blood of Jesus Christ, crucifying his son. That's our own that's our salvation. But we didn't do it because we thought we'd bring salvation by it. We did it to get rid of him God forgives us. It's amazing, isn't it? The last time you saw it, Jesus wanted to do that. Jesus wanted to bear that punishment. The last time you thought the Father wanted Jesus to do it. The last time you thought that. That is what vicarious atonement means. That is what the gospel means. I want a new life with you. Be reconciled to me. Not by fixing your life up, by acknowledging I'm a sinner And I can't. I can't stop sinning. Help me. I want to help me. And put on Jesus Christ. Loved you should all go away today thinking the only reason I know a new and different life, namely a holy life Is because of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we saw again his sacrifice today. That's how you should think as a Christian. The only reason I know a different life other than a life of sin, a holy life Is because of what Jesus did for you. Live in that grace. So, beloved, at the name of Jesus, the next time you hear the name of Jesus, yes, bow down and worship him But worship him in the knowledge that he wanted to do it. And he did it. And praise him and serve him and go from here today living like you're forgiven and living like he is king. This has been my favorite sermon to preach here. Because it's the gospel. It's the grace of God. Oh, may you all praise them, praise them, praise. Amen.