Good evening. Our text tonight is Psalm 56. Hear now God's word from Psalm 56. To the choir master, according to the dove on far off teravents, a mikam of David, when the Philistines seized him in Goth. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me. All day long, an attacker oppresses me. My enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God whose word I praise, in God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me All day long they injure my cause, all their thoughts are against me for evil. They stir up strife, they lurk, they watch my steps, as they have waited for my life. For their crime will they escape? In wrath, cast down the peoples, O God. You have kept count of my tossings Put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me. In God whose word I praise, in the Lord whose word I praise, in God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? I must perform my vows to you, O God. I will render thank offerings to you, for you have delivered my soul from death. Yes, my feet from falling. That I may walk before God in the light of life. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Let's pray for a moment. Lord, we pray that you would be with us this evening, that you would open these scriptures to us, that you would open our eyes, illuminar hearts and our minds to the truth of your words. And may the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable to you, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Amen. Okay, keep your Bibles open to Psalm 56. We're going to make a lot of reference back to it, so it'll be helpful to have that open. The Psalm is Hebrew poetry. Well, Hebrew poetry is made up of strophs, S-T-R-O-P-H-E-S, strophs, composed of two or more lines repeated as a unit. And the editors of the ESV have provided us with a very identifiable means of visually seeing the poetic form of the Psalms through indentations and line groupings. And as a result, we can quickly see that Psalm 56 is made up of four strokes. And you look at them, you see like paragraph sections, four strokes. Consisting of verses one through four, five through seven, eight through eleven, and twelve and thirteen. The first two strophes are closely aligned, with the third strophe acting as a transition, including with the fourth strophe as the psalmist's response to God. And the most distinct features of Hebrew poetry are parallelism and imagery, which we'll see are very prominent in this psalm. And as we move through the Psalm, look for the parallelism in the lines with their repetition, and beyond that, the parallelism between the strophes. So we start with the title of the Psalm to the Choirmaster, according to the dove on far-off terabids, a mikam of David, when the Philistines seized. Him in Goth. In Hebrew, the lines of the poem were metrical or composed so that they could be chanted or sung in rhythm with a pulse or a meter. Now the title tells us that the verses of the psalm are the lyrics to be sung to the tune, The Dove on Far Off Terabins. You all know that one, right? It's an old favorite. Of course, the pulse or meter of the original lyric is lost in translation, but it is that inherent quality that enables us to form lyrical psalms that we can sing in English. That we have in our Trinity Psalter hymnal, which we'll do in a few minutes when we sing Psalm 56. A mikam. This title is used six times in the Psalms. The first is with Psalm 16. The rest are sequential, beginning with this Psalm 56, going through Psalm 60. Strong's concordance defines a mikcom as a poem, with a root word katham meaning to carve or engrave, to inscribe indelibly So from that we can deduce that a mikam or the that the Miktam Psalms were likely etched in stone to add emphasis to their importance by giving them a sense of permanence. David was a musician. And we know that with certainty from the account in 1 Samuel 18, verse 10, which says that David was playing the lyre as he did day by day. David was also a lyricist. Seventy-three of the 150 Psalms were written by David or attributed to him. His poetry in the Psalms often reflects back on major events in his life, and Psalm 56 is a wonderful example of this. So, a short reflection of the events of David's life in 1 Samuel chapters 18 through 21 is helpful to frame the context of this psalm. The title also tells us that he was recalling the events when the Philistines seized him in Goth, which we find in 1 Samuel 21, verses 10-15. And if you want to take a minute, flip over to 1 Samuel chapter 21. We're going to read that section here in just a moment. Now this event was the culmination of being presented. Pursued by Saul, who had been trying to kill David from the time when David returned from striking down Goliath, and the women came out of all of the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet King Saul. And the women sang to one another as they celebrated, Saul has struck down his thousands, David his ten thousands, and Saul eyed David from that day on. That's 1 Samuel 18, verses 6, 7, and 9. 9. Saul made David his son-in-law in order that his daughter Mikal might be a snare for him, and that the hand of the Philistines might be against him. That's 1 Samuel 1820. Continuing down to 1 Samuel 18, 28-30, but when Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David, and that Mikhail's son's daughter Saul's daughter loved him. Saul was even more afraid of David, so Saul was David's enemy continually. Then the commanders of the Philistines came out to battle, as they often came out. David had more success than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed. 1 Samuel 19 and 20 is all about how Saul continued in his efforts to have David killed by sending him into battle against the Philistines and repeatedly attempting to personally kill David with his spear. The priest gave David some of the holy bread, also known as the bread of the presence, and the sword of Goliath, the Philistine. And from there David fled from Saul and went to Goth. And we pick up his story here now in 1 Samuel 21, verse 10. And David rose and fled that day from Saul, and went to Akish, the king of Goth. And the servants of Akish said to him, Is not this David, the king of the land? Did they not sing to one another of him in dances? Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands. And David took these words to heart and was much afraid of Akish, the king of Goth. So he changed his behavior before them, and pretended to be insane in their hands, and made marks on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle run down his beard. Then Akesh said to his servants, Behold, you see that the man is mad. Why then have you brought him to me? Do I lack madmen that you have brought this fellow to behave as a madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come into my house? And David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullaham. So this is the event that forms the pretext that inspired David when he wrote this Miktam. And what did David conclude from this event? The Psalm tells us to trust in God. So, the next section, David the Hunted. So now that we have the context, we can better understand what David is referencing as we read through Psalm 56. So let's go back to the Psalm. Stay there. From here on. Verses 1 through 2 and 5 and 6 describe how David had been hunted. Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me. All day long an attacker oppresses me. My enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly. All day long they injure my cause, and all their thoughts are against me for evil. They stir up strife, they lurk, they watch my steps as they have waited for my life. We see the parallelism in these lines and the parallelism between the two strokes. Now typically poetry lends itself to a bit of hyperbole or exaggeration. However, David wrote these words as poetry from a first-hand historical account of his life. And as such, they're noticeably absent of exaggeration. Surely his father-in-law, King Saul, had trampled on him and attacked him with pride. All of the king's thoughts against him were for evil. As it documented in 1 Samuel 18, verse 29, after David returned from killing 200 Philistines as a bride price. Saul was even more afraid of David, so Saul was David's enemy continually. In 1 Samuel 19:11, we read: Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him. That he might kill him in the morning. But Michal, David's wife, told him: if you do not escape with your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed. Saul stirred up strife. He sent messengers to David's house to spy on him. They lurked to watch his steps and to wait for his life And in his attempt to escape, David ended up in the presence of the king of Goth. Goth was one of the five principal cities of the Philistines, along with Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gaza, and Ekron. In Joshua 1122, we learn that Joshua destroyed the Anakim from their cities, leaving some remaining only in Gaza, Goth, and Ashton. Remember the Anakim from Genesis were giants. They were huge, huge men. Goliath the Philistine was from Goth, a giant standing six cubits in a span. Cubit is from the tip of your finger to your elbow, about eighteen inches. Six cubits in the span would be about nine and a half feet tall. That's a big boy. And he was likely a descendant of an of the Enachim in Joshua's day. Akish was the king of the Philistines, whom David had been warring with and defeating in battle. David was going from one really bad place into another. If anyone would benefit from publicly humiliating and executing him, it would be be Akish, the king of Goth of the Philistines. Of course David was much afraid. And he had a right to be. David's quick thinking and his acting out as a madman facilitated his release and his eventual escape from King Akish, but David doesn't attribute his escape to his own cleverness Rather, he attributes his safety to the divine intervention of his most holy God in verses 3 and 4 and verse 7. When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God whose word I praise. In God I trust. I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me? For their crime will they escape, and wrath cast down the peoples, O God. David learned, through his life experience, to trust God as his Savior The one who not only rescued and delivered him, but the one who will ultimately hold his enemies accountable for their crimes. In verse 7, David leaves room for God's wrath, understanding that vengeance belongs to God, not men, as given in the books of the law in Deuteronomy 32, 35, where God says, Vengeance is mine. And recompense for the time when their foot shall slip, for the day of c their calamity is at hand, and their doom comes swiftly. We shift, and we also see in this psalm a beautiful picture of God's sovereignty over his creation. In the following these two strophes, David moves into a beautiful transition strophe full of imagery and parallelism, declaring the sovereignty of God in verses 8 through 11. You have kept count of my tossings. Put my tears in your bottle. Put my tears in your Are they not in your book? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me. In God whose word I praise. In the Lord whose word I praise. And then he repeats again: In God I trust. I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? Verse 8 in particular describes how a sovereign God watches over all of his creation. Each and every one of us. And he knows us completely. Listen to this theme and echoed in Psalm 139, verse 16. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me when as yet there was none of them. Indeed, he who keeps count of your tossings in your slumber keeps your tears in his bottle. And has ordained each of them to be in his book is the same Father in heaven who counts the hairs on your head. When he was sending out his twelve apostles, Jesus reassured and emboldened them in Matthew chapter 10, 28-31. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. Back to our Psalm, verses 10 and 11, parallel verse 4. Landing on the main theme of the Psalm, In God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? David had learned to trust God, that God had a greater purpose for his life. And because of God's sovereign purpose and will, man could not do anything to him that would subvert God's will. that God's will is irresistible and will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So what does David respond to all of this? What is his response? His response is the only natural response that he could have: worship. From his reflections on these events in his life and how God sovereignly intervened in the affairs of men to affect his perfect and holy will on earth. David responds with the only natural conclusion to worship God with thanksgiving for his hand of protection over his life. In the fourth and the final stroke, David writes in verses twelve to thirteen: I must perform my vows to you, O God. I will render thank offerings to you. For you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life. Note that the final words of the psalm reveal the purpose for this hedge of protection: to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your brother. God. That's from Micah 6. 8. So what then, dear brothers and sisters, are we to do with this? Thankfully, as Christians in America today, we are relatively free from persecution. We are blessed and spoiled beyond measure that we are able to join together in the public worship of our triune God without having to fear. Being arrested. Now, save those of us who have been in the military during wartime, not many, if any of you, or any of us, have ever been hunted or pursued by anyone intent on killing us. Especially on account of our faith. Well, this was not the case for the early Christians who faced intense persecution. during the Diocletian persecution in A. D. 303-311, which was the worst period of Christian martyrdom in the history of the church And the persecution of Christians continues today in China, North Korea, Egypt, Eritrea, and other parts of our world Where God's elect are being arrested for attending Christian worship services, suffering in re-education camps, enduring torture and false arrest. We should not be surprised about this, nor overly anxious about it. Quite the opposite, Jesus and his apostles told us to expect it. Consider these passages. Matthew 5, 10 through 12. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. John chapter 15, 18 to 20. If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. 1 John 3 verse 13. Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you. 1 Peter 3 verses 13-17. Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you. you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience. So that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. Our response should be to pray earnestly for those who are being persecuted in our day. That God would enable them to stand strong in their faith in the face of As the Apostle Paul wrote in his letter to the Church in Rome, the Word of God strengthens our faith, assuring us that He is sovereign over all of His creation. And that for those who are in Christ Jesus, there is nothing to fear and everything to hope for. Romans 8, 31 through 39. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine? Or nakedness, or danger, or sword. As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height Nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. There it is. The Apostle Paul perfectly captured in his letter to the Romans the answer to David's question in Psalm 56. In God I trust I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? The answer: Nothing. Nothing in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing. He is sovereign. He is omnipotent. He is omnipresent. He is immutable, unchanging, and his love endures forever. You are safe in his arms Let us learn from David, as did his son Solomon, when he wrote in Proverbs chapter 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him. And he will make straight your paths. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding. God's ways were above our ways. We don't understand what's happening in our world, but we can have confidence and trust that God who created us is in control of his creation In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Put your trust to Christian in God. Amen.