Please turn to Genesis sixteen. We'll read the first sixteen verses. Genesis sixteen. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said to Abram, Behold now, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Go into my servant. It may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai. So after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant. And gave her to Abram her husband as a wife. And he went into Hagar and she conceived And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress. And Sarai said to Abram, May the wrong done to me be on you. I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the Lord judge between you and me. But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your servant is in your power. Do to her as you please. Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her. The angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur. And he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going? She said, I am fleeing from my mistress Sarai The angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit to her. The angel of the Lord also said to her, I will surely multiply your offspring so that they cannot be numbered for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has listened to your affliction. He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone. And everyone's hand against him. And he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen. So she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are a God of seeing. For she said, Truly, here I have seen him who looks after me. Therefore, the well was called Bier La Hor Lah Roy. It lies between Kadesh and Bered. And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore Ishmael. Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Reading now of Galatians, Galatians chapter four. Continue. At verse 21. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother, for it is written, Rejoice, O baron. O barren one who does not bear, break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit. So also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, now again, as we approach this text of your word, this letter written by the apostle to the disturbed, troubled. Misled Galatians. Help us to understand what his message was, what your message was, and apply it to our own personal situations. Amen. I want to begin today with the thesis of Paul's writing in this section. Sometimes it helps to have the thesis out clear and then go back and revisit the things that led to that thesis. So the thesis is this. But here in this passage, using major events in the Old Testament, Paul shows that the systems of grace and law cannot exist together as principles. I'll say it again. The systems of grace and law cannot exist together as principles in your life. First, Paul appeals to the law to instruct those who claim to want to live under the law. He says, Tell me, you who desire to be under the law. We'll stop there for a moment. Now Paul writes directly, both to those who promoted legalism and to those who were succumbing to legalism. He writes to those who desire to be under the law, living under the law, keeping the law as a basis for their relationship with God. And oh, by the way, the term law sometimes is referred to broadly as the whole of Old Testament scripture. The whole of Old Testament was considered law in a certain sense. He's using this narrative here to prove a point that they were making about the ceremonial law, but he calls this narrative law also. Sometimes it refers to the Ten Commandments specifically, and sometimes it refers to the various ceremonial regulations about food and sacrifices and garments. And ceremonial impurity. Here, Paul is trying to steer the Galatians away from attempting to keep the law by observing ceremonial regulations. He is presently using then the Old Testament story of Abraham's two sons and their two mothers to emphasize that God Has always been the God of grace through the promise he made to save the world by his own decisive efforts and not by human efforts. So who would ever desire to be under the law in the first place? Let's just ask that question. Many people so desire There are many advantages to being under the law as your principle of relating to God. First You always have the outward certainty of a list of rules to keep. You check the boxes and then you congratulate yourself. It's easy. Just do all these things, and there you go. Second, once you've done that, you can compliment yourself, pat yourself on the back, because you keep the rules. At least better than other people do, right? And finally, you can take credit for your own salvation. Because you earned it by keeping the list of rules. Under the law is what you do for God that makes you right before Him. Under the grace of God is what God has done for you in Jesus Christ that makes you right before Him. Under the law, the focus is your performance. Under the grace of God, the focus is on who Jesus is and what He has done. Under the law, you, like Adam and Eve in the garden, find fig leaves to cover your nakedness. Under the grace of God, you receive the covering provided by God through the shedding of animal blood. Remember that that first shedding of animal victim blood in the garden looks forward to the righteousness provided by the sacrifice of Christ on the cross whose blood was shed. Spurgeon says The law is under the Christian. It is for him to walk on, to be his guide, his rule, his pattern. Law is the road which guides us, not the rod which drives us, nor the spirit which actuates us. Calvin says, to be under the law here signifies to come under the yoke of the law, with the condition that God will deal with you according to the covenant of the law, and that you in return will bind yourself to keep The law. He says to these Galatians, Do you who want to live under the law, do you not listen to the law? All senses that he hasn't yet convinced his readers. So he now approached the matter with another illustration from the Old Testament. Essentially, Paul says, hey everybody, get out your Bible. Let's have a Bible study. I want to teach you a few things since you want to live under the law. Open your Bibles to Genesis chapter 16, he says. Paul assumed that his readers knew the Bible, so he turned to this story of Abraham and Hagar and Sarah in Genesis 16 to illustrate. It is important, you see, that Paul refers back to the scriptures again and again because the legalists among the Galatians presented themselves as the holier-than-thou Bible bunch. And so Paul shows them that they are not handling the Old Testament scriptures correctly. And he shows them that a true understanding of the Scriptures will support the true gospel that he preaches. So the first point, Paul shows how the Old Testament drew the contrast between the two sons of Abraham. The sons Isaac and Ishmael. Verse 22. He says, For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. Just remember, back in Genesis 15, God had said, look at the stars of the sky, consider the sands of the seashore, you will have that many children. And he believed him. But now he doesn't believe him so much. And he's going to try to get that child another way. These legalists who were leading the Galatians into error protested that they were sons of Abraham and therefore blessed. Paul admits, yes, you're sons of Abraham, but reminds them that Abraham had two sons, one by a bondwoman and the other by a free woman Abraham's first son was named Ishmael. He was born not from his wife, but from his wife's servant, the bondwoman. From a misguided surrogate mother scheme to help God out, when Abram's wife Sarah couldn't become pregnant. You see, this was the flesh in action. Trying to make salvation by human effort. Let's look at his points. The first point is a contrast. Paul draws a contrast between real Christianity and legalism and shows that they represent freedom and slavery. One son of Abraham was born by a free woman. One was born by a bondwoman. Paul asked the Galatians to consider which son of Abraham illustrates their life with God. In the story, Ishmael was born according to the flesh. Ishmael was Abraham's son, yes, but he was the son born of human effort and unbelief. Unbelief in the promise, trying to make your own way before God. Comment. One commentator says it often doesn't look like it, but legalism is living according to the flesh. It denies God's promise in practice and tries to make a way to God through the law. This is living like a descendant of Abraham, but is living like Ishmael. Not Isaac. Isaac is of the free woman through promise. Abraham's second son was named Isaac He was born how? He was born miraculously through Abraham's wife Sarah, the free woman. Isaac was Abraham's son, but he was the son of God's promise and of faith, and by a miracle for Abraham. Not by Abraham's scheming. I ask you, is your relationship with God based on your own works? For the work of God's promised miracle. Do you deeply believe that you have contributed nothing but pervasive depravity and rebellion And do you understand that it is a gift, not a paycheck? A gift, not a paycheck. Secondly, he illustrated the principle using the two figures of two mountains, Mount Sinai and Mount Zion. You have to kind of keep all these figures straight in your mind. Verse 24, he says, now this may be interpreted allegorically. These two women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, then he quotes Isaiah, Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear, break forth and cry aloud. you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now I pause to say this. He says this may inter be interpreted allegorically. Don't try this yourself. Paul was clearly guided by the Holy Spirit here. You remember he had received direct revelation. But for us, we must remember and be careful about reading allegorical and symbolic things into the scriptures. Calvin warns us. He says scripture, he says, they say, is fertile and thus bears multiple meanings. He says, I acknowledge that Scripture is the most rich and inexhaustible found of all wisdom, but I deny that its fertility consists in the various meanings which anyone may fasten to it at his pleasure. Let us know then that the true meaning of Scripture is the natural and simple one, and let us embrace and hold it resolutely. That is the right principle of interpreting the Scriptures. So Paul can do this under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit through direct revelation that we cannot do today. Please don't try allegorizing. Some of the early church people were trying to allegorize everything in the old Testament to a terrible way. But let's go on. Paul says, these women are two covenants. In the Bible, a covenant is a contract that sets rules for our relationship with God. Paul brings it right down to the issues confronting the Galatian Christians. The legalists wanted to relate to God under one set of principles, and Paul wanted them to relate to God under the principles presented by the gospel. Guzik, by the way, says you need to understand the extreme relevance of all this. Many people look at these issues Paul was so passionate about here, and they just yawn. They say, Paul, you are dealing with theological speculation. I've got real problems. My marriage is in trouble. I can't pay my bills. I've got a lot of personal problems You would do me a lot more good by teaching me about those things and going on and on with your theology of theology about being right with God. But Paul would respond, the most important thing in your life is being right with God. If that isn't right, nothing else really matters. If that is right, God will bless you and teach you about your marriage, your money, your personal problems. Regarding the solutions of our day-to-day problems, Jesus said: Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you. Going back on to the passage again, he says about these two competing principles. One is from Mount Sinai. That's the mountain where the law of God was given in Exodus 19 and 20. He says, that one bears children for slavery. On this principle, it's all about you and what you must do before God to be accepted by Him, and it doesn't set you free. It puts you on a perpetual treadmill of having to prove yourself and earn your way before God This covenant he associates with Hagar, the surrogate mother who gave birth to Ishmael. is therefore, if used wrongly, a covenant according to the flesh. He says, She Corresponds to the present Jerusalem, that is Hagar, corresponds to the present Jerusalem of Paul's day, for she is in slavery with her children. That is, the way most Jewish people in Paul's, they tried to be right with God by trusting in their ability to please God by keeping his law. Paul emphasizes the point again. He says, she is in slavery with her children. But he's contrasting now and says in verse 26, but the Jerusalem above is free. And she is our mother. The covenant is associated with the Jerusalem, Mount Zion, but not the Mount Zion here on earth, but the Mount Zion in heaven, the Jerusalem above. God's new Jerusalem in heaven. So Paul applies it as a contrast between Christianity and legalism. And states bluntly that it is a contrast between heaven and earth. Is your relationship with God a matter of heaven coming down to earth? Or is it a matter of you reaching up to heaven and trying to please God? This covenant brings freedom. It is free. It is free because it recognizes that Jesus finally and fully paid the price, and we don't have to pay it ourselves Leon Morris says, Paul is not talking about the Jerusalem in Palestine. That was the chief city of the Jewish nation at that time. Because that city was not free. It was under the rule of the Romans. But he's talking about the spiritual or heavenly Jerusalem that is not in bondage, but is free. He says about that one, she is the mother of us all. Not just the Jews But us all fulfilling the great promise that Abraham's descendants would be a blessing to all the world. His covenant, therefore, has many children, both Jew and Gentile. And every Christian through the centuries belongs to this new covenant, the covenant of the heavenly Jerusalem. And every birth, spiritual birth, under this covenant is a miracle Like the fulfillment of the prophecy in Isaiah, rejoice, O barren one who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, You who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Everyone, therefore, who is now saved, or whoever will be saved, Is born because of a miracle. A miracle. Not because of their being smart or having spiritual intuition. Or anything about them. It's a miracle of God. So boiling it all down, this is a great comparison and contrast between Christianity and legalism. The Ishmael's legalism, the Isaac's true Christianity, slavery and bondage versus freedom Born of the flesh versus born by God's promised miracle. Coming from the earthly Jerusalem Coming from the heavenly Jerusalem. Many children. Many more children. The abundance and glory of the new covenant is shown by the fact that it would soon have many more followers than the old covenant did. Another contrast, persecuting is going to be said soon, versus persecuted, inherited nothing versus inheriting everything Relationship based on law-keeping versus relationship based on trusting God. So Paul finally makes that point, applying it to his readers. In verses 28 and following, he says, this is application. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the spirit, so also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. As Christians, you don't identify with Ishmael You must identify with Isaac as children of a promise that was received by faith, a miracle. And historically speaking, Ishmael and his descendants persecuted Isaac and his descendants, so we should not be surprised that the modern-day people who follow God in the flesh. Persecute those who follow God in faith through the promise. The legalists, represented by Ishmael, have always persecuted true Christianity, represented by Isaac. As you walk in the freedom and in the miraculous power of this new covenant, therefore you, you Should expect to be mistreated by those who do not. Great men of God through the ages have known this persecution, like Martin Luther, who wrote People blame us and the gospel for everything, for the disobedience of the subjects to their rulers, for wars, for plagues and famines, for revolutions and every other evil that can be imagined No wonder our opponents think they are doing God a favor by hating and persecuting us. Ishmael will persecute Isaac. While there is no specific mention of Ishmael persecuting Isaac in the book of Genesis, the book of Genesis, chapter 21, does say that Ishmael mocked baby Isaac. And Paul may be referring to this, mocking, or he may be adding something by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that we did not know before. James Montgomery Boyce says, the persecution Christians face will not always be by the world, but also, and indeed more often, by their half-brothers. The unbelieving but religious people in the nominal church. This is the lesson of history. Today, the greatest enemies of the believing church are found among the members of the unbelieving church The greatest opposition emanating from pulpits and church hierarchies. What should you do? If you find yourself thinking that you can achieve something before God by human effort, what does the scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. The answer to this problem is clear, though not easy. We, you, must cast out the bondwoman and her son. You must cast out legalism. Legalism and grace cannot live together as principles for our Christian life. That is the thesis I began with. Hagar and Sarah could not live together in the same house. And we could go back to that story and argue all day long whose fault it was, but that isn't the point. The point is that God told Abraham to send Hagar away. So also every Christian must send away the idea of relating to God on the principle of law, the principle of what we do for Him instead of what He has done for us. In Jesus Christ. Sarah did live with Hagar and Ishmael until the son of promise was born. But once Isaac was born, then Hagar and Ishmael had to go. In the same way, a person may be religious and relate to the law principle one way before the promise of the gospel is made clear in Jesus Christ. But after the gospel has been made clear, there is nothing to do but cast out the bondwoman and her son. There is no going back. Lightfoot says the apostle here thus confidently sounds the death knell of Judaism at a time when one half of the Christendom clung to the Mosaic law with a jealous affection. Little short of frenzy. And the Judaic Party seemed to be growing in influence and was strong enough even in Gentile churches of his own founding to undermine his influence and endanger his life. By the way, this principle that he's propounding here is the main point of the letter to the Hebrews. The temple and the Aaronic priesthood and all that goes with it is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. It was over and would be destroyed by God's action through the armies of Titus. in seventy AD, just a little while. Finally, consider this. While the Isaacs of the world may indeed be persecuted, you may be persecuted. They also have a glorious inheritance that the Ishmaels of this world will never, never know. You and Christ are heirs of God through the principle of grace, not works. Paul personally knew this because he had been living in bondage, trying to earn his way before God, living that way for decades. But now he knew the freedom of living as a Son of God. Freedom in Jesus Christ. When grace is central, you have, as Leon Morris says, you have made love your dominant principle. And it will be the power of love and not the constraint of law that keeps you right. And love is always more powerful than law. Dear friends, you cannot be a legalist and at the same time rely on the grace of God. These two are in conflict. They don't live together. So in final terms, I ask you, who was your spiritual mother? Hagar or Sarah? And where is your spiritual home? Mount Sinai or Mount Zion? The earthly Jerusalem or the spiritual Jerusalem? Whose spiritual line are you in? The line of Ishmael, who was born of human effort, or the line of Isaac, who came by a miracle of grace? How are you relating to God? Human effort or trusting in Christ, whose effort paid your way to God? Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you'll help us to cast out any principles of legalism. And relate to you only as those who have been saved miraculously through the promise by grace. In Jesus' name. Amen.