Please turn in your Bibles to Ezekiel chapter 37. We'll read the first 14 verses. Ezekiel thirty-seven, starting in verse one. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord, and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you. And you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you And you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied there was a sound, and behold, a rattling. And the bones came together bone to its bone. And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man. And say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me And the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel Behold, they say, our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people And I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord, when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my God. people, and I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken and I will do it, declares the Lord. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading, which is the preaching text, continue our journey through John, John chapter 14, 15 through 31. This is still a portion called the upper room discourse. Jesus' talk with his disciples after washing their feet and And telling him about his soon going to the Father. So here is verse 15. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees Him nor knows Him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live In that day you will know that I am in the Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I am going away, and I will come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father. For the Father is greater than I, and now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me. But I do as the Father has commanded me. So that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word. We pray that now as it is preached. That you will speak through the preacher and by your Spirit to work mightily in our hearts and lives, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the things about being a uh a theological oriented church and a theological-oriented pastor is that we can tend to be negative and critical sometimes. about various things. And one of the things that came to my mind as I was studying this passage is that I have, at times in the past, been critical Of the idea expressed often in children's evangelism, the idea of, quote, inviting Jesus into your heart. And I have been right in some sense, because this alone is not adequate. A full explanation Of the gospel must first include a person's recognizing their sin and believing that Jesus died to pay atonement price for that sin, not just asking Jesus into your heart. But the idea of having Jesus in your heart is also quite biblical. And very important too. So that is our focus today from John. So today we'll focus on two things. First, the amazing fact of the believer's union with God. And secondly, the outcomes of this union with God. First, the amazing fact of the believer's union with God, having Jesus in your heart. And so Forth. In verse 18, he says, I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. And then verse 20 in particular. In that day you will know that I am in the Father and you in me. And I in you. There it is. Jesus in our hearts, isn't it? And then in verse 23, and Jesus answered Judas, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. In your heart again, isn't it? Really? So how does this happen? How does this amazing thing happened that God is in our heart, that that there's a union between us and the Holy Trinity. How does it happen? Well, in crude terms I will say the right stuff and the glue. Now, no analogies are perfect, but this one I'm going to try. The right stuff in the glue. The right stuff is first of all the God-man union. This is the perfect and indispensable foundation for our saving union with God, the God-man union, the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And in Lord's Day Catechism, which we were studying recently in the evening service, Lord's Day 6 says that why must the mediator be a true and righteous human Why does he have to be that to have the right stuff? And the answer is God's justice demands that a human nature, which is sin, must pay for sin, but a sinful human can never pay for the others And the second question, why must the mediator also be true God? So that the mediator, by the power of his divinity, might bear the weight of God's wrath and his humanity and earn for us and restore to us righteousness and life. So we have to have this union of the God and man. as part of the right stuff. And Jesus Christ is the right stuff there. And the Father sent him. And then the glue. The Holy Spirit. And that's what Jesus is talking about here. This is how this happens. The Holy Spirit creates. He's the creator who brooded over creation. The Holy Spirit creates faith. In you and me, faith by which we are united to the Trinity through the God-man, Jesus Christ. In union with the God man by the Spirit-created faith, which is also baptismal faith in New Testament terms, we are made to indwell God, and God comes and indwells us. us. So here's what John R. W. Stott, the late great preacher, says. When we become united to Christ by faith, Something so tremendous happens that the New Testament cannot find language adequate to describe it. It is the new birth, yes, but it is also the new creation, a resurrection, light from darkness, and life from the dead. We were slaves. Now we are sons. We were lost. Now we have come home. We were condemned and under the wrath of God. Now we have been justified and adopted into his family. And in a great way, Sinclair Ferguson says this. And he's saying it about the narrative that we're talking about here. During his farewell discourse, the upper room. Jesus explained to Philip that to see him is to see the Father, that's in chapter 13. Yet he is himself not the Father, otherwise, he could not be the way to the Father He is also in the Father, and the Father is in him. And this mutual indwelling is, as theologians say, ineffable, beyond our ability to understand. The Holy Spirit lies at the heart of this bond, like glue, between the Father and His Son. But now listen, the Father who has sent his son, who is in the Father, so overflows with love that this love causes them to come and make believers their home. It's an amazing thing. God comes and makes believers their home, all three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. comes to dwell with us. And you get that in chapter 14, verse 23. And we will come to him, to the believer, and make our home with him. There it is. Sinclair Ferguson says, the Triune One is greater in glory, deeper in mystery, and more beautiful in harmony than all other realities. No tragedy is too big to overwhelm God. Nothing incomprehensible to us is so to Him, whose very being is incomprehensible to us. us. There is no darkness deeper than the depths of the in-being of God. In all of this Friends, the point of Jesus' teaching is not merely to stun our minds or stir our imaginations. It is to give us a sense of the vast privilege. That we have of union with God. From the very beginning of these few hours that Jesus is spending Before his crucifixion, Jesus had spoken about his disciples having a share with him as he washed their feet. He has also explained that the Spirit reveals to Christians that they are in Christ and that he is in them, verse 20 of chapter 14. And this is a union so real and wonderful that its only real analogy, as well as its foundation, is the union of the Father and the Son through the Spirit. The disciples, therefore, would enjoy union with the Son and therefore would have fellowship with the Father through the Spirit. These words do not refer, therefore. These words about sending the Spirit, the Spirit dwelling with you but later in you, these words do not refer. As some suppose, to the contrast between the old covenant relationship and the new covenant relationship. No. But Jesus is actually saying this, and I'll paraphrase He's saying, you know the Spirit, because he is with you in me before I go. But he will come at Pentecost to be in you as the very one who has been my constant companion and in that sense with you. He's been with you in me, and when I go away, I will send him and I will be with you in him. It's complicated, I know. It's hard to add them all these things. But it's revealing to us a wonderful truth that we must grasp. The Spirit is no other than the one who is the bond or the glue of the fellowship between the Father and the Son from all eternity. And who unites us to this very same union. Union with Christ means nothing less than fellowship with all three persons of the Trinity. And it is not that the divine nature is infused into believers. No. Our union with Christ is spiritual and personal, and it is affected by the indwelling of the Spirit of the Son. Son of the Father. Well, what do we do with these things? So what, you might I'd say. I it's very big and incomprehensible and amazing. One thing leads to another and so forth, just like the symbol of the Trinity, right? But so what? Well, here's what And Jesus is teaching this too, not just some esoteric ideas. When you come to know, personally, know the reality and magnitude of this union with God the Trinity. This will transform your thinking and your feeling and your willing and your loving and consequently your actions as a believer. And that leads us to the second point, the outcome of this union with God, the Trinity. The first outcome, Jesus says here, is that we will keep God's Christ's commandments. That's an outcome. Verse 15, back at the beginning. If you love me, you might. No, wait a minute. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, and so forth, and he will dwell with you and be in you. And then he says in verse 24, Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. So there it is. An outcome of this union is keeping God's commandments. What commandments? Well the Ten Commandments, sure, that's right. Right? But let's go a little further because Jesus unpacked some of that for us. We are not studying it today, but it's in Matthew chapter 5, verses uh 5 through 7, chapters 5 through 7, the Sermon on the Mount, it's called, where Jesus does an exposition of God's law for people who are living in the kingdom. You and me right now. And God's law given by Moses had become encrusted with sinful and selfish and self-righteous accretions. But Jesus removes those barnacles. Jesus recasts the truth and reoriented our perception of God's kingdom. Here are some of the things he said. He said, You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment, and whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel, and whoever says, You fool, will be liable to the hell of fire. Jesus is saying, no, it's not just a matter of outward murder, it's a matter of a murderous heart, a contemptuous and hateful heart. But when I come to you in this union, you'll be able to live the kingdom life. Verse 27. You've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery The act of adultery, right? But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And that goes for women and men and various other relationships too, doesn't it? So it's not just the act itself, it's the heart that Jesus is getting at. And that's what He changes when we are union with Him by the Holy Spirit. It was also said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. He's saying, let's get to the nitty-gritty of this thing, not just the formal aspects of it. And again you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn But I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, and do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair, white or black. unless you have modern die, I suppose. Let what you say, here it is, let what you say be simply yes or no. Be truthful in other words. Because you're in union with God, the Holy Trinity. Be truthful. Let truth spring from your very heart. You have said, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Lex talionis, retaliation, equal parts. But I say to you, do not resist the evil one But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you, take your and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go two miles with him. In other words, have a God-oriented response, even to evil, even to force. Have a God God-oriented response because you're kingdom people and you have the life of God in you. We're going a little bit more here. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies. And pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes the sun rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. You, therefore, must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect. Well, these are terribly hard things to do. These require huge attitude shifts and adjustments and changes, don't they? But those attitudes, shifts, and adjustments, those changes of heart and mind are possible when we live and move and have our being and our orientation in the very life of God. God, in whom we are in union by the Holy Spirit. Jesus is teaching that these new ways of living and responding are possible because of this And so I pause here to ask you, are you so oriented toward your union with God by By weekly corporate worship and by daily Bible reading and prayer. And I just note that on the back of our worship folder is an opportunity to read scripture day by day Or you might use Table Talk or our daily bread or whatever you like. Read the word day by day. Be oriented. And let the Spirit teach you as you go through the Word day by day. Are you so oriented toward your union with God that you do these things and that you're shaped by these things? A little test to you who are here today and to listeners by internet and radio. What are you normally doing on Sunday morning at 10 a. m. or 11 a. m. if you're a listener Whenever your church meets or Sunday at 6 p. m. here. What percentage of Lord's Day gatherings are you gathered with God's people for worship? It is at these and other appointed times that God will be confirming and strengthening your orientation as a person indwelt by the Father and the Son through the Holy Spirit. It's divine group therapy. And we need this group therapy, brothers and sisters. It must not be skipp Is what you're doing on Sunday and day by day in keeping with a profound sense of your union with the three persons of God who live in you and in whom you live As one wise man said, your priorities are what you're doing. We always make time for what we value most. We'll go on now to the manifestation of God to the believer. This is the second outcome. A manifestation of God to the believer Jesus said, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father. This is verse 21. And I will love him and manifest myself to him. And then Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how will you manifest yourself to us and not to the world? He will manifest himself. Do you want to have a sense of God's wondrous presence in your life, His manifest presence in your life? You might say, I don't really sense the presence of God very often in my life. Well, here's what I would prescribe for you, and I'll use an illustration. About a half mile from here are radio towers. And those radio towers are sending out a signal that covers the whole county, I suppose, maybe Further than that. Believers have been all given a radio receiver, every one of us. We've been given that radio receiver. And it's been turned on. It's got power. But is it tuned in? That's the question. Is it tuned in? You will, they may broadcast forever from that tower. But if you're not tuned into it, you'll never hear what's being tun Broadcast from that tower. We need to tune in, brothers and sisters. Tune the radio in to God's word, God's truth, God's glory, God's peace. All these things must be our focus. Prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. O take and seal it. Tune my heart to sing your praise. That hymn also says. Tune my heart. And if you tune in To the Holy Spirit who indwells every believer, then you'll get this orientation. And that orientation will manifest God's presence in your life You'll know every moment that he's with you. It'd make a big difference. One more. Result of this union with God is the gift of truth. The gift of truth in a world of falsehood. Verse 25: These things I've spoken to you while I am still with you But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you. That's truth. He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. The first part of that is is that he will inspire the scriptures to be written. The disciples were to Have the spirit of truth, re calling to remembrance all the things that Jesus did and said, and causing them to record those things in the Gospels, and the apostles to write about the very same thing. So that we have the Word of God, the New Testament. So that's part of it. But then there's also the ongoing illumination of the Scriptures. The gift of truth comes to you and me as we read the Word of God and as we understand it, then we have it illumined to our hearts and minds, and it shapes our way of thinking. And it tunes us in to God, the gift of truth. And then the present experience of peace Verse 27, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Peace. The peace that Jesus gives you in union with himself is not like the temporary comforts of this world. He said, He said, where is it? Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. The world has its version of peace. Buy this fancy car, you'll have peace. It will ride so good, it'll have all these wonderful features, you'll be so happy, you'll have peace. Well, you have to pay for it though Oh, too bad. Have this delicious, wonderful meal. It will satisfy your palate and your stomach. stomach and you'll just be delighted with this. But it's temporary. It goes away before long you're hungry again. Have a whole big chunk of money. You can spin it this way and spin it that way, and boy, it's delightful to see how much money I've got in the bank and what I can do with it. Wow. Temporary. It'll be gone soon. A fool and his money are soon parted. Have a great vacation. Nothing wrong with enjoying wonderful Delights, have a wonderful vacation, but the vacation will be over, and we have to go back to work. All these things are temporary and fading, as the world gives Not as the world gives, Jesus says, I give you a peace that will last forever. We have a hymn in our hymn book that describes this. Verse, it's hymn number 702. It says, peace, perfect peace in this dark world of sin. The blood of Jesus whispers peace within. Doesn't go away. Peace, perfect peace by thronging duties pressed. Sometimes life is so busy To do the will of Jesus, this is rest. Peace, perfect peace, with sorrows surging round, on Jesus' bosom naught but calm is found. Peace, perfect peace, mid suffering, sharpest throes, the sympathy of Jesus breathes repose. Peace, perfect peace with loved ones far away. We just found out recently that our our daughter is going to give birth to our grandchild here, and her husband's going to be in Korea. And they're separated. Peace, perfect peace with loved ones far away. In Jesus' keeping, we are safe and they Peace, perfect peace, our future all unknown. Jesus we know, and he is on the throne. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. In your union with the Trinity, Jesus reveals and teaches the most Life steadying, poise giving, heart comforting, and joy-giving gospel truths. Peace Soul health. And your union with the Trinity the Father prunes the branches. We'll get to that in chapter 15, so that we will be healthier. In the same union, the Son keeps all those that the Father has given him in chapter 17, security And this same union with the Trinity is so vast in significance that it can bring comfort to you when you are driven to the edge by troubles, peace that passes understanding. In the outward and ordinary ways that God gives us and deepens in us this experience of union with Himself. Are the very simple things that He's prescribed for us, described in Acts? The word, the gathered worship, the sacraments We need these things, brothers and sisters, in order to grow in our understanding and our experience of the union of God with us. Here's what St. Cyril of Alexandria says. This is back in the fourth century. He says, our communion with the divinity of Christ means our union with the Trinity. Which in its turn allows the divine nature to pervade and permeate us, just as fire heats a piece of iron and makes it glow. All we have to do after believing in Christ and discovering our communion with Him is to give the divine, ineffable beauty of the nature of the Trinity. the chance to dawn within us, to glow and to shine. These are the things that God God has given us and Jesus describes for us here. And I'll end with this. What will you be when you grow up? I'm asking adults too. What will you be when you grow up? If you live in this union, if you tune into this union What will you be if you grow up? C. S. Lewis says this. He describes two outcomes in his book, The Weight of Glory. One is the outcome of union with the Trinity, the other is the outcome of being alienated from God. He says this. It is a serious thing to remember That the dullest, most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which if you saw it now you would be strongly tempted to worship. outcome. Or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet if if at all, only in a nightmare. You have never talked, he says, to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures, arts, civilizations, these are mortal. And their life is as to ours, the life of a gnat. But it is immortals with whom we joke, work, and marry, and snub and exploit, and they will either be immortal horrors or everlasting Splendors. Your realization and experience of union with the Trinity and all that results will make this profound. Difference. Everlasting horrors or everlasting splendors. Amen