Congregation, our scripture readings tonight are from Psalm 133, John 17, and Acts 2. First, our text, Psalm 133, which maybe some of you have memorized in the past. It's only three verses. A song of ascents of David. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. It is like the precious oil on the head running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes. It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there the Lord has commanded the blessing. Life forevermore. And now John seventeen, verses twenty through twenty-three. Jesus is speaking. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. And finally, Acts 2, verses 43 to 47. And awe came upon every soul. And many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as they had need. And day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes They received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Thus far the reading of God's Holy Word. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, that last scriptural reading pictures for us an amazing church, doesn't it? They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And that beautiful summary is followed by numerous examples of just how the oneness of this early church manifested itself. Actually, this should be nothing new to us who have had the privilege of browsing through 132 Psalms these Sunday evenings. Because tonight we come to number 133. This is a psalm that speaks of the unity and community. Of not one church only, but of all God's people everywhere and throughout all of time. Unity and community together are of ultimate value. And are a blessing of God found in the Church of Jesus Christ that will only be achieved perfectly in God's eternal order. That's what Psalm 133 says. First, we observe the value of unity and community. Verse one. Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. There is no reason not to take David as the writer of this psalm. So let us set its context to the time of his crowning. as king of the United Twelve Tribes of Israel at Hebron. After the divisive years of Saul's reign, The ascension of David would have marked an exciting beginning, and it would have been appropriate to celebrate it with these hopeful words of Psalm 133. No wonder then that had been seen to be an extraordinary reality at that time explains why David begins Our psalm tonight with a striking call to pay attention to what follows. Behold! Look up and observe the otherwise unpredictable and unrealized unity displayed at that moment. The accounts of both 1 Samuel 5 and 1 Chronicles 12 indicate that by these words. Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, It was you who led out and brought in Israel. And they anointed David king. Again, likewise, all the rest of Israel were of a single mind. To make David king. That was surely a time when brothers dwelt in unity, wasn't it? And it was good and pleasant indeed. that it was so. And David wants succeeding generations of the Israel of God, the Church of the Ages To pay attention to that extraordinary moment when unity characterized the Church of the Living God here on earth. Yahweh of hosts observed, looked down, and saw his united church. Of sinners, of all things. But sinners who would have no compulsion whatsoever to embrace one another in sacrificial love and concern without the grace of God. They had providentially been brought to the place of true and observable unity. But even more than that, not only were they one nation, one church, one covenant people of God That would be wonderful enough. But they really wanted to be one. They had more than external unity. They had inner communion with each other For them, their unity was more than mere absence of disunity. It was positive, personal, and national sanctification. To put it another way, they worked at being faithful to God's law. And he rewarded them with a number of precious years of growth and peace. The ark of the Lord was brought to the house of Obed-Edom and later to Jerusalem, to the joyful shouts of all the people Philistia was roundly defeated, together with all the other enemies of David and the people of the Lord. All this positive history is summarized in these happy words of 1 Chronicles 18, 14. So David reigned over all Israel, and he administered justice and equity to all his people. And in our psalm tonight, we have him extolling the supreme value and importance of the unity and community that characterizes brethren, members of the covenant community of the Libra. living God. However, maybe you knew that was coming. However, truth declares that this unity and community did not march forward unabated. It did not. As the years went by, these two precious gems that sparkled on Israel's breastplate Not only dimmed, but ultimately were crushed to dust. Talk about disunity in the church. First, fully five-sixths of the church's membership. Yeah. Ten tribes out of twelve. Ten. broke the covenant and actually became an enemy of the Judah, the little Benjamin, that remained faithful to the Lord Then at last, even Judah apostatized and fell into captivity in Babylon for 70 years. Because they too rejected God's law and went their own sinful way. What happened? Well, I believe David puts his finger on the reason for that gruesome reality when he goes on in the next lines of his poem. to point out the cause of the departure of his kingdom from the place of unity, community, and blessedness. For David himself, already before his own death, did witness not only the seeds of Israel's declension, but ultimately its fate. Notwithstanding some years of dim light observed during the reign of his son Solomon But not even that wise man was wise enough to ensure obediently the continuation of unity and community under God's word and will. So now let's have a look at David's prescription in verse 2. Doing so will hopefully aid us in our time and place. to avoid the sad and sorry history of the Church of God in David's day and following until the supreme blessing of the coming of the promised Messiah, Jesus Christ, and his kingdom. And we come to number two in our sermon, the blessing of unity and community. It's actually verse 2 and the very beginning of verse 3. Listen. It is like the precious oil on the head, running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes It is like the dew of Hermon which falls on the mountains of Zion. The blessing of unity and community. Here David gives two illustrations of what it is like when brothers dwell together in unity. That is, as we have pointed out, when the members of God's covenant people, whether Israel of the past or the Christian Church of today Dwell together. Show forth community in the unity that binds them together. Each of these two illustrations are from Israel's world and life, and would speak powerfully to God's children then. They, in accordance with the poetic style of their day, would set forth the same point, these two illustrations, two illustrations that say the same thing. And the reason why David uses almost half of the space of his entire psalm to make his point twice is that it is such an important point. He doesn't want Israel, as well as you and I, to miss that point. And what is it? Well, look for two parallels between the two illustrations, and you will see what David is getting at. First, notice that unity and community in the church are things that come down from above. They come down. Aaron's anointing oil comes down from above on his head Runs down on his beard, and runs down, furthermore, on the collar of his robes. In the second illustration, the Dew of Herman, presumably descending upon even the highest mountain in the Near Eastern geography. Also falls down on the mountains of Zion. There you have it Unity and community in Israel are not matters that the covenant people produce and presumably offer up to God. Dwelling together in unity is something that God sends down to them. They come down from above. So please don't think that you can demonstrate unity and community by the sheer force of your will in the church today. In fact, without God's gracious donation, you won't have it at all either. The reason is that the unity of Israel is a unity tied into the Word of God. Only as these people obey the Lord will they stay together as one covenant people. As soon as they try it on their own Which is exactly what sadly they did. They will split up and disintegrate. Viz, medieval, and modern church history Their unity comes down from Yahweh and binds them as anointing oil does, or refreshing dew does. Likewise, their community, as well as their unity, comes down from Yahweh and expresses itself in obedient living together. What is true of Israel in David's day is true for us today at Grace and Peace Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Still, there is more. Notice that both the oil and the dew are undiscriminating as to whom they affect. That oil goes all over Aaron's head, messes up his carefully trimmed beard And sends his robe off to the dry cleaners. As far as the dew is concerned, it lavishes both Herman's heights Maybe 15,000 feet, I don't know for sure. Pretty high. And little Zion's minuscule hill. I've been there. In Jerusalem, and I've seen Zion, and it ain't very high. And what do I make of that point found in the two illustrations? Just this. The unity and community that God graciously pours down upon his church of both dispensations, then and now. Is such that it embraces both the high and the low. It's not just the clergy, not just the ordained men. But also the everyday members of the church that are blessed with unity and community, And that means they ought to expect and even demand that those blessings are evident both in the high courts of the church. As well as in the pews, among the leaders of God's people and among the Lord's people themselves. Being the church of the Lord Jesus Christ today means everybody submitting to the will of God expressed in the clear teachings of His Word. It means church discipline exercised among the officers and over their respective flocks. And even informal, loving, care for, and monitoring of the behavior of each of the communicant members of the local congregations among themselves. That too. Oil flowing down, and dew descending upon everyone, both high and low Enough of that, but let's move on to point three. For David writes the second part of verse three also. And here he speaks of the future. Of unity and community. What does he say? For there the Lord has commanded the blessing, life forevermore. Now, in connection with this third point of the Psalm, we must pay attention to the Lord Jesus' high priestly prayer that we read earlier. In which the Savior calls upon his Father in heaven to fulfill exactly what had been declared by King David in our text tonight. Jesus prayed for that. David said, and Jesus knew his Bible full well. That the blessing of unity and community in and among the chosen people of the Lord would never pass away. For it has been declared by Yahweh. Declared. And that means that it will ever be. It was not snuffed out by the enemies of ancient Israel. It did not disappear during the four centuries after the close of the Old Testament canon There was ever a remnant of believing saints of God, no matter how small their number. And they held on to God's word of promise, the Messiah would come. And he did. When he, the Messiah, prayed this prayer for his disciples, the church. He had no doubt in his mind, I'm sure, David's heartworming prophecy in Psalm 133, verse 3b. For there, there, that is, in that one united and communion elect church of the ages past, there, the Lord has declared the blessing. Life forevermore. That means that nothing whatsoever can nullify that divine decree. For now, O Father, praise the divine incarnate Son. Now, O Father, I ask for all who believe in me. That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me. The future of church unity and community is bright indeed. Because it is grounded in the unity and community that is found between God the Father and God the Son. The Father has given the Son glory, and the Son has given glory to the church, that it may be one. Even as the Father and He are one. His words are: I in them and you in me. That they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you have sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Congregation, do you see it? The reason why it is so absolutely right and needful for the Church of Jesus Christ to express Feel and demonstrate its unity and community is that it is the picture on earth of the blessed unity and community that exists. Between the persons of the Divine Trinity. That's what it is. They are one because it is good and pleasant for them so to be. They are one in nature, in purpose, and in love. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And that holy, threefold, divine Family, may I put it that way, has determined to bless one human fallen family with salvation. Why So that the world may know, as Jesus prayed, that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me. So that means that unity and community of and in the church is not merely a matter of putting up and getting along with our differences as best we can do it. It is a matter of making God look good by showing forth the glory of His divine triune unity. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit are one. And it is their desire and will that the fruit of their gracious determination to deliver a portion of humanity from sin and misery should copy their divine unity and community Copy it. Therefore, differences that arise in the life of the church, even grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Must never be ignored as unavoidable small glitches in the road If they come, attention must be paid to them, and they must be resolved. Examples. I didn't know what to write down here. I think of holy days. Use of alcoholic beverages, the length of the days of creation, many other things that could come to mind in your mind, too. Those things must not be allowed to divide us. We must bear with one another in love and mutual respect. But Matters of clear doctrine and moral behavior laid down explicitly in the Holy Bible. Ah. Those are other matters indeed. And violations of that sort must not be permitted. Rather, proper rebuke, admonition And even more must be exercised. But let us never forget Or lose sight of the bright future that lies ahead for the one church of the living God. Because as David says The Lord has commanded the blessing, life forevermore. Our nation's forefathers really hit the bullseye of this blessing. When they said that God has endowed man with the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I doubt that they had Psalm 133 in mind when they penned those words But permit me to draw the parallel. Liberty, that is, freedom from sin and its consequences, eternal life. And the joy of heaven are indeed the threefold blessing of the one holy Catholic, that is, universal, Church By God's grace, the right earned by the sacrificial death of the Lord Jesus Christ has become theirs, who have put their trust in him The right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness indeed Still the point that must not be overlooked is that which is brought out in our wonderful psalm tonight. Three verses. Wonderful psalm. Those temporal and eternal rights and blessings have been commanded by God. That's the only way they can be. There is only one true religion. It is the Christian religion. It is the religion of divine grace, not human aspiration. Divine grace that is brought about from above down upon one true and living church elected. And spiritually, if not temporally, united. Spiritually, if not temporally, communal. You will not find it on one hemisphere of the earth's crust. You will not find it alone in any of the seven continents housing humanity. You will not find it in any one denomination, or even in a few denominations of similar or even exact creeds. It is numbered above, and it is one. Amen. Lord, you have made very clear through your servant David what the church is about and what we're about. And we thank you for that message. We hear it, we believe it, and we want to act according to it. We pray that you will make this congregation one evermore. And you will enable us to be a witness to this community of the unity of the triune God in his purpose and will to save sinners through his son Jesus Christ, the only Lord and Savior of mankind. Mankind. In his name we pray, Amen