Please turn in your Bibles to Proverbs 8. We'll read verses 12 through the end of the chapter. Proverbs 8, starting at verse 12. I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion. The fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. I have counsel and sound wisdom. I have insight. I have strength. By me kings reign and rulers decree what is just. By me, princes rule and nobles, all who govern justly. I love those who love me. And those who seek me diligently find me. Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness. My fruit is better than gold, even fine gold, and my yield than choice silver. I walk in the way of righteousness, in the paths of justice, granting an inheritance to those who love me, and filling their treasuries. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old. Ages ago I was set up, at the first, before the beginning of the earth. When there were no deaths, I was brought forth. When there were no springs abounding with water. Before the mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth. Before he had made the earth with his fields, or the first of the dust of the world. When he established the heavens, I was there. When he drew a circle on the face of the deep, when he made firm the skies above, when he established the fountains of the deep, When he assigned to the sea its limit, so that the waters might not transgress his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth Then I was beside him, like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always Rejoicing in his inhabited world, and delighting in the children of man. And now, O sons, listen to me Blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise. And do not neglect it. Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors, for whoever finds me finds life. And obtains favor from the Lord. But he who fails to find me injures himself. All who hate me love death. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The reading of John 1 through 4 and 14. And this is the sermon text. Those of you who have been here know that I've been in the Gospel of John for the past few weeks Except for some Advent excursions. And I began with the narrative portion where John is out at Bethany baptizing and uh The disciples are called and so forth. But now we're going to backfill to go back to the beginning, to the prologue It's called Prologue, the first word of John, which is a very theological statement. John 1, 1 through 4 and 14. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And then verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Oh Lord, help us to listen with our ears and our minds. And give us the help of the Holy Spirit, without which all is vanity and worthless. Amen. Well, you have the outline there if you care to look at it. We're going to cover the main phrases of these five verses. And the first phrase is, in the beginning. In the beginning. What does that mean? Before we explore that, F. F. Bruce, a famous New Testament scholar, F. F. , I've learned that F. F. means Frederick Fivey So he goes by his first two initials. F. F. Bruce says, it is not by accident that the gospel begins with the same phrase as what As the book of Genesis. Genesis 1. 1 said, in the beginning. And introduces here, in the beginning introduces the story of the old creation from Genesis. And here it introduces the story of the new creation in Jesus Christ. In both works of creation, the agent is who? is the word of God. God spoke and things were created. And now God speaks through his son the word. So what we have here in this phrase is an explicit announcement of the new creation in Jesus Christ. How many days were there in the old creation? There were seven, were there not? Seven. The early church fathers such as Cyprian in the third century links the first day of the resurrection of Christ to what he called the eighth day. The Lord's day is the eighth day. Why is it called the eighth day? Because it's the beginning of a new creation. It starts a whole new thing. And the new creation and new order began with Christ, the Word, who was raised, not on the seventh day, but on the seventh day plus one, the eighth day. The beginning of a new creation. So the beginning here does not mean the start of something as if Christ had a start. As if he had a beginning in time. The archheretic Arius was his name, taught that Christ had a beginning. The modern Jehovah's Witnesses still say that. But careful and comprehensive studies done in the Council of Nicaea in the year 325. from which we have the Nicene Creed, rightly concluded that Christ, the Word, always existed with the Father. And there's some interesting stories. They may or not be completely true. They're stories a few hundred years past the event. But the story goes this way: At the Council of Nicaea in 325, There was a fellow who was the Bishop of Mira. His name was Nicholas. And he's the one from which we get Saint Nicholas, by the way. Santa Claus, if you will. At the Council of Nicaea, Nicholas of Mira went up to punch Arius in the nose. Arius had been singing the little rap song that he had invented, and the little rap song went like this. There was a time when he was not. There was a time when he was not. And he was basically saying that Christ had a beginning. He didn't always exist. There was a time when he was not. And he started singing that evidently at the Council of Nicaea and uh Athanasius the Great. Eastern patriarch Athanasius came down and punched O Arius in the nose for singing that bad theology, that heresy of his And after that, uh the council developed the great Nicene theology, which we say in the Creed, and they also developed a little song which replaces Arius's Bad rap song. And what is that song? It's something that we say and sing regularly around here, and the church has been saying or singing now for 690 years. What is it? Glory be to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever. Amen. Every time we sing or say that, we're punching Arius in the nose. Or better yet, we're proclaiming the eternity and deity of Christ the Word. As it was in the beginning, is now and ever shall be. No change. So the living translation of the Bible gives a very good Take on this phrase. It says this, in the beginning the word already existed. That gets it. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. He existed in the beginning with God. So there we have it. In the beginning does not mean some start in a temporal place in the world, but it means that when everything was beginning, Christ already existed And that's very important. And I hope you'll remember that. Every time we say or sing the Gloria Patri, that we're punching Arius in the nose. The second phrase is, well, something else we want to focus on, the word itself. The word. In Greek it's ha-lagos. And it's from the word from which we get our word, contemporary word logo, for instance. What is a logo? A logo is the official mark of a business or other organization. Our logo here at Grace and Peace, I suppose, is the is the Celtic cross that's in that stained glass up there. That design found is on all of our signs and on our stationery. And it's in our stained glass window. Not terribly important, but it is our logo. We developed it when we started this congregation. But there are other logos that you can be familiar with. Starbucks. Starbucks has a logo. Anybody have Starbucks here with them today? Starbucks has a logo and it is if you haven't noticed is that mermaid. Uh her tail comes up around and then she has a crown on and a star on top. the Starbucks logo. And Target has a logo. I was out near Target recently and I was showing Stephen these great big red balls, steel balls on the sidewalk. And I said, what do you think that is? He didn't have an idea. I said, that's Target's logo. You know, it's got that big red round there. So that's Target's logo. That's the sign by which that company is known. And then there's Chick-fil-A that has a logo too. It's a little chicken, you know. I I can't remember exactly how it goes. But if you tried to open your own chicken business and you took Chick-fil-A's chicken logo and you put it on your sign, what would happen to you? You get sued. Probably get a real stern letter first saying you better get rid of that. A warning, because Chick-fil-A are nice people. right? But the Starbucks would sue your pants off. Because you're infringing their logo by which they're known. That's how they're known And here we have God's logo, Lagos, Word, by which He is known In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was with God in the beginning. And that's important too. He was with God. Let's unpack that phrase for a moment. What does it mean to say that he was with God? The word used here for with is the Greek preposition pros, P-R-O-S, pros And it's generally used to express personal relationship. When we're having a wedding, and I say to the bride and groom, Now turn and face each other and make your vows. That word prose, P-R-O-S would fit. Pros one another. Face one another Now there are other Greek words that are used to express being together but in a less personal way. There's a word for nearness when two people are taking a walk together. It is not prose There's a word for expressing when two people are in the same room, and it is not prose, but this word prose expresses face-to-face, personal relationship. It's great that we have uh that we have Skype these days, isn't it? So that when our family members are a long way off such as stationed overseas in the military or just too far to it's nice to be able to talk to them, but Skype, you can actually So we're kind of approximating prose when we Skype together, but that still falls short of what we have here in this word prose Um because you can't kiss in Skype, can you? It doesn't work. I I haven't tried it, but I wouldn't try it. Um You can't hug in Skype. You can't dance in Skype. And here we have, I think, in this word prose, the father and the son with each other. Hugging, dancing, kissing, face-to-face, very intimate, personal communication. The Son was with God. The Lagos was with God. in the beginning. John's use of the word tells us here that the word was always intimately face to face with the Father. The word was always speaking to the Father, and he was always very active, very personal in communication with the Father. And I suppose there is no more intimate communication in all the universe than is described here. The word was with God. And then we have the phrase, the word was God. And that's not a past tense. It's just a description of the deity of Christ. It means that he was 100% God. The human nature and the divine nature were united in one person in the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And so the word is God was God, is God. And we say that regularly around here in the Nicene Creed. We believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only Son of God. eternally begotten of the Father. God from God. Light from light. True God from true God. begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father So there it is, all beautifully put into the Nicene Creed. That's why it's so important that we say it, so that we don't get off track and think false thoughts about who Christ is and who the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are. We say these things to remind ourselves. And then we have the phrase, through him all things were made. made through him. Instrumentality. Instrumentality. Through him all things were made. Without him, nothing was made that has been made. That's a a negative way of saying the same thing that was said positive. Everything was made through him and nothing was made that wasn't made through him, you see? That's doubling down on that idea. And the idea here in verse 1, in the beginning, echoes the creation account in Genesis 1. So when did everything get created? It got created in the beginning. And he was the one through whom, through whom creation came into being. The Word, who was always face to face with the Father, is the creator of all that is. The word made the vast land continents of this earth and the seas of this earth. The word made the materials used to build the great cathedrals of Europe The word made the materials in element form that built the ships that are at sea, and that made your iPhone or your Android. And makes the F thirty-five. The word also made the Milky Way Galaxy And all other galaxies that are too far for telescopes to see. The Word made all these things. He is the instrument of creation. There is no higher creative power than that of the Word, the Word. We also see here this phrase, in him was life. What is that about? Think back to Genesis with me. When God created Adam, he took some clay, remember, and he formed it into a body. But was that body alive? No. It was a lifeless body. Now I'm sure that God created that body with bones and muscles and And uh blood capillaries and a heart and other organs all ready to go. But was that body alive when God God created Adam out of the dust of the ground, out of the clay. No. It says he breathed into him what? The breath of life. God took that formed man and breathed into him the breath of life, and then it says the man became a living being. And we see that same thing going on here. In him was life. Apart from him is not life, but in him was life. God is the source of life, the word is the source of life. The Word is God. He's the same God who created everything, and the same God who formed Adam and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living being. So in him was life. Put all that creation account, all that Adam account into that phrase. In him. was life. The Word who was always face to face with the Father is the very source of life for every human being. And it's also clear here that he's referring to the I am. The I am was uh told to Moses Moses had said to the Lord, Who shall I say to these Egyptians? Sent me, who shall I say sent me? And God said, Tell them, I am send you. And what is that? It's a strange Hebrew verb, which means the self-existent one, the one in whom is life. He's the one who sends you, Moses. The I am sends you. And so Jesus is being described here in that same terms is the I am, the self-existent one, the one who has life in himself. He doesn't depend upon anybody for life. We all depend on On breath. We depend on our heart to function. We depend on food. We depend we're dependent from the beginning and the perhaps the most helpless The most helpless creature in the whole world is a baby, a human baby, absolutely helpless, will not survive without constant attention and constant help. But Christ is the one who is the source of life. He is the one who has life in himself, who needs nothing or nobody in order to be sustained. He is the I am revealed to Moses. In him was life. Now we go on. Was made flesh. The word was made flesh. Verse 14. The word was made flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. The word who was always face to face with the Father, we're told here, came down and pitched his tent. That's kind of the imagery there. He pitched his tent among us. He pitched his tent in human flesh. He joined our camp by taking on human flesh and living among us And you remember from the Exodus account that we preached through, God had once before tabernacled with the Israelites during their wilderness journeys after he had delivered them from Egypt. And in that tabernacling with God's people, his glory was present with them above the tabernacle, and it was seen in a cloud during the daytime. and in a pillar of fire at night. God travel with the Israelites wherever they pitched their tent He also had his tent pitched with them, and his glory remained with him. His glory was always with them. Well, here's what we have in this beautiful phrase that the word came. Down and lived right here where we live. He tabernacled with us. He pitched his tent with us. And we have seen his glory, just like the Israelites saw the Lord's glory. Now you have to have the eyes of faith to see that glory, don't you? You do. He became one of us and he remains one of us forever. Brothers and sisters, please remember this. Keep this in mind that the Savior, the Redeemer, the Word, Jesus Christ, is in heaven and has human flesh today. He has not become some immaterial floating thing. He is a human being with glorified human flesh, but it is still human flesh. And when he returns, he will return with human flesh. He has pitched his tent with us and will remain in human flesh forever, one of us. Because that's how he saves us. He had to be one of us to save us And he has become one of us and will remain one of us forever, for all eternity, there will be a human being sitting on the throne of heaven. Jesus the Christ, the Word, in whom was life, but who was with the Father always, and will be able to dance with Him and hug Him and kiss Him. Maybe literally, I don't know. Why not? We'll be able to do that because he has come and become one of us. And here we have it in this beautiful theology. There is no greater coming down than his coming down. He was so high, but his coming Come down so low to save sinners. There's no greater glory than that which was concealed in the human flesh of that baby that was born in Bethlehem. We sing it in our Christmas songs. I hope you pay attention to these wonderful words. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see. Hail the incarnate deity. Pleased as man with men to dwell. Jesus, our Emmanuel, hark the herald angels sing. Glory to the newborn King The word who was always with the Father face to face, who always enjoyed the highest relation with the Father, who wielded all the power of the Creator Who had life in himself, self-existence, who shared the glory of the Father, this word, this word became human flesh, even to becoming A single cell in the womb of the Virgin Mary. That's how far down he came. He became a single cell in the womb of the Virgin Mary for the sake of poor, miserable sinners. like you and me. He was made flesh and took on the long, lonely road to become an un An unhappy and un who become to become an accursed sin bearer for you and me, that we might inherit the blessings of unbroken fellowship with God. He gave up his throne. He gave up the ivory palaces. He came to become one of us. 2 Corinthians, I should say, 5. 21 says, God made him. who had no sin, to become sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Him. He had to do this. And this is the message of rejoicing and glory, the message of hope and peace, a message which transcends our circumstances. Because you see, we have great times in our lives. We have times of strength and health and joy and accomplishments and weddings and babies and all kinds of wonderful things in our lives. But we also have sad things, tragic things, terrible disappointments in our lives. But this message, this truth that we celebrate Transcends whether we're having a great time in our life or whether we're having a bad time in our life. That transcends. There's a 12th century medieval Latin folk carol that celebrates this wondrous truth That carol, uh, you can still hear it. I have recordings of it, but it's not something you sing in church. It was never sung in church The carol is exuberant. It's light, it's lilt, it's a dance tune, it's syncopated. It's not sung in church. Not our kind anyway. This carol is played with horns and pipes and drums and tambourines. And their frame, which is the central part of this Carol, gets repeated over and over and over. It is It is this. It is verbum caro factum est. Verbum caro factum est. Verbum caro factum est. The word is made flesh. That's the joyous chorus of this great Christmas song that Christians have sung in marketplaces and taverns and in their homes for centuries. The word is made flesh. That transcends everything. Do you know him? Do you know him? Do you know the word made flesh In him was life. If you don't know him, you don't have life. Even if you breathe for a while. God, who is personal, who is face to face with the Father, created us in his own image. so that we might share that face-to-face relationship with him, to commune with him, to hug him, to talk with him, to dance with him, to adore him. He made us for this. And as many as received him, John says, to them he gave the right to become the children of God. So if we would have him and have that peace, that joy that transcends. believe in him. As many as received him, as many as believed in him, And when we say believe here, it's not just a cognitive, oh yes, I know those Christmas facts. I believe somehow that this happened. No, it's believe into him. Believe into him. Put your confidence in him, in what he has done, in who he is. Believe into him. That's what faith is. It's not just cognitively believing something, but it is resting and receiving and relying on that. For your life, for your eternity, as Christ offers himself to us in this gospel. Believe into him. Believe with all your heart. And Dance with this wondrous truth. You will dance if you do when all is well, when you're happy, when you're prosperous. And you will dance when all earthly joy is gone and you face troubles, even death itself, knowing that you are in Him. And a vast forever of joy is your inheritance, your possession. Verbum caro factum est Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you for the creator of the world who came to be one of us. Who was always face to face with the Father, who breathed into Adam the breath of life and will give it to us by faith. We thank you that we have this message. Now help us by your Spirit to respond rightly to it, to believe and trust and renew our faith, our hope, our joy in Him For we pray in his glorious name, Amen