Please open your Bibles to the book of Deuteronomy, where we'll read chapter 27 and the first six verses of Deuteronomy. Chapter twenty eight Deuteronomy twenty seven, starting at verse one. Now Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep the whole commandment that I commanded you today And on the day you cross over the Jordan into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall set up large stones and plaster them with plaster. And you shall write on them all the words of this law when you cross over to enter the land that the Lord your God has given you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the Lord, the God your fathers, has promised you. And when you have crossed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, concerning which I commanded you today on Mount Ebel. And you shall plaster them with plaster. And there you shall build an altar to your Lord your God, an altar of stones. You shall wield no iron tool on them. You shall build an altar to the Lord your God of uncut stone And you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. And you shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there. And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, and you shall write on these stones all the words of this law very plainly. Then Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, Keep silence and hear, O Israel. This day you have become the people of the Lord your God. You shall therefore obey the voice of the Lord your God, keeping his commandments and his statutes, which I command you today. That day Moses charged the people, saying, When you have crossed over the Jordan, These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people Simeon, Levi, Judah, Ishekar, Joseph, and Benjamin. And these shall stand on Mount Evil for the curse, Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphatali. And the Levites shall declare to all the men of Israel in a loud voice, Cursed be the man who makes a carved or cast metal image, an abominated craftsman, and all the people shall answer and say Say Amen. Cursed be anyone who dishonors his father or his mother, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who moves his neighbor's landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who misleads a blind man on the road. And all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow. And all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's nakedness, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who lies with any kind of animal, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother, and all the people shall say, Amen. Amen. Cursed be anyone who lies with his mother-in-law, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed be anyone who strikes down his neighbor in secret, and all the people shall say Amen. Cursed be anyone who takes a bribe to shed innocent blood. And all the people shall say Amen. Cursed be anyone Be anyone who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them. And all the people shall say, Amen. And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord The Lord your God will set you high above all nations of the earth, and all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you. If you obey the voice of the Lord your God. Blessed shall be shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your glory. Ground, and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds, and the young of your flock. Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. Blessed shall you be when you come in. And blessed shall you be when you go out. The word of the Lord. Reading of Hebrews chapter 12, 18 through 29. We read in Deuteronomy about the mountains. And we have also read about Mount Sinai. Here we read of mountains. Again, Hebrews 12, 18. For you have not come to what may be touched, a flay a blazing fire and darkness and gloom. and a tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them For they could not endure the order that was given. If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear, but you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel, see that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. That time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase, yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken, that is, the things that have been made, in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thus let us offer to God acceptable worship With reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that now as we consider Joshua chapter 8, that we will profit and benefit. from this narrative of your work with your people in times past. May we also see Christ in it and understand the grace that you have provided through him. We ask this in his name. Amen. So you need to read or have open to you Joshua chapter 8. We did not read that, although there's definitely similarities with Genes uh with Deuteronomy 27 and 28. But we did not read Joshua 8, but it is the text for the preaching this morning. And I'll be reading it in the course, but it would be good for you to have it open as well. Well, if you'll recall, the people came into the land of Canaan, and after they had reenacted or enacted for the first time in this generation, the The sacrament of circumcision at Gilgal had consecrated themselves to serve the Lord, then they went forward and God gave them commandments as to how they should take the city of Jericho. And it was indeed a miraculous victory over Jericho. There weren't any great uh military plans. There were not seized. uh barriers and and ladders and things like that to make this happen. It was simply God's great work in causing those walls to fall down after the people obeyed him by marching around Each day, and then seven times on the final day. But then they came, in chapter seven it tells, to the city of I, much smaller town. We find out that there were only about 12,000 people there in the city of Ai. And so they sent out a smaller band of people. And there had been there had been the terrible incident of Aiken. Well, this is what happened in I. The people of Israel had sinned against God and Jericho, and Achan had taken some of the devoted things, things devoted for destruction, and had been discovered, and then he and his His whole family have been wiped out. Now they come to Ai, and uh here in Ai, they uh find themselves defeated because of this sin that was later discovered and punished. So now they're going to get it right this time in chapter 8, in the Lord's school of obedience, doing things God's way, the way he commanded And that's what we have here in verses 1 through 22. So now they're ready to go and take I. And the Lord said to Joshua, Do not fear and do not be dismayed. Take all the fighting men with you. and arise and go up to I. Then he says this word, see, perceive, believe. I'm telling you that it is as good as done. That's what see means here. See, I have given into your hand the king of I and his people, his city and his land. And you shall do to I and its king as you did to Jericho and its king. But there is a little difference here. You remember in Jericho they were not to take any of the spoils, they were not to resist Say keep anything to themselves. And that's what happened with Achan. He took stuff and kept it for himself. That's why they were defeated the first time they approached I. But this time it says, only its spoils and its livestock you shall take as plunder for yourselves. Lay an ambush against the city. And behind it. So here we have a difference. God allows them to keep the spoil from the city of Ai. How foolish the sin of Achan seems now. If he had just been patient and obeyed God, he would have had all he wanted, because the spoil would have been his. He could have had his heart's desire if only he had waited on the Lord for it. But he didn't. But now they are able to take the spoil. So verse 3 says, So Joshua and all the fighting men arose to go up to I, and Joshua chose Not a few this time, but thirty thousand mighty men of valor, and sent them out by night. There were three thousand before, as it's recorded in Joshua 7. 4 four, now thirty thousand. Overwhelming force this time. And verse four, and he commanded them, Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city. Behind it. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you remain ready, and I and all the people who are with me will approach the city. And when they come out against us just as before, we shall flee from before them. What a strategy. We're going to pretend to be afraid. We're going to pretend to run away. And they will come out after us until we have drawn them away from the city. For they will say, They are fleeing from us just as before. So we will flee before them. Now verse 7, then you shall rise up from the ambush and seize the city, for the Lord your God will give it into your hands. And as soon as you have taken the city, you shall set the city on fire. You shall do according to the word of the Lord. See, I have commanded you. So, verse 9, Joshua sent them out. And they went to the place of ambush and lay between Bethel and Ai, to the west of Ai, but Joshua spent that night among the people. This, my friends, is a brilliant. military strategy, is it not? I think it could be studied in war colleges anywhere and deemed to be a brilliant strategy. It is the use, by the way, of what we call the ordinary means, plans, strategy. Powerful weapons, overwhelming force, and so forth and so on. Ordinary means. But remember what happened at Jericho. They did not use and then and then yelling or blowing trumpets and breaking things, and then the walls fell flat. That's extraordinary means. God uses both. He uses ordinary means. He uses extraordinary means. It's up to him to decide what he will do. When he will do miracles, when he will use the ordinary things. This and it's very good. God, in his ordinary providence, that's the way normal things happen, maketh use of means. Means, like military strategy. Yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. He can use means, he can choose not to use means, or even work against ordinary means. There are occasions when God works in a way contrary to common expectations. Expectation, as when Jesus multiplied the loaves and fishes beside the Sea of Galilee, for instance. But we also, we also thank him for For our daily bread, when no laws of physics have been defied in its production. That bread didn't just appear on our table by divine Working. Ordinary means were used. As Paul pointed out, the created world, the ordinary world, proclaims its creator in Romans 1. 20. Not in spite of, but because of the fact that the world is lawful and because the world is intelligible. So God can use ordinary things and it brings him glory, he can work above and beyond and against even ordinary things, and that is also to his glory. So how did the battle come out? Verse 10. Joshua arose in the morning and mustered all the people and went up. He and the elders of Israel before the people to And all the fighting men who were with him went up and drew near before the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai, with a ravine between them and He took about five thousand men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, to the west of the city. Some on the north, some on the west, across the ravine. So they stationed the forces, the main encampment that was the north of the city, and its rear guard west of the city. But Joshua spent that night in the valley. And as soon as the king of I saw this, he and all his people, the men, But he did not know that there was an ambush against him And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten before them, and fled in the direction of the wilderness. And as they pursued Joshua, they were drawn away from the city. Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel who did not go out after Israel. They left the city open and pursued Israel. Then the Lord said to Joshua, this is important. This is This is an extraordinary means here. Then the Lord said to Joshua, stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward I, for I will give it into your hand. And Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city, and the men in the ambush rose quickly out of their place, and as soon as he had stretched out his hand, they ran and entered the city and captured it. and they hurried to set the city on fire. So when the men of Ai looked back, surprise Behold, the smoke of the city went up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that. Where the people who fled to the wilderness turned back against the pursuers, and when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had captured the city And that the smoke of the city went up, then they turned back and struck the men of Ai. And the others came out from the city against them. So they were in the midst of Israel. Some on this side, some on that side. And Israel struck them down until there was none left that survived or escaped. The strategy was completely and utterly successful. But I do want you to notice that Joshua held that javelin. He's going to hold that javelin until it's all over with and done. He trusts God, he obeys God, even though there is all this extraordinary force and this great plan of battle, he still obeys God holding that Job line. Out to see that God's work is done God's way. But let me pause to say this by way of application to us. We've seen how Israel came out and they obeyed, they won the battle at Jericho, but then Achan sinned, and then they There was this defeat at I the first time, and now there's this victory at I the second time, after obedience. This is uh this is repeated throughout Israel's whole history, this basic pattern. And it is also the spiritual history of many Christians follows a similar pattern. Obedience, followed by victory. I've trusted Christ. My life has changed. Victory Then victory followed by blessing. Ah, the blessing, the wondrous blessings. Blessing followed by, unfortunately, self-confident pride. Hey, I've got this wrapped up. I can take care. I am powerful. I've got this all done now. Pride. And then that is followed by what? Disobedience. Disobedience is then followed by defeat. Defeat is followed by judgment Temporal judgment on your life. Judgment is followed usually by the power of the Holy Spirit by repentance. And repentance is followed by new obedience. And obedience, new obedience is followed by victory. But sometimes the cycle goes on and on and on. Eric Hurt is the head of an organization called Setting Cap. This is what he says about that cycle that keeps getting repeated. He says there is a cycle to temptation, and we are given a warning to be careful if we think we are standing firm. It is when we think we are standing firm that temptation can overpower us. Paul tells us that God will not let you be tempted, quote, beyond what you can bear, end quote. Then he says, Oh, the wonderful grace of God. He is faithful to not let this temptation be more than we can bear, but will also provide a way out. That's something to be praising God for. He says in his own personal testimony, I was constantly in this cycle of standing, being bombarded with temptation And falling, temptation would always overpower me. But the truth of Scripture is this: He, God, is faithful to not allow more than you can bear, so that you can stand up under it. Sin will not have dominion over you, as we said earlier in the service. For you are not under law, but under grace. He is where we can stand firm because He is the way out. Christ is the way out of temptation. It is by his faithful grace which gives us the ability to escape the temptations that are common, ordinary to man. Can escape. Israel could learn the lesson and escape this constant cycle. Dear believers Do not get stuck in the cycle of defeat. Seek the way of escape provided by your faithful God every time you are tempted. Seek Christ, and He will deliver you. He will give you the way out. He is the way out. But now let us move forward and see what else happens after the defeat. Verse 23. three. But the king of Ai they took alive. Everybody else got killed. The king of Ai they took alive and brought him near to Joshua. When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the open wilderness. where they pursued them. And all of them were to the very last had fallen by the edge of the sword. All Israel returned to I and struck it down with the edge of the sword. And all who fell that day, both men and women, were twelve thousand, all the people of I. But Joshua did not draw back his hand with which he stretched out the javelin until he had devoted all the inhabitants of I to destruction. So he he obeys God even in the holding forth of that javelin. What we see here in his holding forth that javelin is his is a parallel to Moses. Joshua is the replacement. For Moses. What did Moses do at the Red Sea? He held out that rod, and what happened to the sea? As long as he held forth that rod, the waters were swept back, and Israel went through on dry. Moses also uses the staff in the battle of Rephedim between the Israelites and the Amalekites. It's recorded in Exodus 17. He holds up his arms, holding the rod of God, and the Israelites prevail. When he drops his arms, their enemies gain the upper hand. So two men came and held up his arms. But now let us go on to verse 27. Only the livestock and the spoil of that city, Israel took it. So Joshua burned I and made it forever a heap of ruins, as it is to to this day. But what happens to the king? What happens to the king of I? Verse twenty-nine. And he hanged the king of I on a tree until till evening. And at sunset Joshua commanded, and they took his body down from the tree, and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised over it a heap of stones, a great heap of stones. Which stands there to this day. That is in fulfillment of God's instructions back in Deuteronomy, where it says in Deuteronomy 21, verse 2 Verses 22 and 23. If a man has committed a crime punishable by death, and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree, his body shall not remain remain all night on the tree, but you shall bury him the same day. For a hanged man is cursed by God. You shall not defile your land that the Lord your God has given you for an inheritance. And so they did not defile the land by letting the king hang On the tree, the stake, whatever it was, in the night. And this, by the way, I believe very clearly points forward to another king. who will be hanged on a tree under the just sentence of God. Who is that? Christ. Because the Apostle Paul tells us in Galatians 2. 3. Christ redeemed us. That is, he paid the price to purchase us out. That's what redeemed means. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. And then this, for it is written, cursed is everyone who is hanged on a Deuteronomy. And from this example, the king of I deserved this. Hanging on a tree, being cursed, so do we. For we have all broken the law of God. Christ did not deserve it. He never broke the law of God But he willingly went to the cursed tree in our place. Praise the Lord for that. And now we see the last part of the chapter, something very, very important. Important for us to think about carefully today. Joshua renews the covenant. Verse 30. At that time Joshua built an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal. That's what Elder Spaulding read about from Deuteronomy 7. That was the instruction given there that when you get into the promised land, you're to go to this place. Now Ebal, and you're to do this. So this is what Joshua is doing. He's obeying God. Just as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded the people of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses. An altar of uncut stones upon which no man has wielded an iron tool. And they offered on it burnt offerings to the Lord and sacrificed peace offerings. And there, in the presence of the people of Israel, he wrote on the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he had written. and all Israel, sojourner, as well as native born, with their elders and their officers and their judges, stood on opposite sides of the ark before the Levitical priests, who carried the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, half of them in front of Mount Gerazim, half of them in front of Mount Ebal, just as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded at the first, to bless the people of Israel. And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law. And there was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel, and the women, and the little ones, even children. Are supposed to be in church, aren't they? And the sojourners who lived among them. So let us look at this for a moment. The setting is the blessings and cursings at Mount Ebal. And Mount Gerizim. This is in fulfillment of Deuteronomy 27 and 28. There the Lord told Israel when they came into the promised land to come to these mountains. To build an altar, to sacrifice to the Lord, and to read the law of God. The altar was to be made of uncut stones. That is, they were not to make something fancy out of human ingenuity, but to take what God had already created and make of it a place of sacrifice for Him. This is the place of atonement. This is the place of reconciliation, the place of redemption, and the place of peace. Mount Ebal is which one of them those mountains. Is it the mountain of blessing or the mountain of cursing? It is the mountain of cursing. And that is where the altar is to stand. Stand at the mountain of cursing. In keeping with the command of God in Deuteronomy 27, the altar was built on the mountain of cursing, Mount Ebal. And we need, folks. That's what it's teaching us. We need the atoning sacrifice at exactly the point where our sin and our failures are revealed. And God's curse is pronounced on our Our sin, that's where we need God's mercy and the altar to be given to us. Christ came and stood in the place of our having been cursed As we read before, no one is justified by the law, but Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written, cursed, Mount Ebal is everyone who was hanged on a tree. And Christ was cursed for us. So we see that very beautifully depicted here, and people who Would read these things earlier later on and understand the gospel of Christ, would see, yes, wow, God was doing this. He was showing it forth so much earlier. And we see one more thing here that's Needs to be carefully thought about. Covenant renewal. Covenant renewal. God had made a covenant long before, and he had told them how to enact The covenant, and it had been enacted. But now they are to renew the covenant, and they offer burnt offerings to the Lord. And then it says, and they sacrifice peace. offerings. Burnt offerings are one thing. Peace offerings are another thing. And what we have here, I use this word advisedly, we have nothing less than Divine intercourse. You have an appropriate act of worship and consecration to God following a great victory, but this thing called the peace offering Made to God was also to be eaten by the Israelites in the presence of God. Usually you just think of the sacrifice, it's consumed, it goes up to God, you don't get anywhere near it. But this is a strange thing. This peace offering is One that they actually sit down and eat. It's made to God, and yet it's eaten by the people of God. Nothing less than divine intercourse. The peace offering was the only sacrifice worshippers could eat. It is described in Leviticus 7. Only the part of the animal and the cereal was offered up, and the rest was left for the person bringing Bringing the offering, and anyone else in the vicinity of the sanctuary to consume. Leviticus chapter 7. Being at peace with God is an amazing occasion. Indeed, eating. And by the way, for many Israelites, this may have been the very rare time when they got to eat meat. Our celebration of the Lord's Supper here is a peace offering. It is a divine intercourse. The atonement has already been made. Christ died on the cross on Mount Calvary for us. The wrath of God was poured out on him. He was consumed by God's wrath. And yet he remains, he remains, risen from death, ascended into heaven, and We eat of God. That's why these words are the words that we have. This is my body. This is the blood of the covenant Not just like or similes or metaphors or something, but these words which shake us and make us think hard about what does this mean? What is this? He remains with us even though he was sacrificed for us. And we eat God by faith and have peace. Fellows Fellowship with God. And as we see it historically developed in the early church, the church recognizes facts When we came to the table of the Lord, it's a peace offering. We eat with God and we eat of God and we eat with each other. And the Didicay, written about one of puts it this way, on every Lord's day, his special day, come together and break bread, that's communion, and give thanks. First confessing your sins so that your sacrifice may be pure. Anyone at variance with his neighbor must not join you until they are reconciled, lest your sacrifice be defiled. Peace is depicted and inactive. In the eating of this meal. Virtually all historic churches, from Orthodox and Roman Catholic to Anglican, Lutheran, and Reformed, this is according to Hughes. Oliphant Old, virtually all historic churches have recognized this and practiced some form of what is called the peace at communion. After the consecration Creation, the prayer of God blessing the elements for our use. It's called the epiclesis. But before the eating and drinking, many Protestant Reformed churches have said something Something regarding the peace. The peace. Many churches have readopted this as the holy kiss. It's described in the New Testament That members extend a pure warm welcome that is referred to as a holy kiss. I actually experienced this once when I was a student at Moody Bible Institute. I went to an Assyria Presbyterian Church to teach Sunday school. That was my assignment for a while. And uh, you know, uh at the time of communion, I'm standing there in the pew and suddenly some guy turns around and grabs me and kisses me. me you know and it's like wow the holy kiss they're taking this literally now we're used to maybe shaking hands but not even that here This is, by the way, particularly, if you think high church only does this, no, it's particularly practiced and is very important to Anabaptist groups, Mennonites and German brethren and other groups like that. They do this literally. The men worship in one place and the women on the other side of the gathering, so it's not back and forth, but they actually kiss. And it's not a kiss on the cheek like I got in the Assyrian Presbyterian Church. It is mouth to mouth, according to so uh you'd want to brush your teeth Real good. We don't do that. We're not going to enact that. I'm not trying to get you s oh no, what's he going to do now? But what we do in recognition of this, and I hope you'll at least understand it. better now is after the consecration, but before we eat, we do have this little thing called the peace. And I say, the peace of the Lord be with you Let us eat and drink as God's reconciled children. That's where we get it. From the early church and going back to the peace offering. Of the Old Testament. After that, what happened? Then Joshua read the law. He wrote the stones, the law on the stones. They put placer over the stones, and then he wrote the law. I don't know how you can write all that, but maybe it's abbreviated in Hebrew capitals or something like that. And he wrote this as an act of obedience You see Joshua, the man of the book, obeying the command of God, keeping the law ever before him. So there they were. on these mountains. Half of them were in front of Mount Gerizim, half of them in front of Mount Ebal. And according to all reports, this was a beautiful place and an effective place to read the law. kind of a natural amphitheater. And everyone could hear because of the contour of that particular land. And they attended the reading of Allah. It took a while. They attended and we are to attend the preaching of God's word. It's a very high priority to God's people. This obedience, by the way, was at a great cost and inconvenience. Even on a cold day, because the distance from I to Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim was about 20 miles, that's a long way to r to move all the tribes of Israel to a complex. What God had said to do. Christian, I make this application to you. As long as you live, you will need to attend regularly and engage very personally In covenant renewal worship. Robert Godfrey says this the Christian must give highest priority to the outward institution Of the Word, both in preaching and in sacraments. As God came to us in the incarnation, so He continues to come to us through outward means to accomplish His purpose. They are the means that God has appointed and through which he works by His Spirit. End of quote. I put it to you this way. Here in gathered worship, which doesn't seem all that awesome, but here in gathered worship we see The awesome or awful justice of God against sin. How do we see it? Because we remember the cross. That is the justice of God against sin, is it not? We speak of death and body and blood every Lord's day. Here we see the awful justice of God against us. Sin. Don't forget it. And here you view the mercy of God in providing a remembrance of the one altar sacrifice Where atonement was made. And here we eat and drink the peace, the communion, the divine intercourse. That God has provided for us. And here we attend the reading of the law, the law, word of God for our sanctification. It's very important. It's not incidental. It's not something that should be casually discarded. Are these things your priority? Are they your joyful obedience? Your mainstay? If they are, such resolve is beautifully expressed in this one stanza that I'm going to read in close It's from a hymn in our hymn book called Baptized into Thy Name, Most Holy, 415. And the last stanza, number six, says this. This is the result. all we should have. And never let my purpose falter, O Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, but keep me faithful to thine altar till thou shalt call me from my post. So unto thee I live and die, and praise thee evermore on high. Lest this be our resolve as well. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this narrative of your working so long ago and in such interesting, amazing ways. Thank you that we have. Seen in the hanging of the king on the tree, that our king, for our sake, was hanged on a tree and became The curse and redeemed us from the curse of the law. We thank you for his offering of himself on the cross for our salvation and making peace which we Remember as we eat and drink and have our fellowship, our communion with you. Praise you for these things. In Jesus' name, amen.