Psalm one twenty-four, a definite favorite of mine, a song of ascent of David. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side, when people rose up against us, Then they would have swallowed us up alive. When their anger was kindled against us, then the flood would have swept us away The torrent would have gone over us. Then over us would have gone the raging waters. Blessed be the Lord who has not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we have escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth. Psalm 124 is a thanksgiving which teaches that Israel's very existence is owed to God who rescued them. In the first part, Israel's enemies are compared to a great sea dragon, verses 2b through 3a. And you could compare that to the descriptions in Jeremiah 51, 34. They are also compared to a flood in verses 3b through 5. Compare again Isaiah 51, 9 through 10. The Psalm heightens the malice of human enemies by linking them to the primordial enemies found in God's creation, this sea dragon and this great flood. And then another figure appears. Israel is a bird freed from the trapper's snare in verses six through eight. probably referring to the original freeing from Pharaoh in Egypt, and perhaps thereafter from other current dangers that happened. About this psalm, there's this historic story. Listen. This is from Horatius Bonard, Scottish minister. Becoming a minister of Edinburgh about 1573, the Reverend John Dury was conspicuous in the conflicts between the church and the king. And in many ways suffered for his outspokenness. In 1575, he expressed himself strongly in the General Assembly against prelacy And was supported by Andrew Melville. For reflecting on the Duke of Lennox and others in a sermon preached on the 23rd of May 1582 he was called before the Privy Council and ordered to leave Edinburgh. Soon, however, he got leave to return, and on his arrival at Leith, on the fourth of September About two hundred of the people of Edinburgh met him at the Gallow Green and welcomed him on entering the town. There the number increased till he found himself in the midst of a company of two thousand, who began to sing as they moved up the long high street Now Israel may say, and that in truth, etc. They sang in four parts with deep solemnity. All joining in the well-known tune and psalm. They were much moved themselves, and so were all who heard. And one of the chief persecutors is said to have been more alarmed at this sight and song than at anything he had seen in Scotland. So let's look at this psalm. First, a bold assertion. A bold assertion. In the opening two verses, we find David's bold assertion: if it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us. The bold assertion, simply put, is that Yahweh was on Israel's side. David repeats this claim, and it is indeed a claim that bears repetition. It is a confidence-building meditation and repetition. David expectantly desires God's people to repeat these words in order to exalt the Lord and comfort their hearts. Now, this is a very controversial confession, at least in our day. To claim to have God on one side is a bold and astounding statement in a world that has embraced religious pluralism. If you say that God is on your side, then you'll be called a bigot. And by the way, religious pluralism was as much in vogue in David's day as it is in ours. Clearly, David believed that there was a side that God was on, and a side on which he was not. God was on the side of his people and not on the side of his enemies. This raises a vital principle for us to grasp. The church does and believers do have enemies. We have enemies because God has enemies. Those who hate God also hate those who belong to God. In John 15, verses 18 through 20, Jesus said to his disciples, If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own But because you were not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. So God does take sides, and God does have enemies, and we also have enemies. Also, consider this. The controversial confession serves to highlight that there are many so-called gods, but only one true God. The God who created heaven and earth is the true God, and all others are impostors. We must acknowledge this if we will face our enemies with hope. Since God does indeed take sides, we need to be careful how we frame our understanding of this subject. I'm not suggesting that God has a favorite sports team. That God was recently perhaps on Tampa Bay's side versus Kansas City in the Super Bowl. I do not mean to suggest that God had a favorite side even in the Civil War. Or that he favors America over another. I am not saying that God necessarily has a favorite political party. Though I would be comfortable saying that God would favor a truly Christian party. But God does favor his people over his enemies. He may providentially, and does sometimes, allow his favored ones to suffer at the hands of those whom he does not favor, as when he allowed the Babylonians to carry Judah into captivity. But he does nevertheless favor his own over those who are not his own. Thirdly, consider this. You must be careful that you are on the right side, on God's side. This is vital, eternally vital. Remember and be humbled that God chooses whose side he is on. And this Psalm, Yahweh being on your side, is the primary emphasis. This can only follow the Lord's sovereign and gracious choice to be on your side. The reason you're on the right side is because God chose you, not otherwise. Remember that you will face challenges in the Christian life. David speaks of a time when men rose up against us. He is honest about the power of evil that surrounds God's people. It's a great threat. So learn to see your individual trials as simultaneously corporate David no doubt felt the pressure of particular trials, but he speaks in corporate terms, us Kidner says, primarily the praise is corporate, blessing God for the survival of his people under the most formidable attacks and most pitiless bondage. Peterson equally helpfully comments on the corporate character of this psalm, saying, One person announces the theme, and then everyone joins in. It's a liturgical thing. The leader says, now let Israel say. And then they all respond. It's the norm among God's people to say these things. Secondly, please note, a humble admission. In the second major section of the psalm, we find David's humble admission. If God had not been on Israel's side, Then the flood would have swept us away. The torrent would have gone over us. Then over us would have gone the raging waters. David here honestly and humbly acknowledges what would have happened if the Lord had not been on their side. It would have been bad, very bad indeed. They would not have survived. We need to have such honest humility. When the Lord takes our cause, not brash, bravado, that we somehow outsmarted the enemy and won, but that the Lord is the one who delivered Listen to what is said in the Heidelberg Catechism Sixth Petition on Lord's Day 52. About the phrase in the Lord's Prayer, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Here's what it says: Since we are so weak in ourselves, That we cannot stand a moment, while our deadly enemies, the devil, the world, and our own flesh, assail us without ceasing. Be pleased to preserve and strengthen us by the power of thy Holy Spirit, that we may make firm stand against them, and not sink in this spiritual war until we have come off at last with complete Victory. That is the honest confession. We are weak. We cannot stand. And we need God. You must cry with David, The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear, he will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. David, when he was Confronting the great Goliath as a lad, David in no way suggests that they could muster the courage and capability to overcome the enemy on their own. There is no machoism on display here. There is no tough guy approach, but rather an honest assessment of how bad things are and how bad they could be and could have been if the Lord had not been on their side. Can you relate? Though you probably cannot relate to people militantly attacking you like David It could. Nevertheless, you can relate to the sense of being overwhelmed by trials and tribulations, and the realization that if the Lord had not been your help, you would have been destroyed. I can think back to moments, to situations You can relate to the sense of being punched in the gut and being swallowed up by heartache due to hostility of others. A sense of despair. You may relate to the sense of being emotionally and physically and even spiritually overwhelmed by the downpour of trials, the experience of being depressed. You may relate to the sense of being inundated by torrential streams of hardships and heartache, the sense of being disoriented. You may relate to the sense of the waters of trials rising to the point where you may despair as everything seems to be washed away in a flood. But in such scenarios, what has been your experience? The Lord has come to your aid What do you expect when you face such things again in the future? You know what he did in the past. Count your many blessings. You can expect that the Lord will come to your aid. What therefore should be your praise in the meantime and in those difficult moments? To know and to run to, to praise and to trust in the name of the Lord. You must at the same time confess what would absolutely be inevitable if the Lord were not on your side, that you would have no ultimate hope Evil dragons will seek to slay you, yet the Lord is the dragon slayer in Revelation 12. Jesus crushed the serpent's head, and he can therefore crush any opposition that you face today. When secularism seems so daunting, when enemies hurt you by slander, malice, caustic criticisms. When people are heartless and thoughtless, even in the church, when false doctrine envelops the churches When professing Christians break your heart, and they do sometimes, and when persecutors seek to derail you, if not destroy you, whatever your trial, whatever your opposition, Take heart that you would have been crushed were not the Lord on your side. And then thirdly, join David's blessed acknowledgement in verses six and seven. Blessed be the Lord who has not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we have escaped. Admitting his and their dependence on the Lord, David breaks forth into a celebratory confession. He has counted his blessings, and now he celebrates the blesser by blessing him. We bring great honor to God when we break forth in praise to him. Of course, to do this requires reflection, both during and after the trials. You need to give serious thought to all that He has delivered you from. Furthermore, you dare not forget the greatest deliverance that any of us has ever experienced by the Lord being on your side. Even if you cannot relate to all the above threats and persecution scenarios, if you are a Christian, then you can relate to far more serious matters. By the name of the Lord, you were delivered from spiritual death, from slavery to sin, self, and Satan. Ultimately, you were delivered from something far more dangerous and far more destructive than the wrath of man. By the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, you were delivered from the damnation of God. Finally, in verse 8, David's confident attitude, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. The experience has strengthened and confirmed David's faith, and he ends the psalm with a confident confession of faith. In fact, it can be argued that this entire psalm is a confession of faith. David is not ashamed to declare that there is only one God and that he is the one who created heaven and earth. This is an absolute declaration and therefore one that at the same time rejects all other claims to deity. David was no postmodern theologian. We should note here the reference to creation. It is Yahweh who made heaven and earth. The doctrine of creation is important for our confidence. It is not a doctrine of secondary importance. We begin our creeds with this doctrine. It is of immense importance. The biblical writers constantly refer to creation in their confession of faith in the one true God. If you do not worship the God who made the universe, then you are worshiping a false God. This verse is also called In Latin, it is called a votum. Votum. That's the name of the sermon, if you see it in the worship folder. Which just means vow. In ancient Roman religion, a votum is a vow or promise made to a deity. So this is a vow that we make to God and God makes to us. And it has become something very cherished in the reformed world. I will read now this little bit of an article from Reformed Worship. Since the days of John Calvin, Reformed Worship Services have begun with the Votum. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Its use at the beginning of worship actually dates back to the Roman Mass of the Middle Ages. But after the Reformation this text became something of reformed liturgical icon. That one verse encapsulates much of what Calvin and centuries of Reformed folk believed about worship, our relationship with God, and about our understanding of the divine. We begin worship by acknowledging our weakness and our dependency upon God. This is the Big G God, the God who created the universe, not the gods of money, success, or a good harvest. Our help is in the name of Yahweh, the Lord who is, I am who I am. The Hebrew tetragrammaton that is so holy that it may not be spoken aloud, and for which we substitute the word Lord. Do you get a sense of how counter-cultural the votem is? By uttering it at the beginning of worship, we create the context in which the worship conversation is to occur. We don't worship by our own power or for our own entertainment, nor do we worship to appease God. From the very beginning to the very end, worship is about our dependence on the Lord and our responses to God's grace. We are saved from our enemies, even from death itself, only because the Lord is on our side. So ends the quote from Reformed Worship. Conclusion. First, whom do you put your trust in? That is of immense importance. What you believe about God does matter. You must therefore do all you can to learn about the God who has revealed Himself in the Holy Scriptures. Second, it is helpful to reflect on God's preservation of Israel over the course of history. The history of Israel has a great deal to teach us about the character of God. As the New Testament makes abundantly clear, he has not changed. Third, remember that history is heading somewhere. This is why God preserved Israel. He was preserving his seed. And God is faithful to keep his covenant. Fourth, God's preservation of his people is at the same time his preservation of his promises and purposes. The three, God's people, God's promises, and God's purposes, are inseparable. We should learn to read our Bible this way. Let us learn to humble ourselves. Let us grow in our knowledge of God. Let us reflect on His preservation of His people and His purposes and respond as David did by blessing God. Let us not be shy to bless his name publicly. Let us confess our vulnerability Let us drop any facade of toughness. When you are faced with dawning circumstances, ask the important question. What if the Lord was not on my side? And then answer, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth Amen. Lord, we thank you that we may join in David's blessing you. And calling upon your people to repeat again and again your glorious love for your people, your promise to deliver your people Thankfulness for what you have delivered us from already, and thankfulness that you will continue to deliver us, and remembrance that we are weak. And that our help is in the name of the great creator of heaven and earth, the covenant-making God Yahweh. Who sent his one and only Son to destroy our enemies and to deliver us forever. We pray in his name. Amen.