Congregation of the Lord, my uh text this morning uh will be Isaiah chapter 50, verses 4 through 11. So if you want to follow along in your Bible, it will be Isaiah 50. Verses 4 to 11. This passage of scripture is referred to as the third servant song. We've looked already at the first two in the last previous weeks. And the theme of this song is the inner life of the perfect disciple. The inner life of the perfect disciple. It is Jesus' own testimony about why he was discipled, about what his discipleship involved. And what sustained him in his dark days of being a disciple It was written so that we would and could identify the perfect disciple when he would come, Jesus. Who was the Son of God or is the Son of God made flesh for our salvation? And it was also written to encourage us, his followers, as sometimes wary followers to encourage us uh in the way. And so as we look now at this passage, let's give our ears and our minds to what King Jesus has to say to us, we would follow after him. The first thing in verse 4 that we hear is why the Lord Jesus was disciple. He says, The Lord God has given me the tongue of those who are taught, that I may know how to sustain with the word him who is weary. When you go to school and are educated with any degree, a law degree, a trade degree, an arts degree, whatever the degree may be You receive the tongue of that profession. And you can use it then to educate others about that profession, to give them help. according to that profession or even to encourage those who are on the way and aspiring to that profession as well. Jesus was made a disciple so that he, from personal experience, would know how to encourage weary sinners Weary saints and weary disciples, followers of him The phrase, those who are taught, uh, is in Hebrew Lemidum or Lemudim And in Isaiah 8. 16, it gets translated as disciples. It means disciples. Bind up the testimony. Seal the teaching among my disciples. So Jesus is saying here that he is a disciple. And part of discipleship congregation that we learn here is knowing how to encourage other disciples in the way. And we need to remember this, that we are all on the way as disciples of Jesus. Nobody's made it We're all learning, and we all need that constant encouragement as learners to keep at it and to keep going. As we uh sang carols yesterday in our caroling event and and shared the good news of King Jesus with our neighbors, I could all I could do and think to myself was As I was interacting and meeting with people, especially people who had no idea who Jesus was, I thought, they are like sheep without a shepherd, right? They need to come and learn from King Jesus what it means to be a human being. They don't know. They need to come and be one of his disciples. And as I did that too, it just also just reminded me too that We're all still disciples. And those who are disciples and are learning what it means to be man, human, from the Son of God who became one. That we're still learning. We need to show much grace to each other. We need to show a lot of encouragement to one another. In the next uh part of verse 4, Jesus sort of gives us discipleship in a nutshell He says, morning by morning, he awakens or will awaken. He will awaken my ear to hear as those who are taught. A disciple is a student, and discipleship is every day, morning by morning. Our Lord Jesus was not treated any differently than the rest of God's disciples. His own teacher, his heavenly father, woke him up every morning to go to class to be taught As we know, as we've learned, as we believe, that though Jesus existed eternally as the Son of God, he became a man. And as a man, he had to learn as a man. And that's by instruction. And let me give a word of encouragement to you young children. I know it's hard in our pride to receive instruction, and maybe even adults, it's hard to receive instruction in our pride, but there is no other way to learn wisdom. There's no other way to learn righteousness but to humble yourself and to be instructed, to be taught. Jesus was instructed as a man by his father. He read, he studied God's word as the gospel makes clear to us. He went to church. He heard God's word taught. He interacted with the teachers, with the rabbis. He prayed over God's word. Because that's what it means to be a disciple, to be awakened to God's world. That's what God does for us today. He awakens us spiritually. And then he awakens us every day, morning by morning, to go to class with him To learn. Every day we are taught in God's school of grace, His church, with His people, how to be a human being. How to live as a man, a woman, how to live in a just, holy, and loving society. in community. Because apart from God's instruction, apart from his awakening, as the world testifies to, we don't live. As we ought to live. We don't live a human life. We don't live hot holy and just and loving. But that is what we are being discipled for in Christ's church. The Spirit of Jesus, the perfect disciple, is what has been given to us at Pentecost. He who is in you as a follower of Christ is greater than the spirit in the world. That spirit of the perfect disciple. Is the one animating in you and living in you, praying as following Jesus, giving thanks at your meals as following Jesus. Being instructed and taught God's word is following Jesus. Putting that into practice in your life is following Jesus. That's what it means to be a disciple. To follow Jesus, not in the strength of our flesh, but as one who has come to the end of themselves. Said, Lord, help me. Give me your spirit. That I might follow you. Discipleship, though, is more than just learning. What we learn from God, we must put into practice. And we must practice what we learn even when it's hard. I don't know what the Navy says. I don't know what the Air Force says. Is anybody army here? I don't know what the army says. But I know what the Marines say. If it ain't raining, we ain't training. Oh yeah, Ray Larry. That's right. Ray Raining. We ain't training. In verse 5, our Lord goes on and he describes the sufferings. That he endured as obedient to God as coming from that obedience. And not from rebellion as his enemies thought. They thought he was a Sabbath breaker They thought he was a blasphemer, and his being hung on a cross was God's just just punishment for someone who would dare to say he's the Messiah who is so lowly, so normal But Jesus wants us to know here that his sufferings came from his obedience. Lord God has opened my ear, verse 5. And I was not rebellious, I turned not backward. To have an open ear is to have a listening ear To have God open your ear is to have God make you responsive to his word. If you are not responsive to God's word, you need to pray, open my ear to your word. All ears are shut And all hearts are closed until God opens them. Pray, God, open my heart. Open my ear You may have seen a child put their hands over their ears when they dislike what mommy and daddy is saying to them. But Jesus never did that. He kept his ear open. He never gave his father any pushback. That's what it means when it says, I was not rebellious. And he never quit. That's what it means when it says, I turn not backward. For Jesus to quit, for any disciple to quit. is to fall into sin. It would have been to fall into sin of Jesus to turn back because that's the way to go. You can't turn out to the right. You can't turn out to the left. You certainly can't turn backwards. We turn backwards from God for many reasons. Distrust. I know that's why I turned well out of the way. I distrusted God. I love Psalm 23, don't you? He will bring us back to his way for his name's sake, the paths of righteousness. We let fear overcome us. And we turn out of the way. We let our passions rule in us. Our lust, our burning desires. We turn out of the way. We need new desires. Paul writes strong language, the spirit lust after the things of the Spirit. We need the lust after the things of the Spirit to burn and yearn for them and let them consume the sinful lust. passions in us. If you are ever tempted to turn back, congregation. Or if you are in that temptation right now and have turned back and fallen into sin. Remember, you do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize. He has been tempted in every way that every one of you will ever be tempted. And the good news is. He did it without sin. See, he has the strength and he has the word to get you through without sin. Because he's been through it all. He knows the path. So go to him in mercy. So mercy means I've turned out of the way and I need forgiveness. I need you to be merciful to him. But not only that, go to him for grace. I need help because this is really trying. The situation I'm presently in, I know the path, and I know what your word says, and I know what I should be doing. Or I know I should become a Christian, I know I should profess you before men, I know I should get baptized, I know I should do these things, but you're not. Well, you will never do it until you ask for grace. You will never follow God until you turn to Him for grace. You will never keep following God until you go to Him daily for grace. This is what Jesus went through for. This is why he exists. He might be the source of all-saving power. An all-saving grace to those who will believe on him for everlasting life. In the next verse as we go on now to it, I find it quite remarkable because it speaks of our Lord's willingness to embrace pain and shame as a disciple, as he was met with that pain and that shame in his path of righteousness that his father put them on. That nothing and not even the cross itself could turn our Lord out of that path. Because I know how little opposition can turn me out of the path. Because this is also what discipleship means. It means to carry your cross and to follow Jesus. And here is where the true tongue, it's it's it's under the cross. It's the learning you receive. When you carry the cross, here is where the true tongue of encouragement is learned. I gave my back to those who strike. And my cheeks to those who pull out the beard, I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting Our Lord is saying here, I let my enemies physically disgrace me, mar me. They scored my back with a whip, pierced my flesh with nails, they smote me on the street's face and mocked me. And I also let them insult me to my face, and even spit at it. He didn't do this because he enjoyed it. He did this because he wasn't going to be turned out of the path as God's servant. He was called of God to bring salvation to the ends of the earth. He was going to let nothing turn him from obedience to his father. That is so great because Adam turned out of the way Israel turned out of the way. Good news: Christ never turned out of the way. And has redeemed us through his obedience. And we as well, congregation, cannot let any amount of pain or shame turn us from our calling as Christians. To bring the good news of Jesus' salvation to the ends of the earth, even right here in St. Mary's County. And it's wonderful that our Lord goes on because He tells us how we too can do this. He tells us how we too can willingly by faith embrace this suffering and not be defeated or overcome by it, but to overcome it. And it's really just in the same manner that our Lord did it. How did Jesus overcome the cross? Well he says in verse 7, this is what this is how he counseled himself. Some of you may know who Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones is a preacher of a past age, and he wrote a book, um spiritual it's counseling for Christians, spiritual counsel. But he talks about often in the Christian life we don't talk enough to ourselves. We listen, but we don't speak to ourselves. We don't tell the truth to ourselves. We don't tell ourselves what's true, but we just listen. And here you see, here's Jesus speaking the truth to himself, but the Lord God helps me. Or the Lord God will help me. Therefore, I have not been disgraced. Therefore, I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. That's what Jesus said to himself as he set his face to obedience. Our Lord, he had divine aid, he had divine help. He knew he wasn't left alone. You're not left alone as a disciple. The promised help of the resurrection and the glory to follow kept Jesus from being overcome by the disgrace of the cross. And I think that the fear of disgrace may be the greatest enemy that you and I face and will face in following Jesus. Jesus knew that he would be vindicated, that he had nothing to fear, and so he paid his sufferings. No attention at all. That's what it means. I've set my face like a flint. Have you ever tried slapping flint? Or a hard stone as a person? Or spitting on it? You're only hurting yourself. And you're just wasting your spit. You know, all of Jesus' enemies were just harming themselves, wasting their breath, wasting their spit Because our Lord had many promises. He had the promise that God would not abandon his soul to Hades. He would not be left disgraced. He would not be cast off. He trusted in God and he knew God would not fail him. But would vindicate it. And therefore, he learned obedience with what he saw. Verses 8 and 9 give us more detail on the kind of help that Jesus trusted in He who vindicates me is near. Who will contend with me? Let us stand up together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me. Oh the Lord God helps me. Who will declare me guilty? Behold, all of them will wear out like a garment. The moth will eat them up. These two verses, all that language I just read to you, it's all legal language. From a from a law court, lawyers and judges and counsel defendants and opponents and adversaries It speaks of our Lord's false arrest and condemnation before Caiaphas, his sufferings under Pontius Pilate. That he willingly endured in the confidence of his future vindication. You know, having God as your help doesn't mean you're going to not go through sufferings. It means the sufferings aren't the final word. Glory is for those who will follow Jesus and go through. I think to summarize or sort of paraphrase these verses, they're saying something like this: Victory in God's court, where it matters, is mine. That's what he means by saying, who vindicates me is near. He is certain that God will vindicate him. Victory is mine, and therefore let my accusers come. Bring it on. But he wants them to take this to heart. Yahweh, the Lord God, my Lord, the I am, he will defend me. He says to them, your suit is hopeless. That's what it means. Who was going to declare me guilty? Your suit is hopeless. But take this to heart. All my opponents will be no more. They'll wear out like a garment. The moth will eat them up. Where is Pilate today? Where's Caiaphas today? Where are the Jews who persecuted Christ? Called for his blood. They're no more. They're worn out like a garment and faded long ago from this earth. The moth has eaten them up, and they're no more here Where is Christ? He's been reigning for 2,025 years. Vindicate. Glorified and alive forevermore. His trust was vindicated. He trusted in his father to save him, and he did. Trusted his father, vindicated. And he did. He trusted to the judge who would judge him justly. You know, each of our own wardrobe. Let your own wardrobe testify this to you. As your clothes are doomed to fade away. I I have favorite shirts now. I can't preserve them. My wife gets rid of them. Let your own wardrobe testify to this fact, as as your clothes are doomed to fade away, so is every opponent of Jesus. To escape the doom of hell is what he's talking about here. This is what God requires of each of you And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee should bow. In heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord for the glory of God the Father If you do that, you will live forever. If you have never done that, do that. Confess Jesus as Lord your Lord. Bend the knee to him, and you will live forever. And that ends this servant song. The last two verses, verses 9 and, or excuse me, 10 and 11, are an epilogue to it. They are the servant's word of encouragement to his weary followers, but they're also his word of warning to his well-to-do critics. Who among you fears the Lord and obeys the voice of his servant, who walks in darkness, has no light, trust in the name of the Lord, or let him trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God Do you know what it is to fear the Lord? I find it helpful what God did thousands of years ago at Mount Sinai to put that very fear in his people. You know he came to them in a thunderstorm. in lightning and a loud trumpet. And they said, don't talk to us anymore, we'll die. And those said, he's not come to kill you. Don't fear that. But he's come to put his fear in you, so you won't sin. Maybe go home today and think about how you would respond to a thunderstorm if it came and talked to you. I'd say, yes, Mr. Thunderstorm. I'll do what you say. Well God is the maker of that thunderstorm. You are so puny He could wipe you out in an instant. Like a thunderstorm could obliterate you in a moment. And yet he has not come to destroy you. He's come to save you and his son. Say, yes, King Jesus. I'll listen to you. I'll follow you. Because that's what it means if you're the Lord here. And every agent meant to obey the voice of his servant. His servant Moses, his servant the prophet, and in this age, the age of the Messiah and his kingdom, it means to obey the voice of King Jesus, to do what King Jesus says. Now we don't always walk in darkness as disciples, and it sounds kind of strange that we walk in darkness because we follow the light. So darkness here for the believer is not talking about moral rebellion and opposition and And living in unbelief and sin and and like that, though we we do sin. Darkness here is referring to going through painful in distressing circumstances without any relief. K kinda like the situation Jesus was talking about on the cross that our Lord went through. So we all go through those, believers go through those, unbelievers go through those difficult and painful circumstances. Really what these two verses are getting at is what you do with uh that darkness that every human being walks in is going to determine where you spend eternity, either with Christ and His kingdom or cast from His presence in hell. To trust in the Lord's name and to rely upon your God means to make Him your refuge. It means to find peace and security in God. It means to let Him guide you in your darkness. Proverbs 18:10 says, the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous man, the follower of Jesus, runs into it and is safe. Isaiah 42, 16 says, And I will lead the blind in a way that they don't know, in paths that they have not known. I'll guide them. I will Turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them As a disciple, you're going to come into times where you're going to lack knowledge and understanding. You're going to be confused. Painfully, maybe in confusion, because you don't know what to do. You may experience injustice and not receive judgment and to be treated and persecuted uh because of your faith. You know, Paul in Romans 8, he kind of gives a list. of the darkness that we might go through. Tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, sword. Even listen to this dark day. And then he quotes Psalm 44, for your sake we're being killed all the day long. We're regarded as sheep as to be slaughtered. It's a pretty dark day that God puts his people through. But notice their confidence. For your sake, Lord We're going through this. You know, you can be treated that way and not turn from God. It's possible. Christ did it, and the Spirit of Christ in you. You can do it. In Amos 5. 8, God says, he who made Pleiades and Orion, the stars, the constellation, who turns deep Darkness in the morning. In fact, the Hebrew here in this text for darkness is in the plural, which either means dark days upon dark days or just deep darkness He darkens the day into night who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth. The Lord is his name. As quickly as you might have fallen into a dark day, as quickly God can turn it into light. Turn to him in your darkness. Go before him. Acknowledge the distress, pain, confusion, agony you're in. But trust a minute. Make him your refuge. Don't rely upon man and upon flesh. It will fail. It'll turn out of the way. That is worse than following. If you aren't in these days, because we're not always in these days, as you know, brothers and sisters You may not be, but there certainly is some Christian somewhere in this world who is. So pray for that and remember that. My word to the younger, the youth here is to befriend the older and mature Christians in the congregation. Don't just socialize with your friends after the service. Get to know the older Christians because they can help you in your dark days. They've been through them. They can counsel you to trust in the Lord as someone who's done it too. Because It means a lot more when someone who's been through I remember the 90-year-old man who told my freshman seminary class, God cares more for your ministry than you do. I thought, wow. He's learned that over six decades, as he told us of serving God. It means a lot when it comes from a tried saint to trust in the Lord. It means, you know, Jesus is telling you, as one who did it, trust in the Lord. And our Lord's final word here is, for his well-to-do critics, refuses light. Build all you who kindle the fire, who equip yourselves with burning torches, walk by the light of your fire and by the torches that you have kindled. This you have for my hand, you shall lie down in torment. The picture here is of people who are trying to light their own fires, or they've lit their own fires. Then take in firebrands or wood and torches out of that fire they lit and now can't circle themselves around it so that they would have a warm place to sleep. A place of light to drive away the dark critters at night and give them some security. It's people who live in the darkness of this world, the distress and pain and misery that every human being is born into this world And they are trying to deal with that with themselves, their own light, their own lying light. Whether that be a false religion, no religion. Wealth, pleasures, whatever it is that people seek to mitigate the misery of this world, that's what Jesus is talking about. It's not a matter of is man or will man be in darkness in this world without light. It's a matter of what are you doing in your darkness? What do you do in your distress? Do you turn to the Lord or do you trust in yourself? Do you turn to his word? Do you go to his people? Or do you turn to lies? Turn to fleeting pleasures of the moment. Turn the TV on. I don't know. We all are walking it. We all will walk in it. I can't help but think that these people are lighting their own fires. So they won't have to join the church and embrace the darkness of the cross. That were called to, as followers of Christ. They'd rather have a lighter way, an easier way. But there just is no other way. Trust and obey. Jesus says walk by the light of your fire, he means let your lies Let life's fleeting pleasures console you. That's what you've turned to. Let them console you. But the life of seeming ease that they think they have He says ends in certain pain. This you have for my hands. You shall lie down in torment. They're laying down right by their own self-made lights And their self-sufficient ease. They found a way to get through. They found a way they don't have to turn to the life of Jesus to deal with their life. But he says they will take their lasting rest in pain. You shall lie down. in torment. Please do not take that rest. Please turn to the Lord Jesus and your darkness. I thought about singing how far a foundation, right? You know that words. I only design your your draws to consume. The cross and what we endure as Christians is not for destruction. God does not intend your destruction as his people. Jesus bore your destruction on the cross. He suffered your judgment and penalty. As destructive as it may look, and sometimes it can look bleak. If you know church history, it is not for your destruction. Do not take that painful rest in hell, but believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. I close with these words to you, to remind you, congregation, that in Jesus Christ you have already been vindicated. You have been declared righteous. Judgment day is behind you. Your greatest fear, God's wrath, has been removed by his love in giving his son to die for you. So face your darkness in this life in the confidence that nothing can separate you from the love of God. And conquer the pain and the shame and the confusion and the distress as you follow Christ in this life. Conquer it all through Him who loved you. And gave himself for you, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen