Please turn in your Bibles to Jeremiah chapter twenty-three. We'll read the first six verses. Jeremiah twenty-three, one through six. Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, declares the Lord. the Lord. Therefore, thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherd to care for my people. You have scattered my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares the Lord. Then I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and I will bring them back to their fold, and they shall be fruitful and multiply. I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely. And shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In his days, Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. And this is the name by which he will be called. The Lord is our righteousness. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Next Wednesday we will celebrate the 501st anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. And the question will knock down, was that a mistake? Actually, the great majority of Americans don't stop even to consider such a question. They're too busy doing Halloween. Halloween, what a misnomer. All saints, Eve, when the whole emphasis of the twisted celebration is upon wickedness Devils and goblins. But the truth is that in fifteen seventeen an event occurred that radically affected the state of the Christian church Church worldwide. So if you ask some knowledgeable Protestants The question they may say it wasn't a mistake when Martin Luther posted on the cathedral church door his 95 C Against the apostasy of the church of his day. Right doctrine, and in truth, the very gospel was restored to the Christian church I say some, hopefully many, will say that. But still others may respond. If the Reformation indeed was not a mistake, and that it brought back right Christian teachings We give you this our bland comment. That's cool. Like, whatever. They're concerned with life, not doctrine, with feeling good And if they believe in God at all, they construe Him as a distant deity who has little relationship with their real-life existence. But let's not get too puffed up and utter a disparaging whatever has become of people today. How sad. No, it is valuable for us to consider carefully the question whether the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century was indeed a Protestant. mistake. And we're going to answer, surprise, surprise. No I ask you to stay with me, congregation, for this matter is of extreme weight and importance. But first, we must establish a context for the question. In its early centuries, the church was keenly interested in doctrine as the ancient Ecumenical creeds reveal quite clearly. But then the medieval church sadly began to Invent unbiblical doctrines and eventually strayed far from the biblical gospel. Then on April seventeenth, fifteen twenty-one, Martin Luther shocked the Diet of Worms. An ecclesiastical court charging Luther with heresy and calling the church back to what he believed to be the biblical truth, with his courageous words. It is impossible for me to recant unless I am proved to be wrong by the testimony of Scripture. My conscience is bound to the Word of God. It is neither safe nor sane to act against one's conscience. Here I stand. God help me. I cannot do otherwise. Those were Luther's words. Then we get to the Reformation in other countries, notably Switzerland, with John Calvin in Geneva. At the Pope's behest, a certain Cardinal Jacobo Sadoleto Wrote in elegant Latin, a clever address, to the Christians there in Geneva, Switzerland, seeking to restore them to the Roman Catholic fold. And Calvin wrote a no less brilliant reply. You can read all about it in a small volume called a Reformation Debate. Check it out. I will refer to what these two men said The Reformation was indeed not a mistake, and for many reasons, notably two: Sola scriptura and sola fide. The Bible alone and faith alone. What is the final authority in all religious truth? And how is sinful man brought back to God The first is found in Ephesians 2. 20, and the second in Ephesians 2, 8 through 10 are texts for this sermon. Today. First, the formal issue, the formal issue. Or what is the final authority? Answer: Sola scriptura, the Bible alone. And for this we look at Ephesians 2:20. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. You could reverse those for Old and New Testament. Christ Jesus being the cornerstone Apostles and prophets, or prophets and apostles, that's a code phrase for the Bible, folks. Old and New Testaments, with Christ Jesus as the heart and center of both. As your pastor and I, and those of you who attend in the evening have found over these past months, looking through the Psalms, Christ Jesus is there. For Luther, sola scriptura implies that neither the tradition of the church fathers, nor the Pope, and his magisterium, that's the Cardinals, Nor the councils of the church, but only Holy Scripture must be the source and judge of all questions of faith and teaching With his sola scriptura, Luther turned away from all human authorities and based himself On a principle outside and above the ecclesiastical tradition of teaching. God alone must speak, and He speaks Through the Bible. Calvin likewise says, Scripture comes from God. I'm quoting him. Scripture is the vehicle. The Bible must be read as if it were the voice of God Himself, which is to be heard there. The reader does not meet in Scripture a teaching or a theory, but the living Word of God. Noticeable in Calvin's view of Scripture is the strong emphasis on the witness of the Holy Spirit, by which a person is opened up. By God Himself in his or her meeting by that word. Thus the Bible equals the Word of God. But still, we need our eyes opened in order to believe it. But now listen to two different voices on the question. Just who interprets the Bible. Sadiletto first. Quote The church Has regenerated us to God in Christ, has nourished and confirmed us instructed us what to think, what to believe, wherein to place our hope, and also taught us by what way we must tend toward heaven. Unquote. Saddelletto. Now I ask you, is that what Paul means by built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus? Jesus himself being this cornerstone. Cardinal Sadileto proposes rather sola ecclesia. Not sola scriptura. He introduces a third party, the church. Between God's word and the individual heart and mind of the believer is interposed the judgmental authority of the church. The organization on Earth through its views Now we must be careful here, folks. There is a fundamental difference between that proposal of the Roman Catholic Church and preaching. As it is exercised in the Protestant church and in this church. Preaching is not the official and indisputable interpretation of the Bible. Here is the preaching, receive what is said by the preacher so long as it conforms to the plain words of the Bible. A message from God. True, hearers have help from the creeds of the church Nothing wrong with that. But in the final analysis, their firm conviction of the meaning of Scripture comes from the Holy Spirit of God giving witness Within the heart and mind of the hearer, that what is preached is what the word says Saddaletto, on the other hand, proposes that this is what happens with Protestantism. I'll tell you. you. They tear the spouse of Christ in pieces. How many sects have torn the church Then Calvin answers in the Reformation debate. You're right. We do risk division into a hundred factions But we had to do it, whatever it cost. Yes, Calvin did admit that Protestantism had already, within 25 years, begun to fracture Little knowing, perhaps, to what extent this would be further made worse as the centuries have rolled past. But I suspect that Calvin would not have wavered in his determination to recover the true gospel according to the Word of God. even if he had possessed infallible foresight, and could have anticipated unhappily the diversity into which Protestant Christianity Has fallen. It's sometimes alleged that the Catholic Church has its pope and magisterium. And the Protestant Church has its creeds and confessions. But the two, my friends, are not on an equal par. As we've already indicated, the Catholic basis of truth is not the Bible, but the Bible as interpreted by the Church Calvin's authority, however, was the same as Paul's. In Ephesians 2. 20, our text. and prophets, with Christ Jesus the cornerstone. That is the Bible The creeds are statements of what the Reformation Church hears the Bible saying. And those creeds may and must be changed Changed whenever it is found that they are out of accord with the Bible itself. Sola scriptura So the point at issue here in our first major point in this sermon is the formal one. Just where is your final authority? Mormonisms, Joseph Smith asks himself, which church is right When confronted with the myriad of denominations. Sadly, he did not answer with sola scriptura. He supposedly found another basis of truth, which we don't have to go into this morning. But I ask you today, congregation gathered here in 2018. What is your final authority for what you believe? Let the Reformation, which was not a mistake, tell you Scriptura sola. Now, secondly, that's the formal issue. Now, the material issue. How is a person justified before God? Or as we put it before, how is sinful mankind brought back into a right relationship with God, given the fact that they have fallen into sin? Now we get into the question of what does this Bible, which is our final authority, say about those things. You see, you really need to get to this issue because even if you are formally correct You have the right authority. You believe that all correct doctrine must find its home in Scripture alone. Nothing will have been gained if you never consider it. That Bible in humility and prayer for the Holy Spirit's light and discover materially what that Bible, the source of all truth. And most especially what that Bible says about how you can be saved from eternal hell. That is your destination, unless you are blessed with the material of salvation. By grace through faith in Jesus Christ. All your formal correctness. About authority will do you no good unless you hear, receive, and believe the gospel. And just what is that gospel? That Paul tells us in Ephesians 2, 8 through 10, which we read earlier. As he assured the believers in Ephesus 2,000 years ago. Hear it once more. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not of work, result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Yes, the second sola of the Reformation is this one, Sola Fide, by faith alone. But even that sola is intimately connected with three other solas. Sola Grazia, by grace. Alone, sola Christus, by Christ alone, with the result of sola dei gloria. To God alone be the glory. But we may say that all of those three other solas might be summarized in sola fide. Because by faith, that is, by open hands alone, is highlighted the source, accomplishment, and the reception of salvation. And just whom alone is to be praised for it. You don't go out and get it. God gives it to you by faith alone. If justification before God is received by faith alone, then the blessed sinner who believes the gospel is saved not because of anything that he or she has done. Not are you ready? Not even by having faith. But by the sheer and lavish grace of God, who is himself the giver of the gift of that faith by which they rest. Upon the atoning work of Jesus Christ. Saddelletto and Calvin had it. And had at it with each other on just this point, the material issue of the Reformation And they did so with equal fervor and seriousness as they did with the other, the formal issue. And once more, Calvin comes out, we might say humbly The winner. John Calvin himself would reject that term, insisting that he was but an unworthy witness to his precious Savior. By clearly sticking to the word of the gospel. But here's Sadileto's charge. Again, I quote him. About the material issue of salvation. Quote the blood of Christ forms the first access which we have to God. But it is not enough. For what else does this name of justice signify Or what other meaning and idea does it present to us if regard is not had in it to good works Calvin had an answer, and his reply presents the true gospel. Calvin said, As all mankind are in the sight of God lost sinners, We hold that Christ is their only righteousness alone, since by his obedience he has wiped off our transgressions. and by his death made satisfaction for us. We maintain, Calvin's still speaking, we maintain that in this way man is reconciled in Christ to God the Father by no merit of his own. by no value of works, but by gratuitous mercy. Justified by faith alone. Sola fide Truly, that is the Bible's view of justification. It is without works and is found throughout the New Testament and the Old Testament too. Romans 4, 6. Just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works. And the source of our righteousness is outside ourselves, according to Paul's writing in 2 Corinthians 5:19. In Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them. Nevertheless, congregation, we must understand also the inseparability of faith and works. Works, you know what I mean by that, don't you? Doing the right thing, obeying God. Works are not for justification, but as proof of Justification. First Corinthians 1:30 says as much. He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom God has made our wisdom and our righteousness. and sanctification. How then does God justify sinners? Through the cross of Christ. Where in the words of Psalm 85:10, steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. There, God's justice is satisfied because Jesus bore the penalty due you. For Jesus' good work of dying becomes yours by grace, because you also Lived for you by grace. You understand what I'm saying? God justifies sinners by revealing his mind-boggling name. Here's a little Hebrew. Yahweh Sidekanu. The Lord is our righteousness. Jeremiah 23, 6 For he is not only righteous, he in Christ is your righteousness. Yahweh Sidekana. What then of Sadoleto's complaint? Of Protestant antinomianism, big word. Antinomianism means against law or paying no regard to living as God commands. That's what Sadalow says us that we Protestants are do Well, the Bible, we don't, because the Bible makes abundantly clear that works in the believer's life are not the cause. But the proof of justification. As the Apostle James puts it. Show me your faith without your works. And I will show you my faith by my works. And then it's so clearly seen in Ephesians 2. 10. As we need also to read again. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before him. that we should walk in them. And God even goes so far as to declare that He will cite those works as the identifying marks of His redeemed people on the final day of judgment. Showing not why they are innocent, but that they are innocent. They are the ones who should be declared innocent because Christ died for them. Remember Jesus' words in Matthew 25. For I was hungry, and you gave me food. And he said more. Works are badges of redemption, friends. Badges Or John 5. 29, speaking of the Resurrection Day, Jesus says, all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good through the resurrection of life. People say, doesn't that mean that they They get to live because they've done good? No. The opposite is true. They're badges. They've done good because they've come to life. Then hear Paul in 2 Corinthians 5:10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ So that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body. Another verse that people sometimes really get confused. Oh, what they've done in the body will be taken into account when the decision is made whether they go to heaven Not so, the opposite. Badges again. Revelation 2013. John speaking by revelation of the great white throne judgment writes, and they were judged. each one of them according to what they had done. Not crowns, badges No wonder that our Westminster Confession of Faith says, these good works done in obedience to God's commandments are the It doesn't say badges like I've been hammering away at. It says are the fruits and evidences of a true and lively faith. And by them believers glorify God, whose workmanship they are, created in Christ Jesus thereunto. That having their fruit unto holiness, they may have the end, eternal life. Do you get it? You see, faith by which alone sola fide One is united to Christ and thus becomes a recipient of all the blessings that flow from that union with Him. Forgiveness of sins, imputation of Christ's righteousness, justification, adoption Sanctification, glorification, and eternal life. Faith is not itself alone. But is always accompanied by love, which often in Scripture is shorthand For good works. Galatians 3:6. Only faith working through love counts for anything. Nevertheless, don't be confused. The ground The basis, the foundation, the cause, the determining factor of your justification is alone The work of Christ Jesus, both his active and passive obedience, imputed to you solely of God's grace and received By faith alone. There, my brothers and sisters, is the material issue of the Reformation, which was indeed not a mistake. Sola fide, by faith alone, and not by works. The question that is left to you then is this. Does the source of your authority for religious truth matter? And does the gospel Matter. The Reformation answered with a mighty affirmation to both. Yes Do you two say yes today? Amen. Let's pray Oh Lord, sometimes people think that we Christians believe that we're going to heaven because we're good. They're wrong. We don't believe that. If we were going to heaven by faith in Jesus Christ We're getting there because you're good, you're merciful, and you not only have given us the faith to trust in Jesus Christ, but you've also given us the fruits of the of that faith. And we are growing in sanctification. Not as fast as we would like to, but we are growing. And that's why we come every Sunday morning. Morning, and we confess our sins before you, and we ask for your pardon. Because we know that we are not good in ourselves yet, but we have been declared good. For Jesus' sake, now and forever. Hallelujah. Praise to you, O God. Amen