Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul, Galatians, his letter to the Galatians, and we'll read together verses 18 through 29. So Galatians chapter 3, beginning at verse 18, hear the word of the Lord. For if the inheritance comes by the law, It no longer comes by promise, but God gave it to Abraham by a promise Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary. Now, an intermediary implies more than one: God is one. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now, before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female. Or you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs, according to promise. And our gospel reading this morning comes from John chapter 8, beginning at verse 48 through to verse 59. There's many things here. I'll point out something I want you to see, how faith in Jesus brings eternal life not just from hearing the doctrine, but faith is as we're going to look in the sermons mysteriously unites us to Jesus Christ. And you can understand the stunningness of this to the Pharisees who can't understand how if we listen to Jesus we'll live forever. John chapter 8, beginning at verse 48, hear the word of the Lord. The Jews answered him: Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father. You dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you: if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death Je said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say He is our God. You have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it, was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones and throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. This is the word of the Lord. It is my joy and my undeserved privilege to again speak to you, congregation, in the name of the Lord and from the Word of the Lord. And the words of the Lord that I wish to address you this morning are found in Paul's letter to the Galatians, verses 25, 26, and in particular 27, as we'll be celebrating the sacrament of baptism today. So Galatians 20 3, 25 through 27, I'll read them again to you. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. Now I want you all to imagine something here for a moment. I know we are just jumping right into this uh letter and so What's Paul addressing here? Imagine uh this situation. Maybe you have a son or a daughter or a child who's gone off to college and is coming back after their first semester Or possibly this child has has finished his college education and is now maybe in between job, his finishing, and the job he's waiting for. There's a little bit of time, and so there's a little bit of gap, so he's coming home Or maybe it's a favorite niece or nephew of yours. Either way, they're coming back home. Now imagine if this child returning home for this interim time wanted you to treat them like a six-year-old And say, will you please give me a bedtime again? Will you please lay out your clothes for me? Uh I need you to pick my clothes. Will you please let me know when I can be excused from the table and what I must eat and on and on. Please tell me the different shows I may and may not watch and all these things. Now you might be thinking, what is wrong with this child? This seems very strange that this child who has grown up Which is right. Uh we are called to maturity and to mature and grow up, um, to leave and cleave, etc. Now the come back and to want to go back uh under the guardianship of your parents as if you were six years old again. You would say, you're kind of acting strange. And that's what Paul is saying to the Galatian Christians who have been called to this wonderful freedom in Christ, graciously called by God, and then somebody has come and convinced them You all need circumcision, you all need to observe days, months, years, you all need to forgo these foods, etc. and to bring them back under that that bondage as in you were a child. And so what Paul is trying to do in this letter is And bring us back to the heart of the gospel, but also speak to us, speak to you, speak to the church of the church's immense privilege. to be in Christ. The church has immense privilege to live in the days when the faith has come. The church is immense privilege to come of age and be sons of God and partake in these works and be treated with the heav by the Heavenly Father on these terms of this maturity in Jesus Christ. So what's going on in these verses? If you we'll look at them briefly together, in verse 25, Paul says, but now that faith has come. If you look back in the previous verse there in 24, it talks about we are under this guardian until Christ came, faith coming and Christ coming are synonymous. If you look back up under talks about the revelation of Christ being uh revealed to us So Jesus coming and doing his redemptive work is the same thing as faith coming and Paul saying that now that this faith has come, We are no longer under a guardian. And in verse 26, he explains to us the reason that is, because in Christ Jesus You are all sons of God through faith. Now what does the apostle mean by that in Christ Jesus You are all sons of God through faith. Wasn't Israel called a a son of God under the Old Testament? Didn't Yahweh speak to his people in Deuteronomy, I bringing my children and raising them and dealing with them Why now is the church especially called sons of God? Well, that's because what the apostle means here by faith coming, or the very last phrase there in verse 26, uh, through faith. He's talking about in the gospel revelation when it has been made manifest before our eyes, we didn't personally see it because we weren't on earth then But as it has been recorded to us in scriptures, proclaimed, as the Spirit illuminates our hearts to see it, as it's heard throughout the world, we've seen in the revelation of the gospel that God is not just the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but he is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel reveals to us that God has a Son, Jesus, who took on flesh, and he is the God and Father of Him. And when Jesus came and did this work on the cross, Redeemed us, redeemed us out from under that law which was in place until Christ would come. Do this work of redemption. and raised bodily from the grave three days later as the new creation, as the new Lord and heir, as we uh read about in Psalm 8 That we now have again a man who has dominion over the works of the Lord's hands, Jesus Christ? It is our privilege in being united to him to grow up with him as he has been exalted in glory, given an imperishable So that's what he means by faith. All those who believe this word of God, all those who hear this gospel message, this revelation of God's Son, as it is proclaimed, as it is recorded in Scripture, all those who believe that message receive who God is. who Jesus Christ is, who understand what his work is, who put their faith and trust in him, he's saying, through this faith In Jesus Christ, you were all sons of God. So sons of God is a term that really means you've come of age. Paul makes it clear in chapter 4, which we're not going to go into, but says, what I mean is that the heir, as long as these child's no different than a slave, Israel was the heir Israel was chosen and beloved of God, but they weren't of age yet because Christ had not come yet, and it is our privilege today as Christians. To live in this mature state of things in God's redemptive economy as sons of God. That is our privilege. Not to be told, you need to wash this, you need to not eat this, you need to observe this. It is our privilege. To live in the Spirit and walk in the Spirit and do the works of God in Jesus Christ as his sons. So that's how Paul explains the fact that because Christ has come, done his work, died for our sins, buried away the old. Rose three days later as the new, exalted, glorified man, and our being joined to him, then comes flows all of our privileges and who we are, united to the resurrected and glorified Christ. That explains then why we are sons of God through faith, through receiving this revelation of God. And then in verse 27, the apostle supports this, but also by and large just reasserts this. Using symbolical language, using the symbol of baptism, Paul is by and large in verse 27 making the same point that he makes in verse 26. that in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. Verse 27 is what I want to look at for a moment with you. There's two things we see there. The main thing that this that this text is dealing with is our union with Jesus Christ. Believers are one with Christ. And Paul says two things in this passage. He says, How is it that we get into Christ? Verse 26, he said that we are in Christ, and because we're in him, we're sons of God through faith. But how did we get into him? Paul says you have gotten into him by being baptized into him. And then Paul tells us, well, what are we now that we're in Christ? He says you have put on Christ, or you've been clothed with Christ. So how have we gotten into Christ? And what are we now that we're in Christ? Well how we got into Christ is by baptism Now, Paul is not primarily speaking here about water baptism, the outward symbol. That outward symbol is pointing to the work of the Holy Spirit. First Corinthians twelve thirteen, the Apostle Paul tells us that by the Spirit of God We have been baptized into the one body of Jesus Christ. He reiterates this idea that there's now these not these distinguishing marks. We'll talk about that in a moment. And we're made to drink of the Holy Spirit. So by baptism here, Paul is first primary reference is to the Holy Spirit baptizing us into Christ. But that is rightly by God's appointment, by Christ's appointment, symbolized to us in the rite of water or the rite of baptism. So you have got into Christ by being baptized into by the Holy Spirit and under the influence of the continual influences of the Holy Spirit, we maintain that faith union with Jesus. Jesus reveals who He is. He says, I'm Savior, and you claim to Him as Savior If he reveals to you that he's Lord, you go to him as Lord and you receive from him as server. Remember, it is the Lord's responsibility. To provide for the servants in his house. He says, I'm Lord, he says, I'm at the Father's right hand. He says, The riches of glory are mine Then come to him and receive the riches of glory, the things you need to serve him in this life. So Jesus reveals who he is. And under the influence of the Spirit, there is a real personal faith union that you maintain with Him, receiving all that He is as He reveals Himself to you That you cling to him. So we have gotten into Christ by being baptized by the Spirit, symbolized for us in our water baptism. But what is it now that we are in Christ? Well, it means that we put him on. We are clothed with Christ. Now this language of putting on Christ, I will still know thunder from Reverend Tyson. I believe he's going to be preaching on the new birth tonight in the Ephesians and Talking about putting off the old and putting on the new. That has its place in the New Testament. By putting on Christ, we're talking about how we are transformed again into his image. Paul's not dealing here with the transformation of putting on Christ and being clothed. He's dealing with our status of what we are just as Christians and put on Christ. And I'm going to roughly paraphrased uh John Brown, a Scottish minister, in his commentary on this, because I didn't bring it with me in the pulpit, but so it's a rough paraphrase. But what he's talking about is As Christians, we we are treated as if we have merited what Christ has merited and deserved what Christ has deserved, right? And part of really getting this And sitting with this and appreciating what the Apostle Paul is saying here is if you actually, if you do know the story of Jesus Christ. If you're aware of the life that he's lived and understand something of the holy warfare that he maintained. You know, as Christians, we right are born again in Christ and equipped for that warfare, and yet we struggle, right? And we give in to temptation, we fall. So to really appreciate what Paul's talking about, his meditating on the person and work of Jesus In his earthly life and what he did as the revelation of God and his humility and patience, forbearance long suffering and goodness in his obedience to the Father. That we it's not hard for us to imagine the delight The Heavenly Father must have in His Son for the life that He lived, because it's the only one that has merited eternal life and is at His right hand. No those sons of men, though by By nature we're called the children of God, coming birthed from Adam, yet none of us have been distinguished to be seated at the Father's right hand but Christ, and it's in Him that we are and restore So, kind of understanding what Paul's talking about here is that when the Father looks at us, it's as if for all he sees is Christ. And we have put on him and as it were become one with Jesus Christ. And we deserve what he has done. And we are treated As if we have done what he has done. That's Paul's meaning here. So we have gone into Christ through the baptism of the Holy Spirit. What it means to be in Christ, one of the things it means to be in Christ that the apostle is talking about here is you're clothed in him, right? You wear his perfect purity, his perfect innocence, right? His perfect righteousness. That is the one whom you go before the Father with. If you try going on your sanctification, it's very hard. But we draw near to the Lord. Because of what Christ has done and clothed to us. And it's and the significance of that is it's because that enables us to go before the Lord and then grow in grace in the Father's presence. The Christian life. This is why it's so important to go back to Galatians regularly, and I was reminded again this week when I was talking to an individual and asked them if they needed salvation. Well, I don't think so. I think I'm doing pretty good. Try asking somebody sometime what they think Christianity is. And my bet is you'll find many people say, well, it's just about doing good. Yes, you will do good as a Christian. But it's about this grace of baptism. It's about receiving being received as God's child through the work of what Jesus Christ has done for us. It's about wearing Christ and trusting with Him and coming to know the Father's love because He loves us and growing in that. What I want to do in making application here, because one of the things I want to do for us is I want us to appreciate our baptism all of our life. I don't want baptism to be that thing I did 30 years ago, three years ago, three minutes ago. Whatever, but something, you know, how can we profit and make use of this baptism every day in our lives? Well, the word baptize in very many uh usages in the New Testament refers to washing In fact, it's just translated like that in Mark 7. All the washings that the Pharisees did and washing their cups, washing their couches, etc. , is the word baptizo. So baptism often just means uh purifying cleansing and washing. So I want us to have that image then of being washed. Put on Christ is is the word for clothing ourselves. John wore the clothing, was clothed in camel's hair. The Roman soldiers clothed Jesus in purple. So you have the image through these two words here, baptizo and duo, that means being washed and cleansed. Now I think many of us can imagine that. There's been plenty of stories written in the history of the world of that dirty uh child. who has no parents, whose fortunes are no good in this world, and if left in that state, right, probably ending to a life of crime and destitution, etc. And some benevolent figure, person, right, washing them and clothing them and taking them into their house and giving them a future. That is what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. Washed us, clothed us, taken us into his house, and given us a future. And all you children here got a word for you this morning? How many of you have been told by your parents? Because you're so dirty, playing in the uh hose and you're covered in mud, covered in fields And your mama, your papa tell you, your grandmother, until you wash and change your clothes, you aren't coming in this house. Children, we cannot come into God's house until He washes us and clothes us. You children have been baptized. Then it's God pledging to you and symbolizing to you that He has washed you clean by the blood of Jesus, washed your sin and defilement away. He has clothed you with Christ, made you new in the Spirit, and brought you into His house that you may live with Him. And that is what our baptism should preach to us every day of our lives. Whether you're nearing the end of it. Or whether you're a little child, parents, grandparents, uh, the parents of this church, speak to the children of this church, remind them you have been washed, reminded of their baptized. You have been clothed. You have been taken into God's house. You are a child of God and belong to them. Because if you just preach do this and don't do this They're going to get the idea of Christianity's law and they're going to be really struggling with, well, where's the grace? And why do we need a baptizer named Jesus? Because John said he's going to baptize us with the Spirit and Jesus said that happened at Pentecost. So why do we need Jesus a baptizer if you're just telling me do this and don't do that? Now there are do this and don't do that. Don't take it the wrong way, but Preach your the baptism to your children. That's why God has put it on them early in this house when he brought it in. They would understand our footing is upon Graze Sarfothing is upon Sai. God has pledged and sealed his goodwill to these children Pledge that he's washed them and clothed them and accepted them, bring them up in the f in the knowledge of their heavenly father's goodwill and paternal care to them, their love of their older brother Jesus, who's the Lord and the heir of the house. Remind them of who they are and that Jesus has everything they need to stay in this house and to serve in this house And that's not just a word for the youngins. Remind yourselves, uh dear elderly Christians here, and all of you Christians, when you roll out of bed before you go take that water bath My myself, I've been washed, and I have been clothed. I have been taken into God's house. I serve the Heavenly Father. Jesus is my older brother, my Lord. Think of him God has point him there as the Savior, think of Joseph and his brother's right. God would be the worst thing ever to bow down to Joseph Oh, weren't they so happy to fall at his feet when God had made him prince over Egypt as a Savior to provide so they would be spared seeing their families starved to death Jesus is that older brother to us. He holds no ill will towards us. He has been appointed there by the Father to be our Savior. He says what Joseph said, you meant it for ill, God meant it for good, and I'm with my father, and I'll do you good. So just draw out for me what you need. I've been appointed at his right hand, made a life-giving spirit, been given all authority and power to be your Savior and your children. I don't think I need to apply anymore, but let your baptism, dearly beloved, preach to you every day. It's because you are in Jesus Christ that we call ourselves sons of God. And it is because Christ has died and risen and seated at the right hand that it's our joy to live not under the old covenant stipulations, but the new covenant. With that law written on our hearts, with the knowledge of God, serving Christ in this growing up world. Reflect upon it. Look at what God has done in this world in 2,000 years when he grew his church up Think about what he's taken. All of us idle worshiping sinners who couldn't be trusted with anything, washed us, clothed us, put us in his house, and now used by God to destroy Satan's kingdom. To bring down the greatest enemy of man, we have been empowered by Christ to do. Marvel at what God has done in his grace. Marvel at how He has raised us up, the human race, to this height of glory in His sheer goodness. Amen.