Congregation of the Lord, as you've gathered this morning, we're going to talk about the washing that we have received through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And God did call us into his fellowship by his Spirit working in us, working faith in us, to make us one with the Savior Jesus, that in that transformation, in that work of God, in that new creation, And making us uh new in Christ, God has truly cleansed us. And what He's cleansed us from is sin. He's washed us from fills. But as you do as well when you take your daily or weekly bath, I don't know how often you do that. You do it because you want to be clean because you just need to get ready for bed or tomorrow you're going on a date, right? That when we are washed from something, it's because we're washing for something We've got to keep these together. We have been saved from sin and its consequences. We've been washed from sin that we might serve God, that we might be his children, that we have been washed from filth that we might be lost for fellowship with God in his house. I think the Apostle Paul Although he doesn't mention baptism here, and as we'll see, that's because it's implied there, because baptism, as we've learned and we'll hit again as we see in this first question, baptism is really just the sign and seal of the gospel. And Paul talks about the gospel here in Ephesians 2, that I know you're very familiar with, where he talks about what we were. This is what God watched us from. This is what he's watched us for, when he says, you were dead in trespasses and sins. You once walked in those. That was your life outside of Christ. You followed the course of this world. The world is still on its ungodly course. Walking against God and flowing sadly to its destruction. Following the prince of the power from the air, the evil one The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. There you go, that's what we were, sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. That's what we were, Paul says And God found us and Christ is why he opened up a fountain. But what does he say we are now? But God being rich in mercy because of the great love. Which he loved us with. Even when we are dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. By his grace you've been saved, you've been raised with him, seated with him in heavenly places The coming age might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards you. For by grace you've been saved through faith, but it's not your own, it's a gift, right? That we might notice he says, for his workmanship, create in Christ for good works. So what were we well? It's never pleasant to say the words, but we were children of the devil. Sons of disobedience. When Adam fell, we lost everything. God had promised us everything in his covenant of life with Adam, made a sure way for Adam and his progeny to live forever in God's blessedness. And Adam Sin and we receive the that sin and that guilt And that loss of original uprightness, out of which then flows our own sins, of which we are guilty before God. And we had no inheritance. All we had was the curse of death. And in God in his justice We fell under also the tyranny of the evil one. And that's such good news about the good news when Jesus says, I bound him. And I'm freeing his house, but it's only because Jesus has come and taken us out of that house. Blood bought us by his blood and redeemed us, called us then that we belong to him and are no longer this Because we've been washed from being sons of disobedience to being children of God for good works. So I just want to As we we look at what the catechism is teaching, good things on baptism, I just don't want us to leave the big picture. The point is you have been washed in Christ from that. from that old life and sin or your new life to serve God and to have fellowship with God to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. You've been washed from being children of the devil and sons of disobedience to be children of God. This morning uh these questions uh present us with three truths of the function of baptism. We've already seen that baptism, like all sacraments, are signs and seals, and so we're gonna look uh uh uh at baptism and how it functions as a sign and seal, assuring us and showing us that we have a share in Christ's sacrifice, that his death on the cross personally benefits us as we heard last week. All of God's gospel word and all of God's sacraments are focusing our faith not on faith, but on the grounds of our salvation, the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And so we want to see how does baptism function And then secondly, the significance of baptism. Baptism is a sign. But what is it pointing to? What is the significance of baptism? And then thirdly, the authenticity of it, that it is a true sign. Jesus instituted it not as an empty sign as meaningless but as a true sign. So that's what we're going to look at this morning. And then I have some applications for us on living out the baptized life. So first The function of baptism, that's uh question sixty-nine when a catechism asks, well, how does it remind and assure you that Christ was sacrifice on the cross benefits you? And the first thing it it it does that is, well, Jesus instituted it. And uh we read the words of institution in question seventy-one. Uh Peter in the first sermon preached, the uh Pentecost, the first Christian sermon. also preached baptism in the name of Jesus, right? He said, Repent, be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, forgiveness of your sins. Now the Greek here isn't into the name as it is in Matthew, being baptized into the name. Of the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, but in meaning and the risen Lord's power and authority by his command If you believe this good news that I just preached to you, if you will truly do what I've said, repent because you crucified him, but I've just told you God's raised him and made him Lord in Christ. So if you will turn from crucifying Jesus to confessing Jesus, from persecuting Jesus, as Paul said, to living to please Jesus in his own conversion. Then be baptized in his name by his express command. And as you see, ties to that, forgiveness of sin and receipt of the Holy Spirit Later on in Peter's first letter, he dealing with the significance of baptism talks about how baptism saves. And we want to know how does baptism save? How does it function? Well, Jesus the institute is outward washing, but he promised that as surely as water washes away the dirt from your body Jesus is saying, So surely my blood and my spirit wash away your soul's impurity. Now in first Peter three twenty-one Peter writes this. Baptism, which corresponds to this, and what's it corresponding to? Noah and how through water they were, as Peter says, safely brought through water. Baptism corresponds to this It now saves you, not as removal of dirt from the body. So Jesus instituted a washing that removes dirt from our body, right? Whether you're sprinkled. Whether you had water poured on your head, whether you were fully dipped, the ideal there is you were washed. We use water to wash dirt from our bodies. Peter talks about that's not how baptism saves. Baptism saves as a sign and seal of the gospel. He goes on to tell us, but as an appeal to God, For a good conscience. And where does this come from? Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Remember, we learned last week, right, the resurrection teaches us we're no longer in our sins. If Jesus had not risen from the dead, then he had not atoned for our sins. He himself was a real sinner, and he's just suffering the penalty like you and I do. But because he died and three days later, as God said he would, we can know for certain he bore the punishment of our sins. And we are no longer in our sins on the basis of the gospel We can appeal to God for a good conscience. Wash my sins away, right? Notice what he's saying. We're appealing not on the basis of your repentance. You're not appealing on the basis of your faith. You're appealing on the basis of the gospel, of what Jesus Christ accomplished. And baptism is a sign and seal of that gospel. That's how it saves, is what Peter's saying. Not the water washing, but what that baptism points to, Jesus' baptism on the cross, his suffering in our place. the judgment falling on him, and which we know he bore, because now he's alive in proof for our justification. We are acquitted And no longer on their condemnation, we can appeal to God then for forgiveness of our sins. We can appeal to God to cleanse us Take away the guilt. Have a good conscience that we might draw near to God because, you know, as we sung, as and as Paul learned, uh our sins are against God. We provoked him to his face We've persecuted him if you've ever persecuted the church. If you've ever laughed at a Christian, you've laughed at Christ. If you've ever mocked a Christian, you've mocked Christ. He's one with his people. If you've ever sinned, you've sinned against God. Your Lord, your creator, and you said no to him. You know, if we have a hard time as children Drawing near to parents when we sin, or siblings, or spouses, or brothers and sisters in the Lord. Imagine the difficulty it would be for us to draw near to God. If he did not give us not the gospel, but even then a nice sign and seal of it, right? That he has, for Jesus' sake, washed us clean Then we can appeal to that good conscience and leave it all behind. So that's how baptism functions. It functions by way of a simile, right? Just as water washes outwardly our bodies, so the blood and spirit of Jesus wash inwardly our souls. Our confession uses this language. At least since St. Augustine's day in the fifth century, when he died in 430, the church has been referring to sacraments as outward signs of an inward and spiritual reality. I think that's a fine way to think about it. If I could daringly add to it, I would say that also promises an outward transformation too. Because Paul says if we have been united in Jesus' death, so we are inwardly clean, we're also going to be united in his resurrection and be outwardly transformed too. But in in an inward or excuse me, an outward sign. Depicting and showing an inward and spiritual reality that as we are truly one with Jesus, we are truly washed by his blood. How many of you doubt the power of a shower, right, to cleanse you? It cleanses you. Without a doubt, water cleanses you. And let me just make a comment here. There's a reason Jesus picked water, not mud, to depict his work on the cross, right? You didn't just arbitrarily pick something. This is what we call the sacramental union, or what's the relationship between the sign and this thing signify. There's a real relationship between them. Just as water washes, Jesus wants to know his blood and spirit truly wash us. So that's how baptism functions, as a simile, as a likeness of what is done outwardly to you in the baptism. This is what God, by His grace, has done inwardly to you in cleansing you by the blood of Jesus in the Spirit of Jesus. Well then, what's the significance then? What what what what does the blood cleanse us from? What does the Spirit cleanse us from? Well the blood cleanses us from really the guilt of our sins The blood of Jesus shed, right? We have forgiveness. It's his blood that takes away the guilt. You know, uh you you know the saying, right, you got blood on your hands? It means you're guilty, right? Uh if you were to try to take someone's life in a physical way, you're gonna get blood on their hands. Um Children uh maybe you haven't done this with a typical right hand in the cookie jar. What leaves what stays on your hand? You know, chocolate and crumbs or Who's ever, you know, use the markers you're not supposed to use and you get your hands all colored up and you you do this to 'em or you don't want to show. Why? 'Cause you you got blood on your hands Can't hide from the guilt. Jesus' blood is essentially he he takes our blood, he takes that guilt, and it gets put on him, right? We lay our hands. You know, God had his Old Testament people, when they sinned, come before his priest, depicting Jesus, bringing a sacrifice, depicting Jesus, and they had to physically lay their hands on that They had to pass their guilt on to that sin bearer for them. Jesus takes that guilt from us and he bores it. And again, as we learned last week, Blood doesn't wash just as a material thing. Blood means substitutionary atonement. It means a penal sacrifice. Jesus taking our place and dying, that sacrifice, takes our guilt and we're forgiven. We read it, you know, God promised that in Zechariah 13. 1. In the house of David, falling into sin, they're in exile. Those inhabitants in Jerusalem. And if you've read through the prophets and sin, you understand again, God had chosen his people Raised them up above every other nation in the world, gave them his own holy law and his commandments, lived amongst them And here's how God speaks about their sin. They prostituted themselves? They committed adultery spiritually with me? They did it blazonly and openly and over and over again. They took their own children and murdered them and sacrificed to gods in ways that never even would ever come in my mind. And yet they had the truth of who God was. That's the kind of sinful defilement that God's people had fallen into, and which God then says, well, guess what? I'm opening up a fount. And the fountain I'm opening up can and will cleanse all of that If you um if you're with us in the evening, we're going through Hebrews. We haven't gotten here yet, but we will get here. And it strikes me using this language getting here, that's the language he uses in in chapter twelve, we've come somewhere as believers. God brought his his people out of Egypt to Sinai Wonderful, married him, made a covenant, his Lord, took up an offering to dwell amongst him in the tabernacle But we haven't come there as as believers in Christ. We've come to Mount Zion, the city of Lib. We've come to heavenly Jerusalem. You know, God talks about in Zechariah, he's going to cleanse the house of David, the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Well Where have we come? We've come to heavenly Jerusalem. God has cleansed literally the s the you know when Peter preached the gospel that day, he was preaching to inhabitants of Jerusalem. It would just murder God's son, and God had promised, I'll forgive you of that and wash you clean. I'll pour the spirit of my love upon you and take you as my child. They experienced it, but we're talking about Jews and Gentiles, because we have come to heavenly Jerusalem. Where have we come to? We've come to Jesus. The mediator of the new covenant, and notice to the sprinkled blood. That speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. You know, Abel's blood cries out for vengeance And Jesus' blood cries out for pardon and peace. And so, as citizens of God's heavenly kingdom, as members of the body of Christ, We've been washed clean. God has opened a fountain for us and cleansed our sins away. Our guilt has been washed away by the blood of Jesus. Revelation 1. 5 talks about Jesus who loved us and washed us from our sins by his blood. 1 Peter 1 2, and recreating that Exodus 24 old covenant ceremony. Likens us as those who have been chosen by God according to his foreknowledge the churches, that we might be sanctified in the Spirit, not the letter, but in the Spirit, but we've been chosen for the sprinkling of Jesus' blood We've been chosen to obey Jesus. If you remember Exodus 24, right? God gave Moses the commandments to tell the people. All the people said, We'll do that. We'll obey you. And then he sprinkled them with the blood. And he's saying Jesus is that New Testament fulfillment. As we are in the new covenant as believers in Christ, we have been elect by God not only to obey the Lord Jesus, which we do, but also to be forgiven by him, to be sprinkled by his own blood. as the priest uh and sacrifice of a new covenant. And now we enjoy that sanctification and the Holy Spirit. And that's what we're going to The next thing, because the next thing it means to be washed by uh to be baptized is to be washed by Christ's Spirit. And that means that we've been renewed. Uh new birth, regeneration. That word just means born again We have been sanctified. We have been set apart as a holy people. The pollution and power. I like to think of this way: that blood deals with our guilt. Guilt means you did the crime and you're liable to the punishment. So we're forgiven through the blood. But sin is also not only do we incur guilt by sin, but we're polluted by it. It's a power that we're under, but you know, when you do shed someone's blood, your hand's stained with it. When you do stick your hand in the cookie jar and show that And eat it, y your mouth and hands are covered with the chocolate. Well, not only does God deal with the guilt of that, he also wipes away the chocolate. He wipes away the blood, but but more than what he does though just outwardly, he wipes away what's in the heart why you would want to disobey your parent to stick your hand in there in the first place. He cleanses whatever is in your heart that you would slay another man for whatever sinful reason because there's there's no good reason. But you did it for some reason. So the cleansing isn't just in this outward way, he's renewing our hearts, changing us so we won't be those kind of people. The sin that pollutes our thoughts the way we think. You think badly and poorly. You desire wrongly. The Bible's words are your your desires are perverted. God gives us desire. He expects us to desire. It is inhuman to not have desires. You and I can't live without desires. The problem is what we desire. And how we desire, and the order we desire things in. That's the issue. And we need to be have those renewed. Our hearts need to be cleansed. Our desires need to be properly ordered. Some just need to go away. And that's the work that Jesus' spirit is doing in our hearts as He's made us new. So in principle, It's being worked out as you wrestle all your life against sin, but you're forgiven. You're not wrestling under condemnation. You're wrestling in the light of God's favor as a child of God, but you will wrestle with it all your life But in your heart of hearts and principle, you're already perfectly sanctified. I just mean what I mean by that is your heart truly loves God now, as Paul said. I desire And delight in God's will. My problem is my flesh is so weak and I fail at it and I don't do what I want to do. But I want to do it. I want to serve God. You've been truly renewed already in every part, just as you fell in every part. You have been renewed in every part. It's just being worked out now as a principle. And seeing if that wasn't true, then what happens if you got regenerated, but then died before you could spend a lot of years again sanctified? Don't look at this life as just, you know, you've got to, you know, I've got 80 years to get perfect before heaven. No No. Can I just take that burden from you? I trust Pastor Alan Tomlinson. He's retired. He ministered for 43 years. I served him for a year in in New Hampshire. When he he said, I used to think sanctification looked like this. It looks more like this, and it just kind of does this. When we die, it is gonna go like that, okay? You're already in principle new. And you already love God with a new heart, but you are going to suffer frustration and failures. It is going to be miserable to you, but Don't think that you just gotta eke it out to get ready for heaven. You're already enjoying the heavenly life in Christ now He already made new in him. Sanctification is tough work. It is sweaty work. It is at times difficult, but it's also meant to be a joy. Those are children of God. And it's wonderful as it says here to put sin to death. Shouldn't we want to put to death the thing that wants to put God to death? Isn't that the greatest way to show that we're for God now when we want to just put his enemy to death? Sin. Because make no mistake, sin wants God dead It doesn't want God to be God. It wants God to be other than He can, who is somehow going to approve sin. He will never approve sin? He will never sanction sin. He will never just allow you your sin and that kind of sense to say, go ahead and sin. Sin wants God to be other than he is, which means he wants him to die so that sin can have what it wants. Sin. It was a wonderful thing then. Because God loves even that sinful creatures and loved us in that sin as we read in Ephesians. And now we get the joy of putting to death what wants to put him to death our sins. What a picture then that we have truly died in Christ. And truly been raised to new life. In that new life, as we again we continue to live holy lives, I guess I just want to encourage you about that word holiness because sometimes it can seem austere, right? And very distant, very cold. And, you know, to be holy is to sort of be aloof. The holy is to be kind of, you know, nasty. Cold. But holiness in the Bible, you know, Paul talks about is he just often equates it with love. You should really equate holiness with love, and holiness is a warm thing It's a burning, consuming passion for God. It delights in Him. It consumes those sinful desires and burns them up. We continue to grow in love then as God's people in that gentleness and goodness and graciousness that the Lord is. And we live, you know, blameless lives. Blameless Because God doesn't find fault with what we do in Christ, but also blameless because we turned our hands from doing the things that God can blame us for. We've not done that perfectly. But at least you could plead with God as Paul could. I wanted to do it perfectly. And at times you still do it. I if you are truly in Christ, there are sins you've just stopped doing, I hope. Good, you're doing what God wants. He's not gonna blamely blame you for doing what he wants. Doing what he wants has not merited his favor, or doing what he wants doesn't save you, it's because he saved you. But we begin to truly live lives that God doesn't find fault with because they're what he wants us to do because his spirit has renewed us and is in us to live that kind of way. You know, I I I just person I'm speaking to you just quite personally here. I think so sometimes it's you know it's it's when sometimes depending on how we set up justification by faith and law gospel, we can set up in ways we think God's against us. He is 100% for us in Christ. He came as our Savior. He sent his own son for us. He loves us unconditionally. He wants us to walk in the freedom and power of the Spirit. He wants us when we sin to go to Him. He wants to teach us, He wants to love us, He wants to treat us judgment, He wants to make us sick. He is a good God. He is for us. And life in the Spirit is just what he always intended us to live. It's just inhuman to not have his spirit in us. This is what he wants for us as his children. So that's the significance of baptism. You've been forgiven by God's grace. You're not guilty. God will not treat you as your sins deserve, as we sung in Psalm 103. You don't have the lingering consequences that God is going to cast you into hell, punish you eternally for what you've done. But also you have been renewed and you have a new heart, and you have been set apart in Christ Jesus, sanctified to be a member of his body, to live in fellowship with God, which means Dying to sin and living holy and blameless lives. Thirdly, the authenticity A baptism. Question 71 wants to ask, Well, where does Christ promise that we're washed with his blood and spirit? Surely as we're washed with water and baptism, right? Because you know we can talk about all these wonderful things about baptism as a sign and seal. And what its meaning significance is, but in some sense, if it's not an authentic sign and seal, because the one who gave it meant it to be that, then it's kind of meaningless, right? Well Jesus is the one who has promised That we as members of his body, right, regenerate, called people united to him. He's the one who's promised. That as surely as he has commanded our baptism to wash our bodies, so surely have our spirits been washed by his blood. And by his spirit. Jesus says, Go therefore make disciples of all nations. Now remember, these nations are serving pagan gods. They're unclean. They're indefined. You could read Romans 1 Where Paul talks about the kind of life they have fallen into and and the um degrading of their lives as they turn from God. That's who Paul's going to. That's the nations that Jesus says make them now disciples. Baptizing them into The name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And baptism, God has put his name on us. He's claimed us for his fellowship. We belong to him. And by his grace we've turned to the Lord Jesus Christ and confessed him as Lord and received his gospel. So in in the baptism that Jesus gives us, there he promises us as we go through that baptism, we truly have been washed for fellowship into the name of God. And and Mark, uh the ending of Mark and the institution there, whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. You can believe and not have time to be baptized and be saved. You can believe and be baptized and be saved. You can't be baptized and not believe and be saved. But Jesus wants you to believe and be baptized. And my um studies, you know, since God's one who's called me to be a teacher in his house and I've had to learn to teach on these things and my study on the sacraments to the history is There's a middle path. Some of the church wants to make sacraments more than they are, you know, magical that convey grace on their own. So we gotta be you gotta be careful that but the other side just downplays them and doesn't think they're very significant at all. They are signs and seals of God's covenant with us. They come by command of Jesus to do it. And so we do it. If there's time to do it, do it. We should believe and be baptized. And Jesus puts that promise to it. You will be saved because his death saves us from the wrath to come. The gospel saves us, and baptism is a sign and a seal of that gospel. So we can say baptism saves. Again, if we understand it, it saves us a sign and seal. of what it points to. Jesus saving us by his sacrifice on the cross. Well oh and then uh the second place where we see Jesus promising this is in the descriptions that Scripture gives the baptism. And we'll spend more time on that on the beginning questions next week, but notice what scripture calls baptism, a washing of regeneration. Why is it linking washing baptism with regeneration, right? Talk more about that link next time, not because being baptized automatically regenerates you, but because baptism, as we saw, points to the Spirit regenerating us, as Jesus has poured that spirit out upon us. And you know, Paul, we read it there in Acts 22. Paul was told to go wash his sins away. Why? Because he had been forgiven for Christ's sake. And now he's told to go wash that away in baptism, not because the water washes away his sins, but because Jesus wants to tie to us. I have surely washed you by my blood as I now command you to be washed in the waters of baptism. Baptism is an authentic sign and seal by the Lord Jesus Christ. It truly depicts and shows what Jesus has promised to do for us in the gospel. Okay. So we learned how baptism functions As a sign and feel uh a simile, like his water washes, the blood and spirit of Jesus wash. We've seen what it signifies, Jesus cleansing us, forgiving us by his blood, renewing us Sanctifies by the Spirit. We've seen that's our sentence. Well, how do we then um m make light of this baptism as as we are in Christ? First of all, your baptism should exhort you every day to good works. You can follow along if you want, but in Titus Titus, Paul wrote a letter to Titus because Titus was going to be in charge of a church now, and Paul wanted Titus to know what you should teach the people? Now listen to Titus beginning in chapter or verse one in chapter three. Remind them, the people, to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. Why? We ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures. Passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But When the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, the gospel of Jesus, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration. renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This saying is trustworthy, and I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. So there you have it. Remind them of their baptism. Remind them they've been washed by Jesus, they've been justified to be heirs of eternal life. Because, brothers, we have no hope of anything if we're not justified. We're condemned. Death But because we've been justified, God has set before us eternal life, and we receive it, and we hope for it. But he says, you've also had the Spirit poured out upon you. So insist, congregation, I insist with you, let your baptism exhort you daily to good works. Remember what you were Rejoice that you are no longer that by God's grace. You've been washed from that, and now give yourselves to good works. Baptism also should admonish us when we fall into sin. So baptism should be a daily exhortation to us. to good works. There's a whole question later in this catechism on what those are. But they're works done by out of faith, according to God's law and for his glory. But we will spend a whole later time talking about good works. But this is what we read in 1 Corinthians 6. Paul had to remind them, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Then he says to him, Don't be deceived. So let me say to you, congregation, if somebody is presenting to you a Christianity that allows you to live wickedly, they are deceiving you. And if you go along with it, you're deceiving yourself. There is no version of Christianity that allows us to continue as sexually immoral, as idolaters, as adulterers, as homosexuals, as thieves, as greedy, as drunkards, as revilers, as swindlers. Why? You once were that, but you've been washed false since. What does he mean by that? You've been justified. You've been sanctified. Justification isn't just an I-in word that means something fancy. It's a reality for you in Christ. You're forgiven. You have Jesus' record. You're an heir of eternal life. Sanctification isn't just an IN word that's fancy. It's a reality for you in the body of Christ. You've been given the Spirit of God You cannot continue in that way of life. You only belie your baptism. You only belie your profession of faith in Christ. So if you have fallen into that sin by God and you've come out of it, praise God for that. But baptism should have monitored. These people needed to be reminded, and maybe there's somebody in your life that you need to remind. Or if you see somebody like that you need to say You've been washed. You've been justified. You've been sanctified. Don't be deceived. Don't think you can continue that way and inherit the kingdom of God. So baptism is an admonishment to us. When we fall into sin It's an monitor we can use to others and we see them fall into sin. And lastly, though, baptism is a great comfort to us. It is a comfort to us that our sinful past is behind us, that it is no longer determinative for our lives. Paul was told to rise and wash away his sins. Paul was a persecutor of Jesus Christ. Paul approved the murder of Stephen. Paul stood there, cheered it on, and his heart of hearts would have cast the stone too if he wasn't given the task to watch their cloaks So they can more easily kill Jesus' witness. And many other things the Apostle Paul can tell you ruled his life. But he was called to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. God has chosen you, Paul, to know his will, the gospel of his son. God has chosen you, Paul, to be His witness and preach what you've seen and what you've heard. Now go wash your sins away. Because you're not that man anymore. It's a great comfort to us as God has called us to his service and he's washed us from our path. Now I personally love the 1 John, because 1 John also deals with the ongoing washing that we have. You know, he reminds us, I'm writing that you won't sin, because some people are telling you, again, there's a Christianity that allows for sin. There's not. There's the grace of God who pardons our sin. Reminding us we have an advocate. If we do sin, don't think everything's lost, because you do have an advocate, Jesus. You do have a sacrifice, Jesus. But then he tells us there in chapter 5: if you see someone sinning, a sin that's not unto death, if you see someone who's not apostasying from the faith, but has stumbled into sin. Pray for him and I'll give them life. You know, Christians do fall into sin. They've been baptized maybe 20 years ago when they've fallen into sin. Well, praise God when He, like David, like Peter, gives you that grace of repentance and brings you back. As he says, when we walk in the light, we have fellowship with God, and the blood of Jesus cleanses us. Baptism is a comfort that our sinful past, even the sinful past of just a weak time in our life, if God has restored you and brought you back to Himself, praise God. That is behind you Go forward. Baptism is a comfort to us as God's people. As a congregation, by God's grace, you've been washed from your sins for his service. You need to live as forgiven sinners. You need to live as renewed children of God. You need to trust God. You need to love God. You need to go out and proclaim God. Because you've been washed from filth of fellowship. Praise God