Romans 12, 9-21. Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal. Be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless, and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If it is possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge. Yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink, for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his Head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And then Matthew chapter 5, 21-22 6, Matthew 5, 21. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. Whoever says you fool will be liable to the hell of fire. So if you're offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. Be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you're going with him to court. Lest your accuser hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison. Truly I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penalty. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. Let's pray together. Lord, as we come to these portions of your word about the law and its application. We pray that you by your Spirit will open our understanding. May we understand these things in the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ and be able to live more productively and more honorably to your praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we read from Exodus and we read these laws, uh, some more of these case laws And these things are given to answer the question, what does justice require? These cases are given to answer that question. Now, our Westminster Confession, in its chapter 19 summary about the law of God, in paragraph 4, it says this. It says, to them also as a body politic. Body politic means a state To them also as a body politic, he gave sundry judicial laws, which expired together with the state of that people. Not obliging any other now further than the general equity thereof may require. So these judicial laws that were given to Israel as a state, as a body politic, have expired In some sense. But then it says the general equity may still be required. And I would assert to you That even as we study these laws here, there is a lot of general equity that comes into our living today. A lot of general equity. Let's first look at these things. In verses 12 through 17, we see their capital crimes. Now I know we're not legislators and so forth, so we don't have the power to enact these things, and yet we should know what God would have in a perfect world, in a perfect state. This refers back to the sixth commandment, these capital offenses. The sixth commandment was, you shall not murder. That is a much better translation than You shall not kill, because killing is far too broad a term in our day. After all, we kill animals for food. Hunters go out and shoot deer and other animals And we kill bugs and ants and termites and roaches, don't we? So it would be far too broad to just say you should shall not kill anything any time. The Hebrew word here, as I've mentioned in some time past, is the word Ratzak. It's not a general word for killing things as such, like animals or bugs. It's not even the word used for lawful execution of a human being. There are eight different words in Hebrew for other kinds of killing, but Ratzak is used for killing an animal or a lawful civil execution of a human during the war time. So it is for lawful execution Of a human or an animal, as we read about animals as well. Rotzok is not used for capital punishment instituted here. Rotzok is used when describing the unlawful killing of a human being. So thou shalt not, Rotzok, you shall not unlawfully take the life. So capital punishment is Certainly allowed here. And that's what we have. We have now a case laws. How does this general law, the sixth commandment, apply in particular cases and situations And so it's saying in verse 12, whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death. The implication is that that was premeditated murder. So capital punishment. Is required. Verse 13, but if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, what's that describing? What we would call manslaughter. Not premeditated. Still criminal, but not premeditated murder. And then he says, if that happens, then I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee, and we see that later in the cities of refuge. We see that where the person who did this thing can hold on to the horns of the altar and be saved from the the Avenger coming. But then in verse 14, but if a man willfully attacks another to kill him by cunning, you shall take him from my altar. If he goes there and flees there, but he did it willfully, then take him away from there and execute him. Verse 15, whoever strikes his father or mother shall be put to death. Wow. We talked about that in the fifth commandment. That's rebellion against God-ordained authority. That's treason in the fullest sense. And then verse 16: whoever steals a man and sells him, and any one found in possession of him shall be put to death. So what do we see here? Kidnapping and slave trade is absolutely out of the question. It's wrong. It's evil and it deserves capital punishment. Verse seventeen, back to the fifth commandment Whoever curseth his father or his mother shall be put to death. What is it again? It's rebellion against God ordained authority. treason. So that's the uh the case laws which will show us the general application of these commandments, the fifth and sixth commandments But now we go to verses 18 through 27 and we see personal injuries. Well, there's a lot of that today, isn't there? A lot of tort about personal injuries. Let's look at it. Verse 18. When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist, and the man does not die, but takes to his bed injury Then if the man rises again and walks outdoor with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear, only he shall pay for the loss of his time. So that man was out of work for a while because of this injury And the uh person who did it has to pay for the loss of their time, their wages. And he has to make sure he's thoroughly healed. He has to pay his medical expenses too. Verse 20, when a man strikes his slave. Now we talked about slavery here. Slavery here is indentured servanthood. It's not the same kind of slavery. That we had in the Civil War period of American history. When a man strikes his servant, his slave, male or female, with a rod, and the slave dies under his hands, he shall be avenged. Slaves bear the image of God. They're human beings. They're not less than human. Capital crime has been committed. Verse 21, but when the slave if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money. In other words, you've now harmed your Your person who should be serving you and making money for you and helping you, you've laid them up. And if they survive, tough for you, you lost their wages. You lost the efforts that they would have given you The owner pays through the loss of use in this case. Verse 22. When men strive together, they're having a fight and hit a pregnant woman so that her child her children or her children Child comes out. But there's no harm. The one who hit her shall be fine. This is this is the early, this is the causing of an early delivery of the baby or babies. And uh the baby doesn't die in this case. The baby's just delivered early, prematurely, uh, and the man has to pay a fine for having done that. And the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine, whatever whatever harm was done short of the death of the children. But then verse 23, if there is harm, that is the child dies, or the woman dies, or both, then you shall pay life for life to cast Causing the death of an unborn child is a capital offense. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for strike. What we have there in the Latin phrase theology is described as the lex talionis, the law of retaliation in English Verse 26, when a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free because of his eye, the slave says, My bill has been. paid. I get to go free now. You've taken my eye. And I go free. I'm off the hook. From now on, I'm free. If he knocks out the truth of a slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free because of his So you see, there's real equity and justice and fairness in these applications of the law of God in these cases of personal injuries. Now let's go on to the criminal negligence cases. We have a lot of that today too. You know, I put salt out on the sidewalk the other day just in case somebody came up and slipped I wouldn't want us to have lawsuit against us, criminal negligence for not putting salt on the sidewalk, right? Let's look at this. Verse 28. When an ox, we don't have any oxes, do we? Anybody got oxes? No. When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned. And its flesh shall not be eaten. You don't get any benefit from that. But the owner of the ox shall not be liable. But then if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and the owner has been warned, but not kept it in, and kills a man or woman, the ox shall be stoned, its owner shall be put to death. Capital crime, negligence, that's got a capital punishment attached to it. If a ransom is imposed on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed on him What's that saying? It's saying that the man has committed a crime by his negligence, which could lead to capital punishment, but there could be a possibility of a ransom being paid to spare his life. That's what that's about. Verse 31, if it gores a man's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to the same rule. If it gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to the master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned. When a man opens a pit, there's another criminal negligence situation It's like your swimming pool that you left uncovered, right? And didn't build a fence around it. When a man opens a pit, and when a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or donkey falls into it, the owner of the pit shall make restitution. He shall give money to the owner, and the dead beast shall be his. He gets to eat it. When one man's ox butts another so that it dies, then they shall sell the ox. and share its price, and the dead beasts also they shall share. Or if it is known that the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall repay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be in Again, this is application to show the equity of the law of God, to show how it would work in particular cases. In those days and times in which it was given, with oxes and pits and slaves and all that sort of thing. But what do these judicial cases teach? Listen carefully. They teach the maximum limits of civil justice. The maximum limit. You can't go beyond this. You can only require this much payment or this kind of retaliation Is the limit that can be allowed in these cases. You can't go beyond that. That's the limits of civil justice. But in that context, and we saw a hint of it in the ransom part. In that context, it's possible to extend mercy. Mercy can be extended. You don't have to impose the maximum limit. Can impose less out of mercy. And then we see in the teaching of Jesus that mercy is Required. There is unlimited mercy and grace in Jesus Christ. The heart of the matter, therefore, is not vengeance But we are called to mercy. We are called to work out, whenever possible, however possible, to call to work out our grievances, our troubles, our debts, and extend Mercy. So that's why Jesus says in Matthew 5: You have heard that it was said of old, you shall not murder, and everyone who murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. And whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. And whoever says you fool will be liable to the hell of fire. Jesus is saying, there is a spiritual judgment attached to to these things. But then he says, so if you're offering your gift at the altar and there remember your brother has something against you, leave your gift. And go be reconciled. Mercy. Don't always one to the extent of civil justice. You can extend mercy to those who have committed a crime. He says, if you don't do that, if you don't do that, if you're on the way to court and you fail to To be reconciled, he says, verse 26, truly I say to you, you'll never get out until you pay the last penny. Paul says the same sort of thing, which we read in Romans 12. He says, as believers in the G in Jesus Christ, who suffer judgment The severest penalty of judgment for us, as believers in him, he says, let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good, love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in Zill, be fervent in spirit. And then he says in verse 14, as I read it before, bless those who persecute you Bless them, do not curse them. In verse 17, repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If it is possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. And then he says in verse 19, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. So there's yes, there are civil penalties. That can be imposed. And sometimes they have to be imposed. But there's also mercy. There's also the opportunity in the grace of God, following Jesus the Lord. To not avenge yourself, but leave it to the wrath of God. And then he says in verse 20, to the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap coals on his head. You'll bring to him an embarrassment of riches of mercy. He'll be red in the face because of the embarrassment of riches that you have bestowed on him by being so merciful. and kind to him. He says, do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And then there's one more place I want to show to you. And that's in 1 Corinthians. We didn't read this 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Here is the Church of Jesus Christ in Corinth. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, beginning in verse 1. Paul says: When one of you has a grievance against another, Something has been done wrong here. Does he dare to go before the unrighteous instead of the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try cases, trivial cases? Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more than matters that pertain to this life? So, if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing? in the church. What he's saying is when you are believers and you have something wrong, you know, I can't even think of a case. Maybe you loan your car to another believer And then that believer had an accident and who's going to pay for the damages? That's just possible. I know there's insurance and all that. that but I'm trying to concoct some kind of idea where two believers who otherwise get along and love each other now have a conflict over some civil matter Right? Or one person's kid hit the other kid and knocked out his eye. That'd be a pretty bad one, wouldn't it? Who's gonna how are you gonna get through this? Paul is saying, don't go to the maximum. And don't go to the civil magistrate. He's saying, go to the church, where Jesus Christ reigns, and where mercy and grace reigns. He says so, verse 4 of his chapter, 6, 1 Corinthians. If you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church? I say this to your shame, he says. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between brothers? But brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers. And then he says in verse 7, listen to this, to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. He says, you've already ruined the gospel witness amongst yourselves. if you have to go to law against one another. And then he says, why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? He said it's better to just take it than to do that, than to go to law against each other. And then he says in verse 8, but you yourselves wrong and defraud even your own brothers. So those are cases and situations where the New Testament ethic comes to bear, where mercy and grace come to bear. Pure justice requires death in so many cases. Kids, did you hear that about cursing your parents and what's required? Pure justice requires your death, my death. Jesus expanded that and said, Whoever is angry at his brother, whoever says you fool, will be subject to hell. So we all fall under the death penalty if we're true about it. But Paul, Peter says in 1 Peter 3 Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, a humble mind. And then he says, do not repay evil for evil, reviling for reviling. You've heard that before, heavenly But on the contrary, bless, for to this you recall that you may obtain a blessing. Yes, indeed. Justice requires your death and mine, but a little bit later on in that passage, we were told by Peter that Jesus is the one Verse 18. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous in place of the unrighteous. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Because Christ suffered The maximum penalty of justice for all our sins, we are called to be merciful and kind and gracious. James chapter 2, another scripture that's very important. Verses 12 to 13, James says, so speak and so act as those who are to be judged. Under the law of liberty. For judgment without mercy, for judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs. Over judgment. The grace and the gospel of Jesus Christ requires of us to live mercifully, not to exact the maximum penalties. whenever possible. Now I've spoken quite a bit. I want to give an uh an illustration, a historical one. The uh the president who proclaimed Thanksgiving Day and made it a national holiday in 1923 The president was Calvin Coolidge. And the story is told that early in the days of his presidency, Calvin Coolidge woke in the morning in his hotel room to find a burglar going through his pockets. Coolidge woke up and spoke up and asked the burglar not to take his watch because it contained an engraved charm that he wanted to keep. Then Coolidge engaged the thief in quiet conversation and discovered that the thief was a college student who had no money to pay his hotel bill or to buy a ticket back to campus. Coolidge counted out $32 out of his wallet, which he had also persuaded the young man to get back, and declared it to be a loan. And advised the young man to leave the way he had come so as to avoid the secret service. And yes, the loan was paid back. That's mercy, isn't it? Could have had him arrested and thrown in jail and who knows what. But Kubic, being a Christian man, showed mercy. John Piper asked the question, should you always show mercy? And it's a practical question for him. Should you always show mercy? And Piper says this: real life is very complex for Christianity. People who seriously want to live out their faith in this world. And he gives these questions. Can a Christian be consistently merciful and yet be a parent? Who sphinx a child for disobedience instead of simply turning the other cheek against the child's insolence? Can a Christian be consistently merciful and yet be an employer who pays good wages for excellent work? but fires an irresponsible employee who does shoddy work. Can a Christian be consistently merciful and yet be a legislator who enacts laws that give stiff penalties for drunk driving and child abuse? Can a Christian be consistently merciful and yet be on a board of elders who follow biblical mandate for church discipline and excommunicate a member for unforsaken public sin? And I would add this question: may a Christian voluntarily join the armed services and kill enemy combatants? Each of these questions that I've just given corresponds to a sphere of life, the sphere of family, the sphere of business and economics, the sphere of government and of law enforcement. the sphere of the church. God's will is that sometimes we recompense people with what they deserve, whether punishment or reward. And we call that justice. And God's will is that sometimes we recompense people with better than they deserve. We call that mercy. In upholding the claims of justice, we bear witness to the truth that God is a God of justice. And in showing mercy, we bear witness to the truth that God is a God of mercy. And so here is possible resolution to those questions. A biblical parent will usually follow the wisdom that sparing the rod spoils the child. Proverbs 13, 24. But there will be times when a child's fault will be forgiven without punishment to teach the meaning of mercy and to woo that child to Christ. A biblical judge will usually be scrupulously just by impartially sentencing criminals according to the grievousness of their crimes. But there will be times when he will dispense clemency for some. Greater good. A biblical employer will usually pay a fair wage and insist on good workmanship, but there will be times when he will pay more than a person's work deserves. and go an extra mile with a sick or aging or distressed or an adequately trained employee. A biblical elder will call public sin to account and exercise discipline and even exclude from fellowship. But we'll also remember the parable of the wheat and the tares that teaches patience with the imperfection of the church until the end of the age. And members of the armed forces will sometimes light them up when ordered to do so, but will be merciful and humane in the treatment of those surrender. How can we know when to show justice or mercy on a personal level? Piper says, if we ask how we shall know when to do justice and when to show mercy, I would answer by getting as close to Jesus as you possibly can. I know of no hard and fast rules in Scripture to dictate for every situation. And I don't think it's an accident The aim of Scripture, both Old and New Testament, is to produce certain kind of people, not provide an exhaustive list of rules for every situation. Jesus said, Blessed are the merciful. Not blessed are those who exactly know when and where in all circumstances to show mercy. But we must be at our heart merciful, people, even when we act with severity in the service of justice. Even when we do the maximum Maximum. We must be poor in spirit. If you're a parent and your child disobeys you, punish them. But be poor in spirit when you do it. Sorrowful for your own sin, meekly free from defensiveness and self-exaltation. hungering and thirsting for all that is right to be done, perceptive of a person's distress and misery, feeling pity for his pain. And making every effort to see the greatest good done for the greatest number. Those are the principles So the answer to the question, should you always show mercy, is a qualified no. No, you will often support the claims of justice And repay a person the way he deserves in order to bear witness to the truth of God's justice. But it is a qualified no. Because if you're a merciful person, then even the way you spank a child, or prosecute a criminal, or dismiss an employee, or kill an enemy, Even in those things, mercy will show. The parent may cry and comfort the child after the discipline. The attorney may visit the criminal and his family. The employer may pay for immediate training. The soldiers who take captives may treat their captives humanely. Mercy is the evidence of Christ in you and me. Mercy is based upon the grace of God in Jesus Christ. Christ. I'll close with this. When our son Isaac was a little boy, he was very intelligent and also shrewd. He had been listening to Daddy preach from the pulpit, preach from the pulpit about the grace of God, and I defined it as undeserved merit in the place of deserved punishment. He was caught in some disobedience, little Isaac was. And when I was ready to punish him, he said, Dad, could you do some of that grace? I did. At the final judgment, God will be reviewing In our lives, the evidences of how we trusted Him as Savior, how His gospel and the Spirit took effect in our life. The life of people who are unjust and unmerciful, and how He changed us into people who learn to be just and merciful. Micah 6, verse 8 says, What does the Lord require of you to act justly and love mercy and walk humbly with your God? Let us be imitators of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Lord, we thank you as we see in your word How you have shown forth your justice and also your mercy in our Lord Jesus Christ. And you're working in us. You're softening our stubborn, injust hearts. You're making us more like Jesus. We pray that you'll bless this message of your word today to our understanding and our application. Amen.