Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Listen to me in silence, O coastlands. Let the peoples renew their strength. Let them approach. Then let them speak. Let us together draw near for judgment. Who stirred up one from the east whom victory meets at every step? He gives up nations before him, so that he tramples kings underfoot. He makes them like dust with his sword, like driven stubble with his bow. He pursues them and passes on safely, by paths his feet have not trod. Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the Lord, the first, and with the last, I am He The coastlands have seen and are afraid. The ends of the earth tremble. They have drawn near and come. Everyone helps his neighbor and says to his brother, Be strong. The craftsman strengthens the goldsmith, and he who smooths with the hammer him who strikes the anvil, saying of the soldering It is good. And they strengthen it with nails so that it cannot be moved. But you, Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of Abraham, my friend. You whom I took from the ends of the earth and called from its farthest corners, saying to you, You are my servant. I have chosen you and not cast you off. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded Those who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish. You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them. Those who war against you shall be as nothing at all. For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand. It is I who say to you, fear not. I am the one who helps you. This is the word of the Lord. Turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 8. Our New Testament reading will be from Romans 8. We're going to be reading from verses 12 through 39. Romans chapter 8, verses 12 through 39. Hear now God's word. So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh. to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the Spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him in order that we may be glorified with him. present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God for the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation. But we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the word of God. Let's take a moment and pray. Lord God, you've given us challenging words this morning to hear. We pray, Father, that you would quicken our minds and quicken our hearts to be able to receive your word. That we may apply it into our lives. And I pray, Father, that the words that come from my mouth and the meditations of my heart will be acceptable in your sight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What do you fear? Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. The focus of the exhortation this morning will be on Isaiah forty-one, verse ten. And we'll examine the following major points. You might want to write some of these down on your sermon notes. The first one: what is fear? The second, Emmanuel, God with us, which has three sub-points: how God strengthens you by dwelling in you. How God helps you through his Holy Spirit, how God upholds you with his righteous right hand. And then we'll conclude with thinking about suffering as a Christian. So it's three points again. What is fear? Emmanuel, God with us, and suffering as a Christian. The events since March 2020 have given us all reasons to be anxious, haven't they? Even afraid. Between the coronavirus pandemic war and armed conflicts, a tumultuous year of geopolitics and economic shifts and change, and a profound cultural change unlike anything that any of us have ever experienced in our lifetimes. Many, if not all, of you, are COVID-weary, feeling lost in uncertainty, and apprehensive about the instability of our day. With so many conflicting news reports, it's difficult to know what is true and what is false, what is real and what is a ruse. People tend to gravitate toward stability. Too much change too quickly often generates anxiety, uneasiness, and fear. Fear of the unknown. Fear of what tomorrow will bring. Will I get sick from the virus? What will happen if I do? Will I keep my job? On and on. You get the idea. With all this uncertainty, it's easy, very easy to sink into a state of despondent fearfulness. So let's think about that for a minute. What is fear? Fear is a powerful emotion that God gave you as a means of protection. Fear stops you in your tracks when you perceive that something real or imagined is dangerous, likely to cause you pain or some other form of a threat to your health, welfare, or safety. What do you fear? What is your greatest fear? Are you afraid of heights? You afraid of being alone? Are you afraid of death? I'll tell you my greatest time of fear in my life. February 16th, 1991 is a date I will never forget. While I was in the U. S. Navy, I was assigned to the USS Taroa, which was an amphibious assault ship that was essentially a small aircraft carrier that could also launch landing craft boats out of a well deck. We had left our home port in San Diego in December 1990, headed to the Persian Gulf during the Desert Storm Gulf War. During the transit across the Pacific Ocean and the subsequent weeks that followed, the crew had been training how to respond to attacks from chemical and biological weapons. On February 15th, we stopped at the port of Al-Jabael in Saudi Arabia to offload some of our U. S. Marine contingent. That pier was huge, accommodating four U. S. Army roll-on-roll-off, or called rowro, roll-on-roll-off ships, cargo ships, two of them on each side of the pier, and the Tarawa at the end. And that pier was packed with pallets upon pallets of unarmed bombs stacked three high for what seemed like its full length. We were a very attractive target. While in port, we were allowed to leave the ship to go to the ATT Phone Center to call home. Mind you, we didn't have the internet, email, or cell phones in 1991. Being able to call home was a real privilege, one that we really looked forward to. It was after midnight. I had just finished my call with Diane and the boys, and I was headed back to the ship. On my way I stopped at a food truck type trailer that was selling hamburgers to get a late-night snack. Now I remember the sky being absolutely crystal clear with no moon, just an immense blanket of stars. And while I was in line, I heard a siren in the distance. Now, Al Jabile had an extensive Army Field Hospital, a mass unit, so I assumed it was an ambulance. Well, the siren whale continued to grow more intense as additional sirens began to sound. And then I realized that what I was hearing were air raid sirens. The soldiers in line with me jumped into their jeeps and scrambled off. The guy selling the hamburgers closed his window, jumped in his truck, and left. And I was left standing there like a duck out of water. I was a sailor in my blue denim dungaree uniform. I didn't have a helmet. I didn't have a flak jacket or body armor. Just a gas mask. That was it. I looked back up at the sky and I saw the 66th Scud missile launched during the war flying directly above my head, aimed for the pier. It looked like the engine had run out of fuel, as red sparks were flying off in its trail. I stood there absolutely frozen in fear, unable to move. Watching the spectacle unfold above my head as the missile dropped over the horizon. And then I heard an explosion, and I realized what was happening. I immediately began to look for some sort of cover or shelter. There was nothing but desert in all directions, as far as I could see. There's nothing more terrifying than having everywhere to run and nothing to run to. I finally came to my senses, put on my gas mask, and I started running back to the medical compound where the phone center was. And by the time I got there, they announced the all-clear signal. The attack was over. The week before all of this, one of the guys in our Bible study group on the ship told of a dream that he had had. that the whole of the ship was surrounded by angels, just like the scene in 2nd Kings six, when God opened the eyes of the king's servant, and he saw that the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha I remember him telling us that it was so vivid and real to him as though it wasn't a dream Now according to the official account of that incident from the Veterans Administration, the missile was an Alphasane variant of the Scud missile. It impacted in the waters of Algebaya Harbor and broke up at approximately two o'clock in the morning on february sixteenth. nineteen ninety one. There was no damage or injury to coalition personnel or equipment. Eyewitnesses to the event report seeing an explosion that looked as if the stud was intercepted by a Patriot missile Well, there was a Patriot missile battery located near the harbor. However, during this time period, the battery was not operational and could not have engaged and shot down the SCUD missile. Salvage operations of the missile began on February 22nd, 1991. And during the operation, explosive ordnance disposal personnel used an M-18 chemical detection kit to check for the presence of chemical warfare agents. The operation ended on March 2nd with the recovery of the warhead. During the recovery and the render safe operations, EOD members found no evidence of chemical or biological agents. That next day on February 17th, we conducted what is known as a FOD walkdown on the flight deck, looking for small pieces of any kind of trash, screws, hardware, etc. that might damage an aircraft during flight operations. Now, because of the missile, this was an especially intensive fodd walk. No pieces of that missile were recovered from the ship. Not one. The warhead landed about, they said 100 meters, 300 feet away from the ship in the water. The attack was foiled. God had protected our ship the four Roro cargo ships, and all of the hundreds of soldiers, Marines, and sailors who were at that port. Over the years since, I've often reflected back on that incident when I read God's promise that He will never leave you nor forsake you. God told Joshua, No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. And then after reminding Joshua, being careful to do everything according to all of the law God repeated his promise. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened and do not be dismayed. For the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. This theme is repeated in Isaiah chapter 41, in our text this morning, in verses 11 to 13. Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded. Those who strive against you shall be nothing and shall perish. You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them. Those who war against you shall be as nothing at all. For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand. It is I who say to you, fear not, I am the one who helps you. Isaiah chapters 40 through 55 were written to the future exiles coming out of Babylon during the reign of King Hezekiah. They were ultimately fulfilled in the Virgin's son, Emmanuel, Jesus Christ. The name Emanuel is built upon three Hebrew words. Im, Anu, and El. Literally translated, Imanu El means with us, God. Or in English, God with us. God tells you he is with you in our text this morning in chapter 41, verse 10. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Fear not, for I am with you. Fear not for Immanuel The sign of Emmanuel, prophesied in Isaiah 7. 14, was ultimately fulfilled in Matthew chapter 1, verse 23, which I'll read right now. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David Do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us. God also said in Isaiah 41:10 that He will strengthen you, He will help you, He will uphold you with His righteous right hand. Jesus called the Holy Spirit another helper in John 14, 16. Open your scriptures. Let's turn to the Gospel of John chapter 14. John chapter 14. We're going to read verses 15 through 20. John fourteen, fifteen through twenty. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more. But you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. The Apostle Paul more fully develops the concept of Emmanuel in that not only is God with you, God lives in you. In 1 Corinthians 2, verse 12, Paul writes that we have received the Spirit who is from God. And then in 1 Corinthians 3, and 16 and 17, he writes, Do you not know that you are God's temple? And that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. Now that brings us back into our text in Romans chapter 8. Here Paul expands even more on the meaning of Emmanuel in verses 9 through 11. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. God is always with you in the person of Jesus Christ, in the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Dear Christian, you are never all alone. Never ever. And because he is always with you, You never need to be afraid of anything because he is always with you. You never need to be afraid of anything. How does the Holy Spirit, who dwells in you, help you? Well, Paul continues in verses 26 to 39. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is in the mind of the Spirit because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. How does God uphold you with his righteous right hand? The one who sits at the right hand of the king is the one with power. It is a seat of authority. It is a special place of honor. And in our common language We refer to someone who was critical to our successes as our right-hand man. David uses the right hand to refer to the coming Messiah in Psalm 110, verse 1. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. God's righteous right hand is Christ Jesus. Now, continue with Romans 8 and verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, and more than that who was raised. Who is at the right hand of God, who is indeed interceding for us It is with assurance that Paul can boldly write to the Philippians in chapter four, rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now we transition to a difficult section to think about suffering as a Christian. It's vitally important to understand that in the text that we've been reading, God does not promise that your lives will be without suffering. Quite the opposite. God uses the difficulties that you experience in your life to carry out His most perfect will on earth as it is in heaven. This is a hard teaching. Pastor Damon recently preached from Genesis on the life of Joseph. And surely it wasn't a pleasant experience for Joseph to be tossed into a pit and sold into slavery by his brothers. His life was one of increasing challenges and trials, including prison from false accusation. But what his brothers intended for evil, God intended for good. And used for good. These series of events were critical to enable Joseph to be appointed ruler in Egypt, and his logistical expertise was critical to protecting the entire land from famine. In Matthew chapter 16, verses 24 and 25, Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever will save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. As a result, the Apostle Peter wrote in his first epistle, in chapter 4: Beloved, do not be surprised. Do not be surprised. At the fiery trial, when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, You are blessed because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. God does not give us a spirit of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Again, I ask you: what do you fear? Should you fear death? The apostles didn't fear death. All of them were executed for their faith, except for John, who was exiled on Potmos. The Apostle Paul provides us perspective in Philippians chapter 1, verses 21 to 23. Paul describes his ultimate desire to be with Christ in very stark terms. For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose, I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two My desire is to depart and to be with Christ, for that is far better. The early Christians didn't fear death. They befuddled their executioners by facing death with rejoicing and singing of hymns. My research for this exhortation and one prior to it, where I dealt more fully on death and shall all men die. I found an online transcription of the book, The History of the Christian Church, by Philip Schaff, which has a fascinating account of the persecution of the early Christian Church. I'm going to read a portion of it to you. In section 24 of the Diocletian Persecution, A. D. 303-311, Schaff Wright describes the worst period of Christian martyrdom in the history of the church In 303, the year 303, Diocletian issued in rapid succession three edicts, each more severe than its predecessor. Maximian issued the fourth, the worst of all, on April 30th, in the year 304. Christian churches were to be destroyed. All copies of the Bible were to be burned All Christians were to be deprived of public office and civil rights. And at last, all, without exception, were to sacrifice to the gods upon a pain of death. The persecution began on the twenty-third day of February 303, which was the last day of the year on the old Roman calendar and thus named Terminalia, so the Feast of the Terminalia. as if it were to make an end to the Christian sect. It started with the destruction of the magnificent church in Nicomedia. and soon spread over the whole Roman Empire except for Gaul, Britain, and Spain, where the co-regent Constantius Clorus, and especially his son, Constantine the Great from 306, were disposed as far as possible to spare the Christians. But even here the churches were destroyed, and many martyrs of Spain and of Britain are assigned by a later tradition to this age. Eusebius was a witness of this persecution in Sassura, Tyre, and Egypt, and saw with his own eyes, as he tells us, the houses of prayer raised to the ground. the holy scriptures committed to the flames on the marketplaces, the pastors hunted, tortured, and torn to pieces in the amphitheater. Even the wild beasts, he says, not without rhetorical exaggeration, at last refused to attack the Christians, as if they had assumed the part of men in place of the heathen Romans The bloody swords became dull and shattered. The executioners grew weary and had to relieve each other. But the Christians sang hymns of praise and thanksgiving in honor of Almighty God, even to their latest breath. What was it that gave these people such hope, such courage, that they could stare death by execution in the face by singing hymns of praise? and thanksgiving. Well the only way that this could be possible was through their faith in a risen Lord. They knew that death had already been defeated and held no bonds over them. Their hope is your hope It's found in Romans 8. We've read it, and we're going to read it again, beginning in verse 35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else. In all of creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Should we fear death? What is death, though we should fear it? For those who are in rebellion against God, There is everything to fear, and nothing to hope for. To rage against the dying of the light is logical as their destination is a very fearful place indeed. Being in hell is being without God. It is a place of darkness because the light of God is not there. Being separated from God is the torment of hell. Being separated from God is the reason for weeping and gnashing of teeth It's called hell because it is hell to be forever outside of the presence of God. For those who are in Christ Jesus There is nothing to fear and everything to hope for. Jesus said, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me Just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, and I'd lay down my life for the sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Christian, be strong and courageous. God will never leave you nor forsake you. Fear not, for he is with you. Emmanuel, be not dismayed, for he is your God. He will strengthen you. He will help you. He will hold you with his righteous right hand, who is Christ Jesus your Lord, your rock, and your redeemer. Jesus said, Lo, I am with you even to the end of the age. You are never all alone. Never ever And because he is always with you, you never need to be afraid of anything. Amen. Let us pray. Lord God, thank you. Thank you for the promises of your word, for the truth of your word. For the unchanging reliability of your word, that you are the same God today, that you have always been and always will be. That we can trust you, that we can believe you and believe in you. We cry to you in uncertain times We see your church being persecuted around the world in places that we never imagined. We pray for your chosen people that you would give them courage to be strong in the strength of your presence. feel the real help of your Holy Spirit, and that you would hold them tight in the grip of your righteous right hand. Indeed, Father, we lean heavy on the promise that you will never leave us nor forsake us. Even so, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen.