We're going to start in Hebrews chapter 1 at verse 13 and read to Hebrews 2 verse 9. Hebrews chapter 1, beginning at verse 13, hear the word of the Lord. And to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable, And every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard, while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor. Put everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him, but We see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus. Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord, tonight we continue to study uh Paul's or the preacher's letter to the Hebrews. I when I began, uh we're gonna look tonight, so you know, at verses five through nine. So our our text this evening we're gonna focus on uh verses five through nine. So if you wish to follow along in your Bible you may, but we're gonna look at Hebrews two, uh, verses five through nine. But when I was preparing sermons for this back in my fall study leaves and pulling out my Greek text and going through it and studying it. I I got today's verses and I thought, what what do you do with them? What's he arguing for? What's what's the point in all this? And I tell you that because I was comforted when I uh got the call this week from Tom to uh he can't preach tonight, so can you fill in? I said, sure, and I didn't know what I'd do and I decided Okay, I'll preach I'll just continue in Hebrews and so I started consulting commentaries after looking at this again, and it was encouraging me to find several of them say This is a difficult part of the text to understand exactly how to, you know, make sense of what's going on here. So that gives me great peace. So I pray to God that um I can uh guide you through it. And so and the reason I say that, the reason why kinda pumped the brakes and said there there's no way maybe if we went for an hour and a half we can get to verse eighteen and there's so much good stuff here. But we really need this Slow down and patiently look at verses five through nine because verses five through nine tell us a great lot that the next week Uh or next time, uh verses 10 through 18 are going to support and strengthen and amplify and show us uh the wonder of the foundation laid down here. To begin tonight's sermon though, look with me at verse nine, particularly the last phrase there, clause there, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. And what that is, is that's explaining the death that he just previously mentioned in that phrase because of the suffering of death. He's making clear that it was by the grace of God, he, Jesus the Messiah would taste death for everyone. And he amplifies that after stating that it was because of the suffering of death That Jesus was exalted. It was because Christ suffered death, and then he makes clear what kind of death that was, and he puts it in that final position because He's going to explain that phrase, the grace of God, uh next time. But he tells us emphatically that it was because Jesus suffered death that he has been exalted and crowned with glory and honor, and the death being not for himself But by God's grace for everyone, and next week's going to make very clear every one of his people, every one of the many sons that God is bringing to glory. Now you a you might ask why am I starting here? I'm starting here because as I was preparing this and thinking on it and racking my brain about what the apostle preachers doing here. It became clear to me that really the issue at hand with these Jewish Christians who are being influenced by non-Jewish Christians who find the doctrine of a crucified Messiah a very big stumbling block to get over That the problem with this church that he's preaching to is they don't understand or they did and they lost it. Or they forgotten it, or they never had it in the first place. I don't know, but they are not understanding the person and work of Jesus Christ clearly. And I think that's worth stating and thinking about for a moment the the centrality, the importance. of understanding rightly Jesus Christ, His person, and His work. Understanding the link. And unfortunately we're not going to get to look at it next week you got to I gotta I got I gotta try to get you in great expectation for it next time. But and particularly or particular understanding the link between how his sufferings lead to his exaltation and how all of that works together in Christ crucified and exalted towards our salvation, our being brought and returned to glory. So that's one of the big issues plaguing the church is not understanding rightly Christ crucified, not understanding the person and work of the Messiah. And as I've mentioned to you before, and previous sermons and make clear in the opening one, right? That's the feature of this whole sermon. This letter is a sermon. It it calls itself a sermon. This is a brief word of exhortation. This was a Christian homilies, the pastor writing to a congregation who's not with them but wants to instruct them in the word. And the feature of this whole sermon is the person and work of Jesus Christ. This is a sermon written to a congregation in Christ's to Christ as being compromising with Christ, compromising their confession in Jesus Christ, and he's encouraging them to hold on to Christ. And he's particularly encouraging to do that by taking another look at him. Right. See Jesus again in all of his mediatorial glory of who he is as our Savior that might encourage you, in whatever difficult situation you're facing, to hold on to Jesus Christ. He is the feature and the whole focus of this letter, which we'll pick up in these verses tonight too, is his superiority over everything. Everything before him and everything after him because there's nothing after him. You don't go beyond Jesus Christ. He is at the center and superior to it all. So let's then dive in. We're just going to work our way through verses 5 through 9. And hopefully I'll leave enough time at the end to give a few thoughts of application for us and think through here. So let's look at verse 5. You'll see that verse 5 begins with that all-important word for, and that word is telling us And that what uh is being stated in these verses is continuing, it's not moving on to something else, but continuing the argument that the apostles have been making and particularly continuing continuing it in a way that supports and strengthen what's already been laid down. And what we and that's why I had us go back up and read uh beginning at verse thirteen. Right into which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until you make your enemies a footstool for your feet? That was that last word and then Are they not all ministering spirits enough to serve? That was the last word that the apostle made in proof of his statement that Jesus Christ has become as much superior to angels as by the name that he has inherited. is more excellent than theirs, right? The sun reigns and angels serve. That's the place and position of angels in God's economy is that they are servants and and wonderfully servants of heirs of salvation. That the risen Christ sends out his angels on the behalf of his people the heirs of his salvation to serve and minister to them. So verse five, it was not let's look at that, verse five, it was not Now that is the apostle's doctrine here. This is his teaching that he is asserting, and he's asserting it, as I was trying to say, he's asserting it in a way that supports his argument that Jesus is superior to the angels, but also that uh the salvation which Jesus preached, how great it is. I think both of these go together, you know, as you Look at it and study it. People don't know what to do with verses one through four. Is exhortation. Is this just out of the way So we're going, going, going, get to verse 114, pause, come over here, exhortation, step back in, continue with his exposition, or does Chapter or verse 5 also build in with what he said there in verses 1 through 4. And in my opinion, it builds on it. Now at verse 5, as I hope to show you as we go through the rest of these verses, at verse 5, it was not to angels That God subjected the world to come of which we are speaking, that that statement supports both The sun's superiority, but also the greatness of the sun's salvation, they're tied together Right? How far high exalted Jesus is is meant to also demonstrate to us just how great his salvation of man is because Man or man in Christ, believers in Jesus Christ have their destiny tied to Jesus. So that this statement That it was not the angels that God subjected the world to come, both shows us that Jesus is superior to them, but also his salvation is so great that he came preaching to us Now you might be asking yourself as you're looking at it, he says that God has not subjected the world to come of which we are speaking. What is this world to come? of which we are speaking. Well, we would uh ask ourselves, what has he been speaking of? But well ever since verse four, really verse three, after making purification for sins, sitting down at the right hand of Majesty of High He's been telling us this is the world that we're speaking of, the world that has come with the coming of Christ and particularly in his exaltation to the right hand of God. We are talking about the world in which Jesus is recognized as the Son of God. Today I have begotten you of my son. The world in which the Father says to Jesus I will be your father and you will be my son. The world in which has God brought Jesus back into the world, the crucified and risen Christ exalted in heaven, the world in which the angels worship the crucified and risen Christ. This is the world we're talking about. The world and but which believes in the testimony of God when God the Father says that Jesus Your throne, O God, is forever. So it's the world in which men confess Jesus to be God, as we son Thomas did this morning. It's the world in which Men receive the divine testimony of the Father to the Son. You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning. It's the world in which men believe that Jesus is Lord and confess him as God and Lord, it's the world in which we gratefully rejoice that Jesus Christ and his glory will last forever, even though this one fades away. So it must not be this world we're talking about, but the world to come, which has come in Jesus Christ as he is exalted, or we like to think of as the new heavens, the new earth, or the kingdom of God. Really world to come here is synonymous with kingdom of Christ Kingdom of God, Kingdom of the Heavens, that Jesus came preaching, that there's both a present form of it, right? We're in seed time in the kingdom. And there will be a harvest glorious manifestation when we rise with him after he puts all his enemies under his feet. And that's where he ends right. We're talking about the world in which everything is under Jesus' feet. We're talking about the world in which the Son is subduing his enemies beneath them. He's saying this world. This is what we're talking about. It means we're talking about it right now. It's not saying it's a world still to come. There's a part of it to come, there's a consummation of it to come. But he's saying we're talking about this world, right? And you're in that world, right? If you acknowledge Jesus as the Son If you are a confessor of Christ and they confess him as my God, my Lord, and serve him and worship him, because that's the world we're talking about. We're talking about the world which Jesus is king, right? Jesus is God and Jesus reigns, and that's what's come. He says, that's what we're talking about. He's saying that world has not, God is not subjected to the angels. That kind of raises the question, right? Well then who did he subject it to? And that's what really verses 6 through eight or the first part of eight, which is the end of his quotation from Psalm 8, go to show and prove to us. In verse 6, the uh the apostle uses a quotation or introduces a quotation. It has been testified somewhere or as the Greek says, someone somewhere said this And everybody wonders why does he doesn't just say David said this in Psalm eight? He obviously knew David said this in Psalm eight. So why does he have to say someone somewhere I don't know. I liked what one person said. Maybe it's because he expected everybody should really know their Bible some so well that all a person has to do is say a quotation of it and everybody goes, I know where that's at How are we doing with that? Let me test you real quick. Thus says the Lord God. In a lot of places, right? I don't know if that's the case Some also speculate it can just be because it's not important to him, the human author, but what's important to him, right, is the divine testimony, right? This is God speaking And on the basis of divine testimony, I'm going to demonstrate to you that God has not, in fact, subjected the world to come to angels. And what verses six through eight show us in this quotation from Psalm 8, or let's take a look at them and then we'll sum it up at the end. Psalm 8, there in verses 4 through 6 of Psalm 8, he quotes these three verses. Read, What is man? Now you are mindful of him, of the Son of Man, that you care for him. You made him for a little while lower than the angels, you've crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feed. And as you just read that real quick, and we can say a few more things about it, but if you just read through those verses and you get to the end of it, right In verse 8, you realize, oh yeah, God has not subjected the world to come to angels because he's subjected it. to man. God has not subjected the world to come to angels because he has subjected it to man. So already this tells you something about this text See, in the mind of the preacher here, Psalm 8 is a prophecy. Psalm 8 isn't looking at creation, it's not looking back to man at creation. So Maid is looking at man in his fallen state and hope of what God has promised to him Day, even though he's made him lower. Because the word lower then, I'm thankful for John Brown and his commentary as he demonstrated and shown. Man being made lower than the angels isn't a comment on man at creation It's a comment that God has lowered him because of his sin. The verb implies you go from something higher and you've fallen and you've been made lower. See, man at creation was just as immortal as angels. You remember what Jesus says about the world to come, right? That's the point in which he compares man and angels in the world to come. He says, You will be like the angels in heaven, right? Well angels in heaven don't die. See, man propagates himself by having babies continuum because if we don't, our species is gonna die. We're gonna die out But in the world to come, or we don't give ourselves in marriage and receive marriage, because we're going to be like the angels, the mortals. So when God put man under the curse, that's his making him lower than the angels So he's looking at Psalm 8 is about fallen man looking towards God or or in hope, wondering and going Why would God consider me, right? Why would God remember me? Why would who is man even in his fallen state that God would remember me Care for me. Made me a little bit lower. But you've crowned him with glory and honor. You put everything in subjection under his feet. So God has not subjected the world to come to angels because as this verse or this psalm makes clear, God has subjected the world to come to men. To man. There'll be man who rules in the world to come. Now verse 8B there the verse that reads, now I'm putting everything in subjection to him. So as I said, verse 5 is his doctrine, right? Here's his teaching. God has not subjected the world to come to angels which were speaking. This world I've been preaching to you about. This world I've been telling you about. Here's the proof that he has it. Look, I remind you what David did say in Psalm 8, and David is called the prophet in scripture. I remind you what David sung about. David said, you made him for a little while. A little while. That's important, right? A little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. And then he goes on in the in the next sentence there to add his own words to explain scripture's meaning. He says, now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside of his control. I want to make clear, when God says I put everything in subjection under man's feet, that means nothing is outside of his control. That's that's what has David in Psalm eight going, what is man? That you would put everything under his feet. Fallen man even. What is fallen man? That you would put everything under his feet Leaving nothing outside of his control. It's very clear, right? God has not subjected the world to come to the angels, but he has subjected it to men. But then he has to say something here, right? Because well we just think about his reasoning, right? He's just said, I'm talking to you about the world to come. And in the world to come it's men who rule. Nothing's outside their control. But beloved, if we look at ourselves and look around, it hardly seems like man's in control, is he? We can't control our nations. We can't control our tongues. We can't control ourselves We can't control the forces of nature. We can't even control the things we create of the things we create turn around and harm us We're clearly not in control in what God means by putting everything under man's feet. But yet he's talking about the world to come. So there's this tension, right? I'm telling you about the world to come. That's what we're speaking. I want to be very clear. We're talking about the world to come. We're talking about the age of the Messiah, the kingdom of God. And in the kingdom of God, in the kingdom of Christ, it's not angels who are in charge, it's man But we don't he goes on and says, right, the the obvious or really making a concession here to the present, right? At present, yes, at present With respect to what I told you about God not subjecting the world to angels but men, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. Right? So no. We don't yet see the world in subject to man. But then comes verse 9. And verse 9 is really this is all the end. Verse 9 is the whole sort of culminating point. And it's verse 9 that's then going to get expounded next time in these following verses through verse 18 opening up all that they mean. So really what he does then says God has spoken in his divine intention, he has a prophecy in Psalm 8 that God is going to put man in charge over the world The world to come, the world the Messiah. We clearly don't see that yet, but it's not subject to angels. But then he says in verse 9, we do see something, right? And in verse 9, he gives a Christological interpretation to Psalm 8. That is, he expounds it to you. in light of the coming of Jesus Christ in his person and his work. Verse 9 is a Christological interpretation of Psalm 8. Verses 4 through 6. I'll just pause and say something real quick because you might be thinking, you're being quite tedious tonight. You're going really slow through this. I remind you, this is the careful exegesis he's doing. This is how they were preached to. He's saying you better pay attention to every single word and the word of God because it matters. I'm gonna show it says here he put it under man. He means that a little why he he's taking every little word and expounding on us. If you think Can we get somewhere? We're gonna get somewhere, but we gotta get there patiently with it to understand rightly the foundation that he's laying here in his argument That it's clear. Not only is Jesus supreme to the angels is what he's getting at because of his name, God and Lord, but he's talking about him being divine. He's supreme over the angels because he's a man. Because God did not intend to put the world under angels, but under man. That's an amazing, stunning thought. It is man's place to rule, you know, but the angel's place to serve. But he's getting there patiently, but there's a bit of an issue. This is the really fun part. So look at here at verse 9 with me closely The first thing I want to say about verse nine is besides telling you that it was a it's a Christological interpretation, that's a whole understanding of verse nine Christological interpretation to Psalm 8, verses 4 through 6. But it's also a a Christological confirmation of his teaching, right? Take a look at verse 7, right? He's saying, or let me read to you verse 9, but we see him who for a little while was made lower than angels. Now go back up to verse 7, right? You made him for a little while lower than the angels. So he's saying he here's a Christological Confirmation of my teaching, right? He's saying to us that in Jesus, verse 7 is yes And verse seven is fulfilled, right? Because he says, We see him for a little while may lord the angels at seven A. And the next clause he says Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. I went too far, I didn't mean to read suffering of death But you crowned him in glory and honor. Verse 7 says, You've made him for a little while alone. The angels talking about man, you've crowned him in glory and honor. And that's what verse nine says. Now we don't see everything. We don't see eight A fulfilled, right? We don't see everything put under man's feet, but he's saying that doesn't mean we don't see anything of this fulfilled. We see verse 7 fulfilled, and we see it fulfilled in Jesus. In Jesus, we've seen him made lower than the angels. In Jesus, we've seen him crowned with glory and honor. So verse seven And Jesus has been fulfilled. Now I say it's a Christological confirmation because right, if God has fulfilled verse 7, What do you think he's going to do to verse 8 and putting everything under his feet? He's going to fulfill that. So verse 7 is a Christological confirmation of his teaching that God has not put the world to come in subjection to men, excuse me, to angels, but to man. And there's one We don't yet see that fulfilled in men, but there's one who has reached this destiny for man. Jesus There's one who has reached this divine destiny of being put, being crowned with glory and honor and everything put under his feet, Jesus. That's great hope to God's people, because in Jesus we will be crowned with glory and honor, and Jesus will be reigned over everything. You know, this really makes sense of what Jesus said in his own gospel, right? Be faithful in this age. I'll put you over much in the one to come. So it makes sense of what Paul tells the Corinthians. I'm really troubled. You Corinthians don't know how to arbitrate disputes amongst yourselves because you're going to judge angels. There is a serious destiny before man, appointed by God for us in Jesus Christ. Something I've been amazed at preparing this. Verse 9 is a Christological interpretation of Salmain. It's a Christological verse confirmation of his teaching that God has not subjected the world to come to angels. And lastly, here it's a Christological clarification to his teaching because Psalm 8 doesn't tell you how you get from 7A to 7B, does it? Psalm 8 doesn't tell you you made him for a little while lower than the angels You crowned him with glory and honor. He doesn't tell us how God did that. It just tells you you did this, put them lower than the angels. You did this, made them higher than the angels, but He's telling you here in verse 9, here's the missing link, because of the suffering of death. So you get a how. He provides a how he gives Christological clarification how man goes from lower than the angels for a little while to exalted with glory and honor and in a way that they don't like to hear and want to hear because of the suffering of death, right? He's trying, trying to take the scandal out of the way, right? God doesn't preach a crucified Christ from to be a scandal, and man's sin it is. And he's trying to help these Christians who are Jewish Christians and being influenced by non Jew or non-Jewish Christians who don't like the teaching that Jesus had to die and suffer, the Messiah to die and suffer. And he's showing you, and we won't we just get to assert it here next next time we'll get to expound it, that it was absolutely necessary. It is only because He suffered death, that he is crowned with glory. And I want to leave you thinking on that and meditating on that to see if you if you can and you can go ahead and read ahead and find out But why? Why was it necessary? Like it's again this is where I started and I'll end here. This is what they're missing. This is what they're not understanding about the person and work of Christ. This is why he has to patiently explain to them the necessity. of Christ's suffering, the necessity of his death, that it was only because he suffered death that he is exalted to glory now. And then he ends with the great gospel of Christ crucified there, right? That God by his grace gave Jesus that he might taste death for everyone. So Psalm uh eight, as I said has been fulfilled in Jesus. Verse seven already. Eight's not yet. We're waiting for that. And next week we're going to look at how fit it was for God to do it this way and how Christ's sufferings are really necessary to his exaltation. But let me just leave you with a couple pointed thoughts maybe for yourself. Don't miss here, and I'm borrowing the phrase of one commentator, man's imperial destiny. And imperial destiny, right? What is man? Yeah, I'm really stunned by this because, right Just look at man in his present fallen state, right? Look how poorly we do when we are given rule Look how poorly we have. Even regenerate, right? Praise God for his grace, and many times it goes well, but even there, right, churches and places can still be wrecked by poor leadership. And yet God God has said, I'm gonna take, and I don't mean to offend anybody here, but we we've got to get God's grace. I'm gonna take pimps and prostitutes drunks, cowards, deserters, bank robbers, murderers, and I'm going to make them lords of creation with my son Jesus Christ. That's the grace of God. Those are the ones Jesus is going to put in charge of everything. Those are the ones that God has destined to this. You can understand then why David is going. What is man? That you would wipe him clean, make him new, and put him in charge of everything. This is God's promise. Psalm 8 is God's promise. He's going to do it. Verse 9 there tells us that God's grace will achieve it. And you right now, beloved, you are in verse 7a. Here's where you are at in Jesus. You have been made for a little while lower than the angels. This is your present state. For a little while A little while you've been made lower than the angels. But if you press on in Jesus Christ If you cling to your confession of faith, hold on to him as he holds on to you, you'll get the 7B crown of glory and honor. You'll get to 8A. putting everything in subjection under his seed. You you can sense what he's saying. Do you see how great a salvation Jesus was preaching? You see how verse 5 supports that statement? God has not put the world to come in subjection to angels. How great a salvation to take man from his miserably fallen state. Utterly unfit to rule anything. And God's gonna make him redeem him through Christ to make him the Lord. with his son to reign with him. And my final point, I know that you love to preach the gospel and and share it, and I'll go through this. It is you can see, I hope, from this how important it is to know well the doctrine of creation and sharing the gospel, right? The gospel framework is creation, fall, redemption, and glory. You see all that as we'll f as we as we'll go through to verse 18. But you've got to lay out to man who they are. Christ doesn't even make sense to you if you don't know what is man For God has done for you and promised you in Jesus Christ doesn't make any sense if you understand who God made man at the beginning and then come to see where we are in sin So that we'll cling to Jesus Christ and have everything back and restored to us. What a gospel, right? What grace. Let's leave here tonight praising God. Let's marvel and awe at him and look at ourselves and go, what is man? Because this just humbles me to the floor. To think that God will raise us up one day and then let us encourage each other. And let's remember one day who each one of us in Jesus Christ is going to be. So perfect, so glorious, and so in charge. Let's love each other. Encourage each other along the way as our great high priest does. And I can't wait to get to next week because it shows them all of this Glory as he reaches down and grabs us and brings us up with him. Amen