What resonates with your heart? What resonates with your heart When the doorbell rings, my golden retriever Samson jumps up and runs to the door. Not to protect us, but to greet whomever is arriving. He does this even if the doorbell is actually a television commercial. Doorbells resonate with Samson's heart. He gets excited. The same is true of the sound of other dogs barking outside, the sound of me getting my shoes on, his ears are tuned to these things. One word that resonates with his canine heart more than any other is the word walk. He gets very excited about walking. So if I want to say to Tim or somebody else, shall we take the D-O-Gs for a W A L K, I spell it out so that they don't get too excited. In case it's not gonna happen. In this psalm, first of all, David proclaims the great contrast between the wicked man and the righteous God And that is in the first section. We'll look at verses 1 through 4 first and see the self-deception of the wicked, the self-deception of the wicked. Verse 1. Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. McLaren says the transgression is that which speaks in the heart of the sinner himself. We have here, he says, a bold personification of transgression, as if transgression is a is a being, an individual, a person. speaking in the secret, whispering in the ear of the wicked in some dark place, so that the heathen oracle mongers are haunted. by this voice. This is the account of how men come to do evil. There is a voice within them whispering that resonates in their heart. Transgression speaks to the wicked, resonates in the heart of the wicked. Then he goes on to say, in a couplet, I think, there is no fear of God before his eyes. The foundation of the wicked man's character and deeds is a lack of the fear of God. We discussed in Sunday school today that in chapter one of Proverbs, The beginning of wisdom is what? The fear of the Lord. But the transgressor, the wicked man, has no fear of God at the psalmist. says, David says. He does not respect or reverence God as he should. Now, uh on my trip back east from California with Tim I had the opportunity to communicate with an old friend as we were rolling through Dallas, Texas. This is an old friend who sat long ago with me and 1978 in chapel regularly. There were four of us that sat together in chapel. And one of those was a man named Kim And I looked him up a few years ago. Just to, you know, you can find people these days on Google or Facebook or whatever. You can find people. I looked him up a few years ago. To find out that Kim was at that time living with his life partner. His life partner's name was David. And they were operating a dinner theater together in southwestern Michigan. The fear of God had been suppressed in Kim. My other friend, a woman who happens to also be named Kim, uh, I contacted her. We were texting back and forth, and she told me that she had tried to reason with him Several times, but he saw no reason to change anything. I'll come back to Kim at the end of the message The man. Paul had, I think, had this psalm in his mind as he composed the opening chapters of Romans. There in Romans 3, where Paul is indicting the whole human race and saying everybody is guilty. Everybody stands guilty before God. He says this in verse 10 and following, as it is written, and he starts quoting. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless, and no one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave, they use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, and their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. And then verse 18 says, There is no fear of God before their eyes. That's what I think Paul is referring to here. He's referring to Psalm 36, this phrase about the fear of God. They do not know the fear of God. There's no fear of God. When people suppress the truth, there's no fear of God. And then he goes on in verse 2. For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated. The description of the evil person is graphic. He has by some means persuaded himself that God does not interfere with men anymore. Consequently, he has no fear of God. He thinks he is the center of the world. The wicked man lowers his estimation of God and raises his estimation of himself. We usually think of flattery, you know, as being flattered. Flattery as coming from others But you are entirely able to flatter yourself, to tell yourself that you're better than you actually are, to tell yourself that you're okay. And that God isn't going to be upset with you at all, no matter what. Matthew Poole, a Puritan, describes several ways that one may flatter oneself in regard to sin. He says, people may flatter themselves that their sins are not sins. Redefine it. Makes it go away, doesn't it? And he says, in this case, the mind is bribed by passion. See the picture there? Mind is bribed by passion, by by feeling. and interest and can easily believe what is false. Secondly, another way that you flatter yourself in regard to sin is that their sins are but small and venial sins, just little ones. No big deal. My sins are small. And the third way is that sins will be excused, if not justified, by honest intentions. Or by outward professions and exercise of religion, or by some good actions wherewith he thinks to make some compensation for them, or some other way. Just any old way you can think of, you're going to excuse your sin somehow. That's the way people do. They flatter themselves in regard to sin that God doesn't care. it's okay. Spurgeon says, he who makes little of God makes much of himself. They who forget adoration of the divine fall into adulation of self. The eyes must see something, and if they do not admire God, they will flatter self And then the psalmist says in verse 3, the words of his mouth are trouble and deceit. And in verse 4, he plots trouble while on his bed. So here's the picture that's being drawn by the psalmist, someone whose words are trouble and deceit. Always in that category. Trouble, deceit, trouble, deceit. One or the other. Always full of trouble and deceit. And That person's character is such that they plot trouble while on their bed. Poole says they are constantly and unweariedly preferring to plot evil instead of their own rest. You know, it'd be nice just to go to sleep, but no, I've got to plot evil as I'm r resting on my bed. No And then he says, earnestly and seriously, when his mind is freed from all outward distractions and wholly at leisure to attend that business about which he is employed, instead of Using your mind for what you need to do, you're plotting evil on your bed and everywhere else. And then he says, it is done freely, his own inclination, when none are present to provoke him to it. In other words, it's become such a habit that it's done all the time. When no provocation, no temptation, no nothing as making it happen, it's just, hey, that's the way I always do. Plotting evil on my bed. The evil person is not merely drifting into evil ways, he is inventing ways to do it. And that's what Romans says as well. They not only approve of evil, they approve of those who do evil. They invent ways of doing evil. They are ruthless, so forth and on. And this is in contrast to the godly who spend wakeful hours of the night meditating on God and His commandments. If we just look for a moment at Psalm 1, and we'll see what the godly do in contrast to this. Instead of laying on their bed at night thinking of evil, plotting evil It says in verse two of Psalm one, um, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. That's the godly person, day and night. And the same if we turn over to Psalm 63, verse 6. 63 verse 6 When I remember you upon my bed and meditate on you in the watches of the night. That's the godly person's habit, characteristic. And then David says this ungodly person sets himself in a way that is not good. That is commission. He sets himself in a way that is not good. And then the other side of that is that he does not reject evil. That's omission. See, it's not it's not enough just to To not not do good, it's also bad to not reject evil. When evil comes and we see it and it's there before us, we need to reject it. Not just passively let it go and be content with that. That's why, by the way, every Lord's Day in our prayer of confession, we confess that we have sinned against you in thought, word, and deed. In things we have done and things we have left undone. Sin is what is found in what we don't do as well as what we do. So now the contrast begins in verses 5 and 6. We have the characteristics filled out there of the unrighteous. And now the contrast. Your steadfast love, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness to the clouds. David must have been outside, or at least been thinking about being outside. Thinking about the greatness and the vastness of of the sky and the mountains and the clouds and how high everything is and how great it is and how this God that He serves, Yahweh, the creator of the universe, this God is pure and true to his word, steadfast in his love. Your steadfast love Extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds, your righteousness is like the mountains of God, your judgments are like the great deep. Man and beast you save. That verse, steadfast love extends to the heaven. David has thought long about the wicked man. Now he turns to the great, steadfast love of Yahweh in great confidence. The Hesed, the covenant love of the God of Israel. It's translated mercy, it's translated steadfast love. It all means the same thing. God's wondrous covenant kindness to us. David Goodzik says That David, the king, can only describe these attributes of God with the biggest things he can think of: the heavens, the clouds, the great mountains, the great deep of the sea. God is indeed, in David's thoughts, transcendent beyond the greatness of God and his covenant love, yes, but the greatness of God is beyond comprehension. is you can't begin to think about how far away uh the nearest star is, much less the stars beyond that, and how many light years it is away from them. But he's also eminent, David says. God is not just way up there, but he's right here. He's with us. Us. He's eminent. He cares for us. Because he says, man and beast you save, O Lord. God cares about man. in his image, but he also even cares about the beasts of the field. God is very involved with us. He's not distant and far off. The goodness of God is shown the way he cares for his creatures. So we have that contrast between Sinfulness and unrighteousness of man and the righteousness, greatness of God looks to the mercy of God for help against the wicked. Who oppress him. He says in verse 7, How precious is your steadfast love, O God! The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights, for with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see light. Go back to verse 7. How precious is your steadfast love, O God. We should think that way all the time. How precious is your covenant faithfulness? Oh God, I can depend upon you. I can't depend upon much of anything else in this world. Maybe nothing. But I can depend upon you. Covenant faithfulness. David is considering God's promise to care for his people and his creation, and he feels this to be precious and a personal and intimate thing. And then he says, the children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. What's that about? The merciful God is a place of rest. Do you need rest? He gives us the Sabbath for rest. That's one of the places. The merciful God is a place of rest and protection for the people of God. God invites all among the children of men to come and find Refuge, trusting Him. There are two main ways that commentators understand this figure of the shadow of your wings. Some take it to mean the wings of the cherubim that are over the throne of God and represented in his tabernacle and temple, including the Ark of the Covenant The very representation of his throne. That's one way. Others take it in the sense that a hen covers her chicks When a storm is coming or when a beast is threatening to destroy, they take refuge and she protects and hides and shelters them. One commentator says, These speaking after a figure are the two wings of the divine goodness under which the children of men take refuge. The allusion may be to the wings of the cherubim above the mercy seat, or as chickens in a storm, when the predator threatens, hovers over and takes cover under the head But we can clearly see other places in the scriptures where this figure is used. And in our series in Ruth, when Ruth and Boaz were talking on that threshing floor at night. Ruth said, Let me come under your wings. Let me take refuge under your wings. And she was asking to be his And to have him as her her redeemer to take care of her. So that figure is there. The next bit in verse 8, they feast on the abundance of your house. This is just full of amazing pictures, isn't it? Feast on the abundance of your house. God cares for and protects those who trust in Him as a gracious and honorable host would for those who come into His house. He gives them the best meal. The fullness of God's house is enough to satisfy anyone, offering a virtual river of pleasures. That's going to be said in a moment, too. They are abundantly satisfied with the fullness of your house. Great feast is prepared as you come into God's hand. House. The word fullness here literally means fatness. It is suggestive the fatness in the a sacrificial system was the best and the most excellent part that was given to God, but God gives it to his people. Fatness. Fullness. You know, we're not into fat, I know. Um we we cut it off and throw it away when we have it on a stake. You know, you spin it for the grill, but then you cut it off and give it to the dog. Not a good idea actually, but um but think of this if you want to get a picture of that. Have you ever had I haven't, but you have ever had Kobe steak? Kobe beef? It's the most tender beef there is, and the reason it is because it's marbled full of fat. And the beef don't get any exercise too, I suppose. But The fattest is the best. And God expects the best from us, but he gives to us the best when we enter his house. Spurgeon cited a story by a fellow named Arnott regarding a man who moved his family to a much larger and better equipped home. And when he did, his young son kept running through the house yelling, Is this ours, father? Is this ours? Is this ours? Is that ours? He kept running around saying, is this ours? The child did not say, is this yours, father? The father observes that while he told the story, he was not offended with the child putting it this way. He could see in the child's glistening eye that he had confidence that he was appropriating as his own all that his father had. This will be one of our greatest joys in heaven when we come to our Father's house that's being described here with the unders unmeasured satisfaction of knowing that this is ours. This is ours. One more figure. And you give them You give them drink from the river of your delights. Have you ever drunk from a fire hose? That's a figure of speech, isn't it? Too much to get at one time. Well, this is a river. You're going to drink the whole river of God's delights In fact, this is probably a figure, a cognate, because it is in Hebrew a cognate on the word Eden. The river place, this paradise. So to drink from the river of your delights is a thought back to Eden, the garden where God had created man and where these rivers flowed And delights were everywhere. Then one more figure, and this is going to be a side road. In your light, we see light. In your light, we see light. What does that mean? Well, in this one sentence is a statement of something that we in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church treasure as presuppositional apologetics. In your light, we see light. Presuppositional apologetics is a school of Christian apologetics that believes that the Christian faith is the only basis for rational thought. It presupposes that the Bible is divine revelation and attempts to expose flaws in other worldviews. It claims that apart from presuppositions One could not make sense of any human experience. And there can be no set of neutral assumptions from which to reason with a non-Christian. To put it another way, light is necessary precondition for seeing anything. You can't see it if light doesn't shine on it and that light reflects back into your eyes. It's impossible to see it. Unless an object is illuminated, the eye cannot see it. God's word is the only source of illumination. Therefore, nothing can be known unless it reveals it. In your light do we see light? So, with all these beautiful pictures and thoughts streamed together. Contrasting the foolishness of the wicked man and his wicked ways and his ways of plotting evil on his bed and all that, and then the glorious goodness of God. That's beyond comprehension. We now come to David praying that God would just continue it. Just keep doing it, please. Verses 10 through 12. Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright of heart. Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. There the evildoers lie fallen, they are thrust down, unable to rise. Continue your loving kindness to those who know you. Having received the good mercy and righteousness of God, David rightly prays that it would continue. For himself and for all those who know God in right relationship. The Hebrew is, for the word continue, is draw out. Draw out. Keep drawing out of the well. Keep drawing out of the river of your goodness. It's like the metaphor taken from bottles of wine, which being opened once, pour not just one cup, but many cups. So when God opens the wine of his mercy, he will not fill your cup just once. But twice, even seven times, and David is praying, keep keeping on with your goodness, your steadfast love, your mercy to us. And then he says, Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me. Arrogance here is that foolish heart of that foolish man that we talked about first. Let not that foot come upon me. Nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. Please don't let me be influenced by them, so that I am driven away. There, he says, the evildoers lie fallen. They are thrust down, unable to rise. It's not a good end. It's not a good end. So there is a final judgment coming. David acknowledges that. No one will escape. All delusions. People convincing themselves that God doesn't care, or that it's just a small thing, or it's no thing at all. That's a delusion, and all delusions will be dispelled. God's light will expose all evildoers. And so I ask you as I began, what resonates with your heart What resonates with your heart? May God's covenant mercy and God's love resonate with your heart. Heart day and night on your bed when you lie awake when you are up and about all the time. May God God's mercy, God's love. May the river of his delights, the the open bottle of his delicious mercy be your delight, and not other things. to destruction. May God bless his people. And may this psalm help us to see the contrast and see the folly of following the way of the world. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you that by your grace, not because of our strong will or efforts, that we have been delivered by your grace. From much folly. And we pray that you will help us to have such a focus upon your goodness, your mercy, your kindness, the glory of your covenant. That we will not be distracted, drawn away, and ruined by sin in its deceitfulness, which is great. Help us to find shelter under the shadow of your wings and drink from the river of your mercy, your delights. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.