Psalm 39. Listen, this is the word of God. I said, I will guard my ways that I may not sin with my tongue. I will guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence. I was mute and silent. I held my peace to no avail. And my distress grew worse. My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue. O Lord, make me to know my end and what is the measure of my days. Let me know how fleeting I am. Behold, you have made my days a few handbreads, and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath. Surely a man goes about as a shadow. Surely for nothing they are in turmoil. Man heats up wealth and does not know who will gather. And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool. I am mute, I do not open my mouth, for it is you who have done it. Because remove your stroke from me. I am spent by the hostility of your hand. When you re discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him. Surely all mankind is a mere Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry. Hold not your peace at my tears. Look away from me that I may smile again and am no more And now James four verses thirteen to seventeen. Come now, you who say Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, I'm beginning to feel my age of late, brothers and sisters I say that not only because my physical and mental capabilities are rapidly declining But because I found myself the oldest commissioner present at our last Orthodox Presbyterian Church General Assembly. But I don't ask for your sympathy Rather, I have a piece of advice for you because you too, God willing, will face the same feelings one of these days. And that advice is this. Recognize now that life is short and goes by so quickly. That today is a good time to ask yourself, how can I make the most of it? Who would say, I'd like to waste my life? Surely you would want to make your years count for eternity, wouldn't you? But the question will knock down. How to make them count. Psalm 39 reflects David's struggle with this problem Here we encounter the mixed emotions of a man who is reeling under God's discipline. Just listen to verse 10. Remove your stroke from me, I am spant by the hostility of your hand. Yet at the same time, he knows that God is his only hope. Verse 7. And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you. He has no one else to turn to. David's answer is simple and yet profound. Life passes by so quickly. Or so it seems. The word transient comes to mind And because of that, David concludes that he must do something to be worthwhile. James has the same thought when he states that life Is a vapor. And scripture elsewhere often mentions that we are like the grass of the field flourishing in the spring. But faded and gone by autumn. Thus, for Old and New Testament saints alike, because life is so short It's going to have to be lived meaningfully and productively. That is especially so in light of eternity. The saying is true. Only one life twill soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ. Will last. That's what David is saying in this psalm. His lament Like that which occupied his attention in Psalm 38, as we saw last week. And we're going to encounter some repetition tonight. Which is not a bad thing, by the way, arises out of some unspecified problem in his life. Apparently, he had some illness, which he relates to God's hand of discipline, and recognizes a direct link. between a sin or sins that he had committed that is causing him much pain and sorrow And in the midst of his suffering, David is tormented with the severity of God's discipline in view of the shortness and uncertainty of life. Derek Kidner says, quote, the burning question of this psalm Is why God should so persistently discipline a creature as frail and fleeting as man It's the same question as Job asks 7, 17, and 18. What is man? That you make so much of him, and that you set your heart on him, visit him every morning, and test him every moment. In his intense pain, Job is asking, God, don't you have better things to do than to afflict me? Just leave me alone, please. But although both Job and David complain, they are not defiant in the end. David especially is careful to voice his protest in a submissive manner. It's in this context that David makes his point. And you do well to apply it carefully and biblically to your own experience today The point of the sermon then is this: the measure of your days is exceedingly short. And thus it is necessary for you to profit from God's discipline and thus grow in godly trust and personal holiness. Before you pass from this life. And the first point I want to underline is this. You need to recognize that life indeed is exceedingly short. David is painfully aware of the brevity of his present life in the flesh Here on planet Earth, and this recognition is brought home to him by God's design In fact, he confesses it. Behold, you have made my days a few handbreads, and my lifetime is as nothing before you Maybe you have experienced something similar to that of David. Things go well, and when others ask, How are you? You respond almost thoughtlessly, I'm good. And you fall quite easily into the mindset that life will go on for a very long time. to come. But also like David, you need to learn from divinely ordained discipline this lesson. Folks, you're not going to live forever upon this earth. And especially You are not, as a believer in God as your Savior, going to live forever without something being done about your indwelling sin. Like David, you need to ask God to bring you up short, saying, O Lord, Make me to know my end and what is the measure of my days. Let me know how fleeting I am Do you see it? The way that God will bring David to an awareness of the brevity of his life. Will be to bring him to recognize that in a moment, by God's reckoning, he will depart this life. And come before the judgment seat of the Lord of all the earth. And to accomplish that, he will bring a period of painful distress. To his child. God's discipline is ever good for you today, also. And it is necessary, lest you fall for that insidious but sorry mindset that says I'm good, and I'll be good. Twice in verses five and eleven, David repeats Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath, is a mere breath. The word breath comes from a Hebrew word that is used repeatedly in Ecclesiastes to mean vanity. That which has no substance, that which is transitory and frail, something like building houses of sand on the seashore just before high tide. Or chasing soap bubbles that as soon as you catch them, they disappear and burst in your hand David is saying that life is exactly like that. It's like your breath on a frosty day. You see it for a quick instant. And then it is gone. And he gives two factors that make life so transient. First, life is really quite brief in view of eternity. Verse 5: Behold, you have made my days a few handbreads. And my lifetime is as nothing before you. When you're young, eighty or ninety years may seem like a long time. But when you view these fleeting years in light of eternity, they are nothing. I must confess that sometimes I feel like I was a teenager only yesterday. And let me tell you that kind of thinking can be dangerous. One sunny day recently I tried to dribble a basketball. And all I managed to do was sprawl on the pavement and skin my arm. Thankfully not seriously, but painfully. Boy, did I ever feel my age And it's not going to get any better. For life is transient, secondly, especially in view of death. Verse 6. Surely a man goes about as a shadow? Surely for nothing they are in turmoil. Man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather. What was the point of all their frenzied frenzied activity? It all comes to nothing at death. And since you cannot escape death, you should not live as if you could. Now maybe you're thinking, yes, I know that death is certain. But I'm young, and I'd rather not think about it. I still have plenty of time Here, rather, the admonition of Proverbs 27:1. Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day Might bring. Life is transient, and you cannot take it for granted. Now is the day of salvation. Not tomorrow. I do not say such a thing to alarm you, but rather to stress the point that David makes in our psalm Tonight and encourage you to pray as he did. Oh Lord, make me to know my end and what is the measure of my days. Let me know how fleeting I am. Make sure that you are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation. Today. You simply do not know how many tomorrows you will see. Say with David, My hope is in you. Deliver me from all my transgressions. And know this: the only way that even the Lord God can do that Is by your trusting him to accept the suffering and death of his son Jesus Christ in your place. That's the only way. Any discipline you may need is as nothing compared to the atoning sacrifice Jesus made in death for you. you, who rely solely upon him as your Redeemer. So you need to keep in front of you at all times the fact That your life is brief in view of eternity and in view of death. Remember, please, that oft repeated dictum, at least by me, I suppose. I've said it to all of you at one time or another. We grow too soon alt and too late smart. At least for sure learn from David's God inspired words tonight to avoid that sorry, dangerous optimism. That ignores the reality of that fleeting prognosis. All will be well. So eat, drink, and be merry. May your true enjoyment of each day be that of waiting upon the Lord to do with you what is a According to his all wise and all loving will for his glory Now, two. You need to persist in godly trust and pursue holiness. The more you live, the more you need to realize that there is nowhere else to put your trust than in the Lord Jesus Christ. David said, My hope is in you. And by that he meant that his confidence that he was forgiven for his sins rested solely upon Yahweh Himself. And not in anything that he, David, had done or could do. He simply didn't deserve it. He confesses, it is you who have done it. And it was enough for him to know that God had ordained a covenant of grace. To effect deliverance for him through a means yet to come, but as sure as done. Yahweh's salvation of David is wholly of grace, not merit. And this becomes increasingly clear to him as the days of his life pass by. And I ask you, dear congregation, is that true for you too? Do you never tire of hearing the gospel, week after week, in this room? And of warming regularly in the sunshine of God's blessed absolution of your guilt For your depravity and transgression. You know how God did it through the sacrifice of his only begotten Son. upon the cross. Can you never get too much of that? Of the sacramental bread and wine symbolizing the broken body and shed blood of your Lord Jesus? I hope not. Your hope is not in the church, but in the church's Redeemer Your trust is not even in the loving relationships you sustain with other believers in the family of God. Although, as we learned this morning, their prayers for you are very helpful. And you're grateful to God for them. The relationship that is most important is that which is sustained with the Son of God Himself. O believer, won't you persist in that? As you grow older, the Apostle Peter encourages Long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. You may see yourself aging, but spiritually, you're still like a newborn infant. Totally dependent upon your life-giving and life-sustaining God through Jesus Christ, that whoever believes in him will not be put to shame That's the godly trust in which even David, centuries ago, and without the full revelation of exactly how God was going to do it, Persisted. He waited for God. That's where all his hope rested. That's where all your hope rests, too Believe her today on all of your tomorrows, howsoever many of them there may be. Jesus, but I should start over again. Gene and I have gotten to know a believing Mennonite family. It has been somewhat of a challenge for us, and for them actually, to reckon with the outward differences that persist in our respective understandings of the gospel. Particularly do we differ on the question of predestination and election, which I don't need to expand upon here. Still, there is a point upon which we find total agreement: the matter of faith and works. We both agree that salvation is not by faith plus works, but by faith that works. To put it in biblical context, Paul is in the Bible, and he stresses the first, you are not saved by believing in Jesus and by behaving yourself. But James is also in the Bible. And he stresses the second that you are not saved by a belief in Jesus that does not result in your changed behavior. To put the two together, you're saved by a faith that works. As James 4. 18 puts it, show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. That's exactly what David says in our psalm tonight. Look at verse 8 once more. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool. David knows that it would be foolish to suppose that he could be forgiven without being changed in his behavior. Thus he pursues holiness as well as forgiveness. He wants to guard his speech, verse one, lest he sin with his mouth. Especially in the presence of the wicked, who will rightfully accuse him of hypocrisy, saying, You a presumed God-fearer, you're no better than we are. And back to James, we find this apostle agreeing, quote, for we all stumble in many ways If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man able to bridle the whole body as well. You too, who believe, who trust in Jesus, need to pursue holiness in your speech That's your faith working, according to the Apostle Paul in Ephesians 4. 29. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion. That it may give grace to those who hear. Your behavior, especially your speech, Doesn't save you, but it does show that you have been saved. This is abundantly clear in both the Old and the New Testament. But David wants to be free from more than sins of the tongue. He wants to be rid of all his transgressions. And since all sin begins in our minds to be holy in our behavior, we have to judge our sins on the thought level. As explained by Jesus and recorded in Mark 7. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts. Sexual immorality. Theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person. And David knows that to be delivered from all his transgressions, it will be necessary for God to work within his inmost being to bring about transformation. That's why he waits for the Lord, in whom alone is his hope for change in his behavior, especially in the area of his speech. Still, David knows that he is going to have to be mute sometimes and not open his mouth. Do you experience that need too? We are always ready to blurt out our dissatisfaction with others and repay their evil action With our evil talk. Ask God to close your mouth and put up meekly with others when they abuse you Even though you might be hot with anger, wait on the Lord. He is your defense. And he will not hold his peace at your tears. In his way and in his time, he will make all things plain. So don't rush in with your words. Third and finally. You need to profit from God's discipline. David says it in verse 11. When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him What a distressing shock it is to us when we discover that our favorite woolen sweater has become an afternoon snack for one of those ravished insects. It's ruined and useless. Now the moth doesn't have any evil motivation in his invasion He's just hungry and has found a tasty morsel. God, however, when he disciplines you, does so with a purpose He consumes what is dear to you that shouldn't be. The purpose of godly discipline is to deal with our courting of wrong things as presentations. Not sweaters, sins We love them. And God disciplines us by taking them away. He takes them away by rebuking us in love and bringing us to confess And forsake them, and then they are gone. Did you notice that David is praying that God would do two things for him? That are clearly opposite the one to the other. On the one hand, he prays in verse 10: Remove your stroke from me. But then turns around 180 degrees and asks in verse 12, Hold not your peace at my tears. He can't seem to make up his mind what he wants. Take away your discipline. No, don't take away your discipline. The reason is that on the one hand, as we read in Hebrews 12:11, for the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. Still, on the other hand, as the verse continues, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained. That's why David prays as he does, seemingly making two contradictory petitions. He doesn't enjoy discipline at all, but he recognizes that it's good for him. Please take it away because it hurts. But no, don't take it away until it accomplishes what you intend by it. That's what you need to pray too. You need to profit from God's discipline, just as David did. Your God is very wise, and He is very loving. He doesn't desire that you continue unrepentantly in your sin, whatever it is. So he sends temporary grief your way Not to punish you, because Jesus has already been punished for you. But to bring you to confess and forsake that sin. So we could say that discipline is both good and bad. Bad because it hurts, but good because it's designed both for your well-being and for God's Glory. So David prays in verse 13: Look away from me that I may smile again before I depart. And am no more. Keep on sanctifying me, O Lord, whatever it takes, even my temporary grief So that I may smile again. Bitter may be the pill But it's better than death. Life is short indeed But more important than living is living in the favor of God through the atoning work of Jesus Christ. Don't ever forget that. But continue today and always. To thank him for his wonderful grace. Amen