Please turn to Zechariah chapter 9. We'll read verses 9 through 13. Zechariah 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he. Humble and mounted on a donkey, on a coal, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim And the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea And from the river to the ends of the earth. As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope. Today I declare that I will restore to you double. For I have bent Judah as my bow, I have made Ephraim its arrow I will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and wield you like a warrior's sword. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. It's John chapter 12, beginning at verse 12. John 12, beginning at verse 12 through 19. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees And went out to meet him, crying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to him was that they had heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that Jesus will be heard, that the voice of the Holy Spirit, who inspired this to be written, will be prevalent. And working in our midst. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, this event of Jesus coming into Jerusalem is recorded by all four of the gospel writers, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We've been studying John here. And in our preaching through John, we have seen repeatedly That Jesus continues to tell his disciples that he is going to die. He said this most recently in chapter 10. When he said to them, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, I lay down my life for the In the next verse, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold, I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice, so there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, he says, because I lay down my life. There it is again, that I may take it up again. And then verse 18: No one takes it from me, but I lay it down. of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again, he says. So he keeps repeating. This is should be in their minds. I'm going to lay down my life. I'm going to die. And he's certainly been threatened with death. He's had to flee to the countryside in the past because the Jews were seeking him. They wanted to arrest him. They wanted to stone him any way they could. They wanted to kill Jesus. And the more miracles he does, the more they want to kill him. The most recent miracle, of course, is that he raised his dear friend Lazarus from the dead after he'd been dead four days. He raised him, called him out of the tomb, and And um he just got through having dinner with him and a party, and the Jews are very upset with this because uh it's Just ruining their party. We've also seen that Jesus has attended all of the national religious festivals in Jerusalem. He doesn't miss them Because God's people were supposed to participate in these things, and he's demonstrating his loyalty to Israel as he goes to Jerusalem for these things. things. He's gone to Passover, he's gone to Pentecost, he's gone to tabernacles, that's the camping out for a week in your backyard thing. He's gone to the rededication of the temple after it was desecrated and Judas Maccabeas came in and And threw the Romans out as a great Messiah-type figure. And then the temple was restored and it was blessed again. It was rededicated again And he's gone to that festival that remembers that thing. It's now called Hanukkah in the Jewish calendar. And now this is his last trip to Jerusalem. His last trip, and it is to celebrate the most important festival of Israel's list of festivals. That is, of course. the Passover, that feast that remembers how how on the night of the Exodus God's people were supposed to roast a lamb and they were to eat bitter herbs and and uh bread without leaven, and they were to put the blood of that lamb on the doorposts of their homes, and they were to be freed, set free, and they were to go off dressed for the long journey. As they left slavery, 400 years of slavery in Egypt, and made their way to the promised land. That is what Jesus is going to commemorate here as he goes up to Jerusalem. And as he does, he's now at the Mount of Olives, which is just a little hill across from the temple, just outside of the city of Jerusalem, the old walled city. And he is about to make his entrance into Jerusalem. But before he does, as we see, he does what any True Israelite king would do. In other nations, in other countries, the king when he would make his entrance after a great battle, after being off at war and conquering some nation, he would come in on a horse. A strong battle horse he would come in. in a great pomp and circumstance and huge parade of people would gather outside and then they would come into the city as he riding This horse that shows the might and power of the king. But Jesus comes in as an Israelite king. And what does an Israelite king do? He rides a donkey. A young donkey, it says. All the gospel accounts tell us that Jesus came in on a donkey. They tell us more of the details that he arranged this donkey, that it was tied somewhere And if you were to if if the disciples were to go get the donkey, they would if they were asked, why are you taking this donkey? They should say the Lord needs it, all these kind of things. But Jesus comes and it says in verse 14, Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as written, and then the writing that he's quoting is the prophecy of Zechariah. Zechariah, that Israel's future Messiah, king, would come in on a donkey. It says, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold your king is coming sitting on a donkey's colt. And there's more to it. We'll get to that later. We know from the other gospels that the cult was obtained with permission. And I mentioned that the Lord has need of it. And we also learned that it had never been written before. That's kind of an interesting point here, too. We'll talk about that. When Jesus gave indication that he would be entering the city, the disciples were probably just overwhelmed with happiness. Jesus is doing miracles, people are coming to him, it's all working in a pretty good way. He's threatened, he's threatened with stoning, a lot of good things are happening, and yet when is he going to make his move? When is he going to make to really show his power and his glory and come as Israel's king. And they're thinking, oh, he's finally decided to do it. This is great. So he's arranged this little parade. He's got a donkey. He's riding in as an Israelite king would. He's making his move. He's going to come in like Judas Maccabeas did And he's going to throw the Romans out, this occupying force. He's going to finally get rid of them and restore Israel to its proper place. And he's going to bring it back to the days of David, the glory days of David and Solomon. It's going to be what it used to be. Let me just uh underline for you how important the donkey thing is as he does. This in 1 Kings chapter 1, when David, the great king, you know, the Israelite symbol, even now, is the star of David, it's two triangles interposed. When David, the great king, the first and wonderful great united king of Israel, was getting old, and he was about to die He had a son named Solomon, you know. And he said, God told me that Solomon is to be king after me. And so he called Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and said, It's time to anoint my son Solomon. And so they arranged for this anointing of Solomon to be king over Israel. And it says uh in that chapter, so Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaniah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherithites and the Pelotites went down and had Solomon ride on King. David's mule or donkey, and brought him to Gihon. And there Zadek the priest took the horn of oil and anointed Solomon to be king. King over Israel. So the donkey thing goes way back to those days. That's what an Israelite king would do. And there's a reason for that too. Why are they riding donkeys and Mules and things like that. What's that about? Well, um in Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy is the giving of the law, just before Israel gets to come into the land of Canaan. It's the re-giving, that's what Deutero means again, of Namas, law, Deuteronomy. They're being told here in Deuteronomy 17, and I'll read it to you verse 7. 16 about the king, the future king, he must not acquire many horses for himself. Or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses, since the Lord has said, you shall never return that way again. God's people, see, Egypt was a place where there were horses. That was the horse store. You wanted to get a new horse, you went to Egypt to get it. Nations wanted to have a strong army in battle and have their chariots drawn by great beasts, they would go to Egypt and order some horses. And God said, don't ever go back there. You've been set free from there. Don't you ever go back there and get horses. I don't want you to be tempted to realign yourself with Egypt ever again. again. And so they didn't. And Israelite kings didn't ride horses. Now there's one more mention here in the in the Gospel of John When the people gathered and saw Jesus coming in on a donkey, they greeted him, and it says, with palms, with palms. Palms were also an emblem of Israelite royalty. That was how you would welcome an Israelite king. with palms. It was reminiscent. Palm trees were reminiscent of the Garden of Eden, of perfect peace. And if you were to go into the temple or the tabernacle and see the way it's decorated. There were palms on the hangings, palms on the carvings, palm trees picturing paradise. And so palms were another particular aspect. of what you would do to greet an Israelite king. And let me just point you way forward in the book of Revelation, the end of the New Testament. Here's the way it's going to be. When we who trust in Christ arrive in heaven. It's going to be like this. After this I looked and Behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hand They're worshiping and praising God's Messiah, the victorious one with palm branches. And so it says there, and the next day a large crowd came to the feast. They heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, so they took palm branches and went out to meet him, crying, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes to Jerusalem. in the name of the Lord. And we've learned from earlier preaching that that's a quotation from Psalm 118. That's the thing you say for the Messiah in the future. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We say it every Sunday in our communion liturgy. So he is that king. He is that Israelite king. He's not like all the other nations' kings. He's an Israelite king and he's identified by what he rides. And what they do with these palms. The second thing to note is that he's a peaceful king, not a warrior. I've already alluded to this, but I'll get a little more clear on it. The horse. The horse was not ancient. used in the East for purposes of agriculture or traveling. People didn't ride horses in Israel. It was only used for war. War. Horses appear constantly in Scripture as the symbol and embodiment of fleshly strength and might of the creature. Therefore, is that a king of Israel must not be like other kings. He must trust not in the power of horses, but in the Lord to protect And as we said before, Egypt was the place where you got your horses, and we don't want to go back there. It says in Zechariah 9, which was read, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming, righteous and having salvation is he Humble. Humble. That's a peaceful kind of designation. Not proud, I won! Humble. Mounted on a donkey. On a colt, the foal of a donkey. And then listen to the piece that comes in the rest of Zechariah's prophecy. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim. And the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nation. Nations, all the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. This king isn't just the king for Israel, he's the king for all the world. His rule shall be everywhere. He's the one who brings peace. The nations are always at war, aren't they? People in various countries have various ideas and they fight each other because of their ideas. But when they are united around Jesus. When they're united in Jesus, that's when there will be peace among all the nations. You can enforce peace, you can police, you can threaten, you can do all kinds of things, but only in Christ. Will the nations ever be unified with peace? One more thing about this that I want to point to you is that the the colt, the donkey colt, had never been ridden. And yet, Jesus wrote it. What's that about? Have you ever tried to ride a donkey Or a horse that's never been ridden? What do they call that when they have to get a new horse, for instance, and ride it? Breaking it. If you get somebody who's got a lot of of uh strength and and skill and and a very tough rear end, I suppose And they get on that thing and they ride it and ride it and ride it until it finally says, I can't get that human off of me. And they calm it calms down and then they teach it how to behave. But Jesus got on this this colt, this donkey, and he he healed it of its of its Fear. He healed it of its of its uh anger at being ridden. He got on it, and the King of Peace made it peaceful You see. Well, again, as I said before, the expectations of Jesus' disciples were very high. Oh, he's finally decided to come in and announce himself, even though he's told them several times that he's coming in to die, that he's going to be betrayed and handed over to death. They easily just forget that stuff. I don't know what he's talking about. Let's just not pay any attention to that and believe the parts that they want. But it's important that Jesus do that. this because he is, as we said before, the king for the whole world. And I think that we can see that in one of the verses, the last verse I think it is verse 19. It's kind of put there well people sometimes say truthful things even though they didn't mean to and they say Absolutely uh important things sometimes when they are guided by the Spirit, even though they didn't mean to. These people are not people who are trusting in Christ, they're not looking for Him to be the Messiah, and yet they say something really important. In verse 19, the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. And that's what Jesus is doing. He's bringing the whole world to go after him. It's ironic, and yet it it's prophetic. And it speaks to that part of Zechariah which was read. Shall speak peace to the nations, his rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the of the earth. The whole world is gone after. Him. Now, I said to you last Sunday that the Jewish leaders, if they could have corralled Jesus, if they could have got his support for their own purposes and for their own passions. The Jewish leaders would have been very happy to endorse him and honor him and give him some authority in Jerusalem. But Jesus had other plans. Jesus had greater passions and greater goals than just being a temporary king of of a people who are subdued by the Romans, because his kingdom is far greater than the ones that come and go, rise and fall, and all of which end up in the dust Jesus, you see, came as the only king and the Messiah of Israel, bringing peace for all who trust in him. And eventually Peace for the whole world. They thought they had Jesus figured out. The disciples thought they did, and they had some errors in their thinking. The Jews thought they had Jesus figured out and they thought they needed to kill him in order to keep him from ruining their situation. Let me ask you, do you think you have Jesus figured out and reduced to certain categories that fit well into your situation Some think of him as a way, uh simply as a way of avoiding judgment. A fire escape. If I if I say yes and and say I believe in Jesus and all that, then I then I'm free, I get to go to heaven, and I won't worry about that anymore. Others think of him as someone who exists to meet your own desires, to help you achieve your personal goals, kind of like a genie in a bottle who grants wishes And few of us would like to admit it, but this is often the way we treat him in our prayers. But he often cares about us so much that he will not grant us. Our foolish, erring requests on our own timetables. Some think of him as the kind of personal assistant who offers ethical advice and encouragement to do the right thing. But obedience is optional for such people. Well, that's not the Jesus that's presented here. The Jesus who contradicts what people think. Jesus, who comes on his own terms as the King and Ruler, the Savior of the world. Now, in the context of what's going on here, let me remind you Remind you that in about 40 years, a terrible, terrible judgment was coming on Jerusalem. The city would be surrounded by the Roman armies It would be besieged. People wouldn't be able to get any food or come or go at all. And terrible things would happen. During that period, people would kill each other within the city. I won't describe some of the awful things that happened in Jerusalem during that siege. When it was finally over, and when the Romans had conquered and broken down the walls and dismantled the temple, so that not one stone was left upon another, just as Jesus Jesus said, two million Jews died in that little city, cramped up within those walls. Two million Jews died It was a judgment. It was God's divine judgment on an apostate nation that thought they had it figured out, thought they knew what they wanted. And wouldn't give up what they thought. Jesus could see these storm clouds gathering. He could hear the distant thunder of this judgment. But just in a few days, in this last trip to Jerusalem, this last week, Passover week, just in a few days. He was about to take a much bigger judgment on himself. He was about to bear the judgment of God of God's fury and wrath for all those who run to him, for all those who hide in him. He was about to create the big deliverance, the greatest exodus ever. Because he was Going to become the Passover lamb at that last Passover. The Passover lamb who was to shed his own blood for people like you and me. To bring us true and lasting peace. You and I will only escape the wrath of God when the final great day of judgment comes As we have faith in Christ, Israel's Passover, Messiah, and King. The Christian message, you see, is not an offer of a bit of help to basically good people. But it is a rescue for people who are dead set for judgment and hell. Your natural condition is natural and habitual sin. It's natural, but it's not It's abnormal. And you can't cure it and you can't break it. You don't have the power to break sin in your life Someone has said this idiom exists widely, horses couldn't drag it out of me, or horses couldn't drag me away And the idiom means that someone is absolutely dead set and determined to stay exactly where they are. That's a good description of our human depravity. Our human depravity is such that war horses. Can't break the power of sin. And you cannot break the power of sin by your own willpower either. Someone that I quote says, habits eat willpower for breakfast You've got habits, sin habits that they they cling to us, and they eat our willpower for breakfast. But he, as John Wesley said, he He, the king of peace, the Messiah of Israel, breaks the power of canceled sin. He sets the prisoner free. And God has done this in the Messiah who came into Jerusalem. Jerusalem on that Sunday. Our message, therefore, is not hatred, it's not coercion, it's not condemnation, or anything of the kind. Our message is stated very well in 2 Corinthians 5. five and the message is we implore you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God Because for our sake he made him to be sin on that Passover week. Him who knew no sin, so that we might become the righteousness of God. God in him. And so I ask you finally, have you received this Israelite king that came in on a donkey, that was glorified with palms, that came in on Passover week Week, to give his life to save his people. Have you received this king? And if you haven't, I encourage you to say, Lord, I give up my ideas of God and accept only the true God revealed as Israelites. The Israel's Messiah King. Only that one. Jesus is Israel's Messiah King, and there's only one way to be saved. And it's through him. He's the only one for all the world. He's the Savior of the whole world. We sing it in our hymn, None Other Lamb None other name, none other hope in heaven or earth or sea, none other hiding place from guilt and shame. Think of those Jews hiding in Jerusalem forty years later, hoping to beat the Romans. No place to hide. None beside thee, Lord Jesus. No other Savior. Have you received this This king, this peace-bringing king. And if you haven't, I say, please pray this, Lord, I am not peaceful. I am not peaceful, but I yield everything To you, asking for you to straighten out what is crooked in me and put me at peace with yourself and others. I yield and bow to your majesty. And I ask you, have you received the king's For the whole world. And if you haven't said, Lord, I accept that there is no other Savior, no other religion, no other name, no other atonement than that of Jesus. Lord, we thank you for Jesus coming in this way and coming in to die, to take the big judgment, so that we would be Free forever and at peace with you. And now, as we come to your Holy Supper, feed us with yourself, Lord, that we might be strengthened in this wonderful good news, and proclaim it to others throughout the whole world. Amen