We're going to begin our reading tonight in the book of Hebrews in chapter one. We're going to read verses one through fourteen and then we're going to Turn to God John's Gospel and read in chapter twenty, verses twenty-four to twenty-eight. Hebrews chapter one, beginning at uh verse one, hear the word of the Lord. Long ago, at many times and in many ways God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels, as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Or again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, Let all God's angels worship him Of the angels, he says, He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. And You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you remain. They will all wear out like a garment. Like a robe you will roll them up. Like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same. And your years will have no end. And to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? Now turn over to John's Gospel in chapter 20. We'll read verses 24 to 28. John chapter 20, beginning at verse 24. Hear the word of the Lord. Now, Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe. Eight days later his disciples were in sight again, and Thomas was with him. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. And put your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, you believe because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation, we continue tonight our study of the letter to the Hebrews. Last week we were introduced to it. And we saw what the letter is. That it is a word of exhortation, or in other words, it's a sermon. And it is a Christian sermon. And the point of the Christian sermon that we have before us was to encourage Jewish Christians Who were attempting or being tempted to compromise the gospel, compromise with Christ, some sort of idyllic Judaism. That was being set up, leaving some kind of room for Christ, but not giving him the glory, the finality, the supremacy That's his. And so this was a word written to them to encourage them. Hold on to your confession of faith. Take another look at Jesus Christ. See again what it means to confess faith in Him. And I, beloved, am most excited. to do just that with you, however many weeks we go through, that we all because I'm looking at people who have been confessing Christ for many years. But isn't it glorious that we can always take another look? And see afresh just what it is to confess the name of Christ So that's what the letter is, a sermon to do just that, encouraging them to maintain their profession. But we are also introduced to its uh foundation. Where we read that God has in these last days spoken to us by His Son. That the very foundation, right, of any sermon ought to be the Word of God. And the foundation of any Christian sermon ought to be God's final word to us in his Son And we saw why it was final because it has come to fulfillment, right? That in the latter days isn't just a time designation, but going all the way back to Genesis 49. And through many other places in the prophets, the latter days meant the days when God would fulfill what he said the prophets or what he would do to the prophets. So when we say we're in the latter days, we mean we're in the days of fulfillment. When we preach the gospel, all gospel preaching, look at Jesus' gospel preaching, look at uh the apostles, it begins with this statement. It's here. If you're not telling the world it's here, if you're not saying the Christian church and spirit-filled redeem people before you is what God promised and you're not preaching the gospel. But when you say the Church of Jesus Christ is here, that's preaching the good news because the Redeemer's done his work and the Redeemer is applying that. So all gospel preaching begins with It's here. And then obviously the ab the uh uh exhortation is pretty obvious. If they're not believing it, repent and believe that it's here. So all gospel preaching begins with this idea of finality God is bringing to pass his final deal. Already we are in The Eschaton to use our fancy language. Already, right, we're in the heavenly places. Already we're in the eternal inheritance. That's what we're announcing to the world You're seeing regenerate hearts. That doesn't belong to this world. Belongs to the heaven above that's come into this world, Christ. So I know I'm preaching I'll try to just preach one sermon tonight, but um its foundation is the Word of God. The feature, we saw the feature is the Son. God has spoken to us in His Son. And that should be the feature of every Christian sermon, right? The person and work of Jesus Christ as our exalted mediator who humbled himself and is fulfilling his threefold office of prophet, priest, and king. We see that, right? God has spoken to us in his son. Prophet, having purged our sins, priests, seated at the right hand of God, King That's what it is to profess Jesus as Christ. So the feature of this is Christ and his threefold work as prophet, priest, and king. And finally, we saw that the focus, and this is what we will begin looking at tonight, is his superiority. The foundation is God's Word, the feature is the Son, and the focus is how glorious He is, how superior He is to everything that has come before, and there's nothing to come after. But Jesus Christ. So that's uh uh we'll be again then looking tonight at at that first uh his supremacy over angels I'm going to read to you verses three and four because this is really what launches in, and we're going to be focusing on verses five through fourteen. But look again there at verse that latter part of verse three. After making purification for sins He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. So as you listen to tonight's sermon, that's what you need to have in your mind. Christ has died and suffered, the atonement's made, it's finished, he's redeemed its people, and now he is exalted at God's right hand doing his ministry there. And we'll get to see it all as we go through. But you need to have that picture of The work on earth accomplished and now seated at God's right hand. And then you see there in verse 4, the point he's driving at. having become as much superior to angels, as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs So he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High needs to be in our minds as we then listen to uh the testimony here given really that is uh going to support this proposition, this assertion that our preachers made that Jesus has become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs Now, we don't know exactly what the church was facing, but at least some were teaching, or some were teaching at least, that angels were on par with Christ. So there was some idea being propagated to them that Christ was on a level, or angels were on a level with him. And some seem to probably think angels might have even been greater than him. And that's what's necessitated this demonstration that Christ is more superior. I have no idea who teaches that today in this world. I'm confident somebody probably does. So uh You may be convinced of this already, and I hope you are, but you may meet somebody who's not, and now you'll know where to go and show them in the Bible. Uh no. Christ. is greater than any angel. Now let me ask you a question. If uh let's just say for example we're playing a game and uh I named one of you a king and another one of you a servant. Now who do you think would be superior? Right? Who do you think is the greater one? The king Or the servant this is not a trick question. Jesus isn't this isn't Jesus going, I came not to be s the servant we serve. Alright, I know that some of you might be thinking, is he tricking me? No, no, this is a legitimate question, right Is the king greater or is the servant greater, right? Obviously the king is greater. And that's the point that he's going to make through all this, showing us Christ's kingship and how much greater he is than the angels So really the main point to get as we look at this tonight is that God has given to his son a name which angels do not possess. God has given to his son a name that angels do not possess And therefore, we are to confess this name in obedience to the divine testimony, right? This is God telling us, here's what I call Jesus. You need to call Jesus this. That sink in. This is uh this is really a wonderful uh statement here, or what we're gonna see, but God has given to his son a name which angels do not possess And so we are to confess this name in obedience to divine testimony and to put our confidence in it. It's God's telling the world through his church this name. That we might confess it and put our confidence in it. I'm going to give you this quote real quick from a one commentator. He really nails the impact of these verses that we're going to look at tonight The seven quotations, we're going to see seven biblical quotations here, are presented as a succession of words spoken by God to the Son. Which the church is permitted to overhear. This is like again, this is why it's as if you we've got to put ourselves in that throne room. Jesus has finished the work and sat down, and we are now permitted to overhear Well what did the father say to the son at that moment? That's what we're hearing here tonight. That's how the preacher has presented these texts to us. They establish that God's own witness is the decisive factor in the enthronement of the sun. And by implication, the hearers are invited to acknowledge the transcendent worth of the sun by displaying their confidence in him. The quotations thus reinforce the church's confession, which you've already seen in verses 2 through 4, right? He is the radiance of God's glory, God created him, he's air of all things. These verses are going to buttress what we've already said about him And they're also going to prepare us for next week's sermon in chapter two for the solemn warning to respect the word of salvation proclaimed by the Lord. So that's what these verses sort of do here They reinforce this confession that we've made already of Christ, but they're also preparing us then for next week to pay attention to the word of salvation that the Exalted Lord has preached to us. So this is the name that we're going to hear tonight that God has given to his son Jesus. And this is the name that we are to confess in the world. So let's look at these verses. Uh they kind of break down the three parts, five through six, uh the first ones we'll look at, then seven through twelve, and finally uh verses thirteen to fourteen. So look at verse one. For to which of the angels did God ever say? So he asks a rhetorical question to his hearers listening to this sermon I've just told you that Jesus is much superior to angels of the name He's inherited. And then he asked, Well, to which and angels did God ever say you're my son Today I've begotten you, or again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And so the first thing you know we're to learn and see from this is that God does not call angels son You might be going, wait a minute, I know some places in the Bible where angels are called sons of God. And you would be right. In places in the Bible angels are called sons of God. But notice he does not call them Son in the singular that refers to them as sons of God. But he does not say to the angels, Son. God has given to Jesus the name of Son. Now, this is going to be as we progress on here going through focusing on this deity, but the word son here though in context, the first quote comes from Psalm 2 Uh it refers to the Lord's anointed. He has uh suffered and now he is seated at God's right hand and telling the decree, I uh you are my sons, they have begotten you. This is language in referring to his enthronement. The apostles all preach this text as proof of the resurrection and Christ being exalted to God's right hand there. So what I'm driving out of the point I'm trying to make to you, beloved, is that the name son here, and also the second quote, I'll beat him a father, that comes from 2 Samuel 7. 14 And if uh you remember that was God establishing his covenant with David that um David's house would reign forever. And particularly that God would call one of his children. He referred to them all as his sons, but focusing on that special one. And so sonship really means here, uh Kingships. Kingship for God. The uh kings of David's life were called sons of God because they were put in that office of a king. And of course the great biblical revelation right as we see is that thy son, Jesus divine, is uh also right the Davidic King. And so you are Son, when we confess Jesus as Son here, W we're we're gonna see clearly it is referring to deity, but to understand it in its context in the Bible, it's a messianic title. And it means something right like son of David what it's talking about. We know that Jesus was preached as son of David and so This is a messianic language that God is ascribing to his son, right? Sonship, which according to the Davidic covenant meant a king, a kingship for God. And so when we call Jesus Son of God, right, we're calling him King. They go together. We don't just call him Son of God as a title merely to refer to as deity. But here God's saying, I'm calling you son in the sense of you're the anointed king. The kingship is yours that you exercise on my behalf. But yes, Jesus is Son of God in the sense that we've already seen up there in verses 2 and 3, the heir of everything, through whom God created everything. So we it is talking about his divinity, the radiance of God's glory is the exact imprint. So it's not taking away, it's really adding to it the idea that when we confess Jesus as Son We're not just calling him God and divine, but King. Because that's what God is saying to him, you are king. According to my promise to David. And then the next quote there we see in verse 6, and when again he brings his firstborn into the world, he says, Let all God's angels worship him. Now Uh commentaries are quite divided and I don't know the correct answer here on uh when exactly this took place. Some think it means when Jesus was born in his humility. And you know the angels praise them out in the uh countryside. Uh but I tend to think it's talking about his resurrection. And the world here is talking about his being born into the world to come. In chapter or chapter 2, verse 5. We read that it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. And of course we've been speaking about it because he refers to it here. about when he brings this force burn into the world. So I think it's talking about when God brings Jesus out of the dead back to life and into that world to come of which he is in and reigns, both Lord over this and the world to come. As he's on his throne, he says, Let all God's angels worship him. That's a quotation from Deuteronomy 32, verse 43 in the Septuagint, and what we found your ESV Bible, your editors, uh include the Septuagintal reading. So if you're reading the ESV Bible, you actually have this verses there. If you read the King James or others, you won't, because they go with the Masoretic text there. Or something it comes from Psalm 977, let all the gods worship him. So Maybe they're not exactly where it comes from. I think it's what it's talking about is that passage from Deuteronomy 32, 43, let all the God's angels worship him. And what we see here is that the angels worship the sun The incarnate, crucified, resurrected Savior Jesus, the angels worship him. And so adding again to the testimony of who's superior. So what should we learn from these first verses? God calls Jesus his son, and he commands all angels to worship him. And when God calls Jesus his son, he doesn't mean merely your divine. He means your King The throne is yours. You are son of God. And you are exercising a kingship for me according to my promises Right, made to David, fulfilled there in Psalm 2 and in 2 Samuel 7. So God says to Jesus, again we're overseeing this, you are my son. I I appreciate what some commentators say too, you know, Jesus was God's son here on earth. But he wasn't doing a lot of the things that God does, right? In that sense of reigning in his exalted place from his throne. No, he was down here serving and suffering, right? And so there's this sense of when he goes back as he talks about, I'm going to return to the glory that I left. When he sits down after having purged sin on his throne, there's this idea that the king is back. The sun is back and he's on his throne, reigning and resuming those prerogatives and duties that have always been his. Because right, it's hard to rule when you're in the grave, isn't it? And yet he suffered in the grave. Now that doesn't mean he wasn't so active as the divine being, ever active and ruling. But as the incarnate mediator, he was lying in the grave under the power of death That's not what God made his children to be. He didn't make us to be under the power of death, but king And so when Jesus goes back, there's that glorious finality to it, the resumption, redemption of his reign. Let's go on here to uh begin at verse 7, the second group. Uh of the angels he says, and he'll contrast in a minute, but of the son he says, so it's on the one hand, God says this about angels, on the other hand, he says this about his son. God calls, and what we learn here from these quotes, he makes his winds, fires, ministers, a flame of fire, is that God calls his angels ministering spirits. That's what God says about angels. He says about his son, son, king, he says about angels, you're ministering spirits. And what the preacher wants to do here is he wants to contrast, as we'll see in the rest of these verses, the finitude and mutability of angels with the infinitude and the immutability of the Son. Angels are these things, they are changing these things. The sun doesn't change. Now let me when I was studying this this week Because apparently what exactly is God saying when he says he makes his angels wins and his ministers a flame of fire? And there's you know discussion on what what does that mean I think one really helpful way, and I won't take you through every way, but one helpful way is is this idea that uh he makes his angels of the winds, and the winds is the kind of material Uh and this works out through Hebrew grammar. I just don't have the time to take you through all the uses of this verb with this double accusative form and show how it can mean all this stuff. I can show you where you want to look it up if you want. But An exegetically sound way of taking this is this idea that God makes his angels out of winds And he makes his ministers out of flames of fire, and you're going, What does that mean? Well, let me give you a quote from one biblical commentator. And this may affirm either that God makes use of wind and fire for special missions, as we sung in uh Psalm 148 tonight. We sung that there in Psalm 148 verse 8 that God uh give me a second Fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind, right fulfilling his word. God uses these and special commissions and fulfills them. That he gives wind and fire to his angels for the purpose of his operations in the world, which are effected through their agency as the materials of their outward manifestation and as it were of their self-embodiment. So it's one way to understand this is, you know, we know angels appeared on the earth as men, but maybe this idea he makes them powerful with wind and clothing with fire for some purpose of his. Is one way to understand this. And I'm told in the Talmud, which Talmud is basically the rabbinic commentary on the Bible It is the Talmudic view, I'm quoting here, that God really makes the angels out of fire. Here's what they say, day by day are the angels of the service created out of the stream of fire And sing their song and praise and perish. There's this idea that they just come into existence for a moment and then go out. That may be the background that he's working with, because it's clear by the text that he used, that's why he said, I can't tell you the exact way to take this I'm I'm laying that out there if we understand what the preacher is saying. He's wanting contrast the changeability of angels, possibly even the finitude of coming in and out of existence, right, with the immutability and infiniteness of the Son who goes on forever and doesn't change. So that's really the point to get, and here's some things you may have learned about what God does with his angels in the world that uh fulfill his purposes. We go on then in verse uh eight and look at this wonderful quotation from Psalm 45. And we see right that God the Father calls his son God and attributes to him an everlasting throne Psalm 45 is a psalm about a king's uh a king triumphant over his enemies, who's also marriageable. Again, the first part is about him triumphing over his enemies And we're going to sing it and then we close. And it ends with, right, the exhortation, Marry this king. It sounds a lot like the gospel, right? Christ triumphant for us over our foes, and we being married and joined to him. But notice that what it says, right? Your throne, O God. This is what the God's saying to him. Therefore, in verse 9, your God, here would be the Father speaking and speaking to him in his incarnate state Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you, your throne, O God. We see that God the Father calls his Son God and attributes to him this everlasting throne. There's a wonderful Quotation to help you understand what's happening here. In him as the incarnate son, the divine and the human meet, and the Davidic kingdom becomes truly the kingdom of God. Have you ever seen have you ever wondered how Jesus can come in the flesh and say the kingdom of God's here, the kingdom of God's here? And they called him right son of David. You're the Messiah, the son of David. How's he preaching Kingdom of God, right? And he's, you know, a man, son of David. And what this commentator is pointing out, what this Psalm is saying is that In Jesus as the incarnate Son, right, with the divine and the human meeting together, the Davidic kingdom right truly becomes the kingdom of God. Because Jesus is sitting on God's throne and he is God. And the wonderful way of how God has, but it means that we live in the kingdom of God. I love this psalm. I wish we had more time to spend on it. I would encourage you to your meditation just on those verses. Just think about what it is that Jesus' scepter of uprighteousness is the scepter of his kingdom, right? We are ruled by an entirely just king That is, as you know, who live in this world, that's a wonderful thing when it gives you security and peace. And Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom of righteousness. Verse 9 is referring, of course, to his ministry that he wrought out on earth, right You loved righteousness. We all have seen Jesus as we have in the Gospels loving righteousness, and we have all seen him hating wickedness. And therefore, right, he has been exalted, and God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. Uh that may either mean us, who are his companions united to him, this word will come up later in the gospel, or it might just mean there's no other king like you, and you're anointed far higher than ever the king. I don't know But I do know this. Psalm 23C is very wonderful when it says, In the sight of my enemies the table you spread. The oil of rejoicing you pour on my head. Because the Son has it. He has that Holy Spirit and He pours it out upon us. So there's so much there. But we got to get what His name is So we see and then finally this quote from Psalm 102 that God the Father calls his son Lord, you Lord. And he ascribes to him the work of creation, right? You've laid the foundation of the earth, the heavens are the works of your hands. He affirms to him an unchanging nature. They're going to perish, you're going to remain, they're going to wear out They're going to be rolled up, but you're the same, and your years have no end. God calls his angels, ministering spirits But God calls his son God and Lord, and he ascribes to him an everlasting throne. He ascribes to him the work of creation and he ascribes to him an unchanging nature. Remember this is this is what the Father is saying to our incarnate Redeemer as he sat down on his throne. This is that voice and the testimony given to him of who he is, Son, God reigning forever, Lord Finally, looking here at verse 13. And to wit to the angels, as he ever said, this is uh that third part Here we see in this quotation from Psalm 110, sit on my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Here we see that God in the Father invites God the Son to sit on his throne. Exactly how highly Jesus is exalted is uh a mystery. As we'll see in this letter. Uh and what uh why am I saying that well God doesn't have a right hand Yeah, I if you're taking your children to the first catechism, I forget which question it is, but the the question is, uh what is God? God's a spirit, and he doesn't have a body like a man He doesn't have a right hand. That's a reference to a position of power. But where exactly his throne is, we all we know is it's very high. And uh at times we're told that Jesus has not just gone into the heavens, he's he's passed through them. There is a mystery to exactly how highly exalted Christ is. But he's there and he's seated on it. And he's reigning. And what do we see that God says there in verse 14? Are they not all ministering spirits and out to serve the preacher for the sake of those who inherit salvation? God makes his angels serve his saints. I know when I read that and felt that, I thought, wait, what? You mean my risen Lord sends angels to serve me? To help me as an heir of salvation in my life. Now we don't have time, but you can just take one whole sermon and look all through the book of Acts. of the ministry of s angels sent by the risen Lord to help and strengthen his saints. I've not looked into this, but I'll tell you this much. Angels are helping you. I don't know what exactly that looks like. Angels are helping you. You have angels serving you. That's very humbling, I find. Very humbling thought. Made to be the heirs of the world, send it away. In Christ, made to be the heirs of the world. And angels come and serve us. But again, it's all about God's grace. Let me make a few closing points to you. Christ reigns, angels serve. They are his creatures, and they are his servants. And I'm going to give you a quote from one commentator because he really nails it. The Son is therefore king, not only over creation, but also over the church. He is therefore infinitely higher than the angels in both the natural and the spiritual realms He has no equal in the purpose of God and is therefore to have no rival in the esteem of his people. That is how high Jesus is. We are not esteemed any higher than the Lord Jesus. Secondly, as early Christians knew and as our author is preaching here and will continue to preach. To deny Christ is to forsake God, He is God, unequivocally God. God O God, may your throne reign forever. You are Yahweh, the Lord who's created. To turn from Christ is to forsake God. To deny Christ is to be an atheist. And he's going to drive home the point because some were thinking of doing it. And what grounds does he have to say it? But we saw it tonight with the name that the Father gives to Jesus. You're the Son, you're the King, you're God, you're the Lord. So let me end by saying, beloved, what shall we name him? Our pregnant parents may be asking themselves a similar question, right? What shall we name him or her? But God has not left us in any doubt as to the name given to Jesus. Son, God, Lord. And so let us follow the example of that converted skeptic Thomas And confess him together, my Lord and my God. And give your conquering King, beloved, your allegiance and the sincere devotion of your heart. Amen.