Turn please to the Book of Psalms, Psalm forty-four, very interesting portion of scripture. Tom and I have been remarking to each other how interesting it is to have to deal with a text that's uh coming to you and you're not choosing it as topic, but there it is, and you have to deal with it, right? So that is what we're doing. And it is interesting to have these things brought before us and have to struggle with them at times. This one is, like some of the others previously, beginning at Psalm 42, I think, called a Maskell of the Sons of Korah. And if we didn't already say it, let me just say the sons of Korah, during the time of King David, became the great leaders in choral and orchestral music in the tabernacle Some of the names are Hemon, the Korahite, who had a place of great importance as a singer, along with Asaph and Ethan, and Jeduthan. These individuals played an important role in the Thanksgiving services and pageantry when the Ark of the Covenant was brought to Jerusalem David formed an elaborate organization for song, instrumental music, and prophesying through these men, so the Korhathites So that is the choir master, a mask of the sons of Korah, and here's the scripture itself. O God, we have heard with our ears. Our fathers have told us what deeds you performed in their days In the days of old. You with your own hand drove out the nations, but them you planted. You afflicted the peoples, but them you set free. For not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm, and the light of your face, for you delighted in them You are my king, O God. Ordain salvation for Jacob. Through you we will push down our foes Through your name we tread down those who rise up against us. For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me. But you have saved us from our foes, and have put to shame those who hate us. In God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Salah But you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our armies. You have made us turn back from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoiled. You have made us like sheep for slaughter, and have scattered us among the nations. You have sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them. You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those around us. You have made us a byword among the nations, a laughing stock among the peoples. All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler. At the side of the enemy and the avenger. All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you And though we have not been false to your covenant, our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. Yet you have broken us into place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death. If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign God, Would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart. Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Awake! Why are you sleeping, O Lord? Rouse yourself. Do not reject us forever. Why do you hide your face? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression? For our soul is bowed down to the dust, our belly clings to the ground. Rise up, come to our help, redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love. This is the word of the Lord. Well this psalm, which is a very uh unusual Psalm Psalm belongs to us. Derek Kidner, a great New Testament scholar Notes that Thomas Cranmer's Anglican Liturgy of 1544 put together the first and last lines of this psalm as a prayer. In this liturgy and litany that he wrote, the minister says, O God, unto us the noble works that thou didst in their days. O Lord, arise, help us, and deliver us for thy honor. Kidner observed it was treating the prayer as a Christian inheritance and not merely an Israelite relic. This is ours. It those two phrases at the beginning and at the end of the psalm. Shows that this is our prayer, our concern. So we take it in these portions, the great victories of God for Israel, verses 1 through 3. confident prayer for God's victory for Israel in the Psalmist's own day. I have an outline there, I think. Israel's obedience answered with defeat. Verses twenty to twenty-two and then finally at the end A plea and a hopeful prayer for help twenty-three through twenty-six. The great victories of God for Israel. 1 through 3. We have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us what deeds you performed in their days, in the days of old. The psalmists received a special legacy from the fathers. This was the pattern of Israelite telling of God's deeds. It was oral history. It was important To remind the rising generation of what God did, to tell the stories. And you know it was especially in the Passover service that the story was repeated again and again and again And the youngest child would ask, What does all this mean? And the father would answer and say, God delivered us And this means that, and the other thing means this. The bitter herbs mean the uh so all those things were telling the story of God's redeeming work. The psalmist received this legacy from the fathers The older generation were careful to tell what God did in generations past. And what did God say? You drove them out with your hand, the psalmist says, but you planted Your people. The elder generation told the psalmist the great work God did when he drove out the Who? The Canaanites. This is the time of the conquest. And planted Israel in the land promised to the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So this is a really great and big story. And then he goes on to say in verse 3, for not by their own sword did they win the land, nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm. So he's remembering this time of the Exodus and the conquest, and he says that in all this, the light of your face. For you delighted in them. God gave him them the light of his face. He shined his face upon them. He was always before their eyes. Um metaphorically and at the time of the the cloud by day and the fiery pillar by night, literally. So this was the story that had been told. And And I think we could have something similar. Our equivalent might be reflections on our own spiritual heritage, events like the Protestant Reformation, for instance. When the truth was recovered and proclaimed and worship was renewed and Cleaned up from its errors. The Wesleyan revivals in England that transformed that industrializing nation from a nation of people who were drinkers and uh wicked people, especially in Wales, to a very pious and holy people that were in church every Sunday after that. The churches were full. We just got through singing I we long to see your churches full We would love to see something like that again. Or of the first great awakening which hit happened in this country under the leadership of the Tenets, Gilbert Tennet, and Freeling Heising and Jonathan Edwards when the Great Awakening happened. Uh-oh. So uh that would be similar. The second part would be verses four through eight. A confident prayer for God's victory for Israel in this day, the psalmist day. He says, you are my king, O God, ordain salvation for Jacob. Please give us this salvation, this And salvation doesn't here mean going to heaven, having your justification by faith. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about deliverance. Give us deliverance again. And you can exceed that in the succeeding verses. Through you we push down our foes. Through your name we tread down those who rise up against us. For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me. But you have saved us from our foes. You have put to shame those who hate us. In God we have boasted continually, and will give thanks to your name forever. Selah. So that is what's being discussed here is the salvation. It's being asked for again, the salvation, which is deliverance. It is deliverance from enemies. Commanding victories for Jacob, trampling down, pushing down foes. And McLaren says about verse five. This is taken from the manner of fighting common to wild-horned animals who knock down their foe by a fierce charge and then trample them, he says He says, verse 6, for not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me. We need your help, God, that because it is not our military might, our power. or anything else that we can come up with that will save us or deliver us, but you can do it, Lord. So he's asking that. Now, this is the end of verse 8, and Boyce says, at this point we would expect the psalm to be a thanksgiving psalm, a praise psalm. A psalm of confidence, because it ends in God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Silas. Okay, great. Excellent. We've asked for help. We remembered the help that we got in the past. We've asked for help to go forward. And we end with this: in your name we will boast forever. But that's not how it ends. Go on to verse nine. Israel's defeat and crisis at the hand of the Lord. At the hand of the Lord Lord. Verse 9, but you have rejected us and disgraced us and have not gone out with our enemies. You have made us turn back from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoil. You have made us like sheep for slaughter, and have scattered us among the nations. You have sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them. You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, the derision and scorn of those around us. You have made us a byword among the nations A laughing stock among the peoples. All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face at the sound of the taunter and reviler, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger. Please notice the word you repeated. Who is the you here? This is the psalmist saying, You, God, you, Lord, have let all these things happen to us. You have let these terrible things happen to us. You haven't even demanded a high price for us. You've let us go for nothing. All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face. The psalmist here is brought very low. And not only because of the defeat and disgrace suffered from the enemies, worse than that was that God's face was not shining. upon Israel anymore. God had abandoned Israel or was maybe against them. At least that was what the psalmist was thinking in these circumstances. I want to pause to read with you, if you turn to Deuteronomy chapter 28. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but Deuteronomy 28 gives the kind of the theological and covenantal ground for taking these things this way. So this is the giving of the law before the Israelites are to enter Canaan. We just talked about Canaan and how they entered Canaan and took conquests and all that. Here's what the law said about what's going to happen when you enter Canaan Verse 1: If you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you if you obey the voice of the Lord your God. And then this list of blessings. Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds, and the young of your flock. Blessed shall your shall be your basket and your kneading bowl Blessing blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. The Lord will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you. They shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. The Lord will command the blessing on you in your barns and in all that you undertake, and he will bless you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. The Lord will establish you as a people holy to himself, as he has sworn to you, if you keep his commandments, the commandments of the Lord your God, and walk in his ways. And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you were called by the name of the Lord, and they shall be afraid of you. And the Lord will make you abound in prosperity in the fruit of your womb, in the fruit of your livestock, in the fruit of your ground, with the in the land that the Lord your God swore to your fathers to give you. And it goes on and on. And then we're going down to verse fifteen. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God, or be careful to do all his commandments, And his statutes that I command you today, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you. Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field. Cursed shall be the basket your basket and your kneading bowl. Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your herds, and the And the young of your flock. Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out. The Lord will send you upon you Curses, confusion, and frustration in all that you undertake to do, until you are destroyed and perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken me The Lord will make the pestilence stick to you until he has consumed you off of the land that you were entering to take possession of. Those are the blessings, those are the cursings. And what do we have here? We have the psalmist saying, You have done all these curses to us, basically You sold us. You've made us the taunt of our neighbors, derision and scorn. Psalmist says in verse 17 that all this has happened to us, though we have not done what was forbidden to do in Deuteronomy. We have not forsaken your ways. We have not failed to keep your law. We have not forgotten you. We have not turned away from you. Look at it. All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you We have not been false to your covenant. Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. Yet you have broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death. The psalmist felt duty bound to tell God that despite the feeling that they had felt forsaken here. They had not departed from God. They felt forsaken, but had not departed from God. They still remembered him in terms of keeping his covenant and being faithful to him. And he says, our heart, it's not just that we outwardly kept the rules and the regulations and done all. He says, our heart has been in it. Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. Without claiming sinless perfection, The psalmist insisted that as a whole, Israel was still committed to God in heart and conduct. So we might call this an honest, anti-penitential psalm. There's no penitence in this part of it. Many psalms are penitential psalms with a sense of personal sinfulness and contrition. We're very sorry. Please forgive us and save us. But in Psalm 44, the psalmist honestly, not self-righteously, makes the case that in their present distress, this was not due to unaddressed sin or rebellion. Kidner says the psalm is exploring the baffling fluctuations that have their counterpart in Christian history. Periods of blessing and barrenness, advance And retreat, which may correspond to no apparent changes of loyalty or methods. Sometimes, God bless And I mentioned earlier the various revival movements and things that God did. The first Great Awakening Jonathan Edwards gives this amazing, detailed account of the surprising works of God in America. And he basically says, we didn't do anything special. We just preached the word. And somehow, both in New England and in the middle colonies, New Jersey, at the same time God poured out his spirit And reformed his church and filled the churches. And great revivals swept over the place. God just did it. No great methods, no great uh machinations or campaigns or Anything like that. Not the same in the second Great Awakening, which isn't very great after all. The Second Great Awakening was a method-based attempt at man-made revival, which did not produce lasting results. The Finney revivals and others that came along with it in that period of time were not great awakenings. They were shallow attempts at combining the gospel with social reform and various other things. And they produced moralistic preachers and preaching. Uh Billy Sunday, you would rail against devil and booze. And uh yeah, well, you get some people that get politically involved and and you know You know, quit drinking and stuff like that. But you don't have spiritual change. You don't have conversion. You don't have the spirit born revival that happened in the first Great Awakening, which happened And kind of spontaneously by the spirit's power. We get finally down to verse 20 to 22. Israel's obedience answered with defeat. If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign God, would not God discover this? For he knows the secrets of the heart. Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. The psalmist here then continues to insist that Israel had remained faithful. They had remembered the Lord and had not prayed to idols, stretched out their hands to foreign gods. If they had, God would know it. There would be no use in denying it, because he knows the secrets of men's hearts. He would search it out. He says, Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long and are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Now let's try to put some of this together. There are times when you didn't do anything wrong and you were faithful to the Lord. And you did love him, and still things go wrong. Personal times, as well as ecclesiastical periods. You know, when the I I this is coming right off the cuff here, but I would dare say when the Orthodox Presbyterian Church was formed in 1936, uh there was a thought And not without biblical warrant, that this movement would take over and that would become the main Presbyterian movement. And the Protestant faith would be Orthodox and Reformed and prevail. Now, God has been faithful to us. There's still a faithful remnant of people in the various conservative Reformed churches, though we haven't prevailed yet, have we? We're a minority. God is not necessarily missing the point here, is he? Or hasn't failed to see the situation. There is judgment coming on the house of God and in other cases as well. But we haven't yet seen what we would have liked to have seen. A great outpouring of the Spirit and a great revival and a huge growth in the visible church in this country So I think there's a parallel here. And I think that parallel, which is is here in this Psalm, which is Difficult in ways. We can get some insight into what's going on here if we also look at a place where this is quoted. So Romans, if you would, Romans chapter 8. Verses 35 through 39, a very familiar passage where this is quoted. Verse 22 of Psalm 44 is quoted in Romans 8. Let me read it. Verse 35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword All these troubles you see that can come upon the faithful in Christ. The faithful individual, the negation, the faithful denomination, yes. The faithful movement of Reformed Christianity can still experience tribulations and distresses and persecutions and famines and nakedness and danger and sword. But Paul says, quoting Psalm 44, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. He takes it right out of this part of this Psalm. That's not unusual in Christian history. So if things aren't going just as we would like them to, Individually, personally, or corporately, or even congregationally, I would love to see three times as many people here every Sunday night And double the morning attendance, please. Lord, aren't we preaching the Word of God here? Aren't we singing your word here? Aren't we singing the Orthodox faith here? Please, Lord, fill the place. Right? Isn't that a parallel sentiment? I think it is. Paul says, no. Verse 37. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Then he goes on, for I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Our Lord The Apostle Paul quoted Psalm forty four twenty two The sense is that even in such terrible defeat and disgrace None of this can separate us from the love of Christ or change our destiny as being more than conquerors in Him. We are more than conquerors in him. Despite their claimed faithfulness to God, Israel was afflicted with death and was as helpless before their enemies as quote sheep. It were easy and as innocent a thing to slay us as to slaughter a sheep. He said, this is all, this circumstance is for your sake. These are important words. For your sake. For God's sake. It means that they suffered in the faithfulness of God because of their faithfulness to God. Without the developing of a thought, the psalmist suggests a revolutionary concept to the Old Testament man or woman of God that suffering may not be a punishment. But a battle scar. The price of loyalty in a world which is at war with God. And we heard something like that this morning in the preaching. G. Campbell Morgan says, thus we are reminded of the fact that those who are The people of God are called upon to endure suffering for which there is no explanation at the time. There is an explanation, but not at the time. And certainly, it is not to be found in their own disloyalty. Such sufferings are part of the high and holy privilege of fellowship with God. So do you see that? It's not because you did something wrong. If you did something wrong, repent Turn to him, seek his mercy, but don't think that everything has a cause. I know that's what Deuteronomy said to Israel in the past in a certain sense But this is saying, but it's not always that way. It's not always that way. I was speaking with someone that you know who has been diagnosed with a dread disease. What did I do wrong? What did I do wrong? Maybe nothing, according to Psalm forty-four, and according to Romans chapter eight. But that doesn't keep us from asking God to remove the thorn in the flesh, as we heard this morning. And we see that next. Awake, why do you sleep, O Lord? Arise, do not cast us off for That brings us down to the very close here The psalmist does not really think God is asleep, but it felt like God was asleep. This is a freedom of speech which can only be allowed To inspire us to pray. The feeling or sense is powerfully captured in another place in the Bible, in the New Testament. When Jesus went to sleep in a boat on the stormy Sea of Galilee, and the disciples feared that they would perish. They didn't say, we must have done something wrong. That's what happened when Jonah was on a boat. You know, somebody must have done something wrong. But the disciples feared they would perish. It's recorded in Mark chapter 4, 35 through 41. And it says there, On that day when evening had come, he said to them, Let's go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in a boat, just as he was, and the other boats were with him. And the great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion And they woke him and said, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with great fear and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? So we have a picture of this distress in Mark chapter four. Where Jesus appears to not care, and they wonder why God has left them to perish. And yet Jesus is in control. And he brings peace and calm. And so that's what the psalmist finally says and asks for. Rise up, verse 26, come to our help. Help. Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love. The psalmist has stated Israel's problem as clearly and as strongly as possible. You might expect him to be angry with God or to lose hope. Instead, he's trusting God even in his pain and disappointment He made his final appeal, not on the basis of what Israel deserved, but for the sake of God's mercy. When we have done all that we can do, when we have loved the Lord and kept his word as best we can, we still need mercy. We still need mercy. We haven't earned a thing. We've only been unfaithful or unprofitable servants, as Jesus says elsewhere. So we always appeal to God for the sake of his steadfast love. What is that word? It's that word Hesed Faithfulness, covenant faithfulness. And the psalmist returns to that, asking God for his help because of his steadfast love. I don't know how to conclude this, but to say, know that these experiences are legitimate. Know that we don't measure God's love by our circumstances. Bad happens to good. God allows, even ordains, difficult things to happen in this world Perplexing things that make you say, what did I do wrong? And the answer is nothing. But I still need God's mercy. I still appeal to Him for His covenant love, which is finally and completely satisfied and fulfilled. In Jesus Christ and the cross of Christ. That's why the Apostle Paul can pull that verse out and place it right in the middle of his beautiful statement That God will never leave us or forsake us, that we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us, even though we are counted as sheep to be slaughtered. Amen. So, Lord, we pray that you would help us to approach the circumstances that you have ordained in your sovereignty. which uh which are sometimes very unhappy and difficult and troubling. Help us not to have guilty consciences because we have violated your word and have forgotten you and turned away from you and then we will feel the double pain of not only having troubles but being guilty and and knowing that those troubles come upon us without without any uh remedy. Accept repentance. Always help us to seek your mercy in Jesus' name. Amen.