I am still joyful and glad to minister this word to you this morning, because, and chiefly uh your enemy the devil would not have you know it. But God loves you so much he wants you to know it. And many people No, there's a problem with the world. And many people, well, not many, all, and suffer miserably in it. And why is that? And the joy of God and His gospel, of His superabounding grace, where we saw the greatest act of man's sin and hatred in the rejection of Jesus. And in his shameful, humiliating death upon the cross, God showed his love and grace for us sinners. So that we sinners can take the serious look it requires to see our sin and our misery, which is hard and we don't want to, but we must, and we must, so that we can enjoy the comfort of God's grace and of his gospel Last week in the catechism, we left off with the question of man's ability to live up to God's law perfectly. And that question received a firm no, which I hope all of you are ready to ratify yourselves. I was reading this week and one guy suggested for if you're a person who maybe disagrees with that, well, learn the Ten Commandments real quick, then tell your wife or spouse. Start the clock now and by next week this time I want to show you that I'm not a sinner. And see what she says. Just try to do it. And you find not only that you can't, but that you won't. And that's sin. And this followed by a statement, this no was followed by a statement of man's natural perversity, his twistedness, his corruption. And that is where the catechism picks up this week. Who is responsible for man's hatred and his wickedness and his perverseness? Last week, if you will, stated the problem that we come to know by God's law that we are doomed sinners. Destined to hell and punishment and depraved sinners, unable entirely to do anything good on our own And this week states the source of the problem and begins to hint at its solution. And what you and I must learn today is that God is not the source of our sin and of our misery, but He is the solution. To our problem of sin and our human misery. Why am I so sinful? And where does my sin nature come from this morning? That's our topic. Original sin. But to really get out original sin, we have to start where the catechism starts, with the image of God and how God made us. We might really see what sin is. So we start with the question, did God create man so wicked and perverse? You and I are very good at putting the blame where it does not belong. We have been doing it since the Garden. Adam blamed God And Eve blamed the serpent. And wickedly and wrongly today, God still gets blamed for all the evil in the world. God did not create evil. He created beings, good beings, who by the abuse of their freedom and denial of their creaturely created goodness. might become evil, in which they have. But he did not create them. To the question whether God created man so wicked and perverse the catechism, right? The answer is no And then I think it gives a very admirable statement as to how God did make man. And it will be worth our time to study it. And that is so that we can come to know the evil of our sin and also more keenly feel the misery of it and of what we've lost and of what we've become. And this again, as I said, that we might seek the comfort that God offers us all in the gospel. So then how did God make man? God created man good and in his image, that is in true righteousness and holiness. So he might truly know God, his Creator, love him with all his heart, and live with God in eternal happiness for his praise and glory. What a wonderful statement of how God made man. God made you and me good, beloved. And God made us for good, for good purposes. And the good that God made us is his image. He made us in his image Creatures everywhere were to look at men and say, oh, this is what it is like to know God. Everything that this man does is so right, it is so holy, it is so good. Living under his dominion, his rule is wonderful You know, I think, right, what if Narnia were true? And what if the rocks and the trees and the waves and the animals could speak? What if they told us such things? Because they were meant to. As God made us in his image. And that is our good to be like God. to bear his image, male and female, young and old alike to bear his image. To rule over the works of his hands in a godly, loving way. But why did God make us like that? That's how he made us. But why? What purpose did God have in making us after himself? The Heidelberg Catechism gives us four purposes First, God made us this good. God made us in his image so that you and I might truly know God, our Creator. We were made to know him. And as you're probably aware, you don't come to know people that you don't like. God made us like him so that we might come to know him. God made us with an affinity to himself so that we would share, if you will, in the same interest as he has, that we would know his heart. That is, that we would know him as he truly is. And it is a great misery that we don't and won't do this when we should. Just real quick, sin does not excuse you from your responsibility before God. I want that to be clear. What we're reading here is what you ought to be right now. And that you are is simple. Is that that clear? Men think that if they sin, we can just throw God's yoke off and then we're excused. You are never excused as God's creature to be anything other than what God made you for. And it is his grace that he is remaking you back to this good. But there is comfort in Christ, we heard in Ephesians 4, put on the new man. created after the likeness of God, in true righteousness and in holiness. The second purpose God made us for was God made you and me good so that you and I would love Him With all our hearts. As we saw last week, that's the substance of the law. God gave us good hearts. God gave us hearts like His, that we might love like Him Him And I think what an amazing thought that God created us to love him with something of the same holy and pure love that he loves us with always. You know, God is love. Just thinking about the possibility And praise God in Christ, the true reality one day, beginning now, of loving him like he loves us. But what a misery that we don't and won't when we should. But again, there is comfort in Christ. And the grace of our Lord overflowed for me, that's Paul, with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. 1 Timothy 1 14. Again, the picture of what we lost in Adam. God is restoring graciously and giving back to us in Christ. Third God made you and me good so that you and I might live with him in eternal happiness. Adam and Eve lived with God in the garden. They shared it together with God. There was, if you will, no man cave there. No escape from God. God filled their whole lives, and they were happy. And God intended this to go on forever. That's why he gave him Adam the covenant of works or the covenant of life. They had it in their power to preserve this happy life with God forever. As a binding, eternal, covenantal contract. Not only for themselves, but they could preserve it for us, for you and me, their children. but also with the possibility of losing it for themselves and their children, which they did in their sin And again, what misery that we don't and won't live there with God anymore. Yeah, what comfort in Christ. Again, Revelation 21. 3. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. And that's speaking about the new heavens and new earth, for we know that God dwells now in his church. As members of Christ's body, we live again with God. Fourth and finally, but you see the nature of sin, right? The church is saying, world, you know, John says, We have fellowship with the Father and the Son, come be apart. And they won't come. Man will not live but God Sinners will not live with God. Fourth and finally, God made you and me in his image To know and to love and to live with him so that you and I might praise and glorify him. And this is another way of saying that God did all of this for himself. He did not create because he needs our praise. But having created for himself all that is, who but God should be praised And what greater reason for being alive could there be for you and me than to praise our Creator and to glorify our Creator Fulfilling all these wonderful God-given purposes that He gave us. Again, what misery. Now we don't, and we won't But there is comfort in Christ. He predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. To the praise of his glorious grace. That grace shown to you and me in Christ, I hope, leads you to praise God's grace. So let's stop blaming God, beloved, for our problems. He made us very different than what you and I are today. And he made us for very different reasons than what you and I typically live for. Instead of blaming God, you and I should praise God for making us so good and for such good. And we should give him thanks for these things, like we did when we sang together just now Psalm 8. Almighty is a wonderful psalm. Recalling all of the creational good and praising God for it. I would encourage you to adopt it to part of your daily family worship. This psalm shows us how good God is, and this psalm also shows us how great God's mercy is to us. Hebrews 2 shows us that Jesus, the new man, has been crowned with glory and honor, it quotes this psalm, and that all those who belong to him may comfort themselves in this evil life That one day they will be raised to an exalted height with him. Well, if God did not make us this way And how did we get this way as doomed sinners and depraved creatures? Where does man's corrupt nature come from? But we can't blame God as we saw. Who can we blame? Can we blame the devil? Didn't he tempt Eve? Are we not right to lay it at his feet? Eve tried that, but God did not go along with it. Certainly the devil is not innocent. He is partially to blame for our will. His doom is sure. And he does have a terrible day coming for him and for those who listen to him. But Satan can only suggest. He lies and he deceives to get us to sin, but he cannot force us to sin No more than we can force him to do anything. What Adam and Eve did, their sin, was brought about by the devil, but it was done freely. And therefore, the Bible calls it disobedience. Romans 5. 19. For as by the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. This verse lays the blame where it belongs, at Adam's feet. So, where does man's corrupt nature come from? Again, the Heidelberg, I think, says it very well. From the fall and disobedience of our first parents, Adam and Eve in paradise. This fall has so poisoned our nature that we are all conceived and born in sin. Now, some people think that eating the forbidden fruit was a trifle. That is a thing of little importance and of little significance. And really, if you think that, and those who think that it it it only shows your ignorance to say such a thing, that you don't have any concept yet of what sin is And I want to give you several quotations, because these men say it better than I do, to help us to understand what sin is, and particularly what this eating what Adam and Eve's sin was and also our sins as we repeat it. One uh children's book, I think it's in our nursery, says it this way. It was wonderful to live with God, but then one day the people did a terrible thing. They decided they didn't want to do what God said. They decided they wanted a world without God in charge. And that pretty much well sums up sin. Apostle John says sin is lawlessness. Later on, when the book gets to Jesus and the cross, it says people still didn't want to let God be in charge. So they decided to put Jesus on a cross to die. The sin that took place at Golgotha was shown in the garden. But also, you know what, beloved? So was also God's superabundant grace. As he gave that promised seed, sowed that. And if you will, that also came to fruition in flowering. At the cross, when Jesus, our God, came a man and died For us. God in His grace, He pardons our rebellion and He renews our nature. Here's another quote Man tempted by the devil let his trust in his Creator die in his heart. And abusing his freedom disobeyed God's command. And this is what man's first sin consisted of. All subsequent sin would be disobedience towards God and lack of trust in His goodness. When you and I sin, We choose to disobey God, and we demonstrate our complete lack of trust in His goodness, that He knows what's best for us. That his ways are good. His promises are true. Because, Brother, we don't just disobey merely. Some may just disobey. We do it because we think if we follow God, we won't get this. And there's all kinds of sinful reasons swirling around our disobedience. fears and desires and many other things. There's another quote To try to understand what sin is, one must first recognize the profound relation of man to God. And that's why we started there with the catechism statement of who God is and that profound relationship that God made with us and made with Adam and Eve in the garden For only in this relationship is the evil of sin unmasked in its true identity as humanity's rejection of God and opposition to Him. Even as it continues to weigh heavy on human life and history. Sin is rejecting God. And sin is being in opposition to God. And that does weigh heavy on human life. One final quote: How could there be a greater sin committed than that? When Adam at that one clap broke all the ten commandments, he chose himself another God when he followed the devil. He idolized and deified his own belly. He took the name of God in vain when he believed him not. He kept not the rest in a state wherein God had set him. He dishonored his father who was in heaven, and therefore his days were not prolonged in that land which the Lord his God had given him. He massacred himself and all his posterity From Eve he was a virgin, but in eyes and mind he committed spiritual fornication. He saw like Achan that which God had set aside, not to be meddled with And this his stealth is that which troubles all Israel, the whole world. He bare witness against God when he believed the witness of the devil before him He coveted with an evil covetousness like Amon, which cost him his life and all his progeny. So we should not say, beloved, that the sin of our first parents was insignificant or unimportant. After creation and after the death and resurrection of Christ, there is no more significant event than the fall of Adam and Eve that has shaped this world. God shaped it when he made us. And Adam's fall has shaped it, but the death and resurrection of Christ has reshaped it. But it is a significant event. What is the consequence of this sin, as far as you and I are concerned? Well you and I are now Conceived and born in sin. And this is called original sin or birth sin And we are afflicted with it as God's punishment upon Adam's sin at our birth. It is transmitted to us through Adam's transgression. It has three components to it or parts. First, we don't come out of our mother's wombs pristine or upright, but is doing what is right. We come out of our mother's wombs. And what that means is what that's called is we lack original righteousness. What we are meant to have. We're meant to come out that way. We don't Second, we come out warped or twisted. Our whole nature is Kabuk. Not a part of us remains as it was meant to be. We saw there in Ephesians, right? Darkened minds, hardened hearts. ignorant of God, bent the wrong way, desiring evil. That's how we come out. Third, we come out under God's wrath, deserving death. We are guilty. Paul teaches us this in Romans 5. 14. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses. Even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. Have you ever thought why do infants die? I remember when I was still I was still in college before I was in seminary when I was uh at the church that was looking into me for the ministry and I was talking to a mother and father about original sin. And uh they found it a hard pill to swallow. But our infants die because they're sinners Not like Adam. They don't transgress, but if they don't do what God forbids, they never know what God forbids. But that doesn't mean they're not sinners, right? The text says whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. They're still sinners who sinned, their sinning was in Adam. And that relationship with him, Adam was our head and our representative. And Paul teaches us this in Romans 5:18: Therefore, has one transpass led to condemnation for all men? And also in 1 Corinthians 15, 22, For as in Adam all die. All die in Adam, because all have sinned in Adam. Eden not sinning in the same way he sinned. I know when I say that I'll just give you the again, this is God's grace to us, right? I agree with what the canons of Dort say that leaving parents who suffer the loss of an infant child Have the assurance that they're by God's mercy according to his covenant of grace, that they will see that child again in glory one day. But that's God's grace, beloved. That's grace. It's not what that child deserves any more than you and me. It's grace I think here's another quote that sort of sums up original sin and its misery on the human race very well The overwhelming misery which oppresses men and their inclination toward evil and death cannot be understood apart from their connection with Adam's sin And the fact that he has transmitted to us a sin with which we are born, are all born afflicted Original sin is the miserable or wretched condition that the human race has fallen into, an Adam's sin. We are guilty We are without righteousness and acceptance with God, and we are depraved when we come into this world, born of our patent. And from this original sin comes all actual sins, the sins that you and I actually commit. We are not sinners because we sin, we sin because we are sinners. What I want you to take from this, beloved, is that original sin is our sin. It will do you no good And try to put it on somebody else. We must, like David, take responsibility for it. In Psalm 51, he does take responsibility. He does not blame God for being conceived and born in sin. And nor does he blame God for his actual sins. Those sins of his which he commits because he's a sinner. He takes responsibility for those two. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified when you speak and blameless when you judge David is not blaming God for his sin and sinfulness himself. You and I need to do this, beloved, so that we may be pardoned. And received into God's favor because God is mercifully ready to forgive all who repent. And the first part of repentance is taking responsibility for what you've done. No more blame should. Admit what you've done without qualification and without reservation. Now to be conceived and born in sin sounds hopeless. And it is Apart from God's grace, it is a situation of which man cannot get himself out of, nor will he and does he want to. Question eight, but are we so corrupt that we are totally unable to do any good and inclined toward all evil? We have seen that God made man good and for good. You saw that man made himself bad? The question is: how bad? Can we fix the problem ourselves? Since we, if you will, by our own strength, or agony by their own strength, fell from God, can we, by our own strength, return to God? Many have taught this in the history of the church, and still do today. It is a lie, so you should not believe it. Can a leper change his spots? Can a bad tree produce good fruit? So then man cannot save himself. Here we are prone to think that man wants to be saved. That man is willing, but God is unwilling. That man wants to return to God, he just can't. But that is not the case at all. Here are Jesus' words in the matter. I'm going to read to you from John 5, 39 to 44. Jesus says You search the scriptures, for end them you think that you have eternal life. And they are they which testify of me And ye will not come to me that ye might have life. I receive not honor from men, but I know you that ye have not the love of God in you. I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not. If another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. How can you believe Which receive honor one of another and seek not the honor that comes only from God. As you can see, Jesus says it is both a matter of man not wanting to be saved Coming to him for eternal life? Ye will not. And being unable to believe and be saved. How can you when you're so evil? The scriptures that they search and testify, they testify of Jesus. The scriptures they search testify of Jesus, and Jesus says they won't come to him for eternal life. They will not do it. He's right there. Standing in their midst, and they will not come to him. And since they have no love of God in them, here is God in the flesh before them. They cannot believe his truthful words in self-testimony to be saved by him. This is called total depravity or total inability. Guess your unbelieving teacher, colleague, and neighbor are very kind to you. And praise God. Yet nothing they do comes from faith, and nothing they do is for the glory of God, and therefore nothing they do in God's eyes is right. Rather, all they do in God's eyes is sin. Even when by outward appearance it looks as if they're doing what pleases God. To the pure, all things are pure. But to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure But both their minds and their consciences are defiled. Titus 1. 15. We will get into this more when we talk about good works in part three of gratitude. Now I imagine that many thought Nicodemus was a shoe in for the kingdom of God. When it came, that righteous man by outward appearance would have a place of honor in it. And yet the Lord flatly tells them, unless one is born of water in the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And why is that? That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Born of Adam, we are flesh. Born of God, we are spirit. Are you born of God, beloved? Have you had a new birth? What we call regeneration. Do you believe in Jesus? Do you acknowledge Him to be the Christ who died for your sin? Do you believe him to be the eternal Son of God? And do you love Him? And do you want to obey Him? If so, then praise God and thank him alone for your salvation, for his sovereign and enabling grace to make you good again. And for good again. The same creational good that you lost in Adam, he gives you back in Christ. To know him, to love him, to live with him in eternal happiness for his praise and his glory. Keep hearing the word of God, beloved. Keep partaking in the sacraments, in giving yourselves to prayer. For one another and prayer for lost sinners, so that you may grow in grace and goodness, and you may see many others come to Christ and be saved. If you are not born again, unless you are, you will remain forever totally unable to do any good and inclined toward all evil. Your place will not be in the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, but in hell To suffer justly the punishment for your sins? That you so wickedly refuse to come to Jesus for eternal life when he invites you? That your heart is so full of hatred to God that you cannot believe in Jesus when he speaks plainly his truth about himself to you. I pray that God would have mercy upon you, and I know it would be the prayers of this congregation to pray that God has mercy upon you too. It should come as no surprise to us, beloved, that there is misery in a world of hate But how awesome and comforting it is to know that God so loved this world of hate, that he gave his only begotten Son. that whosoever should believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. All of you believe in him, and all of you who do believe in him, comfort yourselves. In him