Please open your Bibles to Genesis twenty-two. We'll read verses one through fourteen. Genesis twenty-two, starting with verse one. After these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. He said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went, both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar. on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, on the mouth of the Lord it shall be provided. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading is the text for preaching today from the Gospel of John chapter 8, 31 through 59. It's a large portion 31 through 59 of John chapter 8. And Jesus here continues his Dialogue with the Jews at the Feast of Tabernacles, which was an eight-day campout in your backyard. To remember the 40 days of camping in the wilderness after God's people had been delivered from Egypt in the Exodus. So this was an eight-day festival, camping and eating and drinking, feasting, and remembering God's grace to deliver his people. And he continues his discussion there, John 8. 31. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him. We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever The sun remains forever. So if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are the offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your Father. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works that Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You were doing the works your father did They said to him, we were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God, Jesus said to them. If God were your father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? Is it because you cannot bear to hear my word? You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is you are not of God. The Jews answered him, are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died, and the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was. I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this dialogue that John records for us. Help us to put ourselves in this discussion and let the questions that Jesus asked Come to our ears and hearts as well. And help us to respond in repentant faith, we pray. Amen. So the question is that Jesus was discussing really is the question, who is your father? Who is your father? From whom do you find your source, your identity, and who is giving you instruction, and who is impelling you to act and live? Who is down deep inside you? your father. That's what Jesus was asking. And that's what John is asking in the gospel. You know the gospel was written so that people might Believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and have life in His name. And so this is another part of that Of that question to get people to answer, to believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and have life in His name As we go through these verses, the first thing I want you to note is that true abiding faith brings true abiding freedom. There is such a thing as temporary faith. Because in verse 31, Jesus said, it says, to the Jews who had believed in him. That's the beginning of this whole section. He spoke to the Jews who had believed in him. He's been doing things, he's been saying things, he's been proclaiming himself, and some were believing in him. But sometimes belief or faith can be temporary. There is such a thing as temporary faith. He goes on to say to them: if you abide, that is, you stay, Keep on in my word, you truly are my disciples. And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. That's what he says here. Now, let's take for a moment this idea of temporary faith. Jesus told a parable in Matthew 13. And I'll read part of it. He told them many things and parables say, a sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground where it did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up Since they had no depth of soil, but when the sun rose, they were scorched, and since they had no root, they withered away And then he explains it in verse 20. As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it. I think that's describing some of these hearers here in John. Receives it with joy, yet he has no root in himself, and endures for a while, but when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. Have you ever met someone who, quote, used to be a Christian? That's how they describe themselves. Perhaps they grew up in church and the message that they heard in Sunday school and in worship sounded good to them at the time. They liked the idea of forgiveness and eternal life with God better than the alternative. Maybe they met some nice people at church and enjoyed the company. But in time, the cost of following Jesus was more than they wanted to afford. The moral standards of the scriptures, commitment to worship And they were embarrassed perhaps by the politically incorrect views that are taught in the Bible So faith and profession of faith can be temporary and can end up in complete rejection, you see. When this happens, the person returns to what they were before, especially if they were out in the world before. They return to what they were before, and like a prisoner set free, returns to crime and then to prison. Jesus knew as he was speaking to these Jews that some of those who came to believe had only temporary faith, and so he challenged them in it. And what did they respond in verse 33? They answered him, in effect, hey, wait a minute, Jesus. We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone How is it that you say you will become free? Now the truth is, it's kind of ironic here really, because the truth is they had once been slaves in Egypt. And then again later in Babylon, and this feast that they were celebrating was to commemorate the Exodus, their freedom from slavery in Egypt. So it's kind of an interesting thing that they say, we've never been slaves to anyone. Jesus answers them in verse 34. He says, Amen, amen. I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. So he's talking about a different kind of slavery here. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son remains forever. So if the son sets you free, you'll be free indeed. He's saying, yes, a slave can live in the house. You can be an Israelite and live in Israel, live in the promised land, but that doesn't make you a true spiritual Israelite You be like a slave living here. You get to serve in the house, but you're not a resident. It's not permanent for you. But if the Son sets you free, if you're united to Him by faith, then you will be free indeed. No matter what the political situation around you. You'll be free indeed. Jesus makes it clear that though they presently live in the promised land, they are still, by sin, slaves. In verse 34. But the Son has the authority to set slaves free. That's the good news. If the Son sets you free, you'll be remaining in freedom forever in the promised land, the house of the Father. But let's go on to the next point that I have outlined for you. Abrahamic lineage, Abraham's family line versus Abraham's faith, a contrast between just being in the family line and being in the family faith. Verse 37. He says, I know that you are offspring of Abraham Yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my Father. And you do what you have heard from your father. He's starting to build this contrast between God as his father and the devil as another father. And they react very badly to this accusation that there's two fathers and maybe their father isn't God after all. They react very, very badly. People sometimes act very badly when they get bad news. They can deny it They can try to suppress it. If it's really bad news, it scares the wits out of them, and they want to hold it down if at all possible. Even to the place where they just simply close their eyes and ears and won't hear it. I was uh on Memorial Day weekend, I was listening uh to the radio and there was a there was uh an interview with a U. S. Army chaplain, Colonel Eric Wester. He had been chaplain for 28 years, and he was telling how sometimes when when People have a deployed member of the military overseas and they see pull up in front of their house an official government vehicle and they see a chaplain and someone else dressed in their formal uniform coming toward the door, they simply refuse to open the door. They will not answer it because they're afraid That terrible, terrible news. Sometimes people don't want to hear the bad news. They're willing to push it away, not hear it, no matter what. But again, John's purpose here is not simply to hurt people, but to cause them to believe in Jesus by these words. Jesus was telling these Jews these things not out of hatred and spite. He came to bring salvation, not condemnation. As it says in John 3. 17, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So take Jesus that way, please. In verse 39, they answered him, Abraham is our father. They're clinging to that lineage thing. To save them. Abraham is our father. And Jesus says, I've got to tell you some bad news here. Please listen to the bad news so that you can hear the good news. And he says in verse 39, if you were Abraham's children, really You would be doing the works Abraham did, but instead you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You were doing the works your father did. Bad news, isn't it? And they reply, We were not born of sexual immorality. What's that about? The news had probably gotten around the gossip corners that Jesus' mother wasn't married to Joseph when He was conceived, and so they have heard this rumor that Jesus was born of sexual immorality. They go on, we have one Father, even God. Verse 42, Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. You would love me. For I came from God and am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? Because you cannot bear to hear my word. Again, the context helps here. The feasts have been remembering their covenant relationship with God through Abraham, to whom the land of Canaan was promised. And Jesus makes it clear that Abraham's faith was in the Messiah's faith, as theirs must be. And so he goes on to talk about the source of murder as a spiritual lineage. He set up this discussion about God as his father and the devil as their father. It's bad news. And let's explore that for a moment. What is the source of murder as a spiritual lineage? We go back to Genesis chapter 3. Verse 14 and 15, where after Adam and Eve had fallen down, as Tom Tyson said to us recently, The Lord God said to the serpent, the tempter, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field. On your belly shall you go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. Then listen to this verse, important one. I will put enmity, war. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your children offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. What Genesis is saying is there's going to be a cosmic battle between the forces of God and the forces of the devil from this time on. Enmity, strife, struggle, war. And Jesus is telling these people that you are on the side of the devil, and I am on the side of God. He says in verse 44, you are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning. And just go to the next chapter in Genesis, chapter 4. What happens there? Cain kills his brother Abel. Murder, the first one in the Bible. Because Cain is of his father the devil. He's of that seed of the serpent. And Abel was of the seed of the woman. And yet God in his grace sent another son, Seth, to replace the seed of the woman who was killed by the seed of the serpent. But he goes on. He was a murderer from the beginning. He does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe in me. Which of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is you are not of God. That's that dichotomy. That's that cosmic struggle. Are you of God or are you of the seed of the serpent? It's a big question. Jesus is pressing on these hearers who had believed in him, but temporarily. There is a lineage of life and a lineage of death in whose family line are you Verse 48. The Jews answered him, and this is interesting, are we not right in saying you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Now, Jesus was not a Samaritan, but he was from Galilee, and Samaria was between Judea and Galilee, so he was from the north, and Samaria was in the north. And the Jews believed that Samaritans were not true Jews. The Samaritans had a counter myth that Jews were descendants of Cain. People do these kinds of things, you know. and that they were descendants of Cain through demonic seduction of Eve. So that's their narrative of the situation Jesus answers the accusation that he's of this Samaritan ilk, this demon-inspired ilk. He says in verse 49, I do not have a demon But I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. He'll get it right. He's the judge And then he says, Amen, amen again in verse 51. Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. Jesus, the Jews said to him, Now we know you have a demon. Now we know you have a demon, because you said, if anyone believes in me, you'll never see death. And then they bring up this thing about Abraham. Our father Abraham died. And you think you're better than him? You're not even 50. He'll say a bit later. They'll say a bit later. And then in verse 56, Jesus answers their accusation here. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. Jesus is saying that. Father Abraham rejoiced that he was and he saw it, Jesus says, and was glad. Jesus is making a very big claim here. That Abraham saw Jesus' day, way off thousands of years in the future. He saw that day in the distance and was glad. As he saw it. Now, what can that possibly be about? Well, it doesn't tell us right here in the text, but we can put some things together as we read the Bible. And the passage that Seth read from Genesis 22 is very likely what Jesus was thinking about when he said, He saw my day and he was glad. Now what would that be? In Genesis 22, Abraham said to his young men, stay here with the donkey. God has commanded Abraham to go worship him and offer his only son, Isaac, as a bird offering on a mountain. And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. But he says this in faith, he says this. I and the boy will go over there to that mountain. and worship and come to you again. Now, maybe he's just trying to keep the his friends, the others that have come on the journey, from preventing him from going. You know, he doesn't want to admit to his great plan, his terrible plan, to sacrifice his son on the mountain, so he doesn't tell them that that's what he's planning to Me to do, but I don't think that's it. I think he's making a faith statement. He's saying, even though I'm obeying God, I'm going to take this boy. He's not telling them this, but he's thinking in his own head Even though I'm going to take my only son and go to the mountain and I'm going to offer him as a sacrifice, we're coming back. Because God is going to keep his word. Somehow, I don't know how, but he's going to keep his word I and the boy will go over there and worship and come to you again. Genesis 22, 5 And then what happens on the mountain? We read the story in the Old Testament reading. Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son, but the angel of the Lord. That's probably the pre-incarnate Christ. The angel of Yahweh called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything. to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And then a bit later, Abraham called the name of that place, after he found the ram caught in the thicket. He called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. That's faith in God's promise. As it is said to this day, on the mountain of the Lord it shall be provided. What mountain was that, by the way? The same ridge, the same chain, perhaps the very same spot as Calvary, where Jesus was crucified. On the mountain of the Lord, it will be provided. Somehow, in prophetic faith, Abraham saw the day of Jesus' crucifixion coming. Saw the day that Jesus would be raised after that and rejoiced in it. Abraham saw in what was happening in Genesis 22. He saw the future of Jesus Christ. The day of substitutionary sacrifice, the mount of the Lord, Calvary. Now, how do I get all that? Well, I get a little help from Hebrews chapter 11. Where it says there, by faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which he, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. Abraham saw my day when Abraham was about to kill his son, when this angel spoke, when the ram caught in the thicket was brought forth. He saw my day and rejoiced in it. That's one of the places that we can certainly see that Abraham saw his day. But there were others who saw the day of Christ. In Numbers chapter 24, we have this interesting episode where Balak, a king, tries to hire Balaam, a prophet, to curse Israel. And uh here's the outcome of that thing. If Balak should give me his house full of silver and gold, the prophet says, I would not be able to go beyond the word of the Lord, to do either good or bad of my own will. What Yahweh speaks, that I will speak. And now, behold, I am going to my people. Come, I will let you know what this people will do to your people in the latter days. So here's the thing. The prophet has been hired to curse, but he can't do it. He says, I can't do it. I can't be on, go beyond what God says. Instead, I'm going to tell you what I see from Yahweh. He says, he took off his discourse and said, the oracle of Balaam, the son of Beor, this is in Numbers 24, The oracle of the man whose eye is opened, the oracle of him who hears the words of God and knows the knowledge of the Most High, who sees the vision of the Almighty falling down with his eyes uncovered. Here's what he says I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall arise and come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. It shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down the sons of Sheff. Edom shall be dispossessed. Seir also his enemies shall be dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly. And one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of the cities. See, even there. A prophet who's been hired to curse can't curse, and instead he sees him coming from afar, the one that was promised. So, like Abraham, he sees the day of Christ and rejoices in it. Back to the text now. We're getting close to the end. Verse 57. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet 50 years old, and have you seen Abraham? And Jesus said to them, this is very important, listen carefully. He said, Amen, amen. I say to you, before Abraham was I am. Now what's he saying here? What does that mean before Abraham was I am? Can't you use better grammar than that, Jesus? What's the deal? He's pulling that text from where? Exodus chapter 3, verses 13 and 14, where Moses Saw God. And Moses said to God in verse 13, If I come to the people of Israel who are slaves in Egypt, And say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, what is his name? What shall I say to them? Verse 14, God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say to this people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. I am. So Jesus is picking that up, and he is saying, truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was I am I am. I'm God. I'm the God of the covenant. I'm the God of the promise. I'm the God of the Exodus. I'm the God of salvation before Abraham was I am. Long before 50 years, Jesus wasn't even 50 years. I am. So what do they do? In response to this this claim at the end of this conversation, what do they do? Verse 59. So they picked up stones to throw at him. Stoning to death. That's the penalty for blasphemy. Stone him to death. Get the stones ready and start the stoning. We're going to kill this heretic. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Someone recently remarked that this was the appropriate Jewish response to someone who claims to be God. They should be stoned. It's appropriate, that is, unless he really is God. And in that case, the right response is worship. Not stoning, worship, love, service, honor Anger and hatred is the appropriate response for someone who rejects Jesus' claim to be God and Lord. But worship and love and loyal service is the only appropriate response for those who know Jesus to be God and Lord. And that brings us to this question. Here we are, gathered as people of God, worshiping God, coming to hear His Word. What is the response of your heart, your mind? Your life to Jesus' claim to be God. If He is God, you must worship Him, you must be loyal to Him, you must love Him and serve Him, and nothing else should take precedent over it. If he is God, there's no other thing that should stand in the way if you worship him and you're loving him, you're serving him. That's what true faith is, by the way. True abiding faith isn't just this temporary, I want to get the goodies and I hope to die and go to heaven someday. No, it is a faith that Stays with Jesus, worships Jesus, serves Jesus. That's the true faith Holocaust survivor Ellie Weisel died about three weeks ago. He had been in the terrible concentration camps, survived that And he learned something about love and hate and things. Here's what he says, and I think it's important to bring to this discussion right now. He said, the opposite of love is not hate. That's what we would normally think, right? The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. Just cold indifference. I have other priorities. The opposite of art is not ugliness, he says, it's indifference. The opposite of faith is not heresy, he says, it's indifference. Indifference toward Jesus, neglect of Jesus in favor of selfish focus. Maybe the fashion of the age, but it is worse than hate, indifference. And we are plagued so many times in so many ways with indifference to Jesus Yeah, I believe. Sure, whatever. Indifference. Brothers and sisters. Reject him, if you will, or serve him. But please don't be indifferent to Jesus. Amen. Lord, we thank you for these powerful words of Jesus, not mine, asking us to consider who our Father is, to whom we are loyal. Deliver us from indifference, we pray. Amen