Please open your Bibles. We're going to start Genesis 2. Very close to the beginning. We're going to bounce around in Genesis 2 just a little bit and a little bit into Genesis 3. And then I ask that you put your finger in John 14. where we're going to read the first eleven verses. But first, Genesis two, seven through nine. Then we're going to jump to fifteen through seventeen. And I will keep that going for you as we moved forward. Genesis 2, 7 through 9. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And then over to 15 through 17. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. And then over to chapter 3, verses 6 and 7. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves loincloths. And then the last in Genesis 3, 22 through 24. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man. At the east of the Garden of Eden, he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. And now, as promised, John fourteen, verses one through eleven. This is Jesus speaking. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and I will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have given us your word so that we may know the truth, so that we may understand you, we may understand everything that you have told us, that we may abide in you. Lord, help me to give this congregation the words that you have given and help interpret what you have given. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation in my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Amen. Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Good works are only such as God has commanded in His Holy Word. And not such as, without the warrant of Scripture, are devised by men out of blind zeal or any pretense of good intention. So begins chapter 16 of the Westminster Confession of Faith It's been a while since my last exhortation, which was focused on the same passage from the Apostle John. The subject of that exhortation focused on how, in any navigation effort, we must have a known point of reference For Christians, that point of reference must be and is only the Bible. If we stray from that single point of reference, even though our efforts are filled with good intentions and desires to better the world, we risk imposing our sinful natures. as an addendum to God's Word. That was the intent of my last exhortation. Tonight I want to take that same New Testament scripture reference from the book of John and do my best to further unpack what it means to us when Christ says, I am the way. How I propose to do that first involved taking a little side trip that ties the statement I read a moment ago from the Westminster Confession of Faith. But first kind of a a self-revelation here. And maybe shocking to some of you, except to maybe to my wife. I am not prematurely gray. I just thought I'd get that out right now. In August 1969, when I was almost 14 years old, there was a music festival in Maxiasgers Dairy Farm near the town of Woodstock, New York. It was two years after the summer of love in 1967, when I was twelve, which often is seen as the time when my Woodstock generation fully cast off the repressiveness of the prior generations and attempted to create a new order of belief. A belief founded on love. I found this quote on a Woodstock website that I think pretty well sums up that new order. Woodstock is committed to living by its principles. We believe in universal human rights, ethical business practices, unfettered creative expression. Free trade, the loving care of our planet, the power of the individual to make a difference, and the overwhelming impact of communities to act as agents of peaceful change. The statement sounds pretty warm and caring. I mean, who could really reject any of those concepts? Who is against peaceful change? In many ways, they sound almost Christian, like a shortened universalist version of the Beatitudes. Of course, this version comes without the original's moral imperatives, not to mention the authority of the original speaker In 1969 Woodstock Festival became a turning point for my generation and the spirit was captured in a song by Joni Mitchell that became something of a hymn for my generation. I heard it on the radio some weeks ago And its lyrics resonated for me in a new way. The lyrics go this way. And I'm not going to sing it. I came upon a child of God, he was walking along the road, and I asked him, Where are you going? And this he told me I'm going down to Yazgur's farm. I'm going to join in a rock and roll band. I'm going to camp out on the land. I'm going to get my soul free. We are stardust, we are golden, and we've got to get ourselves back to the garden. Song was quite a hit like many of Joni Mitchell's songs, and in fact doing some background work on Ms. Mitchell, I discovered that for much of her music It wasn't until other artists recorded them that they made it to the top of the charts, and this song followed that same path. Crosby Still's Nash and Young recorded a version that was released in 1970, a year after she composed it. And that version became a major hit. It even rose to number one in the UK and stayed there for three weeks. I read somewhere that over the past fifty-two years since she wrote it, The song has been recorded, not just performed, but recorded by 980 artists. That's a big hit by any measure Joni Mitchell's musical brilliance and her ability to poetically capture the moment in words and music is what made her song so captivating and memorable. This particular song, Woodstock, is a great example of how she could describe a moment in time. That's why I became something of a new age hymn to my Woodstock generation. She undoubtedly deserves the lifetime artistic achievement honor and recognition she received at the Kennedy Center this last week for her musical work It was a great tribute to her as an artist. However, I don't think she's going to be getting an invitation to a guest lecture at Westminster Theological Seminary anytime soon. I read a bit about Joni Mitchell's biography, and there's nothing to suggest that she'd ever had any theological training, nor was there any mention of her devoted church membership or religious affiliation. Which is not terribly surprising since those kinds of things in this day and age are rarely mentioned unless it's a biography of somebody like J. I. Packer or R. C. Sprohl. that are people that are inherently tied to the church. Nonetheless, I suppose that most people from my era, like most people from my era, she had had at least some exposure to Christianity. and knew something about Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden. And that's why she captured that in the song as a metaphor for paradise. I mentioned sometime late last summer I heard this the song again on the radio, but when I listened to it this time, the catch line of the chorus resonated in a way that I'd never heard before. If you recall, it goes like this. And we've got to get ourselves back to the garden. What struck me about it this time is that getting back to the garden was and largely has been what a large portion of that boomer Woodstock generation has been seeking since they came of age. Getting back to the garden sounds so pure and loving like a statement I read earlier from the Woodstock website I suppose that's why it resonated so well with my Woodstock generation. For you who've been sitting under the teaching of some great pastors, you probably heard the course, The False Ideas Embedded in It. I'll note two that there are probably more. The first is that we can get back to the garden. It's easy to understand why she chose the idea of Eden as the penultimate destination we should all desire. Literature generally presumes that Eden was a paradise, and I suppose it's safe to believe that the garden God planted for Adam was a paradise. However, the Bible never directly connects those two terms. It merely says that the Lord God had planted a garden in the east in Eden. And the Lord God made all kinds of trees grow out of the ground, trees that were pleasing to the eye and good for food. That's Genesis. Those trees included the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And the text follows with a description of the river flowing from the garden, but it says no more about it as paradise. It then follows with the words, the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. Revelation 22 speaks of the Tree of Life as being in the New Jerusalem. That connection to the original Eden should not be misconstrued as an indication that Eden is a place we can get to before the second coming, that is. In fact, as you may recall, ever since the fall, sinful man remains blocked from returning to the Eden by cherubim and a flaming sword, as we read earlier. So try as we might, even exercising our best behaviors, getting ourselves back to the garden is not possible. Second, and most importantly, is the idea that we've got to get ourselves back there. In other words, if we try hard enough, presumably by doing good things like the good works expoused in the Woodstock behavior statement that I read earlier, we humans can turn our current earth back into the Garden of Eden. The idea embedded in the song's chorus is if we just love each other and treat each other with respect and run our lives according to the world's view of rightness, we can make this messed up world into a new garden of Eden. More of we can do it all by ourselves. We just need to get our souls free. That concept embedded in this hand of the Woodstock generation has permeated our American and Western European culture. for well over a half a century. However, the 1960s idea of perfecting ourselves certainly didn't start with that song. Truthfully, the desire to create our own paradise goes back much further than that. Plato's Republic and Sir Thomas More's Utopia are just two examples of that span a couple thousand years. This is just the most recent version of it. The sentiment underlying the desire to return ourselves to paradise seems so well-intentioned. The problem is we simply can't. Of sinful nature that emanated from the fall has broken our ability to do so. Or as the Westminster Divines so succinctly put it. Although the works done by unregenerate men may in themselves be things which God commands, things useful to themselves and others Yet because they do not come from the heart purified by faith, nor are done in a right manner, according to the word, and are not for the right purpose, which is to glorify God, they are therefore sinful and cannot please God, or make one suitable to receive his grace. Yet neglecting them is even more sinful and displeasing to God. The same chapter, CHAPTER sixteen, section seven. The point being, because our ideas are man-centered and not done to please God, our efforts to produce works that will lead to paradise will be fruitless. Saint Augustine explains it this way in the City of God. When therefore man lives according to man, not according to God, he's like the devil. Because not even an angel might live according to an angel, but only according to God if he is to abide in truth and speak God's truth and not his own lies. When then a man lives according to the truth, he lives not according to himself, but according to God. For it was God who said, I am the truth. When therefore man lives according to himself, that is according to man, not according to God, assuredly he lives according to a lie. The world wants us to create our own truth and substitute a new better worldview for God's truth. It tells us that if we do that, we'll free our souls and make our world into the perfect place that we want it to be. However, as you may recall, mankind's track record isn't very good when it comes to building paradise. For those who really think we can do so, I would direct them to read both secular history and the historical texts of the Old Testament, like Judges and Samuel. And the Chronicles and the Kings. That being the case, since our works can't get us there, how do we get to paradise? Christ explains it in the passage we read earlier from John 14. Believe in God, believe also in me. I will come again, and I will take you to myself, that where I am, you may be also. This is by no means an easy concept But one that I think is essential as we try to navigate our way in this fallen world where man attempts to measure himself against his personal concept of truth. It completely turns our self-directed will upside down and says that it is only by grace through faith that we can achieve a right status with God. If we find this topic hard to grasp, we aren't alone. Even the twelve who'd been with Jesus and taught by him for years couldn't comprehend what he meant by I am the way. The Apostle Thomas illuminates the disciples' difficulty with Christ's words when he asks in verse 5, Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the way? This question is probably the same one we would have asked. The way to where? In our frame of reference, a way begs the idea of a pathway to a destination, or at least a road, or a path. But going back to the text, however, we see that the precision of Christ's wording conveys a different meaning. It is maybe his most poignant I am statement. Jesus said to them, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Philip, who still hadn't grasped the meaning of this, takes Thomas's question further by calling out that they cannot comprehend the connection between the Father and Jesus. When he says in verse 8, Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us. To which Jesus replied, Don't you know me, Philip? Even after I have been among you for such a long time? Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? It is obvious from both Philip's question and Christ's response that the disciples simply weren't grasping the magnitude and what he was saying. What Jesus meant by I am the way left them looking for an answer. They were perplexed. How can someone be the way? And to where? Or to what? I'm convinced that most of us would have had the same difficulty put in their position. Remember, this dialogue took place before the cross, before the resurrection, and before the visitation of the Holy Spirit. Even though Jesus had told them what was to come, it hadn't happened yet. They simply had no way to fully comprehend what was going to happen that weekend. It was, after all, to be the biggest event in mankind's existence since the fall. Even 2,000 years later, what Jesus meant by I am the way still produces some disagreements, even among solid Reform theologians. Some prefer to interpret the statement as saying that Christ is the way to God, and I'm not saying that's incorrect. Clearly, Jesus is the way and the only way to the Father, as he says later in the passage. Others have argued that limiting the statement to mean to God minimizes what should be a broader understanding of the statement. Their point, and I intend to agree with it, is that Jesus is not merely a pathway that we can use on our journey to Father. That would understate the importance of his mediatorial role in salvation. Rather, he is the way, he is the truth, and he is the life. John Calvin helps unpack this in his commentary on John. In saying the way, the truth, and the life, Jesus lays down three degrees as if he had said that he is the beginning and the middle and the end. And hence it follows that we ought to begin with him, to continue in him, and to end in him. We certainly ought not to seek for higher wisdom than that which leads us to eternal life, and he testifies that this life is to be found in him. Now, the method of obtaining life is to become a new creature. He declares that we ought not to seek it anywhere else, and at the same time reminds us that he is the way by which alone we can arrive at it. It's not surprising that the first century disciples had some difficulty with such a paradigm-shaking statement. This concept, though embedded in the Old Testament scriptures, was completely different from the concept they had of a conquering Messiah and how he would bring their salvation. That same struggle continues even today as we post-resurrection Christians do our best to comprehend it and explain it to non-believers. Charles Spurgeon explains it this way. It appears to us that this was our Lord's meaning. I am the way to God. That is the great teaching. No man comes to the Father but by me. And I am the way in this respect. that no man can come to know the truth with regard to the Father except he knows me as the truth. And secondly, no man can possess the life by which he comes to the Father except he receives me as the life. We can only come to communion with the Father by reckoning and resting upon the mediatorial work of the Son. It is only in your union with Him as mediator that you can come to the Father. The point is this, that unlike what the world wants you to believe, you cannot come to paradise by your own works. Simply put, it's because of the active disobedience and rejection of God's authority by Adam and Eve that you are incapable of living in Eden. Truthfully, you can't even create a viable notion of paradise because your hearts and your worldviews are filled with sin that colors your life that you simply can't conceive of a true paradise that is to come. Fortunately, there is a way outside of yourself that Christ provided for you. His atoning sacrifice that justifies you before God and provides himself as the way. Bob Letham puts it this way in his book, Union with Christ. Justification is grounded on Christ, on his obedience and righteousness. This is outside ourselves and independent of our own personal accomplishment. It is received by faith, since in faith we abandon self-reliance and trust in Christ alone for salvation. Because we were by nature dead in sin and under the wrath of God, nothing in us enables us to attain a right status with Him. Our justification comes exclusively as a result of the work of Christ through his obedient life and atoning suffering and death, sealed and vindicated in his resurrection and ascension Only faith, looking entirely outside of ourselves, is appropriate for receiving the gratuitous gift of justification. To sum it up in my words, Jesus' atoning death tore the curtain that stood between man and God. But you are not free to enter into paradise by your own efforts. You must believe in Jesus, that He will come again, and He will take you to Himself, that where He is, you may be also. He is the way, the only way. In closing, there is a paradise. It's described in Revolution 21 and 22. It's not our man-made version. And I'm confident that we really have no ability to comprehend the full expanse of its perfection. However, I'm fully confident it won't be limited to our man-made Woodstock view of universal human rights, ethical business practices, unfettered creative expression, free trade, and the loving care of our planet. Returning to Spurgeon, who always is great to look at Listen to. The way to God is open. There are no bolts, no bars, no bogs across the road to keep the sinner out. God's mercy is as free as the air we breathe to every soul that will take Christ and rest in Jesus Christ. This is the one condition: come to God by Christ, and you may come. Come now. Come with all your sins about you. Come in all your filth and rags and leprosy. Come, though the sentence of wrath hover over you, and the black clouds of justice threaten to smite you with the lightning of eternal wrath. You may come just now and as you are tonight, if you will but come through Christ. Our worldly track record shows that we can't get there on our own. As Adam and Eve discovered, doing it their way led to destruction. But the serpent said to the woman, You will surely not die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. If you try and build paradise yourself, the best you can hope for is to go back to a lesser version of the original. Do you really want to return to that garden? I'll ask one final question of you tonight, borrowing from a catchy advertisement that I'm sure you've all heard far too many times. What's in your garden? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have provided the way. The atoning death of your Son, the resurrection Have given us an opportunity to to leave our sinful lives behind. We know we cannot create a paradise. Man-made efforts are incapable of it. Only through you, Lord, only by doing the works that you have given us to do. Only by doing them for you, Lord, and not for ourselves, are we capable of even a glimmer of the paradise that is to come It is through you and through the redeeming work of your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, that we even have a hope of coming to be with you in the truth. Lord, you have given us so much. We thank you. We ask your blessings upon this congregation.