Hear the word of God, congregation. First from the 33rd Psalm, and then from Revelation chapter 5, verses 6 through 14. Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous. Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre. Make melody to him with the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song, play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap. He puts the deeps in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke And it came to be. He commanded, and it stood firm. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the peoples. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom He has chosen as His heritage. The Lord looks down from heaven. He sees all the children of men. From where he sits enthroned, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth He who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds. The king is not saved by his great army. A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. The war horse is a false hope for salvation. And by his great its great might it cannot rescue. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, and on those whose hope Who hope in his steadfast love, that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy Name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. Revelation five, six through fourteen And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders, I saw a lamb standing. as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders Fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels. numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders Fell down and worship the Word of God. Our request to you, Heavenly Father, is that in these moments, as we consider these majestic words, Of the Word of God, inspired and infallible, and our guide in life and out of life. That we may hear and respond in obedience. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, why do you go to church? Well, I'm sure that you will agree that the question is not shallow, lacking in substance. After all, you might spend up to half a day every week doing it. Not an insignificant amount of time. So you no doubt have a good compelling reason for allowing this activity to invade your busy calendar week after week, year after year. So, what say you? Well, a large proportion of Americans will reply readily if they respond to my query at all. I don't go to church. All right. Let's not detain ourselves this evening with the reason for their non-attendance. I'm asking you, who are here tonight, why do you go to church? And I mean regularly, week after week, and year after year. Surely you thought about it And you must be satisfied that you have arrived at good, solid grounds for doing so. And if so, you're in good company. The composer of Psalm 33 did it too. And the key to understanding that he faced the question with which we began this sermon is found in that little but consequential word, which begins verse 4. 4. Yes, he began his psalm in the first three verses by calling upon even commanding his hearers to worship the Lord. Go to church. And since he issues in the name of God what is undoubtedly a command of the most serious nature, calling for time, commitment, regularity, and faithfulness, he backs it up with good grounds. That's why he begins verse 4 as he does. 4. And then there follows the rest of the psalm. Right through verse 32. So you are going to get in this psalm the inspired and thus absolutely true and trustworthy reason why you go to church Yes, you do it in order to worship. But it's deeper Why do you do that? Why do you go to church to worship God? That's the question that's answered in Psalm 33 And we could put the whole psalm in this one proposition, a single sentence. Christian believers go to church to worship. And there are good and solid reasons why they do so, all of which are spelled out in some detail in this psalm that extols the steadfast love of the Lord for all Who are righteous by faith in Jesus Christ and thus seek to glorify him in worship. Now I have three points tonight, and the first one is the call to worship. Verses 1 through 3. The minister opens the worship service actually not with a call to worship, but with a salutation. The salutation is actually God speaking through his ordained servant and saying Hello, dear congregation of mine. I welcome you into my presence, greeting you because you trust in Jesus, my son, and thus you may enter. In peace, since your sins have been covered graciously by his atoning sacrifice for you on the cross. Yes, dear brothers and sisters, all that is there in those few words uttered from the pulpit in the salutation. And thus the call to worship follows hard upon it. Come and worship The way is open to you, and the door springs wide, ushering you into the throne room of the sovereign of the universe. With such words as those that open Psalm 33, shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous. Praise be thankful. Then the inspired poet provides us with a directory of worship that fills out the rest of his song. Beginning with a call to give thanks to the Lord. That's really a summary of what you do when you worship God. You give him thanks. And according to the psalmist, you don't restrict that giving of thanks to something inner, silent, and contemplative. He says, do it with the lyre. Make melody to him with the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song, play skillfully upon the strings with loud shouts. In other words, let that thanksgiving be heard with the ear. Let it be heard to the accompaniment of musical instruments. Now, we don't have a lyre here tonight. It's kind of like a stringed instrument that you pluck. Maybe you've seen one sometime. Uh but we do have a harp. Did you know that? It's right there. Instead of standing up, it's lying down, and that thing that has the strings on it is called the harp. the piano. So we praise God tonight with a harp. Now let it be done also in melody. With tunes. Let it be done skillfully, furthermore, and let it be done forte. Yes, all those prescriptions are found in just two verses, Psalm 33, 2, and 3. But now, secondly, we observe the reason for worship, and this takes up the bulk of the psalm. We worship because, firstly, the word of the Lord is true and right. That's in verses four through seven. You know that we need our president to nominate and our Senate to confirm a new judge. of the Supreme Court, who will follow the Constitution, thank you very much, of the United States unreservedly and faithfully, right? And why? Because we need something written down that says what we stand for and what we're about as a country. We don't worship that Constitution, but we sure do need its words. Without them, it's open season for every radical and outrageous civil scheme concocted by a bare majority in power. And it sure is a good thing that our forefathers had the foresight to erect a supreme court. That would hopefully avoid such a catastrophic outcome. But what is true for this one nation Is true for the entire universe, and especially for mankind inhabiting this planet Earth. They all need a constitution, and that constitution is the word of God. Or maybe I should say, the words of God. Once before all time, as we know it, there was only the triune God. Existing from immeasurable eternity past. And by the word of his power, he brought the entire known universe into existence. Genesis 1. 1 declares, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And there follows specific descriptions of what he did. And God said, Let there be, let there be. Let there be. Yes, Thomas, by the word of the Lord the universe came into being. And now, when you go to church. You worship God for that very reason. He is the great creator. He spoke and it came. That not only is true, it is also right that it is true. This is no capricious creator, such as the idols of men are construed to be. All of his work has been done uprightly and in faithfulness. In a word, as the psalmist put it, the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. God is love, and He loves righteousness and justice. There is the constitution of the universe My friends, there is a God, the God, whom you can count on. And when you go to church, You hear his words and you tell him back that you trust him fully But wait, I left out one further prescription defining the kind of music the psalmist wants the Lord to hear from you. There it is in verse three. Sing to him a new song. Oh, a new song, is it That must mean be always writing, composing, and delivering brand new worship music. Don't get stuck with ancient hymns. Uh-uh, I'm afraid not. At least that's not the way the word is used elsewhere in the Bible in connection with singing a new song. Listen to just two of very many passages. Psalm 98:1. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done wonderful things. His right hand and his holy arm have gained the victory for him. Revelation 5:9 And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open the seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God. From every tribe and language and people and nation. That's what's new, dear brothers and sisters. The song of worship is the song of the gospel Worship music must always and ever center upon what God has done to deliver sinners from eternal death through the blood shed. And righteousness provided by Jesus Christ. It's the newness of success and Salvation rather than that of failure and judgment. So we will not concern ourselves with when the psalm The hymn, the spiritual song was written, but with what it said. For we worship God rightly when we make music to Him, praising Him for what He has done. Jesus. Let that requirement be ever the touchstone of our worship music. If it is to be glorified To our God and Savior. Worship music is important to this church. That should be evident to anyone coming here. I was especially thrilled last week after the evening service when I saw and heard a number of your young people practicing at At the harp, worship music with which they plan to glorify God and bless this congregation at some future time. This morning's choir doxology was magnificent for those of you who heard it. And the handbell's offertory, that was joyous. Then I'm sure that Patricia neighborhood choir will sing the New Psalm 2. Why do we worship? Because, secondly, the will of God is sovereign. That's in verses eight through twelve. Unless you glance at that. Now, since God spoke the universe, including all of mankind, into existence, it follows of necessity that everybody ought to fear and stand in awe of Him And that is so because God's words not only created people, they also direct and control people. All his plans for how they ought to behave, and even what will happen to them accordingly. Whether or not they behave, will stand and will come to pass. That's what verses 10 and 11 say. Hear them again. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the peoples. The counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart. To all generations. People may have their own counsel. They may indeed say whatever they want. About what is good and what is bad, or even as we've heard more so today as in the past, that there is no good and bad But that counsel, that sorry determination, will not prosper. It will come to nothing and suffer total frustration Because the will of God is sovereign. When you go to church You go there to hear once more those commandments of God that express his sovereign will. That will of God is good, furthermore. And thus, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Nation. The Hebrew word is goi. It means a body of people. We could say a corporation of mankind, not a nation as a political grouping of people with borders and a name like France or Mexico. But a body of folks joined together by a common overarching creed, whose God is the Lord. And I'm afraid that Reverend Jeffers of Texas has misspoken and certainly overstepped the mark. When he declares on his billboard that the United States meets that qualification, whose God is the Lord. Not even most of our forebears met it. Thomas Jefferson, the Adamses, Ben Franklin, and more were deists. Not theists. And there's a difference. Deism holds to a creator God, no doubt, but one who has left the running of the world to men. And that is not the Lord of our psalmist, to be sure. But it's not only a matter of the view of our civil nation's originators. It's a matter of our current civil nations behavior. That too is deism. It appears that a majority of our citizens behave themselves according to their lights rather than the constitution of God's light. But you go to church to honor and obey the will of that light. A third reason why we worship is in verses thirteen through nineteen. The gaze of God is all searching. Literally, all searching. These verses tell the mind-boggling truth that God's knowledge is unparalleled It encompasses both the heart and the deeds of every single individual who has ever lived and who ever will live upon this planet Earth. Mind-boggling God in heaven sees and knows everything that all people think and do. And you worship him for that. Because you know that nothing escapes his attention. You cannot hide from God. You cannot hide anything from God. But you who know Jesus as your Savior may know something that goes even beyond this all-searching eye of God. God. Listen to verses sixteen and seventeen again. The king is not saved by his great army. A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. The war horse is a false hope for salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue. You who fear God are not afraid of him because your fear is not of his judgment. No, you hope in his steadfast love and on that growth You look forward to your resurrection from the dead someday. God's steadfast love is the love He has for those who are united in true faith to His Son Jesus. Christ. As he raised Jesus from the dead, he will raise you too with him. That's hope for sure, my friends. But not hope only for a future resurrection, but hope for life in the midst of manifold troubles and difficulties you face. Believing Israelites who first heard this psalm faced ever the threat of the lack of sufficient nourishment of food. And they had God's promise that he would keep them alive in famine. Now here you are today, and you always have giant or beejays. What do you know of famine? Well, little to be sure, but you don't really know what a day will bring, do you? Where does your confidence rest that you will always be kept alive in the midst of possible conflict? Not only nuclear, but we've been hearing lately about civil war. Well, verses 16 and 17, speaking of army. Armies and war horses address that possibility and state in no uncertain terms that you just can't trust any human military might to secure Secure your safety. And what of serious illness? Or just plain economic depression? Will you surely and always escape such? Well, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him. There alone is Now finally, we speak of the blessing of worship. This is verses 20 and 21, with which the Psalm Well you've seen so far what worship is, and secondly why you do it. But there remains one question further. Will you do it It's one thing to know that you ought to do something, and even that there is good reason for doing something, but you still have to do it, don't you? And if your record is anything like mine, you will confess that you, more often than you would like to admit, failed to follow through with obedient action. But you say, I do go to church. My record will bear that out. So, what is there in this text for me? Anything? Yes, there is, my dear brothers and sisters. For one thing, what precedes your going to church? How has your Monday through Saturday passed What characterized those days? Was it some weeks worry? Dissatisfaction? Sorrow? Well, the psalmist has a message for you, and he puts it in the first person plural because he has to confess that he too has to plead guilty. Both the preacher and the prechees need to listen again to verses twenty and twenty-one. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him because we trust in his holy name. So may the memory of Sunday's worship and the anticipation of next Sunday's worship rule all our days, dear comrade. Congregation. Remember, we need to wait for the Lord. His finding is crucial. We may not get the relief, the help, the answer that we need from the Lord according to our timetable. We may not get the relief, the help, the answer that we need right away. Wait. Wait for the Lord. We need to recognize that He is our help and our shield. Not the physician, not the pharmaceutical, not the psychiatrist The Lord God. The three P's may be tools that He uses, but He is the ultimate relief. We need to be glad in him inside, in our hearts, because we trust in his holy name And that joy ought to be registered in our facial expression, in our body language. And in our song, we who go to church ought of all people to be happy. And not only happy to go there, but also to go from there The joy, if it is truly based on trust in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, will spill out onto the whole week until we can go to church again. And now the conclusion, verse twenty-two, thirty-two. twenty two Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you That's a prayer, did you notice? And it is a very good prayer, to be sure. We need the Lord's steadfast love to be upon us, even as we hope in Him And we utter that prayer more than once in our worship services. We ask for that in the invocation At the beginning of the service, as the minister asked God, the Holy Spirit, to come down in blessing upon the congregation, working in the hearts of his gathered people to enable them worthily to praise God. We ask for that when we confess our sins and plead for God's pardon through the atoning work of Jesus, and we receive his divine absolution. We ask for that before we hear his word proclaimed in the sermon, so that what is said from the pulpit will be received. And acted upon as it truly is God's message of rebuke, of encouragement But then there's that one other element in the worship service that must not be forgotten. Yes, I'm speaking about the benediction. Verse 22 is actually not a benediction, it's a benedictory prayer. It's a prayer indeed. But the minister also pronounces at the close of worship a benediction. And what in the world is a benediction anyway? Well, sometimes folks consider it to be yet one more prayer in which we ask God to bless us. There are such prayers in the Bible, to be sure, such as we have in Hebrews 13, 20 and 21. Now may the God of peace equip you with everything good. If I may shorten it. That's called a benediction in the ESV. But it isn't. It's a prayer Nor are a number of doxologies in the Bible benedictions. They are expressions of praise that we make to God, such as found at the end of Jude's letter. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, be glory, dot dot dot, etc. , to shorten it also. My friends, a true benediction is not God asking him for anything or even praising him for anything. The benediction is God announcing something about you He is declaring that he is right now blessing you. So next time you hear the benediction. If it is indeed one. Go home with goosebumps because of what God said. Let's pray. Lord grant that these truths contained so clearly in your word will enlarge our hearts, will enter therein. And will fill our days, that we may trust you, and that we may worship you, and that we may listen to what you say to us. Through Jesus our Savior we pray. Amen.