Psalm 51. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgression Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned. And done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being And you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with the willing spirit Spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from the blood guiltness, O God. O God of my salvation. and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. Spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. Do good to Zion and your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem Then will your delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Acts chapter 2, 2, that is 29 through 41. Acts 2. 29 through 41. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried And his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne. He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption This Jesus God raised up, and of that we are witnesses all. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, every one whom the Lord our God calls to himself And with many other words he bore witness, and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized. And there were added that day about three thousand souls. This is the word of the Lord. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, there is a positive as well as a negative side of salvation. Not only getting rid of my sins, but getting positively right. My need to be holy To be good. Now I have just the sneaking suspicion that generally speaking, folks are not pardoned, or not quite concerned, I should say With getting pardoned. That's because the presence of sin means the presence of guilt, judgment and condemnation, and they are really not usually partial to those three. But to be holy To be good? That's a bit mushy for some people, and not exactly on their top ten list of things to do. You see, it's all a matter of just whose glory and well-being is sought? Mine or God's? The Bible does not present salvation nearly so much in the what I get out from it terms that are so popular Today. The Bible is more concerned what it means to others that I am saved, and particularly what it means to a certain other God, His glory, His happiness, His satisfaction In the process, to be sure, I receive incalculable blessing. But what I get is not paramount. What God gets is The experience of King David is the case in point, and particularly his prayer for pardon. That's Psalm 51, and especially verses 10 through 19. Our text for this morning. But first, I guess we are all familiar with the circumstances of David's prayer. aren't we? His adultery with Bathsheba, his murder of her husband Uriah, his confrontation by Nathan Yes, here then in Psalm 51, we have the ABCs of pardon. And it wouldn't hurt for us to hear it again. A. He admits something. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is always before me Against you, and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. B. He begs something. Have mercy on me, O Lord, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy. Blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. Purge me with hyssop and I Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Begs. Here in our text, in verses ten through nineteen, we have seen He is concerned with something. What is he concerned about? Well, this matter of pardon is important, of course, but we need to stress just why it is important to David. He needed to get the matter settled with God. And he does so without any ifs, ands, or buts. He admits his sin, as we've seen He begs for forgiveness, but he's not finished drawing near to God, who of course knows already the deepest thoughts of the heart of David. But David says it still. Hearing this text, beloved brothers and sisters, should woo us away from what I would call, and I must be careful about this. The sorry syndrome. Careful because we heard it in the prayer of pardon for pardon that we asked of God. You heard the word sorry. sorry. And we even sang about it, you may have noted, in one of the verses of the last hymn. So what's my problem with sorry? Just this. I do something wrong and I say, sorry, because uttering that magic word makes everything right. The problem disappears, and I'm okay until the next time I do the same thing. And then we go round and round. Parents, have you ever confronted that system? Have you ever engaged it yourself? I believe God wants to roll his bowling ball down our alley this morning and scatter those ten sorry pins. Saying sorry isn't confession. Not really. That's why in our prayer we said, I am truly sorry again. Perhaps it is intended to be confession, but I'm afraid the word too often partakes too much of me. I'm sorry. My feelings. Rather than the person I've sinned against You realize, of course, that we're not talking here about accidentally stepping on somebody's toes. You say sorry We're talking about sinning against someone by what we have done or said. And pardon for that is what is needed. So we're concerned this morning about why I seek pardon from God. Because it's important to him, to him It's important to him in the first place, according to verses 10 through 12, to restore his covenant friend. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me with a willing spirit. Now, why is David so concerned with inward matters? Isn't it primarily a matter of outward shame, of getting caught, of being shown up as a fallen leader? No. It is that, of course, but it's primarily and first a matter of God losing his covenant friend and partner. We see that in verses four, six, and nine. Against you, you only have I sinned. And done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Hide, here it is. Hmm? Hide your face from my sins and blot out my iniquities David has no interest in clouding his confession with sorry, words of sorry, and how his sins make him feel. He spells it out clearly. I'm concerned with my relationship to you, God, with what my sinning has done to you. I need forgiveness and restoration. For your sake, primarily. Now, I admit we might not gain that perspective right off the bat. It's easy to see how these three verses, 10 through 12, refer to what pardon will mean for David. That lies on the face of it. For David, pardon will mean removal of guilt. And with that, removal of guilt feelings. The restoration of fellowship and closeness with God again on David's part. And those are not exactly small matters for sure. But just as it takes two to tango. Sin affects more than the sinner himself. Certainly, David had sinned against Bathsheba's husband Uriah And against the whole nation of Israel, even against Bathsheba, well apart from what part she might have played in it, he still sinned. against her. But primarily by his adultery and murder, David had violated his relationship as covenant partner with Almighty God. That fellowship, that covenant friendship, that relationship needed restoration through pardon. And it's that matter which concerns David most, not how he feels about it. But maybe you think I'm using terms altogether too heavy To describe the fellowship about which David is concerned. When I speak of it as a matter of covenant friendship and partnership Let's see. Go back in your mind to the beginning. You're in the Garden of Eden All about you is the magnificence of creation, pristine and unmarred by sin, rocks, trees, plants, and animals, no pollution, no exploitation, just magnificence of And beauty. And it takes your breath away. But there is still one wonder more. Toward you, strides, smiling Adam, man, freshly sprung from the Creator's hand. Not a plant, not merely alive, a living being, like the animals. But wait! Not just another animal, an unparalleled human being, a reflection of the very Creator Himself. Yes, God made the man enough like himself, although he is the self-existing one without equal, so that Adam and He together Could experience covenant friendship. God made people with whom he would talk, whom he would bless. And with whom he would have fellowship in a closeness found nowhere else in all creation. How do I know that? Well, for this reason. Speaking of everything but the man, the evaluation comes, and God saw that it was good. Only after he created Adam do we read, God saw that he had made And it was very good. There's something special about the human critter. He stands apart He's God's choice creation, God's special friend. That's why God was so daring, if I may put it that way, as to commit the responsibility of ruling over all his creation to the man Man. God trusted Adam. He loved Adam. He walked with Adam. And there existed between them a bond, a covenant bond. of closeness and fellowship that characterized no other creation in relation to God. No, not even the angels in heaven. You know what word's coming next Don't you? But then something happens. Adam affects a new covenant relationship with a new partner, the serpent. And drags the entire human race with him into depravity and misery. And David knows about that. He confesses in his earlier part of the prayer his identification with that fall. David knows also, however, about God's salvation. We read about that in Acts 2. He knows what God in mercy has done for his people, of whom David, he David, was an unworthy but real member. So these verses four, six, and nine presuppose that God had granted David a new heart that loves God's commandment, that God had brought David into his presence again. Yes, making him his covenant friend again. Giving him his very person. Yes. His Holy Spirit, David says To be close to him. They presuppose that David got saved. And we know how all of this was brought about, don't we? Again we read of it in Acts two, by a redeeming act which God performed years after David lived on this earth, but which David grasped still by faith and saw in the figure of God Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, by his perfect life and atoning death, restored that broken covenant. relationship. Now, however, David has gone into Bathsheba's bed. And that's bed. David has had Uriah, her husband, killed. And that's bad. Bad for David. It's bad for Bathsheba. It's bad for Uriah. It's bad for the whole of Israel. But, and here's the issue that outweighs all else. It's bad for God. He loses his friend. And David asks for pardon So that God might have him, David, back again. Now I know that this sounds somewhat strange, perhaps even prideful But it is exactly David's concern if you read the words carefully. God, he's concerned about God. God deserves to have his covenant friend and partner. Sometimes folks complain that the doctrine of predestination is not fair to the people not chosen. I'd like to turn that around It's not fair for God to be deprived of the fellowship of all the people that He has created. That's why He predestined some. To everlasting life. He loves them and has saved them at such cost. You see, the real reason why David is pardoned is that God takes delight in Jesus. Jesus is the one that God loves, not only as the divine Son of God, but also as the Son of Man, the man, the second Adam. The one who alone obeyed the Heavenly Father, the Jesus who restores you, if by faith you trust in him to the place of covenant fellowship with the Heavenly Father, even as Adam dragged you with him away from your divine friend. And David anticipates in marvelous fashion, doesn't he? The glory of this wonderful blessing which you this morning as a believer receive in Jesus, your Savior. Yes, also for David, this Old Testament saint, Jesus, brings about restoration of covenant fellowship between the Creator God and his creator. Man. That's what David wants. He wants it for God, your presence, your Holy Spirit. Your salvation. It's not on his it's on his mind. And it's for that that he asks pardon. To put it bluntly, God wants, David wants God to receive his due. You know, there are three things that every lover wants with respect to his or her beloved. Heart to be True, the body to be close, the trust to be sure. We have all three here The pure heart, the presence, the joy. God wants that for David, but the point is that David wants it for God. He wants that more than anything he might get. Now I ask you here this morning, is this your concern? Perhaps you've been thinking altogether too much about the consequences of your sin on you. What about on him? Cry to him for pardon for his sake. Now we can be somewhat briefer on the last two points. That was the first point, the major point. But the second one is, the verses thirteen through fifteen tell us that God is pled for, uh God is prayed to by David. David and pl uh pardon has pled for in order that God might restore his covenant evangelist. the Psalm II and it again is brought out in Acts chapter two. But listen to thirteen and fifteen again. Then Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. Then, a little word that makes a big point. Do this, and then that will occur. Cause and effect. And what is the effect? Well, David knows another feature of what God deserves to have. Not only a covenant partner, but also a covenant evangelist. For this, too, we need to look back a bit into biblical history and observe another aspect of man's task as the crown of creation. In Genesis 1, we have recorded the creation mandate. In this task, Adam and his posterity are seen as God's representative. God's ambassadors, God's servants. If Adam had not sinned, then we would not have to speak of any covenant evangelists, of course, for then there would be no evangel needed, no gospel. But as it is, both become abundantly necessary. For already by the time he called Abraham to be the father of his church, the redeemed communion That he would purchase back for himself through the blood of Jesus. God revealed how he would use that church to spread his gospel. We find it in Genesis 2 12, 2, and 3. I will make of you, Abraham, a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And now again in Acts 2 verse 39, we read the same thing. The promise is for you. and for your children, and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. Calls to himself. This is the foundation of the Great Commission, believer. Jesus, in these words, gives expression to God the Father's plan. He will have his witnesses. Yes, even before Pentecost. Though at Pentecost, Jesus sent his spirit to enable his church to fulfill that task in greater measure, but with far greater results than had thus far been seen. But now notice David knows about these things. He's not insensitive to the purposes of life. God. In a case such as this, huh? A king in bed with another man's wife, and liable to the death penalty for that horrendous violation of covenant law, he speaks of doing a vague. Evangelism? David, where is your sense of propriety? Come on. Do you rise from Bathsheba's bed and you want to do door-to-door evangelism? Your hands still red from her husband's blood, and you want to extend them in an altar call? You have these blots on your record, and you talk about witnessing Of all times, David, this is the time for humility. You've been altogether too visible. Why don't you go on a retreat down in the Negev? somewhere. Or better yet, why don't you abdicate? Whatever, let's not hear any more of this pious evangelistic claptrap. It's just not fitting under these circumstances. But David doesn't agree. Not because he really is a brazen expert. Who thinks that he can talk his way out of any difficulty into which he's gotten himself? He speaks this way, he prays this way because he believes God and he's concerned about God Again. Lord, you will have your covenant evangelist anyway. And that makes me very happy. When I am pardoned, then I will teach. Then I will teach transgressors. Your ways. You know why? Because I will not have that flat block on my record. They won't cry out, practice what you preach, David Because if you pardon me, then pardoned I will be. The slate will be clean. And no one will be able to say me Nay, when I rise up to testify of your grace. In fact, there will be a certain believability about my witness Of all people I can witness about pardon for sin. And that will be all the more to your glory. Oh, I'm not going to draw attention to myself and to the gray heap of sins which you freely pardoned, but my message will have something of a true ring about it. No one can suggest that it's purely an academic matter. I can testify to God's grace not only because it's true, but rather because it's oh so abundantly true for me and in me. Do you know that yourself this morning, worshiper? Is this your concern in asking for forgiveness that God might have you, his evangelist, back again. Now thirdly and finally, we ask for pardon in order that God might restore his covenant peace. We read about that in verses 16 through 19. Hear them again. You do not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. Oh God, you will not despise. Do good to Zion in your good pleasure Build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then you will delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings, then bulls. Will be offered on your altar. Now you know that Zion, Jerusalem, is the place of God's name. So David is bold to call upon his covenant partner to take pleasure in making Zion prosper. He wants the church blessed. And he dares to ask God to bring it about, notwithstanding all that he, David, had done to bring about the opposite. Too many sinners in the church? You don't have to look in ancient Israel. The king will do. As well he knows. But as sure as he knows his sin, so does he know also the pardoning grace. And the really staggering thing is this David says the heavenly friend will not allow my sin to bring Down Jerusalem's wall. For there is a relationship between David's restoration and the well-being of the entire nation, the entire covenant community, the entire church. David is not, you see, so individualistic about these matters as we have become in the days of the me generation. Not so for David, for him it was us And it was us again because of David's concern for God and for God's rights. Yes, when David sinned the result of a certain dislocation in the body. If you've ever suffered a dislocated finger or shoulder, you know whether that hurts or not And until David's spirit is broken in contrition and he is pardoned, there would be a certain pale hanging over the entire Israelite community. As it was in the days of the conquest of Canaan, you remember, when the whole Israelite church was achen because of Achen. Pardon the pun. Remember that man who stole God's loot in Jericho and hid it under his tent? As Paul put it centuries later, when one member suffered The whole body suffers. So David pleads with God, make Zion prosper, O Lord, then when you pardon me. Then you will be pleased with the worship of your people. Believer, you need a lot more of this yourself. Think about the others The church. Is your unconfessed sin holding back something of God's blessing on the whole congregation? I wouldn't want to affirm that, but David seemed to think that it did God is pleased with Jesus' sacrifice only. Is that sacrifice for you? You can bring nothing to God to atone for your sin. David couldn't. All he could do was plead for mercy from Yahweh, a compassionate and gracious God. Low to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving sin In conclusion, God was merciful to David unconditionally. Not because he viewed David as a likely candidate for mercy, but because he is merciful. Do you grasp that pristine point? And God saves you because He is merciful, not because He judges you a valuable draftee or a choice addition. to his collection. So when next you ask God to forgive you, won't you remember, according to Psalm 51, the reason? for your request, following after repentant David, and thanking God for including Psalm 51 in your Bible. You seek pardon from God primarily for God. Pray Lord, this will only happen in us if you give us your spirit to bring that about. For naturally, we're concerned about what troubles mean for us. Especially the trouble of sin. But thank you for correcting us this morning. If we've been thinking that. Oh, it does hurt to sin and it's bad And we're guilty, and we feel bad, and we'll feel bad in hell if we're not saved. But God, we ask pardon from you as you're believing Christians, for your sake, for the sake of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, the sovereign triune God that you are