I want you to know I come with the greatest trepidation to this text this morning. You know Galatians 3, you know we're talking about righteousness by faith, and you know if you get this wrong, you're dead in the water. We'll start with the gospel that introduces us to our passage. We're going to look at Galatians 3, 15 to 22. First is telling the disciples, because they believed in him and had eyes to see and ears to hear, how wonderful these things are seen. They weren't seeing him because somebody did something right. Or seeing him because God's keeping his promise and sent Jesus Messiah. But then but then a lawyer stands up, right, someone trained in the law and and he asks Jesus, right? Put him to test, because he's just, you know Doesn't have any training. See what this layman says, right? How do you inherit? What what what what do I need to do to inherit? Be an heir To receive eternal life, to live and reign forever as a child of God and God's new creation, when he fulfills all his promises and what do I need to do so that I will be like God, with God, forever with him holy and perfect and glorified with what do I have to do to get that? Very important to pay attention to Jesus' answer. Where does he tell him to look? Where does his lawyer want him? Because what does it say in the law? The Abrahamic covenant, which you read about in Genesis 17, wasn't the first time it was given, but it was given there again. It was ratified and confirmed in that sign and seal of circumcision, which always points to Christ crucified. What circumcision is saying to them is you have this promise solely for the sake of Christ crucified. That's it Period. Paul will say later that circumcision is a sign and so the righteousness had by faith, Abraham. Paul will say in Colossians 2 that you Christians have been circumcised without hands. Who did that? God. He made you regenerate you. But knee or buried with baptism. Circumcision pointed to Christ crucified. Baptism points back to Christ crucified. Both baptism, circumcision, point to Christ crucified only and solely for the sake of Christ crucified as God promised to make you his sons and heirs forever. Here it's 10 That's all the word of God you have to rest on. You want to live forever? It's only for the sake of Christ, and it's only by faith in his blood. Period. That's it. So what you need to hear from fifteen to eighteen is that the Abrahamic covenant is inviolable. That means it can't be violated. It can never be undone, it can never be broken, it can God can never tear it up because he's promising God does not chase it. It will happen. It will come into effect for all of eternity. The Abrahamic covenant will stand from the time it was given historically. We call that the covenant of grace resting on the time when it was what it's founded upon, which we call the Pactum Salutis or the Covenant of Redemption or the Promethe And plan that the Father and Son had together in eternity past to save people in and through the covenant of grace That covenant of grace, promised in time to Abraham, resting upon what took place in eternity, which this text talks about, we'll look at, will stand forever. Period. Period. And it is to be your only hope and comfort that it will. So the Abrahamic covenant is inviolable. In Bible. And what should be happening right now is everybody should be jumping up and rejoicing. And I know I've been like beating you down to seriousness. You're like, I'm not sure actually how I should respond to the sermon. Hopefully with joy by the time I'm done. But the point is. We should be saying, Yes! Thank you, God, yes. And I mean it from all my heart. When we hear the Abrahamic covenant will stand all time, we should be saying, yes. The Abraham Covenant is in the 15 and 18 is saying. Let's see how Paul says it. He first gives us a human example. Right? Because it's easier for us to learn divine things from human things. Even with ride a man-made covenant, now there's debate on how we translate this word. Um it Deathake is generally um in its if if you and I were Greeks and you and I were walking around the street and someone says, Diazeke, you think that man just made a will. That's what you think. Oh, tell me about this will you just made or tell me about this will made in your name, right? So it generally means a will, a testament. That's what you make to how you will um this deposit or or dispossess, if you will, your your inheritance and leave it to those um after you. Right? That's what a will does. It stipulates you get this, you get this, and this is coming effect when I'm here no more So that's generally what the word means. Also used by the Septuagint translators of t translate the Hebrew word barit or covenant, so it can mean a covenant, but what we just need to be very careful because covenant generally means to us an agreement on equal terms And that's true. There are such things. That's just not true when God deals with man. When God deals with man, and even and there's a reason I use this word, because they could have used synthake, and then we ought to have thought, oh, agreement But they use DSAK and we should be thinking, oh, an authoritative arrangement. Somebody with authority and power is dictating an arrangement to a people and you can either accept or reject it. That's it. There's no, hey, you do this and I'll do this, let's work it out together and come to terms. There's just here it is, right? That's how the gospel works. Here's Christ crucified, believe it or or don't. You got an option. Right. So there's an authoritative arrangement that God's making. That's what we're speaking. Authoritative arrangement or or will is good because it feels in the context here of how is God giving us his inheritance, right? Through covenant, not through law. Covenant, not through law. Paul says, guys, we know this. You and I know that when someone makes a law, no third party can come in to and all this, right? That law that you make, once it's said and make, Some other relative, some other friend can't come in and he cannot annul that. Not only can he not annul it, he can't add additions to it. You can't change it and say, I don't know, not only do I get the house, but I get the boat too. Right? You can't make additions and how it's going to be carried out or anything like that. No modification of it. That's what Paul's saying here when he says additions I'll just read you his word. No one annuls it or adds to it once it's been ratified. It's ratified, it's set, its terms will be kept. And Paul's saying, guys, this happens at a human level. Now, what do you think is going to happen at a divine level? Do you think God says something and changes his mind? Very carefully. Well she can see in your hearts to find out what you actually believe. Because he doesn't. But we do think he does. But he doesn't. He says something, he means it. That's why he hates lying so much. Because he doesn't lie. He says something, he means it. He wants you to believe it. He doesn't want you to doubt it. Doesn't want you to question it. He wants you to say, thank you. I trust you. Trust him. I'm saved by faith. Great. That's settled. All I can try to save myself any other way. Good. You said it, believe in Jesus. Wonderful. Phew. But trust in me. So no third party can come and annul, as the Paul says. Now he says in verse 16, he begins to tell us by the covenant. He says the promises are made to Abraham and to his offspring. Here's the covenant and here's the divine covenant as it was given in time. I prefer it to as the covenant of grace. We read that in Abraham in Genesis 17. You can read in twelve, you can read in thirteen, you can read in fifteen, you can read in twenty-two, you can read other places God coming to Abraham, giving his promise to his Abraham to his seed. We read that there and I think it was verse eight in chapter seventeen. But notice what Paul says as he begins to talk about this covenant made in time with Abraham Notice what he says, he says, They were made to Abraham, were spoken to him. The word there is it was said to Abraham, right? Meaning it's in the passive, but God is the speaker. So you could say God promised to Abraham, Paul says in the passive. highlighting the promises were spoken to Abraham. But and to his offspring. And normally you and I would think, yeah, we know that because Jacob got it, Isaac got it. Then Jacob, then the twelve, right? So they can have his offspring, it's collective whole, right? All of his sons, right? God gave it to Abraham, God gave it to all his sons Normally you wouldn't be wrong in digging that, because that's true. But Paul now, as a Christian, sees things differently. And I mean pause and make this point. Until the Holy Spirit lumines your mind with the knowledge of Christ, you cannot read your Bible right. Until you understand that Jesus Christ and Him crucified for your salvation is at the heart and center of God's Bible, you will not read his scriptures right. See, Paul now looks back, Paul probably read this thinking, oh yeah, it means it's collective seed. Then God decided to reveal his son to him. He's had to rethink everything. He now looks back and sees everything in the light of Jesus Christ So until you are illumined with the light of Jesus Christ, you will not read your Bible as you should as Christians, saying, Now let me understand everything God did before in the light of Jesus Christ. Crucified. That's that's what that's a Paul wants to go on and make here. He says it does not say in the offspring Referring to many. Right. When it says that when it says that these promises were heard, that's that's the point here. When these promises were heard, it doesn't say that Abraham and his offspring heard these things Referring to many but to one, to Abraham and her offspring, who is Christ. What's he saying? He's saying when Abraham heard these, somebody else heard them too. Christ I thought he wasn't even born yet. Uh-oh. What's going on here? This is where we start getting into The Inter-Trinitarian Council, the Pactum Salutis, the Covenant of Redemption, the plan between the Father and Son to save us. All saying, guys, Christ was But he's going to say later in chapter 4, in the fullness of time, he was made of a woman. Why does Paul have to say he was made of a woman? Who is it made of a woman? Because Jesus existed before he was made of a woman, because he's God. So Paul's saying, wait a minute, we have to read Genesis 17? Thinking Jesus heard these all the time? These were spoken to Christ? The promises were made to him. He's got a promise too. I'll say, yeah, it's important And then Paul in verse 17 is gonna then say, guys, this is what I mean. If you if if I've lost you, let Paul bring us back here real quick to what he's saying. He's saying, This is what I mean: the law. He's referring to what took place at Mount Sinai. Well we read in in covenant form there this morning. But and all of it there at Mount Sinai, but I'll make another point about that in one bit. The law Which came 430 years afterward, right? God promised to Abraham? Span of 430 years. That's quite a long time took place. And then the law came in, and Paul's saying, that law that came afterwards does not and cannot, uh King James Translate cannot, I think they get a little more right here from verse 18, but cannot annul a covenant. Previously ratified by God. God ratified it. One, he ratified it when he spoke it. But because there's nobody else which he can swear by, he also swore by his own, he also gave an oath. And then not only did he give an oath, but Abraham asked, Oh, how can I be certain? And God said, I'll make it real clear to you Divide all these animals in the smoking pot. You're going, what's going on with these animals dividing a smoking pot? God's saying, let me make it clear to you, Abraham. Let this happen to me. Let me be torn asunder like these beasts if I don't keep my word to you. True. God was very clear to us. It's only because he knows that we're so prone to doubt him because the devil's lies just He goes above and beyond his promise and will give an oath and give a covenant, his right, and all these things that we might take him at his word and do. This is set. In what God did 430 years later and giving the law. God gave the law. Make one mistake, God gave it just as much a divine revelation, divine giving. He just was not annuling the covenant that maybe method. What would be the result? And then he goes on, so that to make the promise void, right? What if you had a check beloved for a hundred billion dollars? See, as the only thing to check is basically a promissory note, isn't it? Imagine. Someone writes void across. All your hopes death. How many things did you just buy right now when I said you have a hundred million dollars Nope, don't get it anymore. Void. Can't take it to the bank, it's worth it. I was saying that's not what the law did to them But Law did not make God's promise void, so that Abraham can't cash it in the bank, so that you can't cash it in the bank and then buy it. That's how the law did. Don't you say that well he's gonna tell us in a minute. And he says in verse eighteen to make the point, guys of inheritance comes by law and no longer comes by promise. These are two different principles. Think about it, right? You're a man, you can make a covenant. You can either choose to freely give it to your son, or you can say, son, here's a list of things. If you do these things, I'll give it to you. But you could either give your inheritance by law or you could give your inheritance by promise. But you can't do both. You can't say, nope, free, you got it, and nope, you got to do all these things. A contradictory principles. God gave it to Abraham by a promise. We've all seen it. God's not going to break his word. He gave it to Abraham by a promise, means the principle of promise stands. And inheritance by law can't be the case. That's what Paul's saying here, right? The principles of promise stand. The principle of law cannot come in its place. That naturally raises the question. Why the law? Or if it doesn't annul all this, why is there a law? The principle of promise stands for all time? By Allah. Good question. Glad you asked it. Allah will give you an answer. Here's the answer May not be the one you like, although it should be the one you like. Or transcription. How many of you know you're a sinner? Oh, well let me turn back with me real quick and I'm gonna read some passages for you. Because that's what the law does. Why? Why? Do you think God knew before he gave the law you were a sinner? You think God gave a law so that now you could live hopeless? No. He wants you to know that you're saving He wants you to know. Rely only on me. I know you're a sinner. I know it. You don't. But I want you to know that. You might actually live, because you just you can't live this way. So I give my law. Till the time I'm That's what he says. Until what's what he says here? Is added because of transgression? It was added because of transgression Till it's temple. That's what the word until means. Until the offspring, we've already identified that Christ, until Christ should come To whom the promise had been made. Now think about promise had been made. He has a promise. He doesn't come and get a promise. He has a promise. It's being reserved for him. And now he's coming to get it. That's just being said there. You know, because when you read the Gospels, right, do you ever see God coming to Jesus and giving him a promise? No. But you see Jesus talking a lot about, I'm here to do what the Father sent me to do. That should be read John 6. I'm here because the time's filled. I'm here because I'm the heir. I'm going to make my inheritance available to all who will believe in me and share it with me. Solely by grace. Only by truth. The law was only for transgression. Well, let me make it clear. But I think Paul uses the term law here because you could just as much refer to the Ten Commandments I read as covenant to. God will refer to it as covenant in Scripture. So why did Paul pick law here? It is already said up in verse twelve of the chapter that the law is not of faith, right? Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. That's the principle of law, personal performance You will live by what you've done. That's what law means. That's why Paul picks on the word law here to highlight the principle of performance. And if you read it, God did bring in, we just saw here. A principle of performance or a temporary time to shut people up in transgressions, not to give them an inheritance. Because to love it. You can't even keep your own presence If you want to live under a principle of performance, try it. No, don't try it. I don't want to tell you false things in life. That's just what I'm trying to say to you is principal performance for the inherent yes. Yeah. That's God's point. That's why we say, Thank you, then let Jesus die. Me? That's the only thing that can help If God puts us under a principle. We've already seen the principle of performance he put those people under, doesn't annul It's gonna make a point here in a minute. It doesn't contradict. It was just for time being, and it had the point. Bring out transgressions. Because Paul says, right, wrongdoing and sin happens. There's a difference between sin Transgression. Sin generally means missing the mark, wondering away. You can miss the mark and not know you're missing the mark. As soon as God says, hey, here's the mark, here's the line, and you step out of it, now you're a transgressor, and that's worse. It's bad enough you're missing the mark. You're still guilty for it. But now God's told you the mark. He said, don't go out of it. And you said, no, thank you. I'm going to go out of it still. That's transgression. But that's the thing about the law and that it might get a little worse and feel a little worse, 'cause it's gonna get really good. In my grace, I've always planned it to be really good. And then Paul tells us how God put it. Now you might think that is like the most insignificant thing in the Bible How God institutes the covenant of Simon. You might read verse 19. Now this second part. And it was put in place through angels by Nine. You might read those words. It was put in place through angels by an intermarried area and think, I don't even know what that means. I don't really want to know what that means. I'm not even getting the F know what I mean. You might think those words are so insignificant. I'll make clear to you real quick. They are they're the most significant words in this passage. Why is it? Why does it matter how God put the law into place? Why does it matter? Have you even asked yourself that? Have you even thought to consider that question? I I did it before I studied this passage. I was a person who read that like, I think I know what that means, like generally give a Paul's saying here. I I know justification by faith. I mean I believe all that, but Don't really know what those words mean. And I'm just studying this. Oh man. Beautiful words. It matters. How God put his covenant at Sinai into place. First of all, he says it was ordained or ordered or commanded first through angels. So angels were there? I don't know exactly what works. I don't think anybody knows exactly what works. Some say this, some say that. They could have just been there or they could have been mediating revelation. That's not the super important point here. Paul tells you the super important point. It's the it's the next clause In the hand or by the hand of a mediator intermediary. That's the key word. That's why Paul has to spend a whole nother verse to tell us and explain what he means when he says mediator there. Because that's the key. So if you're asking yourself, I just told you it matters how God put it, and you're going, why does it matter? Well look at verse 20. Now an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Let's start with the first part. Pretty much a general statement. Now an intermediary, of course the inter intermediary is referring to as Moses, but he's saying, in principle, right, and an intermediary implies more than one, right? You have to have two parties, two distinct, separate parties to then get an intermediary involved, right? And this is it's it's it's one of those self-evident truths As soon as I say it you're like, oh yeah. As soon as you hear two plus two equals four, you're like Demonstrate, I can't, it's two plus two equals four So you see uh uh uh this the whole is not or the parts are not great in the whole, you're going, prove that you may I can't. That's a self-evident truth As soon as I say to you that the uh parts cannot be greater than the whole, those terms in themselves are the proof and the and just that truth is the proof that I can't go any further the proof Self-evident. Paul's saying it's self-evident, right? That a mediator means there's two parties involved. Okay, there's two parties. We we just told us that God put his covenant in place through a mediator. Two parties then God, Israel, right? God, Israel. Two parties. He says God's one. You're going. Well, I know that, but why is that significant here? Back to verse 19. Until the offspring should come to the promise had been made. Back to verse 16. Now the promises are made to Abraham and to his offspring. Not to offspring for many, but referring to one and to your offspring who is trying. Paul has been already dwelling, right, on the pre-existent Son. God is one. When the father and son planned together, they didn't do it as two distinct parties. There's only one God. Three persons, but one God. Do you understand what Paul is saying here now? If God gave a law through an intermediary, he can't be mediating the promises. That's the point. That's the whole point of this. Moses Did not nor could not mediate the promise of God. Paul has already said, who was the promise made to? Abraham. But who did that rest on? Christ. Who was Christ? He was that seed, the in the eternal son who was to come. So God made a promise to his eternal son. He didn't make it to them as as if they were two distinct beings, right? Two gods, because a meteor means more than one But God is one. So that promise that we've already, Paul has established that God made the Christ was between one divine being but two persons. God is one. Therefore, when Moses came in time and gave the law, and Moses was a mediator, God was not mediating the promise at that time. This was not dealing with the promise. This was not mediating the promise because the promise between the Father and the Son, and for Moses to mediate the promise between the Father and the Son, it just could never happen because God's one, and you can't tear apart the Father and the Son So Moses never, ever, ever could be mediating the promise. Ever. He didn't do it, nor could he ever do it. Because God is what? Whoever would have thought our doctrine of God. Did you ever think that because of the doctrine of God, your salvation rests on God? In the doctrine of God, who he is, and what happened in eternal events. Let me read you a very wonderful quote here: the mediation of the law through angels by the hand of Moses. Was not an eternal ordinance ordained and written in heavenly tablets That phrase refers to the law of circumcision in the book called Jubilees, and that was written in the second century BC. They thought that the law of circumcision was an eternal ordinance ordained and written in heavenly town. But the Mosaic economy, of course the circus was given before, but they all tied with Moses, but the Mosaic economy was an eternal ordinance ordained and written in heavenly towns. It's getting through a mediator. Meteors implies two, and God's one. And never, ever, ever could Moses be the mediator of it. And then he goes on and says, and thereby representing an intractable principle of inheritance of God's promises overthrowing faith and trust. Ever. The mediation of the law through angels by the hand of Moses was not an eternal ordinance ordained and written in heavenly tablets. And thereby representing an intractable principle of inheritance of God's promises overthrowing faith in Christ. Rather, the promises of God to a fallen world are rooted in His sovereign intra-Trinitarian council, traditionally called the Pactum Salutis, which Moses did not and could not mediate for God as one. Dwell on that. Talk to me afterwards about that. I hope that sings into you what what Moses what Paul's saying here about the way in which the law came in. By a mediator, it never, ever could have mediated the problem. The law is a principle of personal performance And God was not meeting the promise on the basis of principle of performance through Moses. Because the promises had already been made to the Son and God's one. Okay, that raises the question then. Is the law just contrary to the promise? Does it contradict them? Does it interfere with them then? Moses' answer is God for bid. Certainly not, right? For if the law had been given that could give life, then righteous was indeed be by the law, right? But Paul says the law was never given to give life Righteousness was never to be attained by man on the principle of keeping by which he can live. He says, why was it given? The law was given to imprison men under sin. But Scripture imprisoned everything under sin. Dear friends, what a bad place to be. And yet, And yet, in God's amazing, it is the best place to be until Jesus Christ. Do you know? Do you know that you are a slave to sin? Until Christ said to you. Do you know that you can do nothing but sin apart from Christ? Do you get that? Because if you don't, my prayer is that you will I pray for all of you that you will know how imprisoned you are to sin, so that you will stop seeking anything, anything, by what you do. And stop trying to live by what you do. And stop trying to please God by what you do. And will receive Christ freely offering himself to you. Beloved, I am the silly man God has appointed to offer Christ to you. That's it. But in my full office as a pastor, I now offer to you, and this is a covenant being offered to you, if you are not a believer in Jesus Christ, do not say the word of God now. Because he is offering to you his son right now to believe upon and live. And you can take it. Hate and live. Leave in Jesus and Liv. Trust in Him and Living.