All right, Romans 1, 18 through 32. Romans 1, 18 through 32 is the New Testament text. In the book of Romans, the Apostle Paul is uh really laying out the gospel, but in order to lay out the good news of salvation in Christ, he first has to describe the depths to which humanity has sunk. And that's what he's doing here. So Romans 1, 18 through 32. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made So they are without excuse, for although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking. And their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God. For images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity. To the dishonoring of their bodies amongst themselves. Because they exchanged the truth of God about exchanged the truth about God for a lie. and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passion. Further, women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men. and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased Mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness. Malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, Heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now let us pray. Lord, we pray that as we explore this portion and other portions that correlate with it of your holy word, we will Come to a greater understanding of who you are and who we are and what we need. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may or may not have ever heard of this person, David Foster Wallace. If you're into literature and literary writing and so forth, you might have, because he was a very brilliant writer, famous in his time, and a postmodern thinker. He died in 2008 at a fairly young age. But in 2005, he gave the commencement speech at Kenyon College in Ohio. And that's a pretty famous speech of his. He began by telling this little story. He said, There are these two young fish swimming along, and they happen to meet an older fish swimming the other way. Who nods at them and says, Morning boys, how's the water? And the two young fish swim on for a bit, and then eventually one of them looks over at the other and says, What the heck is water? The things that surround us, the sounds, the messages, the assumptions of our culture. Are the water in which we swim, and we don't even know it, right? So the first point I want to bring to our thinking in regard to all this today is Everyone, and I underline that word, everyone, even atheists Everyone knows there is a creator who is moral and the source of all true morality. Everyone knows it. And how do I know that? Because that's what He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness Suppress the truth. They have to hold it down. They have to cover it up. They have to try to get rid of it. Because it's always there. Everyone knows it. But they have to suppress it in order to try to pretend it's not there. Verse 19: For what can be known about God is plain. To them. It's hard to get rid of plain stuff, isn't it? Right in front of your face. Right there all the time. You're swimming in it in a way, right? Because God has shown it to them. And then in verse 20, for his invisible attributes, namely His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. It's always there. You can't get rid of it. You have to suppress it. in order to try to deny it. So they are, he says, without excuse, for although they knew God in the beginning, This is in the created state, Adam and Eve. They knew God. They did not honor him as God, nor give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. He's saying that idolatry is the natural condition of all those who have turned away from the true God, who have lowered their vision from up to out. 90 degrees. They now worship the created things. And then um verse 26 or verse 20 Well, let's go on. Verse 28. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, see, God acts after people act, since they did not see fit to acknowledge God. God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossip, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless Since they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. If you can get other people on your side in your in your hatred of God and your worship of the creation, then you can feel more. You can feel better about it if you can get other people to join you in it, right? So we give approval to those who practice these things. And that's what people do. They try to gang up on God in a sense. And and worship the creation. But they can't get away from the fact everybody knows there's a creator and that is the creator who is moral and the source of morality. And so all this is nothing but rebellion against God and His moral standards. Which are plain and evident in all the world around. Everyone knows there's a creator and they deny it. And that's what Paul is teaching here in order to bring people to an appreciation. a spiritual appreciation for the good news of Jesus Christ. Now, the second point is similar to that, and that is everyone worships something. Paul said it already Everyone worships something. They just lower their gaze from up to God to out to the creation and to themselves. Everyone worships something something. And I'll quote again this great literary giant David Foster Wallace. Here's what he said. And he is not any great friend of Christian faith. But here's what he said. I think he got it right. He says this, in the day-to-day trenches of adult life, there is no such thing as atheism. There is no such thing as not worshiping. Everybody worships. The only choice we get is what to worship. An outstanding reason for choosing some sort of God or spiritual type thing to worship, be it Jesus Christ. or Allah, or be it Yahweh, or the wicked mother goddess, or the four noble truths, or some infrangible set of ethical principles. is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive. If you worship money And things, if they are where you tap your meaning in life, then you will never have enough. Never feel you have enough. It's the truth. Worship your own body and beauty and sexual allure, and you will always feel ugly. Before they finally plant you in the ground. On one level, we all know this stuff already. It's been codified as myths, proverbs, clichés, bromides, epigrams, parables The skeleton of every great story. The trick is keeping the truth up front in daily consciousness. Worship power, you will feel weak and afraid, and you will never ever have enough power over others to keep the fear at bay. Worship your intellect. Being seen as smart, you will end up feeling stupid, a fraud, always on the verge of being found out. The insidious thing about these forms of worship is not that they're evil or sinful, he says, it is that they are unconscious. They are default settings. They're the kind of worship you just gradually slip into day after day, getting more and more selective about what you see. how you measure value without ever being fully aware that that's what you're doing. And the world will not discourage you from operating on your default settings, because the world of men and money and power hums along twice. quite nicely on the fuel of fear and contempt and frustration and craving and the worship of self. Our own present culture has harnessed these forces in ways that have yielded extraordinary wealth and comfort and personal freedom. The freedom to be lords of our own, listen to this, the freedom to be lords of our own tiny skull-sized kingdoms, alone at the center of all creation. Now that's from somebody who doesn't really hold to our faith, but got some things right, I think. Thomas Cranmer, the First Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury wrote many of the prayers that we use in our service. According to Cranmer's analysis of human nature, he says this: what the heart loves The will chooses and the mind justifies. I'll say it again. What the heart loves, the will chooses, and the mind justifies The mind doesn't direct the will. The mind is actually captive to what the will wants. And the will itself is captive to what the heart wants. Dr. Ashley Knowles says about this: the trouble with human nature is that we are born with a heart that loves ourselves over and above everything else in this world, including God. In short, we are born slaves to the lust for self-gratification. The theological word for this condition is concupiscence. Look it up, concupiscence. That's why, if left to ourselves, we will always love those things that make us feel good about ourselves, even as we depart more and more from God and His ways. Therefore, God must intervene in our lives in order to bring salvation. And the third point of today's message is we are shaped by what we worship. We've already kind of talked about this with that water thing and the fishes that don't even know what they're swimming in, you know, but here it is again from Psalm 135. We are shaped by what we worship. Psalm 135, verses 15 and 16, 17, 18, 15 through 18, the idols of the nations are silver and gold. Paul talked about. worshiping created things, right? The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak. They have eyes but do not see. They have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths. And then this Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. Hear it again. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them We are shaped by what we worship. People who worship created things become like the images that they created. They're shaped by it. And so Isaiah has to say to Israel, God's chosen people in Isaiah 42 He says they are turned back and utterly put to shame, Israel is, who trust in carved idols. Israel's constant problem was idolatry. As soon as they got into the promised land, they turned to the images and idols of the surrounding culture They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, You are our gods. And then listen to what Isaiah says to Israel. Hear you, death. And look, you blind, that you may see who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send, who is blind as my dedicated one, or blind as the servant of the Lord. He sees many things, but does not observe them. His ears are open, but he does not hear. You see, Israel has been shaped by its own idolatry. And now they don't see, they don't hear, they don't smell, they don't do anything because they are dulled by idolatry. Their focus has come down from looking straight up to God to all the created world. The things you love, and this works for you and me too, the things you love take over your life. They dominate your life. Your priorities is what you're doing. You might say I have really good priorities. I got some high priorities, you know. But what you're actually doing shows what your real priorities are, right? The things you love take over your life. They dominate. They become your focus day and night. Even if you say you believe in God and know some theology like Israel did, what you really love will show in the way you Live your life. The society in which you live will shape you too. We are living in the water, so to speak. You will be wet with the ubiquitous water of the world culture and not even think about it anymore. You slip it. Thousands of pressures and continual messages reinforced the ungodly other worship. The worship of lesser gods created such Things, material things. You get this in the workplace, you get this in social media, you get this on television, you get this in road signs. and advertisements ad infinitum. They all call you continually to worship lesser gods, false gods It's as David Foster Wallace said in that speech, pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive. Will eat you alive. Which brings me to my fourth point. You were made to worship God You, in the image of God, were made to worship God, to reflect God as his image bearers. That's the purpose for which we were created. We weren't created for ourselves primarily. We're created for God's purposes, and His purpose was that His image would be spread everywhere in the whole creation as human beings reflected His godlikeness everywhere. The more focused we become on God, the more we reflect the image of our Creator. Just as idols and the focus on idols will make you become like idols, the more we focus on our God, our triune saving glorious Creator God, the more we will reflect who He is in the way we live our lives. Let's look back for a moment at Genesis 1, 26 and 27. Listen to the words that God said at the very beginning. He created all these things, and then he said in verse 26, then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Okay, so man is being made in the image and likeness of God. And he says, let them have dominion. Over the fish of the sea, and over the birds and the heavens and livestock and over all the earth and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. Let them have dominion. Dominion, taking charge of the things around us. Cultivating, managing, that is a god-like quality because that's what God does. He created and he manages the world. Right? And we, as his image bearers, were given the same kind of test. We're supposed to manage the things that he's given us in the world. Verse twenty-seven said, So God created man in his own image We're the only creatures that have this. We're the only ones in the image of God. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. So the image of God is not male. The image of God is male and female. God created us all in his image, male and female And then we see what God's goal is now. We were made to worship God, but we've fallen from that. Our focus has come down to the horizontal or even below. But we need to be lifted back up. We need to raise our focus again. And God is doing that. That's what the gospel is about. That's what his whole purpose and plan is. And it says in Colossians 3, 9 through 12. Here's Here's an example of how God is changing us. Do not lie to one another. See, lying is part of that idolatry, that culture of Falsehood. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on in Christ the new self, which is, listen to this, which is being renewed in knowledge. After the image of its creator. You hear that? After the image of its creator We're being restored to that original state of being in the image of God and reflecting God as we turn to Christ. We're being renewed in knowledge. Our minds are being opened up. Our eyes are being opened up to see. Our ears are hearing the truth for the first time. We're being renewed in knowledge after the image of our creator. Isn't that wonderful? It truly is. God is saving us. He's turning us back to Himself so that we get it right and worship Him. But the fifth point, this is where I bring in the children's illustration, worship which reshapes you into the image of God is an acquired taste. It's an acquired taste. We don't have it by nature anymore. Although you were created in the image of God, in your fallen down nature, you are not born with an appetite. For worship and truth. You see, what happened was in your fallen down condition, your father Adam twisted your worship direction downward and from up to down to created things. That's what Paul is saying in Romans 1. They were turned downward. And in the new thing in our fallen down nature is idols and lesser things. That's our focus. So that brings me to the illustration. Coffee. Kids, the first time I ever drank coffee, I tasted it because everybody was drinking it and I thought. I thought, well, you know, it must be good, right? I tasted it and it was awful. It was just awful. So someone said, well, let's put some sugar in it. And that made it a little better, but still tasted awful. And then someone says, let's put some cream in it, which diluted it more. And that made it a little better again And I could get used to it and drink it, but I still didn't see the point for a while, you know. But eventually I learned to enjoy the flavor of coffee, good coffee that is. For coffee's sake, I don't need the cream and sugar anymore. I like it black. I'll give you another example like that. Onions. My mother might remember this. Used to be when I got a hamburger at one of these hamburger places, uh White Castle. They used to have these things called White Castle. And they put these little minced onions on it, little greasy minced onions on it. And I couldn't eat one of them of those. If if I if they didn't get ordered right and they they always put those greasy little minced onions on it, I just ugh couldn't stand it. Awful. I like hamburgers, you know, but But onions, no. So uh even if you scraped them off, they would still have that oniony s smell and everything. There's yeah No onions. But now I love onions. I love 'em. On many things, not in ice cream, but I love them sauteed and grilled and even raw sometimes. It's an acquired taste. I have acquired a taste for something better. Now, the point is to worship God who made you in his image for himself is your highest good. That's when you resonate with who you are and what you are best. It's when you're worshiping God who made you in his image. To become like your God who made you in his image, your Savior who redeemed you, is the best thing for you. And this will happen to you if you worship God and put away lesser things, competing gods, and worship the true God according to his word, his revealed truth. The Christian church has always had a liturgy. And from the beginning, from the earliest times, it has been strange to outsiders who look in. They would think it was awful and gross to confess their sins. Their gods didn't require that. They might require a sacrifice or something, but they didn't require that, and they didn't offer forgiveness for that either, just appeasement. The Christian churches always had a liturgy which was strange and wonderful and counter-cultural. And when that liturgy has not been dumbed down in an attempt to make it more palatable for supposed marketing purposes, it has historically contained these seven features. These seven. The call to worship from God. Two the confession of sin before God's throne of grace. 3. The public reading of God's Word, the Bible. 4. The preaching of God's Word. 5. Confession of faith in the Triune God. 6. The sacraments instituted by God Seven, blessings from God, and eight, singing God's praise throughout And my friends, that's the thing that God has given for us to shape us. To encourage us, to grow us into the likeness for which He has redeemed us to worship the true and living God. An occasional sermon won't change you. You or shape you. Most sermons are quickly forgotten. I have to realize that Reading a few verses from the Bible now and again won't change you. You may quickly forget these. What will shape you? What will change you? What will make you into the image of your Creator? Well, the Holy Spirit, of course, but the Holy Spirit uses means. What will begin to counteract the myriad competing messages and false promises made by the lying gods Our catechism calls it the outward and ordinary means of grace. That's what will change you. The outward and ordinary. Outward means things, real things, places, gatherings, stuff, water. Wine and bread, word, things like that. Those are outward and ordinary. What does ordinary mean? Plain old stuff? No. It means ordained things. Things that God has ordained, ordinary. That will begin to change you. So here it is. I'll give you An example. Being summoned by God to gather with his people, a community of reconciled, redeemed, being saved sinners, fifty-two or more times per year. That will change You, it'll have an incremental effect on you. Being called by his mercy to come clean about what you have done against the true light, what you have left undone, and to hear and receive his forgiveness purchased by Christ. 52 or more times per year, that will change you. Being taught, rebuked, corrected, encouraged, and assured by the public reading and preaching of God's Word 52 or more times per year, that will change you. You, confessing your faith in words like the Nicene Creed or the Apostles' Creed 2,600 times over 50 years Or maybe for our young children who may live to be 100, 5400 times over 100 years, that will shape them, that will anchor you. repeatedly, week by week, receiving at this table the saving death and glorious resurrection and future return of Jesus In the eating of consecrated bread and wine, the body and blood of Christ, this will orient you and contradict and banish the lies of all the false gods. This will tell you who you really are and how valuable you really are to the God who created you and has redeemed you. This will show you who you are and shape you into what you are. to be. And the singing of God's glory in the assembly of his people also will bring that truth to the home place of your heart, gathered with music Beautiful poetry, lyrics that inspire and come to mind at the best times when you need them most. This will help you to grow into the image of Christ. Let me just give you an example of such things. Not one of the Psalms we read, but Psalm 147 says at verse 1, Praise the Lord, for it is good to sing praises to our God. It's good for you to sing It is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting. Fitting. And then here's the content. For the Lord builds up Jerusalem, he gathers the outcasts of Israel. What does that mean? God is is a redeemer. He gathers outcasts. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. Referring to the pain of sin, the fallen condition in which we live. God is the healer of the brokenhearted. He binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars. He gives them all their names. God is the great creator. We sang about that in the Psalm. Great is our Lord and abundant in power. His understanding is beyond measure. Our God, the one we worship, knows everything. The Lord lifts up the humble, he casts the wicked to the ground. What does that say? God is just, and justice is coming. And then he goes on, sing to the Lord with thanksgiving, make melody to our God on the lyre. We don't have a lyre. We need to get one, I suppose. He covers the heavens with clouds. He prepares rain for the earth. He gives grass to grow on the hills. He gives to the beasts their food and to the young ravens that cry. See, God is a great creator and sustainer. He's the providential provider of everything. To all creatures, you worship this one. Not the creatures, the God, who is the God who created them. And then listen to these last two verses. There's some stuff in here that I think that is in here on purpose. His delight. Now, our delight and his delight are different sometimes. His delight is not in the strength of the horse. What is the horse in Israel's history? It's a creature for war, isn't it? It's a creature for war. His delight is not in the strength of the horse. God doesn't need War creatures. Nor his pleasure in the legs of a man. What is that about? His pleasure in the legs of a man? Well, you know, since the 8th century BC, the Greeks had the Olympics. And all these guys were out there running naked, their legs. And they delighted in those things. They were delighting in the creature, the glorious man of the Greek ideal. And Israel says, God says to Israel, his pleasure is not in the legs of man. He's not into that. He's not into how great you are, human creatures, unless you're showing his image But the Lord takes pleasure, here it is, verse 11, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him. That is to be in the image of God, is to know him in such a way as you understand him and you reverence him. Those who fear him, and those whose hope is in his steadfast love. That's the kind of songs we sing. We need to sing. We need to get into our hearts in worship. We need to get our orientation through music and songs and psalms like this so that we counteract, but the Holy Spirit uses the word of God to counteract the lying gods in our lives. It happens in worship, gathered worship, outward and ordinary means. And finally, the final thing in worship is the blessing, the benediction. It will shape you too. Week by week receiving God's blessing pronounced by God's command, telling you, you That the true and living God, the Father who loved you and chose you, the Son who became flesh and died for you And the Holy Spirit who regenerated you and sealed you, this God is with you forever. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Love of God. The blessing of the Holy Spirit be with you. How often? How long? Forever. What a great thing to hear. And take it in. Let it soak in, not just, okay, it's time to go now. Receive the blessing of God, the benediction. This too will shape you. Oh, brothers and sisters. Come, let us worship the Triune Majesty more constantly for our own good and for God's glory. Without unnecessary absences, again, for your own good and for God's glory. Or, as David Foster Wallace said. The false gods will eat you alive. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the revelation of a glorious holy trinity. The great God who created us, who loved us even in our fallen condition, our turning away and our idolatry, and who sent His only Son, the second person of the Trinity, to save us, who together sent the blessed Holy Spirit to apply this salvation to us So that we might be recreated, remade, renewed in the image of our Creator. Help us, Lord, to more constantly Gather as your people, more constantly eat at your table, more constantly listen to your word. For these are the things you have ordained for us. In Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.