We'll turn to Psalm 148. Psalm 148. Hear the word of the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him in the heights. Praise him all his angels. Praise him all his hosts. Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him, all you shining stars. Praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens. Let them praise the name of the Lord. For he commanded, and they were created, and he established them forever and ever. He gave a decree, and it shall not pass away Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures and all deeps, fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind, fulfilling his word. Mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds. Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth, young men and maidens together, old men and children Let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. His majesty is above earth and heaven He has raised up a horn for his people. Praise for all his saints. For the people of Israel who are near to him. Praise the Lord The word of the Lord. If you are joining with us tonight, and everybody else who is on the regular as you know, we've been working through the Psalter and Psalm 148 is the third to last Psalm. It is the third of the last five Psalms, which kind of form a group, Psalm 145 through 150. Praise Psalms, hallelujah Psalms, they begin with the word hallelujah, and often they end with the word hallelujah. And their message then is very simple. Praise the Lord. The application, right, is very simple. Praise the Lord. The message of this psalm. Also is simple. What God's Word is saying to you in Psalm 148 is simply this. You have a reason to praise the Lord That's what it's saying to you. You have a reason to praise the Lord. We're going to look in closer detail, but the argument goes something like this: Everything has a reason to praise the Lord, therefore you have a reason to praise the Lord. So, praise the Lord. Everything has a reason to praise the Lord. Therefore, you have a reason to praise the Lord. So then praise the Lord. That's the argument of this psalm. The structure of this psalm supports and reinforces this argument. Look there uh beginning in verse one, verses one through verse six, firm uh are form the first part. It goes, you, you, and you, all these places in heavens. Praise the Lord. Then you get down to verses five and six and here's why. And then it starts again in verse seven. And you, you and you on the earth, praise the Lord, and here's why in verse thirteen. And finally then in verse fourteen. Another reason why we should praise the Lord. There's three addresses given and three reasons given why every created thing should praise the Lord the Lord. So that is the message of the Psalm tonight. You have a reason to praise the Lord. So let's unpack that a bit Let's look here at this first thing. Everything has a reason to praise the Lord. As we go through this psalm You see that all regions of space and time, and all the inhabitants of those regions Calvaries and the praise the Lord. The psalm begins with calling on everything in the heavens to praise him. Not just the creatures in the heavens, as you see the sun, the moon, and the angels animate, rational creatures, inanimate things, but even the regions themselves, the the highest heavens, the the heavens that form a heaven to our heaven We look and see up a heaven, but there are heavens above that heavens. They're to praise God. Not even just that, but the waters that Genesis 1 7 speaks about that are above the waters or that are below these heavens are to praise the Lord. As you can see, I hope you see in these verses, right, everything has a reason to praise the Lord. And he begins by calling on the heavens and everything there to do just that. But then it goes down into verse 7. In verses 7 through 13, he begins to call on everything on earth to praise the Lord. The sea creatures and the things in the deeps, right? Hail, snow, mist, mountains, all these things, beasts, and then kings and peoples, young and old, right? Whether you're male, whether you're female. Whether you're old, whether you're young, whether you're a person in power, or whether you're just a common folk, praise the Lord. You have a reason to praise the Lord. So i is it clear from this psalm, and then it even ends with the note to the to God's saints, to the church, to the people, to Israel, something he's done for them That there is not a creature, there is not a created thing passed by in this psalm, of which this psalmist is calling upon to praise the Lord. Is that clear? He has not left one thing out. Not just the inhabitants of the regions, the very regions themselves are to praise the Lord. Well, as I said, so that's the everything part. Well, what does he say about the reasons? Everything has a reason. Turn back or look at verses 5 and 6 After in the first four verses he calls upon everything in the heavens the praise, he then tells why they should do it. For he commanded, and they were created. And he established them forever and ever. He gave a decree, and now it shall not pass away. Now, of course, it's not just the heavenly thing. That God gave a w uh by his will created, those are also things on the earth. It's not, of course, just the heavenly things that God has given a decree that they shall last forever, but also things on the earth. I don't know why for certain, and I don't necessarily think he's saying this reason is is only germane to the heavens to praise God about, because if you look at verse 13 When he says there that for his name alone, his majesty is above earth and heaven, giving a reason there for both earth and heaven, the same reason that God's name is above So the reason he gives in verses five and six as he's speaking to the heavens applies also to the earth, because the things on the earth are equally made by God's will and equally upheld by God's will. So the first reason given to everything on this, or every creative thing to praise the Lord, is that by his will he both created them and he upholds them. Is that clear? The second reason there in verse 13 that the Lord has a name and a majesty above every created thing in heaven and on the earth Men have names, right? We read of famous men. Think name their think fame. When you hear the word name, think fame, right? The name that a person has is it Travels down through history. It's his fame that's come to his name, right? Men truly do. There are men that have praiseworthy names. But God has a name more praiseworthy. He still has a name above that name. Okay, you're a mighty king and you've conquered a people. Have you gone in and conquered all of Egypt and brought a people out from then? And gave them into a land conquered by seven other kings and kicked them out. I think he has a greater name for the nations that he's conquered than other men. Are you strong and mighty, young young child, in your vigor and your youth, and can work sun up and sun down? Yet you still will have to take a nap. You know, the the the limiting factor for scout snipers or anybody doing reconnaissance missions was simply the fact that we're human beings and we eventually get tired and have to close our eyes. There's just so long you can go without little sleep and so long you can go without food and drink. But we read in Psalm 120, the Lord never has to replenish you. He has a name above your name, no matter how strong you are. So is that clear the second reason why every created thing has upon the earth to praise God? His name is simply above yours. His majesty is simply above yours. And the final reason that everything has a reason to praise the Lord is given in verse 14. For what he's done for his people, raising up a horn for them. Praise for his saints And I'll explain here in a little bit. You'll just have to follow my argument what the what the horn there is. If you're wondering what is that, hang on, I'll make it clear to you. Praise for his people. What he's done for them, he's given them a new thing to praise. The context of this psalm, I remind you, is post-exilic. They've come back out of Babylon. He's restored to them well I'll just tell you now. He's restored to them their horn They now have prestige and power again, where they once laid under Babylon, suffered them, they live according to their customs Humiliated by them as a people carried captive, God has now in redeeming them and bringing out for them, given them a horn back They are now in a position of power again in the world. They now have their own nation. They now have a place to worship. They have their name. They have their God. And of course, you carry that forward into the New Testament And the horn of salvation of God has raised her up in Jesus Christ and the eternal name promised to give to us in his church and his people when he will glorify us in that last day. When the sons of God are revealed, and that name is shown to all the nations, who now are usually poo-pooed. So the final reason, and of course, um You might think, how does what God has done for Israel give cause to the created things to praise? Remember Paul's argument in Romans 8, right? It's not who else is waiting for the revelation of the sons of God? The whole created order. Because in that day, when the glory comes and we're fully set free in the redemption of our bodies, they too will see a creation like we've never seen it before. They too have cause to rejoice in what God has done in Christ for his people. For the people of Israel who are near to him. And of course, I think this third reason does apply especially to his church. As it cannot be said by anybody else, that they are so near to their God, near to them in proximity? How more near can you get to God than to be in union with Him? To have all three persons of the Holy Spirit dwell within you? How much nearer can you get to God in character than to be stamped as holy as He is holy? And we long for the day when that will be experienced perfectly. How much nearer can you get to God in his appearance, but then to share in that same glory as in that last day you look upon Jesus Christ? And you will reflect that back perfectly. I think the people of God have reason to praise him for how near he is to Israel. So everything, I think I've made it clear from this song, everything has a reason to praise God. Here are the reasons given in this psalm. God's created them all. He preserves them all. His name's above them all. And he has done something in redeeming his church that has cosmic effect. And will and will bring about and has begun to bring about the whole transformation of the cosmos as he has summed up everything in the headship of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those are the reasons. But then the final part, everything has a reason to praise the Lord. And if you're here Two weeks ago you remember praising the Lord which has shown us really in or No, it was last week in Psalm one forty seven is to sing of God's person and to sing of his work. So it's calling on everything. You have a reason to sing about the Lord and to sing about what the Lord has done Now if you notice again at verse 13, you see that the Lord is mentioned, right? His name, his majesty, that's talking about this person who If you look again now at verses verse 14 and verses 5 and 6, you see the deeds that the Lord's done. So you see that the actually there's only one reason given here Why everything has that has to praise the Lord, and it's the Lord Himself. So the reasons given in verse thirteen is because his name and his majesty is above you. Well that's just who God is. name. The reasons given in verses 5 and 6 and verse 14 are, well he's created everything, he's preserved everything, he's redeemed Israel. There's his works. Well, to praise the Lord is the thing of the Lord and of his work. So there's really just one reason given that every created thing has to praise the Lord, and it's the Lord Himself. That is the main teaching of this psalm: that your reason and every created thing's reason To praise the Lord is simply the Lord. Or put another way, the Lord is your reason to praise the Lord Who he is and what he's done, given to you here in this psalm, is your reason and everything's reason to praise him So, how do we apply that to our lives? Is that clear in everybody's mind? Have I done my job? That your one reason to praise the Lord is very simply the Lord. What does that look like then? What does that mean? Well, it's a simple concept, right? Do you enjoy being created? Praise the Lord, for he made you. Do you enjoy the hope that tomorrow you will still be created and your parents and your family and your friends and on and on? Praise the Lord, for he has sworn to uphold them. If you are of the Israel of God, if you are a new creation in Christ, Do you enjoy your Redeemer? He is also that horn given here that God has raised up for his people, who has freed you from the guilt of sin. Has freed you from the condemning wrath of God, has freed you from the curse of the moral law, who has delivered you from this present evil world. Who has freed you from the bondage to Satan, from the domination of sin, from evil afflictions, from the sting of death, from the victory of the grave, from everlasting damnation. And who has given you free access to God. And in the new covenant, has freed you from the yoke of the ceremonial law and given you greater boldness of access to the throne of grace And in a fuller communication of the free Spirit of God. That's Westminster Confession 20, chapter 20, Article 1, on what is the freedom that Christ has given to us in the gospel. Our redemption spoken of here in raising up as a horn, praise, and bringing us near to God. Do you enjoy those things? Right? Praise the Lord. For the Lord did these things for you. And do you enjoy the hope of glory? Right? That's the other Uh interpretation or reading of the Horn. I was reminded again today reading just my normal readings through the Bibles in Hebrews chapter two and that wonderful exegesis he does on Psalm 8 there of making man a little bit lower and crowning him with glory and honor and Speaking how that is brought to us in Jesus Christ and is surely ours because he's been made like us and is our brother and all we do is wait for the resurrection because he's been crowned in glory. Do do you enjoy and wait for the hope of glory then? Praise the Lord. Well then the question may be, how often? It leaves that open, right? How often are we to praise the Lord? Well, as uh the Bible teaches, our confession summarizes the light of nature. That is the light God puts in us by virtue of being his creatures in his image, having a uh a union, a relation to the Logos, to the Word by creation, as well as the Word of God teach that at least, uh uh at least we should praise God one whole day and six, right? That's the Sabbath principle. That is a a starting place to fulfill this psalm is with a sabbatarian viewer, a sabbath principle. The command's clear, praise the Lord. If we're going to ask how many, how often should we do this? Let's start with the revealed word of God and the light of nature, which says, one whole day and sick should be spent by men in praising God. So that's a place to start. But it's not a place to end. And to be honest, there's not a limit put on it. Praise the Lord. We also learn, I'll just point out in how you can use this psalm to your benefit. But I just want to make this point briefly. We also learn what a proper call to worship is. You're familiar with that element of our words. It begins all our worship services, right? We began with a call to worship. Well, a call to worship isn't the phrase, praise the Lord. No, the call to worship is the Lord and what he's done. He's the reason, as the Psalm makes clear. Why do we respond to praise the Lord? Why is somebody calling us to praise the Lord? Because of who the Lord is and what he's done. A proper call to worship. is to go to somebody and say, and this can be corporately, privately as a family, and say, hey family, you have a good reason to praise the Lord. The Lord. So let's praise the Lord together You go to your friend, you know your Christian group, however, you have a good reason to praise the Lord. The Lord. So let's praise him. This point was taught to me the other night in how this works as far as because the reason to praise the Lord is the Lord. Because simply who he is and what he's done is the reason to praise the Lord. Elder Spaulding and Huckabee and I were talking after the session meeting the other night And the the topic turned to eschatology. And you'll know we solved it, but um Elder Huckabee shared something that I believe to be a biblical truth about the optimistic that you may not have everything ironed out with how things are going to work. But you're definitely heading towards a good direction with the headship of Christ, right? And where we're going. You know that made me go home the night that night and praise the Lord? So even the right talk of God leads to praise is the point I want to make in application. Why is it so important to have right doctrine and right speech of God? You won't lead people to praise otherwise. The truth of who God is and what he's done leads us to praise him. That's what Paul says in Ephesians, right? The God of grace is to lead us to praise the glory of the grace of God. If you never go to praise God, the wonder is: do you know this God, right? So even the right talk of God leads to praise. Here's another way that I have found, and I found this out again personally this week, as I tried to simply actually go just do this. I went for a walk and I called the sun to praise the Lord. I said, Son, everything on earth bows before you Everything on earth has to shut its eyes at your majesty. You have been there since the beginning of time, and I, all of our fathers, are there. You're longer than I. God has clearly decreed for you last, and yet. The Lord's majesty is greater than yours. Praise the Lord. And yet, even you, bow before, even you, he can change your unchangeable course and cause you to go back as Hezekiah prayed, go back ten degrees. So praise the Lord. I was walking back home on the street and I saw a tall tree over all the other houses. I said, tree. You're the biggest mansion on this street. You you house more birds and creatures than any other house here. You're so great. But God is greater than you because everything lives and moves and has its being in him. He houses more. Praise the Lord This principle of knowing that everything has a reason to praise the Lord is a wonderful way to enjoy creation without worshiping it. And I think it's very serious important. Because God doesn't call us, and this is something I learned A while ago, but you see it here again, God doesn't have to debase his creatures to get praise from them It's not as if his glory is in competition with us, and so what we really have to do is downplay the gifts and the perfections he's given to his creatures, pretend like they're less majestic than they are, so we can give him true praise. No, you can sit down and say, wow, you're a really wise person. And you really do through these things. But God's wiser. But look at look at the look at the way He's arranged all this and God. So you don't it's a wonderful way to realize you don't have to be afraid of anything in a proper way for you to really enjoy creation To really enjoy. Because in a lot, it's the first time I would ever say I've actually gone out in God's nature and creation and looked up at the sun and thought about what how is God's name greater than this? It's the first time then you actually stop and think outside of your own thoughts, what is this world that I inhabit? And w and w what are the things here? And praise the Lord. Just try it sometime. Go for a walk and look at the cricket and say, you can jump high, but God can jump higher. Praise the Lord. And call everything in creation to praise God But I'll tell you what, as I was doing this, I was very comfortable calling all the inanimate. And the irrational, I I called a cow to praise the Lord. I said, Cow, you're so sturdy and faithful and carry heavy loads, but the Lord can carry greater burdens than you. Praise the Lord. I was very comfortable calling the sun, the moon, the stars beast to praise the Lord. I wasn't very comfortable calling the people walking by me to praise the Lord. And I s I think why? Probably fear of man. We think Romans one and we we think everybody's suppressing the truth. They won't like to hear praise the Lord. the Lord, right? It'll be easier if I just ignore it and don't say anything to this person. But I think also, as I mentioned, this psalm can show us a way how to talk to others about God and the gospel. Listen to that person. Oh wow, you're a very caring person, the way you look after your family, do whatever. Let me tell you about God's care that He has for His children. What a wonderful way to actually take that person serious, acknowledge something good in their life, but then point them to God by it. Isn't that what we're saying? You have a name of a caring man. Let me tell you about God's name. And the care that he gives. It's a wonderful way, of course, to share the gospel, right? Have you heard what God has done for his church? Right, isn't that what verse fourteen? Isn't verse fourteen the gospel? What God has done for his people in raising them up? How are we, you know, we we want people, we isn't aren't aren't we isn't to fulfill this psalm mean go forth and evangelize? Isn't one of the reasons given here for everything to praise the Lord is that what he's done for Israel, what he's done for his people? So it just taught me. I don't know, again, is it because we think the antithesis and they're going to be hostile and hated? It's possible. But I think this is a good way to get over that, at least make an effort and attempt, and getting people to do what they know to be right. Isn't that the most basic thing to praise the Lord? But let me finish here on verse 14. The church really does have a reason above everything else to praise the Lord. And in fact, it takes the place in this psalm as the choir director. I believe it is the church here calling everything in creation to praise. Somebody's doing it right. And I believe that role to be the church's role. It belongs to the Church of Jesus Christ. Who has a reason, I think, above. There's three given here. Two of them absolutely everybody partakes in. Not everybody partakes in the redemption of God. But if you do partake in that redemption, you have a third reason. You might say you have more reason, which means you have more responsibility. We have a greater responsibility. To go out and call everything in space and time to praise the Lord. So you have a reason to praise the Lord. And let us now then give thanks to God that we do have this reason to praise Him. But also let us go now and confess to Him our failures in doing so and ask for His help. So let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we do acknowledge that the one reason, everything you made has a reason to praise you, is your very self. And Lord, forgive us for our sins. Forgive us for our fear of man. Forgive us that we care more about our own names and not your names. Not your name and sharing it with others and calling them to praise you. And Lord Jesus, help us. We ask as your bride, as your church, as your people, uh in this county as this one local church among others. Help all your churches here in this county to take off this wonderful role you've given to us. to be the choir master of the universe and to call everything to praise the Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen