Dearly beloved, we are gathered together here in the sight of God and in the face of this congregation to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony. How many of you have ever heard words like that? You've all been witness to such occasions as a marriage, I hope, or will be, surely someday. We can recall such words as the minister puts to the man and woman when they would pledge themselves. Will you have this woman to your wedded wife to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony Where you love her, comforter, honor, and keep her in sickness and in health, and forsaking all other, keep you only under her so long as you both shall live and of course once they would give their yes to that then the woman would be given away and then the minister would join their hands together, and they would pledge their troth with such words as these I take you to my wedded wife, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer. In sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death thus do part, according to God's holy ordinance And thereto I plight or pledge thee my troth, your loyalty, your tae. I over the last few years, when the in the last marriages that I've attended have all been Morrison children. And maybe it's because of the state today and God's ordinances not being so upheld in marriage. Rejoice when I hear those words. Love to see the church and a church building, love to see a minister standing up with a couple. Love to hear words such as those proclaimed, and as they go on to expand in detail the nature of marriage. And what God intended uh for us. Because congregation, that what you just heard there and and in your own life if you're a married person. That is what the seventh commandment is aimed at protecting. That purity you pledge to one another, that trough. That loyalty, that faith to only one other person in the world. That's what the seventh commandment is here to enshrine and protect as we sinners seek to tear asunder From God's joined together. Corrupt and and pollute in in many ways. But that that that's that's the norm, that marriage ceremony. That's what marriage should be, right? But what where are we at today if we think a little bit of the culture? Now this is a quote from seventy years ago, but but I think it still sums up uh today. It's written I think around the nineteen fifties Divorce on unscriptural grounds has become so common that the mass of the people of our country think of it Not as a deep blot on a person's character, but merely as a person's problem or piece of bad luck. To be known as a divorced person on unscriptural grounds hardly involves any social stigma, a mark of disgrace in America today. This only shows how far public opinion has moved from the moral standard of the law of Gaul. What stood out to me is of of course I uh some of you may have lived in an age where that disgrace was felt more in public opinion and understood more. I've not grown up in those days. And it's it's uh this to me, uh it it would it seems strange to think such a stigma, though we know it should, and yet it Hardly is like the case that the the woman of the well writes, six husbands. There's a reason she was going out in the middle of day alone. There was a stigma attached to that in in the culture. But hardly in in America today Here's a uh one commentator, one theologian, one pastor. This was fifteen years ago. Is there any command more ridiculed in our culture than the seventh commandment? Adultery is a joke, we make a joke of it. Homosexuality is a right. Sex before marriage is the norm. No fault divorce and remarriage is assumed. Bestiality is increasingly considered avant-garde, cutting edge. Never before in this country has so much sexual deviance been made to look so normal and God's standards made to look so obscene, offensive to us. I think an accurate summary of of where we're at in the Western world regarding the sexual norm of God's law. Well, let's then remind ourselves, congregation, first this morning, or maybe if you're a young learner here, what is God's standard for us? God's standard for us is the title of the sermon, You Shall Not Commit Adultery. That's God's standard. Which, as we heard from the Lord Jesus speaking as his fulfilled role as the prophet greater than Moses speaking as of the Messiah and King and giving the law for his kingdom, as we heard from him this morning, thou shalt not commit adultery includes with it not lusting in your heart. Adultery, of course, take takes place uh in a bed when a married person gets in it with someone who's not their spouse. But the Lord Jesus says, and the kind of the key word in his statement there is, already has committed adultery. in his form. Even by a lustful look. And and a lustful look, just so we're clear, isn't against sexual attraction, meaning If you're a man and you find a woman attractive, right, that's that's natural as as we grow up, men, boys, would be attracted to the other sex and and women likewise. It's not talking about sexual attraction per se, it's talking about wanting to get in bed with someone who's not your spouse is what it's talking about. That's the lustful intent. And the Lord Jesus says not only does a lusting in your heart uh bring about adultery, but the Lord says even divorcing except for sexual morality uh is prohibited by this commandment because that as well leads to adultery. Lusting in your heart already commits it, but if you divorce someone Who in God's eyes aren't divorced. You y you may come up with any reason you want, and the civil magistrate today may sanction it. You know, no fault divorce isn't shined in America, and so you can go and just say, we're hopelessly incompatible, and they'll separate you Well that doesn't mean you're separating God's eyes, and that's what the Lord's getting at here. Because what he is saying, and it was even understood in in Israel's day, only that act of adultery Only that act of betrayal of that marriage vow so destroys the marriage union because as Paul says, here you are joined together by God as one flesh. If you unite with someone else You've violated and destroyed that first union and put in place a second one. You remember Joseph's dilemma, right? When he found out that bad sad news about Mary, the woman he looked forward to love His dilemma wasn't, shall I divorce, or it was, shall I do it publicly or privately? Because it was understood that adultery violates that betrothal. That thou and therefore it's as if the partner's dead, which was the penalty for the adulterer in Israel's day. And so, now, just to be clear, divorce isn't adultery. It's what do you do after divorce if you're unlawfully divorced? If you remarry, get in bed, then you're not in bed with your husband, your wife, and therefore it's it's adultery. And if you're the person who initiated that and divorced the person On unscriptural grounds, and you've actually caused that person to commit adultery, brought about and proliferated immorality and uncleanness around us. And just think about all that, how that happens. today. And so the Lord here tells us what's involved that you shall not commit adultery, because positively Positively, this commandment is aiming at our purity as a people. That's the norm. That's what God made us in his image to be. holy people, a pure people, but on top of being a pure people, to be a faithful people. Fidelity. That's what positively is getting at here. And when that is broken and destroyed Adultery ensues. And adultery is is the cause of that broken union. Have you ever thought about adultery and all that is entailed with it? That is the things that are inseparably connected to this sin. One commentator on the book of Exodus says Adultery entails the breaking of solemn vows, which reminded, you know, we heard this morning. It involves a lack of self-control. It involves deceit. It involves a failure to love. And it does damage to personal relations He probably hasn't named all of them, but those are the big key ones that are inseparably tied up with the act of adultery. Now, there is a whole lot to say about this commandment as there is about all of the commandments And uh what we heard this morning uh from the Heidelberg Catechism is is wholeheartedly true. You just have to read Leviticus eighteen, you just have to read Leviticus twenty to understand that uh God condemns all sexual perversion, incest, homosexuality, bestiality, all those things, and not just adultery. And that God wants us to live pure and clean lives, whether we're married or whether we are not married. And on top of that, it's not just that physical act, but as Jesus gets that God forbids the desires. God forbids the words. God forbids anything that leads to that. Paul tells the the church in in Ephesians 5, we didn't get that far, but if you go on a few more verses, he says, right, don't be filled with wine. That's debauchery and wine l often very much leads as an occasion to this kind of sin, but be filled with the Holy Spirit So there's a whole lot to say about this. And the reason I'm saying that, because I want to narrow down and just focus on one thing this morning. I want to focus on this word troth. I love the word troth. I wish we still used it today. We've become the idea of betrothed, right? Troth. That view of loyalty and faith that we pledge to one another as married couples. I want to focus on that. And to kind of start at it, let me ask you this question. If you had to give a definition for sex, the act of it, not sex is male female, but how would you define it? Yeah, because I think in our scientific biological age you'd probably think in biological terms and come up with some very scientific answer. Or if if you're a romantic and read all the romance poets, you know, you might come up with a great, you know, romantic Definition. But uh have you ever thought of it this way? One Christian commentator says, We can, to be sure Make sex mean less than faithfulness. We can even make it mean the opposite. We can make it mean I really like you for tonight. Or there's one more for my list, but then we have no gesture left to mean faithfulness And a culture or a person bereft of a sign for faithfulness is incapable of it. Since faithfulness is the sort of thing which does not exist without a sign. Why do we give handshakes And demonstrate our faithfulness. Why do we give a ring? The marriage is a sign of the faithfulness. Why did God give us a rainbow? Hey, why does God give us the sacraments? The sign of His faithfulness, of His gospel promised to us, as we receive every week and have that sealed to us of faithfulness. I never, but but what stuck out to me this week in studying is I had never considered the act of sex in that way as a sign of faithfulness. Why why do I think that's so important for me to spend to talk to you about? Because it really pushes against the culture's idea of sex being an expression of yourself. Something core in your identity, how do you come out? Who are you attracted to? Who do you get in bed? And all that, of course, is nonsense And sinful. And in the light of the gospel, utterly uh can't stand up, utterly false to it, because Jesus' resurrection, beloved, has inevitably set in a process that leads to your resurrection if you're in him. Which inevitably leads to a sexless existence where we will neither be given in marriage and give in marriage. We'll be like angels in heaven So to have your whole identity centered around the object that you wish to be intimate with is nonsense It's folly. Falls so far short of the gospel and who are made to be in the Lord Jesus Christ. But it also utterly cuts against the problem we have of objectifying people. But when you view it as an act of faithlessness, as the token, as the sign, as the symbol. of the faithfulness that you had pledged to that person when you got married to them. What a world of difference it puts them. It takes it off about what what can I get out of this To hear, let me give to this person what I promised. Marriage, the marriage trauma, is sacred and it is unique. I remember, I think it was several couple months ago, reflecting upon this truth. There is nobody else in the world who's made a promise to me to be only mine for the rest of my life besides my spouse Think about that. Your spouse is utterly unique to you. Nobody, nobody on this planet has pledged their troth to you but that person. And the world today says we can do without it. We don't need it. It utterly sh perverts and twists what marriage is and therefore then what checks it. There's nobody like your spouse to you. It's unique. It's wonderful. Should make us romantically excited. Nobody like that person has promised to be only yours. Because of course then we can understand how then devastating it is when it's betrayed, broken. This is a bit of a long quote from the same commentator on Exodus, but I think it's worth hearing. Because again, when I Why is troth? Why is loyalty? Why is faith so important? Especially at the at at the place here in the marriage covenant? Well, hear these words. Any action that threatens to undermine the marriage bond must be seen as endangering all human relations. A society that diminishes the importance of marriage, the most intimate of all relationships, human signals that it places a low priority on faithfulness in every other relationship. When an individual's commitment to a marriage partner is sickle, other relationships are likely to be treated in a similar manner. When a society turns a blind eye to marital faithfulness, it signals that absolute faithfulness in all relationships does not matter. If an individual cannot be true to his or her marriage partner, the one with whom he or she is most intimate, what expectation can others have that person will remain faithful to them? Without faithfulness, all relationships become considerably less than what God intended them to be. When marital unfaithfulness abounds unchecked within a society The whole community becomes corrupted through a lack of trust in other people. I read that this week and I thought, wow. I've not thought hard enough about this marriage union. I've not considered enough what God was wanting to protect and enshrine. It's so much bigger than just you, right? The whole culture around us, the whole society. What will the church be like? I think this is very important. This was said a year ago to me. by someone who works with today's college youth describing the changes that have taken place in like the last five or ten years in doing college ministry and and ministering to them Uh it's not that they're hostile to the gospel so much, he said, anymore. It's that you just can't get them to commit to anything. Apparently the generations coming about they will not commit You know, I think what a what a sad word here. Without faithfulness, all relationships become considerably less Than what God intended them to be. And think about one relationship, church membership Look how fickle people are in membership, in church shopping. As soon as my needs aren't met, my felt needs aren't met, I'm on to the next one. Well that might leave a lot of people reeling, going, I thought you were committed. I thought we were walking together in the Lord. I I thought we were going to be together and live together, good or bad, right? We'd work these things out, not just Well, as long as you like that kind of music and they played what you liked and the pastor said what you wanted them to say, you were happy. But as soon as it changed, I'm out the door. Do we have any concept of absolute fatals? But let me make clear, changing churches isn't j de facto bad either. That's not the point. But a fickleness in our relationships is bad. Now, of course, right, we may become fickle to others, but we remain inveterably faithful to ourselves. We are prone always to look out for number one. We struggle, all of us, to carry the cross, to deny ourselves, and to make sacrifices for others Such is the sin nature. But trust, loyalty, and faith, it also matters in our relationship with God. The same commentator writes, in the context of the covenant being made between Yahweh and Israel, that's where the seventh commandments being there. If the people are unfaithful towards their marriage partners, they will inevitably lack faithfulness towards God Himself. Not surprisingly, therefore, adultery language is used for Israel's disloyalty to Yahweh. You can think of Hosea. And the prophet Hosea, in a very physical and visual way, God demonstrated that to his people, but it's throughout all the prophets. As good as marriage trough is Heavenly Toss. God's relation in marriage to his people is even better. Consider these words of the gospel covenant here in Isaiah 54. Fear not, you will not be ashamed, be not confounded, you will not be disgraced. For you will forget the shame of your youth and the reproach of your widowhood. You will remember no more. Remember, this is God's people cast off from him in exile and bondage and misery, enslaved. After him having first redeemed him in the old covenant, a broken covenant, a broken marriage on their part. For your Maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name. The Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer, the God of the whole earth, he is called The Lord has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says you're gone. For a brief moment, I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you. In overflowing anger, for a moment, I hid my face from you. But with everlasting love, I will have compassion on you, says the Lord your Redeemer. This is like the days of Noah to me. As I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I sworn that I will not be angry with you, and I will not rebuke you. For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed. says the Lord, who has compassion on you. That's God's gospel covenant, his marriage covenant. My steadfast love shall not depart from you There's a reason I think Psalm 136 this morning as we gather again a week of being unfaithful to God, who has perfectly walked with the Lord today, perfectly given yourself to Jesus and all you've done, and yet God is faithful to us. and continues faithful to his father. In all of his works and all that he's done for us and all his acts we can sing. And the steadfast love endures forever. He who forgave my sins again, the steadfast love endures. He who gathered me and brought me back this week to worship him, his steadfast love. He who keeps me believing in the Lord Jesus Christ for eternal life, his steadfast love endures. For believers in Christ, those who've been baptized and belong to Jesus, are in the Lord, have repented. We really need to take these words to heart from 1 Corinthians 6 that we read together. Your body is meant for the Lord They were arguing on very bad principles. Well, if God's given us food and God's given us the tummy, they must be for each other. If we have a body and there's sex, then they must be meant for each other and we can do what we want their bodies. And Paul says, no Your body belongs to the Lord. As believers in Christ, as the apostle writes there, he who is joined to the Lord, you become one spirit with him Do not forget that union that transcends even the earthly one flesh union. You have become one spirit with the Lord Jesus Christ. And you have been bought by him as a believer in Christ, you've been purchased. His blood purchased You on the cross. He paid the price to redeem you from your sins. And he says, You're mine, and he's taken you to himself, and he is jealous over you. And he has made you a temple of the Holy Spirit. And now Paul says, therefore, glorify God in your bodies. If you're not yet a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, of God's word is all who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Maybe you're someone here struggling with sin to cut out as an unbeliever. You can cut and cut and cut. You can pluck and pluck and cut and throw away. But you'll never get at the root. You need a cutting from the Lord. You need to die with Jesus Christ. You need that old man to be cut away. You need the circumcision of Christ. You need the circumcision of your heart to love the Lord. And therefore come to Jesus Christ. Come right as a leper, desperately wanting to be healed of his leprosy. That's how we come as sinners to Jesus. Come as a woman bleeding for twelve years, longing desperately to be healed. Come as a paralegic paraplegic. Come as a blind man Have mercy, son of David. Have mercy, son of David. They say be quiet. You just shout louder. Maybe God's not answering your prayer. Shout louder Desperate to be saved. Not by your efforts. Desperate to be saved by Christ. To realize you don't have the strength in you To love the Lord. You don't have the strength in you to be pure and chaste and faithful. You need to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. You need to cry out to him, Lord, help me. And even if you are a believer, again, and you've fallen into these sins or anything, you still need to turn to the Lord and say. Lord help me. I am one who desperately knows this struggle against sexual sin, and if you're in it, it gets easier. As you become a better fighter against it, because the Lord is making us his children, relying more on his grace, becoming wiser in his ways, encouraging and join our men in Christ, and the great time of encouragement of men who are Good at this. But also, beloved, we are always going to battle sin in this life. And so let me leave you these two questions. What do I need to pluck out or cut off and throw away that's keeping me from purity and body and soul and from fidelity to my marriage partner? What needs to be thrown away? Because that's as radical as you gotta get with. I remember turning to the Lord and saying, Lord help me. And then I walked into my computer room, pulled the cord out of the wall, cut it in two, and threw it in the trash. That's how you have to deal with it in the strength of the Lord. That's what you're coming to the Lord for. Because He gives you a better life. Remember what he said to the woman at the well, right? You've had six husbands. She's clearly thirsting. Clearly not being met And he says, but I offer you myself. Offer you life in me. And from that, then you can sort your life out, if you will. You first have to get sorted with the Lord. Do you need to cut off bad company? The Bible talks about bad company. Corrupts our behavior. Who are you walking with? Maybe it's online bad company too. It doesn't have to just be in person. Digital bad company. Bad company from bad authors and bad books and bad TV shows and bad all kinds of stuff. There's no place for it in the Christian life. I gotta cut off drink. Drink leads to this. Alcohol in itself is not bad. And alcohol and excessive alcohol leaves. All kinds of sin. It's debauchery. What's the od what's what's the option? Remember, it's to be cut away. What are we to be filled with? The Spirit. And what does Paul say you do with the Spirit? You sing. What's the mark of being a spiritual person? Do you like to sing hymns? Idleness? You know, God writes in Ezekiel 16, verse 49, talking about Judah. He says, the sin of that city Sodom, calling his people Sodom. That they were full of bread, pride, full of bread. They had it too much. And they were full of idleness. Think of all the rich and famous, right? Just idle lives. To do what with? A bunch of sin. How are you spending your days? Are you employed actively in your home, in your work, in your community, in your church, or is this idleness? Utter idleness. Scrolling, scrolling, scrolling, and then boom, all of a sudden, clickbait, and you're gone. Is it fear of man? Is it unbelief? Is it even abstinence? You know, why did I read Proverbs 5? You remember how the wise man talks to his son there? He lays, here's the danger, the adulterous woman. Here's what you have to do. You have to depart. Don't go near her place. But then you need to drink as well. If God's given you a bride, drink. God's given you a spouse, drink in that fountain. Because that's yours. If you've been separate, what is keeping you from fidelity? The expression of that fidelity? And lastly, second question: what is keeping me from drawing near to my God? Yes, we can ask what's keeping me from drawing near to my spouse? What's keeping me from drawing near to my God? Why am I not spending time? Why am I not drawing near to him in praise, thanks, worship, just to talk to him, just to pour out my heart to him Just to tell them how my days go. What is keeping me from drawing near to the Lord Jesus? I am my beloved, and my beloved is mine. Let us as a people, beloved, embrace covenant loyalty, trough in every covenant, human and divine. Let us not be sickle creatures Because the world desperately needs to see faithful men and faithful women. May God give us his grace, the faithful God. Amen.