And so we're going to read this morning here from Hebrews 13, beginning at verse 7. God did never intend one man to shepherd his flock, but has given many to his uh flock for their care, their support, to teach them God's word, to judge in their matters, and to help them Now the three parts are this. If you do not listen to the Lord Jesus, if you do not listen to Him from the leaders who speak to you from God's word, it will not go well for you. Whether that means believe, repent, learn this, think that, do that, whatever's being said to you to obey it is to do it This is not blind obedience that the Roman Catholic Church, I don't know if they still teach, did teach, as all the reformers remind us when you read their commentaries on this passage, requiring an implicit faith in them And that means ruling elders. I'm not going to tell you who to vote for. The Old Testament can teach you who Jesus is? And in Ephesians 4, Jesus appointed pastors and teachers after the apostles to teach us what he says and to do. I think Matthew Henry says it well, I can't say it better, and I'll apply it in this way. And when they find that ministerial instructions are agreeable to the written word, that's scripture, that's God's word written, they must obey them. And how to set apart the Lord's day and shepherd and care for your souls through the ordinance of Christ in the ministry of His Word and Sacraments. It also has reference to shepherds, right? These are the people that the Lord Jesus Christ, and this is the way he has appointed and the men to care and watch after our souls, the leaders of his church. They are here to apply that truth to your lives. But it means that Paul says in 1 Timothy 4, this is how one should regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. That are required of ruling elderly to be productive in those. So he restored peace. Because we seek the good of the people, the edification of the church, the purity and peace of it through these means of grace that Christ has appointed. And it comes down to very the very much the same thing, but if you interpret it that way, it means let them give their account on that last day with joy What we learn from this enforcement of this rationale, let them do this with joy, not with groaning, for that will be no advantage to you, is that members of Christ's church or kingdom should make it their aim And if you do continue in that, hear what he says in verse sixteen, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I do not run in vain or labor in vain. And I can rejoice at that day that my labor amongst you was not in vain. God hasn't appointed leaders just to lead for leading's sake. And they will either be good for you or they'll be bad for you. Because it has everything to do with them. That's how you do it. And beginning at verse seven, so seven through seventeen, and that final verse verse seventeen will be our text for this morning's sermon Who are watching for your souls? Beginning of verse twenty five, and now behold, I know that none of you whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again. And will disclosed the purpose of the heart. They're not obeying and listening and applying it to, they're receiving the instruction and care, but they're just wanting itching ears and not listening to God's word. And you shall warn them about the statutes and the laws, and make them know the ways in which they must walk and what they must do Elder Pete read for us there in Exodus where you saw the office of ruling elder institute in the Jewish church, which is continued in the church of our Lord Jesus Christ. As I do always speak to you in the name of the Lord, from the word of the Lord, is found there in Hebrews 13. I'll read it to you again. And our duty and responsibility towards them to obey them, submit to them, and seek to make their work and labor amongst us a great joy. And submit to them, for they are keeping a watch over your souls. and caring for you. Let's look at this first part together. Or to listen to somebody and do what they say. You are to do what your leaders teach you to do from God's word, and you are to recognize their authority that they are in charge and submit to it. What kind of things should your leaders be saying to you? Speak the word of God to his people, and that's it. Proclaim this gospel, I'm the Christ, I'm the Messiah, and everybody who believes that, baptize them and their seed, and teach these baptized people everything I commanded you to do And you're to go make disciples, you apostles of mine. to help you and assist you in your salvation, to make known to you the will of God, that you may walk in it, that you may have it. That members of Christ's church or kingdom are to do on persuasion what their leaders say. to their ministry, that they've been called to God, they are faithful, they are trustworthy. Whether we so much like them or not, that office is there and they're in charge and we're to give them all honor and respect that is due unto them We're going to get to the reason why. And that's the next part as we get to that. It has reference to military connotations, to be a sentinel, to be a watchman on the wall while everybody's sleeping, to guard them, to defend them, to warn them. Right. We all have old presbytery of our brethren over us, so we all need us as sheep. And you'll be given a new body, but it's so it may be talking about you, who you are and your essential self and person. If you're a banker and it's year end, you've got or if you run a business, right? They are accountable and will have to give a report. And listen to our leaders and submit to their authority because these are the men that Jesus Christ as the great shepherd and the great watcher of our souls God's grace has been doing it, and we should trust in the graces and gifts of God's men that this is what Christ has appointed, whether we like it or not. Before the elders of the church recounts his ministry amongst them. And by teaching, that means applying the truth. For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. To draw away the disciples after them, right? But delighted in the deceitfulness of wickedness. Who's going to tell you that truth? That's what it means then that the office of leadership in Christ Church is spiritual care. Believe me, beloved, I learn from you. For the shepherd who by his crook and by his staff defends me from all harm and keeps me full of life in green pastures, right? Don't let anybody fall short of God's grace. Moreover, it is required of stewards that have been unfaithful, right? In fact, I do not even judge myself. There's a reason for it. are going to be groaning and sighing because of the disobedience of the people, right? Let them give a joyful report to the Lord Jesus Christ, not one that is sorrowful and tearful, because that's going to be no advantage to you, right If their ministry amongst you is a grievous, sorrowful one because the word of God is not being received by the people Either way, whether you interpret as let them give their account or let them shepherd and keep watch over you, the point is very clear. They hear the turning away from doing your own will and following the Lord. And every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of the Father, and you have come to profess you're not Lord. Paul saying that is what we are looking for. When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, What is this that you are doing for the people? And they judged the people at all times. are burned outside the camp. Through him, then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. I will show you what he is like. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built. As I hope you're all aware, this morning we get the privilege of upholding God's worship and worshiping Him by ordaining and stalling a man of your choosing and a man who got called to the office of ruling elder this morning That will be advantageous to you. Out of that we'll find two teachings for us. The motivation for this duty or the rationale for this duty and the third part really an enforcement of this rationale, enforcing this idea that these are accountable men Because you did not receive their ministry, did not listen to them, who cared to be watched over you. And believe in me and trust in me, and you do not obey that summons, you have not listened to God speaking to you in the gospel of Islam. Like parents who say, now children, do what I say because I'm your parent. put it before you to convince you of it, to tell you it, and as you are so persuaded of it, to obey them and listen to them and submit to them. But so far as they teach the word of God, you better do it. For your care. Now what is it to submit? They are a gift, as I think Reverend Tyson preached not too long ago from Ephesians 4, they are a gift to the congregation that Christ purchased by his blood, been saved by them, filled with his grace, given his gifts. Let me see if I can prove that for your good and for the leaders good, that leaders are not to say anything but the word of God to the people Let me remind you then who Jesus is from John 1. Jesus reveals to us in his life, his actions, his doings, his words, perfectly, God and God's will. When he says, All those who have been gifted are to serve his church for those gifts. Now your leaders are to be listened to because Jesus is to be listened to, and he's appointed for you to listen to them as they speak to you. and not to think themselves too wise, too good, or too great to learn from them. Christians must submit to be instructed by their ministers and not to think themselves too wise, too good, or too great to learn from them. They are there to serve you with God's word. We're not there to lord it over anybody. And to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. The members of Christ's church and of his kingdom are to recognize that their leaders are in charge. The second part of this text, or the second part, is the rationale for this duty to obey our leaders. You know where I found out pretty quick in the Marine Corps? And I was exposed to sleeping outside and not eating when I want in all this rain. Let us not think less. And they're doing it as those who will have to give an account. And everything that took place because you are responsible for the resources given to you. Has appointed in his wisdom. So the first thing, I said I'd teach you five things. To care for the Church of God, but he obtained with his own blood. Paul makes it very clear in 2 Thessalonians what's the importance of believing and knowing the truth? So you need to know whether or then maybe I can illustrate it this way as what it means to have this chair. The Lord who judges us all. The Lord will be my judge. But I will be held accountable to the Lord Jesus Christ. But it means to be productive in the duties of that ministry or remind the elders that's found in Former Government chapter 10, outline obviously scripture, but it's put there for you. That's why elders want to keep this pulpit pure. Not that the leaders are held accountable and given account. Let them do this to have a joyful account handed in to the master by the leaders. That's all the leaders want. In chapter 2, in verses 19 and in verse 20. Though God has said, His son Jesus is Lord, who died on the cross for our sins, and he exalted to his right hand. What's our crown of boasting? Obviously, all of God's grace, obviously work through these leaders who are appointed, but yet still a real labor. It's still coming. Love this congregation to the end that has been entrusted to your care. Believed your word and took it to heart. Moreover, look for the able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate abroad. And let them judge the people at all times. So it will be easier for you, and they will bear the burden with you. Moses chobes able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens. Our epistle reading this morning lost will be our text for this morning, and our text will be the final verse, verse 17 of Hebrews chapter 13. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. For they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who have to give an account. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you? Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. I picked a text appropriate to that, which speaks to us about our leaders. Now I don't really have any time this morning to explain to you the context, and it doesn't in any way affect and change the meanings of these words. Let them give in and hand an account to the Lord Jesus Christ, which is full of joy at how wonderfully you received their ministry, how much you prospered together under them for the good of your salvation, the church, because that will be good for you. The rationale for the duty, we're going to look at this in fuller detail. You do not do what they said. They who speak to you God's word. ruling elders, joining and assisting ministers in that labor, as well as our former government recognizes. They belong to you. To give way, it means to recognize who's in charge, right? Are to do on persuasion what their leaders say. In the Transfiguration, Mark 9, when God the Father visited Jesus and Peter, James, and John in that cloud of glory. And spoke to them, he said to them, listen to him. Paul makes this clear in 2 Timothy 3 when he reminds Timothy, Timothy, scriptures, even the Old Testament, can make you wise about salvation by faith in Jesus You are to listen to Jesus. Jesus expects you to listen to him, Luke 6. It's going to be like building a house with no foundation, or life's going to crumble if you don't do what I say. Call you twice every Lord's day to worship him and to receive instruction from God's word. Home visits is another way the leaders at this church, you'll hear me later read it from our own form of government. Something we pulled out of a hat in reformed churches. To attend to the ministry of your leaders in this church. and teach nobody the word of God or walk into themselves. Paul says, these men, you are to respect them, you are to esteem them highly. So to really apply what it means to our lives here that members of Christ's church and his kingdom are to recognize their leaders in charges, you're to respect, honor, and hold in the highest regards your leaders. has been in a position by God where you've had someone in charge over you. Consider how you speak to a parent. Our Navy people, ship's captain, how do you recognize authority and they're in charge? Paul commands us, the word of God commands us, the Holy Spirit commands us, submit to them, recognize their authority, they're in charge, and God's word makes it clear, show them all respect, hold them in the highest esteem. To give this respect, to obey and listen to them, because it is for our good, it is for our salvation. As those who have to give an account. But the office of leadership in Christ Church is spiritual care. Will come in among you, not sparing the flock. But Christ has said our especially eminent among us leaders who are trained in this truth and know this truth who apply God's word and the very outpouring of their lives to be examples for us in our care. What it means to be under the care of leaders, what it means in their spiritual care, what it means to be thankful for, thanking God that God has appointed men to an arduous task, and a task they're accountable for To bring them like shepherds to that finish line. passage on these words as those on to give an account is that leaders are alone accountable to Christ for their ministry. But as Paul took, and as Paul knew, and you can read in Paul's letters, many people tried to paint Paul as a horrible leader, who was a profiteer and after his own interest. And that is the furthest thing from the truth. In Daniel 6, we read that King Darius made his 120 satraps, and that's some sort of government official, made his 120 satraps accountable to Daniel and two other administrators for fear of suffering loss. Now the application of this point on what it means that our leaders are held accountable to the congregation comes up in the final point in the enforcement. Do this need to be interpreted. And sigh, because you've got to go deal with them again. Let them do with joy. That's what it means there. Members of Christ Church or Kingdom should make it their aim to have a joyful account and handed into the Master by their leaders. And they look forward to rejoicing over their flocks which followed the Lord. Then they hear that my children are walking in the truth. I've heard from some of you the ministry from myself, do you, the way it's been received, the ways it's changed your life. And laboring in the Word of God. But setting them up that they might see souls saved, they might see people there at the finish line and the labor of their hands confirmed as they are kept holy and blameless at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. So now not only as in my presence, but much more my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Because you obeyed. They live their Christian lives in the light of the Lord's coming. Members of Christ Church or Kingdom should make it their aim to have a joyful account handed in to the master by their leaders, church, that means, well, know that you're going to be reported on. Don't think cattling or anything like that. As you recognize that word being instructed and taught to them, maybe you have that conversation, you gave some advice, and you see them weeks, months later walking and doing it, encourage them As you see them grow in Christ, as you see the grace, encourage the sheep. They might be better, encouraging you in the things you're doing right, and hearing and knowing that the grace of God as it's being received and going in your life. As these are the ones that you're laboring amongst in shepherding. And place such men over the people as chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens And Moses said to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to inquire of God, when they have a dispute, they come to me and I decide between one person and another, and I make them know the statutes of God and his laws. Therefore, let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. And God's children walk in the light, and they're there to help you walk in the light and keep you accountable. Calvin is great at this. We're going to go on the motivation, which I hope the Lord Jesus by His Spirit makes it abundantly clear to us why we should be so ready and quick. Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years, and here's the modeling of it, I did not cease night and day to admonish every one of you with tears. And leaders finally, this means encourage the flock in their obedience to the Lord in growth, as you see them growing in Christ. The next day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from morning till evening. Moses' father-in-law said to him, What you are doing is not good. And all this people also will go to their place in peace. Then Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went away to his own country. Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them. And our gospel reading comes from Luke chapter 6, verses 46 through 49. Five things from this text that are contained in three parts. Obey them on persuasion, on the persuasion of what? First thing that these words are teaching us is that members of Christ's church or his kingdom are to do on persuasion what their leaders say. What does this mean to us then as a congregation? A. Coming from Romans 13, and I'll turn over to 1 Thessalonians for you and read those verses. Coming from Romans 13 and in 1 Thessalonians 5. Respect, honor, and hold in the highest guard your leaders. You'll eat again, you'll sleep again, elders, as you continue to lie awake and keep watch. Paul went about doing this, holding up it as an example of what it is to walk in the truth and care for people, to speak the truth, and defend it. Guides me and directs me, of course, this is the Lord Jesus, but He loves and guides us through his leaders. We should also then learn and know from this that the office, if the office of leadership in Christ Church is spiritual care, then leaders know why you're leading. To see these souls entrusted to your care finish the race. That means visiting them, that means instructing them, and that means, as Paul says to Timothy and 1 Timothy 4, keeping a watch over your own self. Because you've been pointed for the spiritual care of these sheep. The Lord Jesus tells us a very similar parable in Luke 16 of the unjust steward, who was squandering the goods of the master and called them to account and said, He can no longer manage in my house. There's music teachers here, there's class teachers here, there's people that understand what it is that maybe possibly at some time have had a very rowdy class, and you get up in the morning and the first thing you do is groan That's the truth. Because they're neighboring. They're gonna be candled to report. Or a joyful. I tell you, these men lie awake pretty late sometimes at session meetings. Consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith. But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without the foundation. That means also then attend to their ministry. Verses 12 and 13. So do reverence to them. Generally, you're careful in how you speak words to them and address them, recognizing the position that they've been put in and honoring that office? Let me encourage you, uh elders as you know, I did find out though. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to the flock, or to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. You're prone to wander away. You are leading that you may see each one of these souls entrusted to your care finish the race. Thought David's plunder my goods or whatever, so I know what to do. And it means you need to be peacemaking. Than to see their children walking in the faith. And finally, in Philippians 2, verse 16, Paul says, well, let me back up, give you a little bit of context. John 13, that Jesus loved his own to the end. We're going to read from the Old Testament, Exodus eighteen, verses thirteen through twenty-seven. Now obey my voice. We have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat. I mentioned to you, beloved, as I was reading that the passage that I want to focus your attention on and speak to you this morning. But this word also means a particular word that means to obey on persuasion Members of Christ's church, members of Christ's kingdom, that is all those who have been baptized into the covenant, all those who profess publicly their faith by believers in their seed. Home visits is a way to attend and to sit and submit yourselves to the ministry of your leaders. And how you speak about your leaders shows your respect, honor, and regard for them Watching over your souls, of course, doesn't mean they don't care for your body. The office of leadership, and again I'm talking about ministers and elders, I'm not talking about the office of the acronym, that's not an office of leadership. To be examples unto you as you not only hear and learn the truth from their mouth, but see it in their actions. To speak to you God's word, to come to you in your hurting, come to you in your erring, to defend you, to look after you, to care for your very soul. Sit and seat and have everybody get all the praise right. Suffering loss by his bad management. For harming the sheep and not doing what they appointed to do. Restored peace to the city by ending the rioting that was due to Paul's preaching because he knew if he was going to be called to account that this riot had no grounds, it was groundless, there was no base for this rioting. We see you'd we'd illustrate this for you and also I hope prove it to you. Wonderful. M. There's several ways what it means to be accountable that illustrated for us in Scripture that can help us apply what it means that leaders are accountable. and P. They're yours. Not that's one way, or some interpret the do this refer to the most the near thing in the text, and that's giving the account It'll be a day of accounting. Jesus will judge the heart and say, that's the truth. There is the duty. They've been given to you. Oh Lord, I taught so-and-so. That is the rationale why you should obey and listen to. It will be to your advantage, not to their advantage, to your advantage. Obey your ministers of word and your ruling elders and submit to them M. And I hope and I know all of you have been blessed by faithful pastors and leaders in this way. And that kept him going away from the fear of man and trying to please men. For they are keeping watch your leaders over your souls as men that are accountable to Christ. Let them do what? And then Paul says, Let me tell you what that means. I know at first we might think this is scary. I didn't come in and teach you God's word and goes in one ear and out the other. The reformers are great at this against Rome. Therefore do not pronounce the judgment before the time, for the Lord comes who will bring to light the things that are now hidden in darkness. They might recommend and give you their advice, but what they're here to teach you is God's word. And let me go on. We're not there to air out people's dirty laundry. So that first part of the duty. They are here to defend that truth against tax and voices outside, against wolves, and they're there to model that for you. And each one will receive his commendation from God. They're to lead you in the service of Christ. , your leaders call you. You just do it by doing the duty. It means defending this truth. And it gave Paul the greatest comfort that if people were willing to believe those lies, he knew God will be my judge. Well, I told so-and-so, I visited so-and-so so many times, I called so-and-so so many times, I wept over so-and-so, I texted so-and Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who have to give an account. The duty. If God says when he preaches to you the gospel of the Son, Jesus Christ, now believe my love, believe my forgiveness of you They're your leaders. We know that the angel Gabriel went and visited the shepherds who were keeping watch by night. And sanctification of the Holy Spirit. You don't have sharp claws or teeth. What this means in leaders, as you are accountable to Christ and give an account of your ministry, means you need to be productive. Here's the part where we've all got to humble. I will give you advice, and God be with you. Church, this means to ensure this. Hopefully, know how to speak to a parent. Think about how you speak to our governors and our officials, right? You see then apply this to you. That will be the good for your souls and for this church and the salvation that our Lord Jesus Christ has so wonderfully purchased and worked for us. That word submit there is only found once in the Bible right here. To get promoted wasn't a life of ease, but a life of work. Here's a third thing. They're going to speak to you lies, perverting the truth, twisting. What are we going to be boasting before our Lord Jesus is coming? Because they're really working. The Old Testament can teach you what Jesus teaches? Every time I visit you, every time I see you in the Northics, every time I talk to you, ever I see the ways you interact and see you applying Christ and the Spirit in you doing it, I'm learning from you I'm not aware of anything against myself, but I'm not thereby acquitted. So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. We'll talk more about that in a moment. Isn't it a wonderful thing? And we should just take that to heart and believe it, because that's the truth. You see that there. I told you the truth of God, the will of God, his eternal purpose that he has revealed to us now in Jesus Christ. That's why they're there, the great means of grace, want to keep the sacraments pure, the means of grace. What does that then mean for the congregation? So when I say members of Christ's church or kingdom are to do on persuasion what their leaders say, I mean members of Christ's church or kingdom are to do on persuasion what their leaders say to you from God's word That will be a joyful day in accounting to the Lord. Any hard case they brought to Moses, but any small matter they decided themselves. So Jesus commanded appointed apostles to teach us what he says to do. They devote their lives to this. Let them keep watch over you with joy and with groaning? Just be honest. Obey your leaders and submit to them. New Testament calls these people bishops or overseers, calls them elders, calls them pastors, calls them ministers of the word, and as the New Testament also recognizes Jesus appointed his apostles to teach the people what Jesus commanded them to do. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. They're going to have to give an account. He will judge me on that day. I'm going to keep him accountable. And we're going to look at that in more detail, on the explaining to you the Word of God. John tells us who Jesus is. There's a real labor. And you need to live your Christian life in light of it. He is like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. The second part of the passage is the rationale for this duty. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. They soaked your word in and it changed their life, and it was so joyful to see your grace poured into them. The duty, the reason and rationale for this duty, and an enforcement of this rationale. That leads me to the next point to prove this to you. They are keeping watch. If your boss says show up at seven thirty and you show up at seven forty-five, you did not obey them You're to seek the peace and the purity and the unity of Christ's church. You did everything in your power. Christ has given them to you for your good, for your salvation, for your care Every great matter they shall bring to you, but any small matter they shall decide themselves. That's what your leadership is there for. Lord Jesus will deal with his shepherds. That's all they want is to see you be obedient to the Lord Jesus Christ, that you have faith, obedience, and there's no greater joy. Hear the word of the Lord. This passage breaks down into three parts, and out of these three parts, there are five things that I'm going to teach you from this passage. That members of Christ's church or kingdom are to do on persuasion what their leaders say. What is the second thing this passage teaches us here in this first part in its duty? What I mean by spiritual care is teaching people the truth Now, productive doesn't necessarily mean you can guarantee, right, the outcome of your ministry. Live such a Christian, godly example and light in this world, right? Obey your leaders and submit to them. We're talking about faithful men of God who have demonstrated to you through their life Obey your leaders, submit to them, know that they are in charge, and on persuasion, do everything they tell you from the Word of God. All that's in your power, look after the weak, look after the strength, look after the erring. Something that's been a part of the life of reformed churches. We're not talking about an empty name. Man, when I was 18 and left my mama's skirts and joined the Marine Corps Or you have employers or you're employed by somebody, right? How could this ever work out to take sinners and entrust souls to people? And from among your own cells will arise men speaking twisted things. Now, this goes without saying, and I haven't said it yet, but to be clear, we're talking about faithful leaders. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be no advantage you. Paul already spoke to us in verse 7. It's a very important thing, the spiritual care of your shepherds, to teach you the truth, defend this truth, and model this truth before you. A steward in anybody's house is going to give an account. By keeping the duty and doing the duty, you can ensure that this wonderful report will be handed in. They are in charge. Matthew Henry says in his commentary in this place, Christians must submit to be instructed by their ministers Attend to their ministry. Paul says one of the great sins of the last days to see parents being disrespected by their children. Well, we learned from this particular rationale for this duty here is that the office of leadership in Christ Church is spiritual care. And it means modeling this truth before the truth. Guess what? I have no greater joy. You can see what the heart of leadership is meant to be, not people setting themselves up in the church for their own grain and boasting themselves. I know, trust me, I know. So obey your leaders, they're yours We're not there to say we're better than everybody. I thought, what's happening to me? This is where we have to have that humble part and recognize we are prone to wonder as sheep. I can't tell you exactly why the Holy Spirit put watching over your souls, but souls generally mean that continuing part of it, these bodies, you know, will go away. It will be acknowledged one day, and there'll be joyful account's hand in that day, and there'll be sorrowful account's hand in that day I know that after my departure, fierce wolves In Acts 19, we read that the city official in Ephesus They're accountable. You can ensure that this good report will be handed in by doing exactly what the apostle says here: obeying and submitting to the Word of God as is taught to you by them. If your gifting is to speak and lead in the church, speak as the oracles of God. I hope it's clear to us. And congregation, you have received, continue to receive the love and shepherding of your leaders. And so you know, we the elders are also accountable to each other and we keep each other accountable Therefore, this means in applying it, church, you need to know why Christ appointed leaders over you. And I am constantly humbled. You see there clearly what their work is, shepherding and care And that is the motivation why you should obey and listen to them. We learn we really learn this one doctrine, apply it in a couple ways. In 1 Thessalonians, Paul writes to the church there Let me end in my leaders. That's not the obedience required of members of the church from their leaders who get to say, do what I say because I said it That's the uh the first thing this passage teaches us Now read the text here to you in 1 Thessalonians 5. Leaders, you are accountable to Christ alone. All you 120 governors threaten throughout the kingdom, you are responsible to Daniel and his other two men, so I don't suffer loss from the things and goods I've entrusted to you I urge you to live your Christian life in the light of the Lord's coming. Your leaders that you have chosen. So why should we all obey While he was with them, and obviously the Lord Jesus continues to love us all, but in his physical, earthly ministry to them, he loved them to the end. If you do this, God will direct you. That's what Paul is saying. They studied it. You are to receive their ministry Like Ezekiel, blood's not on your hands. They were spent as they were directed. You've been chosen to salvation as 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 through belief of the truth. Is it not you? Because God is going to bring judgment upon all those who love not the truth. I'd be so thankful if I was a sheep with a shepherd, God said, I've made sheep, I'm going to give them shepherds, because there's wolves and they can't care for themselves. The third part of this text is that enforcement of this rationale. Parents, you know this. They have a full-time job, they have families to raise, and they're caring for your souls. It will not be good, as Jesus warned us when I read from Luke. I brought in Romans 13 because again Paul applies that to the civil magistry, right? I'd be so thankful for that, my good creating God, who appointed a shepherd over me, who by his loving voice You can see I take the interpretation as far as giving the account They are accountable people if you What are they accountable for? Their work is for the good of your souls and eternal salvation. That word means to lie awake. Right this word means continual constant care. Because as much as you want to deceive ourselves, we will all be held accountable one day to the Lord Jesus. Now I think if I was a sheep, right? Leaders are not to say anything but the word of God to the people. I think I could illustrate this for all of our understanding, but I think everybody here See if I can both explain and illustrate and prove that to you from Acts 20, beginning at verse 25, when Paul Not following God's word, not submitting to it The apostles rejoiced Lord Jesus, these are the ones that we preached to, that we taught, they did it. But you took it to heart, you searched the scriptures, you applied it, you went after it. Because you'll be accountable leaders and don't think and I'm going to apply it here, that doesn't mean their accountability is just between them and the Lord, has nothing to do with the people whom they led they were leading. Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. If you care to open your Bibles, Hebrews 13, verse 17. Consider how you've talked to a judge if you've ever gone before a judge. In 3rd John, when John writes the Apostle John his letter to Gaius, we read in verse 4: I have no greater joy. You shall represent the people before God and bring their cases to God. They prepared for it. Not so we can lord it over them. So to apply leaders in our context in the OPC, that means ministers of the word And Peter makes it clear and explicitly in 1 Peter 4. But by the time I was a sergeant, I learned I'll eat again and I'll sleep again and life will be fine Ultimately, I am not going to be held accountable to these people For what is our hope? That is the duty that God requires of the members of his church. That's something I love so much about the body of Christ. Still a real joy to see those whom they labored on behalf there at the finish line. Why do you sit alone and all the people stand around you from morning until evening? The word of the Lord Well, we also know from Matthew 28 in the Great Commission, when Jesus said, here's the good news: God's given me all authority in heaven and earth. It is the Lord who judges me, right? And that gave him strength and gave him encouragement to continue in his ministry when his ministry was not often always well received. You've made that profession, and you have obeyed him, and you've obeyed his apostles. God has not put somebody up in his pulpit to just speak, to speaking's sake So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin. This word means to yield You are to recognize their authority. That's part of obedience and doing what they say as they're showing you what is good and right. Many people can call themselves a pastor, a bishop, an elder, whatever. More responsibility, more duty, less sleep. You can come with the church. And all the apostles, notice what they're looking forward to. You and the people with you will certainly wear yourselves out, or the thing is too heavy for you. Remember their leaders, those who spoke to the Word of God. That is, listen to Jesus. Paul visited house to house the people. For that will be of no advantage to you? Their job is to teach you the Word of God, to argue to you from the Word of God. And when they find that ministerial instructions are agreeable to the written word, they must obey them. Our form of government says, ruling elders, you're to go visit the people, especially the sick. That's why I say they are to shepherd you, not by proclaiming the truth, but defending that truth to you Don't make it so on the church that your leaders, when they think about they've got to go check in today I read to you in Luke 6, Jesus expects us to do what he says. We're there because as I'm going to get to the next point, they love you. So I really just want to go on and apply it to us. That's what I mean by spiritual care. That means praying for them and with them Now this word obey, we all know what that means. Jesus is the Word of God. Lord Jesus will deal with those I want to take a minute to explain those words so we're all very clear. I won't read the ones in Romans 13, but I'll remind them to you. Now I'm not going to spend a lot of time trying to prove that because I think it's pretty intrinsic to the idea of leadership, right? Because they are there to watch for your souls. Music teachers, you know this, school teachers, you know this, elders, you know this, right? That's all I want. They've been gifted by God to it. Have you ever met one of them? You've got to give an account of your dealings. What's that working out of that salvation? That's probably one of my chief shortfallings. So let them do this with joy and not with groaning. For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. Second thing we learn from this It is not going to be good to you, it's not going to be good to the body You warned them. Let me remind you of this. I have no greater joy to hear the obedience it's brought about. Let me apply this. Hear the words of the Lord. How many of you like to go to sleep at night? Everything was done as the rules and things stipulated. But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court What they taught. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. I get paid to do this. As they go in, and we tried to make it clear in the letter we sent out. Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all Think about a sheep. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. That's what the accounting's gonna be like. Why should you obey your leaders? I hope it is a proven, settled point. Go and They are an ordinance and appointment of the Lord Jesus Christ Leaders are alone accountable to Christ for their ministry. So we're going to go to the last section and we see what it means then that That's all I want. What are we looking forward to? You are our glory. Verse 12: Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed. And that is found in the words: For they are keeping watch over your souls. So those are the three parts of this passage. This is Paul is very adamant in this letter, and we're going to go through it after Mark. That word means to lose sleep. They do care for your needs, they also care for more than just your bodies, they care for you too You're to do this obviously through the means of grace. That's why they want to visit and instruct They didn't listen. And so far as you find that word is agreeable, their word and instruction is agreeable to God's word, you are to submit to them. Caesar's not Lord Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them They are caring and watching for your soul that that soul may reach glory. And they're doing this as men accountable to the Lord Jesus Christ, as those who will have to give an account. Well, God's grace can do it Know why Christ has appointed you to lead. That is that members of Christ's church or kingdom are to recognize that their leaders are in charge Know then, beloved, that how you speak to So listening or obeying means to do They are here to teach you the truth That's one way to interpret this right. You will be able to endure. If your parents you know what it is to exercise a continual constant care over your children, they need it. But remember, as you're being accountable, that means right, do your job diligently You come to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because as Paul tells us I'm nothing, I'm but worm and dust, all your glory, but how wonderful so-and-so It means to do. Obey your leaders and submit to them. They have the right to rule, and you're to submit to them. And we need the constant, diligent care of the men God's appointed to watch for our souls. And what I'm going to do this morning is I'm going to teach you five things from this passage. Not their word, not anybody else's word, but God's word. So be productive, right? This is the word of the Lord. Let them do this. As I said, I'm going to pull out five things this morning to teach you from this text. So it's not a blind obedience where they get to get up and say, you do what I say because I say do it. So we're to listen to Jesus, who is the word of God. I mean do not speak the word of man to God That's the spiritual care That's what these words mean. That's why you're leading them. Let me say this to you elders, let me say this to you people, because I think we don't do enough of it Who are the leaders? I'm not a great encourager to everybody. I hope I made it clear to care for your souls You're not fast. By waterside, I can frolicking and playing in the field. You are our joy. And also how people responded to that teaching. But may just encourage them. I'm going to read into the words of Matthew Henry. We'll read it today. I have told it to you. What is our joy? That can be 10 years, 10,000 years. So we're going to read from Hebrews chapter 13 They are keeping watch We are to be in submission, we are to recognize God has put them in charge. And we get that from the Apostle Paul in Acts 20 Wow. The duty That's what that means. There's the duty, obey and listen. They want to see you saved, and they know the sinful hearts that we're prone to hide. God says they'll honor them. Your honor We're talking about ecclesiastical leaders here. Former Government Chapter 10. And look how they've turned out. Respect. Obey your leaders and submit to them. And be peacemaking And he does much like Paul here does, he warns you of a horrible outcome if you don't. You are the ones we've poured out ourselves in tears and praying and night vigils and watching. Tend to their ministry. What are we looking to rejoice in? That'll be of no advantage to you. That doesn't mean right they get to do whatever they want in God's house, God will deal with them. Maybe it's my military bringing and you just don't expect it. So isn't I can testify before the Lord Your ministers are there, it's ministerial authority. Wonderful. Now he's saying, continue in it. But what are they teaching us? And if he would be called to account, they would suffer consequences for it. That's what that And we're going to talk more about that and what it means. Leaders are in charge. Look at their obedience. So, and so and so would have nothing of it List the duties Now there's a couple ways to interpret this You get you get the picture, right? I'll add the faithful leaders That's the first part of this text, the duty. I'd be so thankful Look what they were at You are not able to do it alone. We're not talking about civil leaders. I think that's very wonderfully said. Amen. But if it is a groaning report, What did they do with it? I just want you to be clear on these words. I don't know. So the duty