Congregation of the Lord, my passage this morning is the title for the sermon Zealous for Good Works The zealous for good works comes from verse 14 in chapter 2 of the letter to Titus that we read. Zealous for good works is a description there of Christians, of the people who belong to Christ, the people that he redeemed. People that he purified for himself as his own possession. They are described here as a people who are zealous for good works. I had us read of the here that short passage from John's Gospel. It is finished, because though indeed Our redemption and its purchase is finished on the cross when Jesus laid down his life. It was not taken, he laid it down. That did begin something else That is the renewal, the regeneration of the world, and the calling out and creating a people Who are described in our passage this morning as zealous for good works. Freed from the bondage of sin. Forgiven the guilt of their sin being paid for by Christ, and cleansed in their hearts and purified. That they may live lives that are upright, godly, and self-controlled, that renounce the old way of living, put on the new way of living People's values for good works. Some of you may have grown up in the church your whole life, and that is commendable And awesome and and though I did I uh I don't think I grew up with it wasn't until later in life when I wandered from the faith and God graciously called me back I began to meet zealous Christians. They were probably zealous all along. I just was blinded. I didn't know they were zealous. And I think in in overall in the description of Christianity in the world for the last 2,000 years, and of course God's people in any age. God's had a people since creation. Christian faith, I think it's it's just described Christians as people that are zealous for good works. Remember one man, uh I kinda grew up in a church where I thought to be a Christian that you wore a suit and you look nice. And you can definitely be a Christian and wear a suit and look nice. But y you know how that can go. But then I really be you know, I came to know the Lord and uh I met a man who I didn't thought in no world he could be a Christian because he had a beard down to here. He wore a leather Harley jacket and he rode a bike. And he was growing his beard out with his son for some reason, I don't remember why, and the next time I saw him it was trimmed up. I thought, this guy can't be a Christian. And I shared with them. I was um very difficult, you know what what I God has bringed me out, and I shared with dad and I and I went away for a couple months Back home, my brother graduated medical school, and then I I came back and I met him. You know, the first thing he said to me, we met one time. How have you been, Damon? I've been praying for you. Who Who are you? Who who who are these people that are zealous for these good works, that want to help What to do good and carefully, that's just the church. That's you all. That's Christians. That's God's people. A people that are zealous for good works. Now we're looking at this this morning because we've been going through the Heidelberg Catechism, and that catechism, uh, as I think all catechisms are designed to teach us Bible truth. They all design it in a different way, and the way that Heidelberg gives us is guilt and grace and gratitude because that's where the gospel finds us in our guilt and our sin and our misery As sinners who rebelled against God and have fallen under the curse of his law, dying in Adam. But that's also where God's grace meets us. As the gospel is preached to us of Christ's death on the cross for us and his his resurrection and his ascension, his throne, and we're we're we're brought to a living faith, his return to him to to Christ as our God, as our Savior, and call upon him. That's where God's grace meets us. Will we receive that forgiveness of sins when we believe on Christ and we're renewed by His Spirit and we become to know Him But that grace then leads us to a life of gratitude, and that's where we're getting into the third part of the catechism, guilt. We experience God's grace, and that leads to a life of gratitude. And so as we go through the rest of this catechism After we dealt a few questions, this one dealing with, well, if there is good grace, then why good works? We're gonna deal with that question this morning Next week we'll look at true and false conversion. And then we'll get into start getting into God's law, the Ten Commandments, because good works are good works that come of true faith in Jesus as Savior. We're not saving ourselves, but realize we can't save ourselves. We can do nothing to make up for our sins with God. We can do nothing to make ourselves good, and we can do nothing to raise our dead bodies from the grave. But Jesus can and we trust him to do it, because he's promised to do it for all who believe in him. So good works come from that faith. Good works are in accordance with God's law, so we'll look at God's law. And then good works should be done to God's glory. We want to glorify this God who created us and in his grace And so we'll also look at a prayer. So that's that's where we're going as we consider good works. But this morning we sort of want to ask and answer the question: why are Christians zealous for good works? Why is that the case? And the case is this, because the purpose of the gospel is for us to be a people zealous of good works. The product of God's saving grace in our lives is to produce these good works. And therefore the pursuit of our lives as Christians is to be engaged in gratefully serving God by giving Him and doing these good works. So my sermon this morning will be first the uh Purpose of the gospel. Zealous for good works is the purpose of the gospel, that's first. Second, zealous for good works is the product of God's saving grace in our lives. And then third, zealous for good works and is the pursuit of believers who have been taken up in this purpose by God. And who have this saving grace producing and working in their lives that they then pursue more and more and more and on into all of eternity. Good works. So first, the purpose of the gospel is good works, or people zealous for good works. If you have your Bible open You see Paul stating that in verse 14 of chapter 2 in Titus. He tells us that we are waiting for our God and Savior Jesus Christ. And then he tells us what he did for us, who gave himself for us. That was his self-offering on the cross for us in our place because we deserve to be there for our sins. He did it for us Suffered the wrath and curse of God, and that was, it tells us here, for two objectives, to redeem us from all lawlessness. Bring us out from the power of sin. Lawlessness is is doing anything against God's law. And thought word to D, being opposed to it. We're being brought out from that lawless sort of living where we we don't want to obey God, we don't want to do what he says, we don't want to conform to his will. We we want to, in I think modern American way, create ourselves and just be me and do I. How about it said, that is lawless living, refusing to be who God says you are, my image bearer, my creation. And Jesus did that so to redeem us from that lawlessness, but also to purify us. But notice that he did it to purify for himself. One of the people that belonged to him, and these were uh pure people, purified from their sins, purified in their hearts. That they would be his own possession. And then again, who are these purified people for Jesus? Well, they're a people zealous. For good work. So you see in verse 14 there that is the purpose of the God. That's the purpose stated there for us in the sacrifice of Christ. There are other places that give us other purposes, but the purposes and the context of this letter Where Paul is trying to encourage Timothy that what we believe about the cross impacts what we teach about the cross in the church and how we live our lives as Christians. Our theology of the cross needs to be leading to Christ-likeness and Christian living, self-denying, obeying God. Serving one another. That's what the theology, the crush, as it's preached, should be producing in us. So we have the purpose given there. Now, this is not a new purpose for God To make a people for himself, to be zealous for good works. We could say in every way that that was the purpose of God when he created us in his image. Jesus says to the Jews in John chapter 10, we want to kill him. He asks them, Well, for which good work of my Father that I've shown you do you want to kill me for? And Jesus did good works, the miracles. Peter, when he wanted to share the good news to Cornelius, when he was sent by God to share the good news and wanted to say something to Cornelius about who this Lord of all is. He said, well, God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and he went about doing good and healing all oppressed with the devil. The miracles Jesus performed were good works. They're works that did good. They healed our bodies. They freed us from demonic possession and oppression in our lives. Good works. God is a God who does good works. And when God made us an Adam Right, He made us upright. He made us with true knowledge of Himself, to know Him. He made us holy. He made us righteous. So in in the very creation of man, God's purpose for us is that we would be a people zealous. To do good works because that's who God is, a God. How do you explain creation of a good work that we all exist? And have breath and being. How do you explain all that that God does? But to make people zealous. Well, you know, Adam fell, he sinned. But Adam doesn't get to determine what God will kind of creation God will have. The devil who instigated our Parents rebellion and deceived, he doesn't get to determine what kind of creation God's going to have. God wants a world and a people for himself that are in it, who are zealous for good works. We we read about that in the redemption of Israel in in Exodus 19 when God brings them out of Egypt. He says to them, and I I know you know these words. You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. That's a good work, freeing you. And how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and Keep my covenant. Now notice this word, you shall be my treasured possession. That's the same word we translate as my own possession. Among all peoples, all the nations, where all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom, a priest, a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. That's why Paul's saying, Titus, these are the words you're to speak to Israel today, the church. My purpose hasn't changed for my people I've redeemed them. I've purified them. I've brought them to myself to be this distinct, unique people from all other peoples on the world that don't yet know me. That they would be a people holy and helpful, zealous for good works That's also why I had us read in Deuteronomy 26, because verse 18 is probably the passage behind verse 14 in Titus. And the Lord has declared today that you are a people for his treasured possession. Again, same word, for his own possession As he has promised you, and that you are to keep all his commandments. Now, Paul doesn't say keep all his commandments, he says zealous for good works, but they are equivalent saying. You know, I can only speculate why Paul substituted keep my commandments for zealous for good works. So here's my speculation. I think Paul, who lived as a Pharisee, who he tells us in his own writings what he was zealous for, before he knew Jesus, I was zealous for the traditions of my fathers. Right. Scrupulous to observe every tradition that all the elders passed, all the six hundred and thirteen commandments that God gave in his Torah multiplied by the nth and how many they came up to Finn Seddin and Keith, and Paul said, I was zealous for that. And he thought he was a very righteous man, and he didn't need a God dying for him to save. But then he came to know Jesus. I think it was eye-opening to Paul To understand to learn that a holy and righteous man, a sinless man, is also a very helpful man. Man who did a lot of good and Zealous for good works and poured himself out in mercy and compassion upon the people God sent him to minister to. And that's just my speculation why he says zealous here for good ones. So God's creational purpose for man That we would be zealous for good works. God's redemptive purpose for man, as we have put off the old and put on the new, as the Apostle Paul tells us. Being recreated in the knowledge and righteousness and holiness of God is that we might be a people zealous for good works. Now, secondly, the Apostle Paul tells us that the product of God's saving grace in our lives. Is a people that will be zealous of good works. You see that there in our passage, that's verses 11. And verses 12, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation. So this is God's saving grace for all people. The saving grace is training us. If you've been with us in Hebrews, we looked at this word in the context given there. It's a word that means the entire educative process for bringing up a child You've got to train them in the way they go. You've also got to correct them, you know, the the discipline. So Hebrews 12 deals with that. But that's the word here about training. This is a father training children that he has adopted There is saving work and grace in Christ. And that grace is at work amongst us training us to renounce ungodliness. To say no to it, to put that old life away and worldly passions, but to live then positively Self-control, that's with reference to our own lives and moderation and not excess in any area of our lives, but have them under control and self-control Upright deals with the kind of relationships we're to have with with people. And of course, uh the Lord tells us the way we are properly related to our neighbors is to love them. to treat them as we would want them to treat us, which I often will catechize my children in the morning and say who wants to be treated with kindness and love and dignity and respect today and everybody's like, yeah, that's then do that to others, right? Because that is to be upright in God's eyes when we treat people that way. We we are never to be reactionary The command isn't treat others how they've treated you. It is to treat others how you would wish them and want them to treat you. That's the uprightness that God's grace is training us in and in godly lives Lies where we we turn back from our ingratitude of Romans 1 and we turn from God, ungrateful to this Creator who is the source of everything to us We come to see the greatness and goodness of God, and we live in that reverent love and fear, that godliness that God's grace is training us to. So that's the passage where we understand that it is God's saving grace in us producing these good works. You could you could go to Ephesians 2, right? By grace you've been saved. And Paul means something very definite there when he says that means you've been made alive with Christ. The definition of being saved by grace is you're no longer dead in sin. You're made alive with Christ. You're a new man. You are beginning to live a holy and an upright life. And that is through faith, as God has brought you to a living, saving faith, as I've already mentioned And Jesus Christ. So God's grace produces this. Now, I I want to play up that part for a minute because Paul has left Timothy, excuse me, Titus here in Crete. And I just think it's a wonderful thing to that's why I had us read this whole letter, just to see the landscape. Because God's saving grace does not find the people who are zealous for good works. That's not where it finds us. Look where it finds us when Paul says, here's what Epamenides, most likely, it was the philosopher Epamenides. That's what your ESB footnote says Here's what he says about his own people, who is a contemporary of Crete, and this was known in the ancient world. If you go to Crete, these are the kind of people you're going to meet. Always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons. Those aren't a people zealous of good works. The people that are selfish in pursuit of self and sin, they can get out of life. But Paul says to do what? Just pass on because we've got to find better people? Or people more able to receive God's grace? He says, just rebuke them sharply that they might be sound in the faith. These are the people that God has brought to faith. When the gospel was preached to them that Jesus Christ is raised from the dead, that he is the Son of God, and Christ worked to bring them to that faith in him as Son of God. gather them into his flock. But these are a people then who God in his grace will be Working zealousness for good works. Again, look what he says in chapter 3. He says, we ourselves, we were once a foolish people. We did foolish things. If you've ever been on the receiving end of foolish behavior, it's probably the most unhelpful behavior in the world. Folly in Proverbs is described as the most destructive behavior men can get involved in. That's what we were described as, a foolish people. We were disobedient. We were utterly led astray. Our lust took us where they want to go in our ignorance. We were slaves to various passions and pleasures. That is where the grace of God finds us. That's the only kind of people there are that the grace of God is going to save. We passed our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. That is a description of people outside of Christ left in darkness for centuries. By the time the light of the gospel reached them, and God saved them purely through his faith in his gospel. God is grace that begins to fix them. So God's grace doesn't find us zealous for good works, but God's saving grace fixes us. To be zealous for good works. It fixes us, as Paul tells us there in verse 14, by freeing us. You've been redeemed from all lawlessness. God has to go to work on us and free our wills, because, as Jesus says, whoever sins is enslaved to sin. But the Son can set you free. And when we turn to the Son of God and believe in Him and receive His Spirit, He sets us free. We are liberated. I remember when I was set free. I remember hanging around with Christians and yes, Christians still sin, and they really wanted to play up that Christians still sin, and I was one to play up that I have a free will. I finally in my life through the first time I don't have to sin, and I'm free of it. Stop telling me that's the sin I'm going to do tomorrow. I want to rejoice in the sin I don't have to do today. Yes, we will struggle with sin as Christians. I've come to understand more of Romans 7 and just there's nothing good in this flesh. It will always be there, an evil present, when you want to do good. But the joy of the gospel is you don't have to do evil anymore. Jesus has freed you from all lawlessness. God goes to work fixing his creation. You are his creature, and he fixes you. God fixes us by cleaning us. He's purified our hearts. We don't want to draw near to God We don't want to draw near to people and intimacy and fellowship and friendship because we have wicked hearts, defiled hearts. We do nasty things as sinners. We do nasty things to ourselves and nasty things to others. And it will leave a stain. But Jesus can cleanse that. As we read this morning, those who walk in the light, you know, when you come to walk in the light of God, you will see the darkness in your heart. But the blood of Jesus cleans us. That's why we see, well can wash away my sin. That wasn't just for yesterday, that's for today, that's for tomorrow as Christians. That he is purifying us. God's work, His grace fixes us by teaching us. We've got to learn to say no to certain things. We've got to learn to start saying yes to these things. It is God's saving grace fixing a people to be zealous for good works. But look at verse 13. God's saving grace is also going to finish us to be a people zealous for good works. I think the scope of verse 14, Jesus giving himself all the way to people zealous for good works. That's looking into eternity. That's looking to the consummation that has begun now in the regeneration, the washing of regeneration that's taking place in our hearts. As we await the regeneration of the world and the making of all things new. But This is a verse looking in towards even the consummation, as we, as Paul says, await our blessed hope. Part of our hope and our blessedness is well we'll be freed from that fleshly law of sin in our bodies. That often so weighs us down from the good we would want to do, as Paul says. And when that's gone, what will hold us back from being fully zealous for good work? Heaven is not a place devoid of good works. Heaven is a place filled with them. The new creation is a place filled with nothing but good works. And it's filled with nothing but a people who are zealous for good works. Amen. Jesus says in Matthew 5. 16, let your light shine before men, that they may what? See your good works and glorify your heavenly Father. That's for this life. Then he tells us in his parable about the kingdom in Matthew 13, 43, and the wheats and tears, and he describes it. that in that day you wheat who are grown up becoming this kind of people, you will shine like the sun. Now if light is already shining in us from Jesus to do good works, what do you think the good works will be when we are as radiant as the sun? And the holiness and the purity of God's people, and the zeal that will so animate us For good works because as we go to our next part, because we'll see the Savior And we live in the joy as we sing Amazing Grace today of He's the one and the reason and the source of why we live the way we live as Christians. The Christians I've meet that are zealous for good works, they've always been generally an unassuming people. You wouldn't necessarily know they're zealous for good works. But they are. It's what drives them. It's what's in them. They're just ready for an opportunity. And then you and you ask why? Because God's done a good work for me. God's begun a good work in me. Because Jesus saved me. Because Jesus has changed me. Because Jesus loves me. Good works are the pursuit of believers. Because that's the purpose of the gospel, and they understand that's why Christ died for them. Because it's the product of God's saving grace, and they know that this is what their God is doing, who's brought them to Himself. This is what He wants for their lives and is working in their lives. And they pursue it. Well real quickly, a couple of things. How do you pursue it? Well I I've y y you you joined the church. Well you you You join Christ and you unite yourself to him by faith. But I I remember telling the uh my elder friend when I became a Christian, I said, Sam, I've lived selfish my entire life. I just want to help people now That's the people in Christ Church. I have learned more about what it means to be zealous for good works and how to do good works, just living with Christians. I learn from you every day. That's why I think uh whoever he didn't wrote Hebrews tells him, because of the persecution they weren't gathering anymore, he says, knock that off. Don't stop meeting together. Why to stir each other up to love? good works. It's as a body, it's together that we learn how to be zealous for good works and to do good works and to promote it. Paul will use another word here, if you want to help yourself in this pursuit. He talks about a adorning. The doctrine of God our Savior. It's a word where we get cosmetics from. You know, you put things on to look pretty. You want to adorn, you want to commend yourself, show yourself off. He's saying, show the gospel off. In the way that is justifiable to the gospel, show it off in its God-designed way by leading holy and helpful lives. Because if our message is that God so loved this world that he gave his son It's gonna do a lot of harm if we're hating the people in this world, and if we're hating the people in this church, and we're not being a loving And a helpful. You see that that that that that's maybe what the pr what the proverbs talks about a prostitute wearing fancy earrings or how to put a fool dressing himself up. They kinda clash, don't they? To have received a message of God's love and grace, to be loved by them, to then be a a hating and unhelpful people in the world. Rather than being a holy and helpful people, because that's what adorns the gospel. That's what the gospel is meant to be adorned with, as we want to commend to others. This is what God's saving grace has done to me. This is what God's saving grace can do to you because do we want anybody to go to hell? We are aware of it. We close our mouths before God's decree, and yet Paul says, I pray every day for Jews, and I have nothing but sorrow in my heart, and I pray God saves them. Jesus still weeps over Jerusalem. I have probably been most cut to the heart this week in this passage when Paul is what he's really saying here is Is your doctrine leading you to be God? Is your theology of the cross leading you to be Christ-like? Because if it's not, something needs to change. Paul deals with the divisive heretic in this letter. He's not saying let's compromise on truth. compromise on faith, compromise on error, but there's a way that you can deal with this that will adorn the gospel and there's a way you want. I'll just leave you with that question Is your knowledge of God? Is your knowledge of Jesus' coming into this world? Is your knowledge of what the Savior has done for you? Is it leading you to be Christ-like? Because that's why he died. That's why God sent his son into the world, that we may become like him. That is what his saving grace is working in us. So let us turn to them in prayer. Let us repent, where we've had doctrine lead us to be very unhelpful. Where we've not been careful to adorn the gospel in the world and to commend God's saving grace to others, let us ask Him to help us to do that. Amen.