As we look to God's Word this evening, I I have to make a confession first and say that I'm well aware that I'm a month early. uh in s technically in the use of this illustration and introduction. Uh that is that it's not until late October when we uh usually begin to make mention of Reformation Day. It's not Halloween, don't go into that. It's Reformation Day. I'm preparing uh for a Reformation Week outreach at our mission church on uh Eastern Shore of Virginia and uh part of my uh preparation uh led me to uh this uh passage that I want to talk about tonight. But I want to begin just uh with some uh comments about Martin Luther The Protestant Reformation, at least in some ways, centers around the life of Martin Luther, and there's nothing in his biography uh as a German monk that would suggest that Luther had any notion or any desire of uh publicity or uh name or uh craving the attention of uh an anyone. Uh he was a teacher in the university at Wittenberg and he had no intention at all of either the emperor or especially the pope uh coming against him or he going against them. Had he not heard words like these, coming from the lips of the short and chubby Roman priest John Tetzel, who hawked his product to the unsuspecting citizens of Wittenberg, listened to what John Tetzel said and Luther heard. Indulgences, said Tetzel, are the most precious and the most noble of God's gifts. This cross, pointing to the one that he carried Has as much efficacy as the very cross of Jesus Christ. Come, and I will give you letters, all perfectly sealed. by which even the sins that you intend to commit may be pardoned. I would not change my privileges for those of Saint Peter in heaven For I have saved more souls by my indulgences than the apostle by his sermons. There is no sin so great that an indulgence cannot remit. And even if any one, which is doubtless impossible, had offered violence to the Blessed Virgin Mary, the mother of God, let him pay, only let him pay well and all will be forgiven. Reflect then that for every mortal sin you must, after confession and contrition, do penance for seven years, either in this life or in purgatory Now, how many mortal sins are there committed in a day? How many in a week? How many in a month? How many in a year? How many in a whole life? Alas, these sins are almost infinite. and they entail an infinite penalty in the fires of purgatory. Tetzel concluded At the very instant that the money rattles in the bottom of the chest, the soul escapes from purgatory and flies liberated to heaven O stupid and brutish people, who do not understand the grace so richly offered. Now heaven is everywhere open. Do you refuse to enter now When then will you, oh you thoughtless man, with twelve groats you can deliver your father from purgatory, and you are ungrateful enough not to save him? I shall be justified in the day of judgment, but you will be punished so much the more severely for having neglected so great salvation. I declare to you, though you should now but have a single coat, you ought to strip it off and sell it in order to obtain this grace. The Lord our God no longer reigns. He has resigned all power to the Pope. That would kind of get the goat of somebody who was a biblical scholar, wouldn't it? Now, the Reformation was about more than the sale of indulgences, for sure, more than the likes of John Tetzel. But certainly, this product of the imaginations of man was a critical target for Luther. uh who was facing uh for his young life since he was met by uh the Lord and his providence on the way to back home or the way back to school. uh on the road to Wittenberg, uh he asked this question, how can a sinful man be right with God? That was Luther's quest. That was his thing. And so as a pastor, he had warned his flock uh against uh the whole notion of the of the Roman church being or holding in its storehouses the grace of God, the merits of Mary and the saints to be distributed at the will of the Pope and usually for s you know, some money to help the Pope do whatever he was going to do. And so the indulgences and the relics really got to Luther. And so Luther concluded, as you know that uh these ideas were contrary to the Bible, and so uh timidly on October thirty-first, fifteen seventeen, he tacked his ninety-five theses to the door of the church in Wittenberg And those things were translated into German. They were printed in God's providence. They were scattered. And so began. And to a large extent, even to this day, continues the Reformation of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now in that context, with a little bit of background, turn in your Bibles to Zechariah the third chapter Chapter 3 of the Prophecy of Zechariah. And I'd like to just read all uh ten of these verses. It's an interesting uh section. And uh as usually happens uh when I preach a sermon, almost always I will read the text having you know, prepared and I will see something in the text that I think to myself, man, I didn't cover that. So uh we're not going to cover everything, but uh th I'll try to get to the meat of this uh passage. Zechariah chapter 3, this is God's word, and it is true. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not as a brand plucked from the fire. Now, Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken away your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments, and the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, Thus says the Lord of hosts, if you walk in my ways and keep my charge Then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign. Behold. I will bring my servant the branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes. I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree Let's pray and ask God to bless us as we look at this passage this evening. Father, thank you for your word again, and we pray that as we look into uh some of the teaching in this passage that you would uh Make it clear to us and allow it to apply to our own hearts and lives this evening. For Jesus' sake and his glory and the kingdom. Amen. Remember what Jesus said in Luke 24 as uh he spoke with the couple of the disciples on the road to Emmaus. Beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them all the scriptures of the things that concerned himself. And in some ways, this passage here in Zechariah chapter 3 is one of those places where I think that it's probably easy to see uh the uh portrayal and the expression of the work of Jesus. And so I want to look at it briefly with you this evening First just uh some brief exposition of the passage and then try to decide what it means and then how does it uh affect uh you and I Zechariah, you know, prophesied about five hundred years before the coming of Christ. He and Haggai, another prophet were among the forty-three thousand Jews who returned to Jerusalem after the uh seventy years of exile and captivity in Babylon. His uh Prophecy begins with a reminder to the people of something very important, and that is, folks, you're not coming back to Jerusalem. That's not what is important. The important thing is that you're returning to the Lord. In chapter 1, he says, Therefore say to them, thus declares the Lord of hosts, return to me says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. And then the prophet uh begins his prophecy, and in the first couple of chapters you find some very uh I think kind of obscure and yet uh interesting uh visions. Uh the first uh vision by the hands or by the uh light of the Spirit was uh the prophet saw a man standing. uh or sitting on a red horse and he was standing among the myrtle trees, remember. Remember what he was doing? He was just watching. Just watching. That's kind of eerie, isn't it? Uh and then he goes on in the uh Second vision to see this strange combination of horns and craftsmen, uh both of them uh seem to be kind of a threat to the community of uh people who have returned. And then in the third vision, he sh he has uh in the second chapter, there's a man with a measuring line a a plumb bob, if you will. And uh he would wander through the city of Jerusalem. Uh and again, just like the man on the red horse was watching, this guy was just going around measuring. Just measuring things. Again, kind of eerie, but you get that feeling that here's the prophet saying, okay, God is watching. What's the true level of spirituality among you people? Now the question in the minds of the people after the first couple of chapters is, okay. We're returning to Jerusalem. We're returning to the Lord. A God is going to come among us. He is going to restore us here in the land. God has certainly promised to bless us. to restore and to prosper us. But any un any conscientious Jewish person would ask the question, how in the world is that possible? How is that possible? Look what we have done. We have rebelled, we have disobeyed, we have willingly served, I mean, really willingly served, idols of the ungodly world around us. How in the world can God come to us? Or how in the world can we go to God? And so this fourth vision comes here in the third chapter. And I think it speaks to that very question. This time the setting in the of the vision, if you didn't catch it, is sort of a courtroom setting. You have a defendant or an accused one, that is Joshua, the high priest. You have a judge, who is the angel of the Lord, and you have an accuser, who is Satan himself. Now without dealing with all the details, you can get the big picture of what the Lord is presenting to us here. Joshua is called the high priest. He is the primary official who functions as the one who represents the people of Israel. before the Lord. Ordinarily you would find Joshua, the high priest, dressed in the finest clothing that could be found in the land. They were holy garments which represented the holiness of the Lord. But here, Satan is very near, and he sees Joshua the high priest, and he accuses him, and he points at him, and he says, Look. This guy is dirty. This man is filthy. He looks terrible. He's not fit at all to stand before the Lord. This is utterly disgusting. Now, did you notice in the text the defense that Joshua gives? He says Or maybe his attorney approaches the bench and he says, wait a minute, Judge, there's mitigating circumstances here The fact is that Joshua did not know all of the law of God that he was supposed to. He didn't know the rules. Judge, his clothes just appear to be dirty. They're not really dirty. Did you notice that? No, you didn't, did you? Because it's not there. Why? Because Joshua knows. All he has to do is look at himself. And he's aware. And he has nothing to say. His clothes are dirty. They are soiled. They are polluted. In other words, he's sinful. He is unworthy. He does stand condemned before the bench of God's justice. And there's no explanation, and there's no excuse. The high priest stands alone with no one to help him, no one to defend him, and then what happens? The Lord speaks. The Lord speaks. The Lord says to Satan, Satan, sit down and be quiet I rebuke you. And I do so not because I don't see the dirt. Not because he is not guilty. But I rebuke you, O accuser, because just like the stick about to be consumed in the fire, I have picked him up to be kept from harm. And then what we have very interestingly described for us is the process by which God makes the most dirty and unworthy high priest clean and dressed. And actually worthy to stand before the Lord. And it's a threefold process. One, the dirty garments are removed Second, he's dressed with new and clean garments. And then thirdly, a clean turban is put on his head. After which the Lord Himself approaches Joshua and calls him back into the service for which he has been ordained, that is, to rule the house of God. And to have the assurance of the possessing the very presence of the blessings of God. Now, if you go back again, let me take you back to church history again. Luther and the Protestant Reformation. In this passage, there is reference to several very profound and important biblical doctrines. There are certainly the deity of the angel presented here That speaks to Satan. It's obviously, I think, a representation of the Lord Jesus Christ himself. He's the judge, isn't he? The fact is that Joshua is plucked out of the condemned fire, the condemning fire by Well, you know, it's hot in here. I think I'll get out of this fire. No. He's plucked out by God Himself. What does that represent? Well clearly it represents the sovereign election of God in the salvation of individual people. And the whole thing is just a marvelous picture of the grace of God. But the truth that the reformers, and especially Martin Luther, grasped and hung on to Is the clear vision here that is given to us of salvation, the salvation of sinners by the justifying act of God's grace? You'll remember that one very clear and abiding sense, the doctrine of justification by faith, was the crux of the Protestant Reformation. Okay. What is justification? Well, it's in picture form here. We know what the confession. Do we know what the confession says? The catechism? Are you up to number 33 yet? What is justification? Anybody want to try it? It's an act of God's free grace. Come on. Can you say it? You know, let me just tell you a story. This is parenthesis. This doesn't have anything to do with the sermon. But uh I was in Africa for a couple of months, years ago And uh at one of the churches, uh, the pastor told all the young people to stand up in the middle of the worship service, and he asked them three questions from the shorter catechism. And these young people all clicked them off just like that. So uh maybe Pastor Young will uh get a new habit of uh making people stand who've been to catechism class and re uh recite the cat. Okay Justification is the act of God's free grace, wherein He pardons all of our sins and accepts us as righteous in His sight. Only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. The key word for Luther was Imputed. Imputed. Imputation. Now it's not a word that we use every day in our language, but it is a concept that we use very, very often, isn't it? Yesterday I went to Home Depot and I bought some things that I needed. And when I got up to the counter to check out, uh the the person scanned everything. Beep beep beep beep beep beep. I looked at it with my eyes wide open and I said, I I'm gonna pay for this. How would you like to pay? I get out my wallet. Take out my trusty Visa card, put it in the little slot, said do not remove, click, click, click, click, click. Remove your card, I pulled it out, and suddenly what happened? The cost of what I bought at Home Depot was imputed, it was accounted to my credit card bill. Now, next week I'll get home, I'll go to my computer, type in my password. And I will say to the computer, I want you to impute money that I have in my bank account to my credit card bill, and the whole thing will be paid for. Solely By the principle of imputation. In our salvation, God acts By means of imputation. And it's illustrated for us right here in this passage. Joshua shows up before God, clothed with filthy garments. The filthy garments of his sin, and he represents all men who are sinful before God. All of sin In Adam all died. Death that resulted from Adam's sin has passed on to all men. And in this vision, there is no excuse. There's no defense. All the parties, including Joshua himself, acknowledge that he is guilty and clothe in those dirty garments. What happens? At the decree of God It's an act of God's free grace. Upon the statement of God, the garments of dirt are removed. The text says, remove the filthy garments I have taken away, taken your iniquity away from you. What is that all about? How can God do that? Well, you might remember the prophet Isaiah explains it. We've all gone astray. We've all wandered away like sheep. Each one of us has turned to his own way. But what? The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. How do we say it today? Do you sing that song? How deep the Father's Love for Us. Behold the man upon the cross, my sin, upon his shoulders. It was my sin that held him there until it was accomplished. In other words, my sin, the guilt of my sin, is imputed. To the account of Jesus. And as he died on the cross, Jesus died in my place. My sin. On him. So that I could be forgiven. I have taken your iniquity away from you, Zachariah says in the vision. But the big mistake is often this, that we often think that's enough. That it's enough just to have our sins forgiven. Now I don't want to get too visual here. We're too explicit, but think of Joshua now. His filthy garments have been removed. Is that enough? He's standing there in his altogether. What needs to happen? Well, you see, the other imputation needs to take place. New vestments need to be put on him. The other imputation is involved, and that is crediting to the account of the sinner the righteousness of the Savior And so my sin is imputed on Jesus. Jesus' righteousness is imputed to me. And you can find this picture of salvation in several places in the scripture. Isaiah talks about in Isaiah 64. We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like polluted garment. Right? Job says that I've put on righteousness and it clothed me. My justice was like a robe and a turban. In the New Testament, Jesus picks that up. In one of his parables about the kingdom of God, Jesus tells of the king who prepared this royal banquet for his son. But the king, when he came to look at the guests, he saw there were men that had no wedding garments. And he said, Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? He was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's not just enough to get invited to the banquet. To have our sins forgiven. The whole of Scripture is brought to summary there in Revelation 19. Let us rejoice and exalt and give Him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and pure And that's the bride of Christ. And this is what Martin Luther called the joyful exchange in his theology. When God works salvation in my heart and in my life, fundamentally that is what happens. Jesus gets my sin, and he died in my place, bearing the weight of my guilt, bearing shame and scoffing rude. My place condemned, he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. What's the end? Hallelujah, what a savior, right? Yeah. But then in a merciful, joyful exchange, I receive his perfect righteousness. Dressed in his righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. And you see, this is the gospel message. This is the good news that we proclaim This is what we offer to the world of dying sinners. Now, sadly, that message is not very well received by many, many people in our day. People resist a message which You know, they're obviously in Joshua's condition, dirty in their sin, obviously guilty before God. And they know it But they're helpless to do anything about it? Come on, man. That's what somebody said. People are resistant to that message. Simply because they want to be able to contribute something to this whole thing. I got something to give in my salvation. We're the can-do people as Americans, aren't we? Yeah. It's true, of course, that many people will accept, they do accept, a modified Christianity They have need of God, and at least every once in a while when things get particularly bad for them, they'll come to Jesus. But many people resist. Now, the truth is that a lot of professing Christians who do believe in Jesus, who are who are Exercising faith toward him are practically resistant to the gospel of justification. Because we're really convinced But we still have to measure up. You know, we really, I've got to get my act together before God receives me. And so they lived. In a constant state of fear or doubt. Saved by grace, yes. But troubled in mind and heart Because they think they are preserved by their own efforts. And so they live lives not at peace. Because they still think they have to perform for God. Now, don't get the idea that uh this is a do nothing religion Because even in the image drawn for us in Zechariah here in chapter 3, you see the addition to the robes of righteousness is what? The prophet says, hey, you know, he's got the robes of righteousness. He's got the clean robes, but he needs a he needs a hat. He needs a turban on his head, doesn't he? What does that turban say for the high priest? Inscribed on the turban of the high priest is holy to the Lord, not just set apart. but in the practice of holiness, indicating that for all those who do receive with a sincere heart the forgiveness and righteousness which God freely gives by grace, they're also cold to holiness without which no one will see the Lord. There's no biblical, there's no Reformation Christian thought. That excludes faithful obedience and service. And so you see it there in the seventh and eighth verses. If you walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign I will give my servant. the branch. And number one, that's a picture, again, of the or prophecy of the coming of Jesus. But there it is. In other words, it's never enough just to profess faith in Christ For the forgiveness and some guarantee or some promise of heaven without the fruit of spiritual life in our lives. And here Joshua as a representative of all the people of God now assumes his rightful place as the one with personal righteousness living with an aspiration to live for God And so it what does it come down to? Not just theology we're talking about. It's not just the theology of justification by faith, but But theology always has a positive implication on the way we live. It's the foundation, the assurance of our faith, it's the ground of our confidence, it's the basis upon which we live. every day. And it's the motivation for anything that we seek to do in the name of our God Justification by faith alone, by grace alone, in Christ alone is perhaps the central point, the crux of our faith. Now With all the things that are happening around us, we talked about this this morning with the worries and the anxieties and so forth. Those things are worthy of our attention. and of our careful uh thought. But there are two things, and I'll just finish with this. There are two things In this image of Zechariah, that if this is true, if what's represented here is true, there are two things about which the believer needs never to worry. Two things about which we no longer have a sense of plague or burden. The gift of the grace in the gospel of Christ. Enables us once and all to remove from our minds the anxiety of two things. That is, that the grace of God in the work of Jesus in my place has purchased for me a place in the family of God. I am his child And secondly, because I'm in the family of God, by his grace, I know that God rules everything in my life for my good and his glory. That's the purpose of redemption. And with these two truths embedded in our hearts and in our minds by God's grace, we can face disappointment and loss and heartache. And defeat and failure, foolishness. Because what defines us now as believers, as Christian believers, is that I belong to Jesus, and Jesus belongs to me. in history after Luther discovered these truths, the truths of Romans 1, for I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And so you know what? With that firm foundation there in chapter one, he could go on in Romans. And write stuff like this. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But we are justified by his grace through the redemption. that is in Christ Jesus. That having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. That surely the wages of our sin is death, but the gift of God, that is the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, brings eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Chapter 8 There's therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And then the therefore Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters, you can, you should, you will present your bodies as living sacrifices, the whole of your life's ambition and purpose. is living in holy sacrifice in service that is utterly acceptable to God Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you again for the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is our Savior, our Lord, and our King. We thank you that He rules over all things for us. We thank you that you have made us your children by faith in Christ. We pray that you would enable us to live with that turban on our heads. Holy to the Lord. So that what we do and what we say, the way we think and the way we act and speak, even our motives and our emotions, all of our lives. Would resound to the glory and praise of the God who has redeemed us. Now receive his benediction. Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love. May this grace be yours. Amen.