Turn in your Bible to Psalm 146. We'll read Psalm 146, and then we'll ask for the Lord's help in understanding it. So Psalm 146. Psalm 146. Hear the word of the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. I will praise the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth, and on that very day his plans perish. Blessed is he whose help is in the God of Jacob. Whose hope is in the Lord his God, who made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever Who executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets the prisoners free The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord lifts up those who are bound down. The Lord loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the sojourners. He upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. The Lord will reign forever. Your God o Zion to all generations. Praise the Lord. The word of the Lord. Let us pray. Our gracious Father in heaven, we bless you and thank you. You've caused your word to be written down. We bless you and thank you for the gift of your Holy Spirit. We bless you and thank you that according to your promise and the covenant, that we shall all be taught, we and our children And we ask that you would teach us tonight, that you would, your Spirit would take these words and plant them in our hearts and cause us to hear and cause us to obey and build us up. And faith, hope, and love. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. And this psalm you see a clear statement of why those who have the help And the hope of God are so happy. Alright, that's what it says there in verse 5. Blessed is he whose help is, or happy is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God. And it is because this glorious God who saves them, as you see enumerated in many ways there in verses 7 or verses 6 and verse through verse 9, keeping faith forever Executing justice for the oppressed, giving food to the hungry, setting free the prisoners, opening their blind eyes, lifting up those that are bowed down, loving the righteous Watching over the sojourners, upholding the widow and the fatherless, and in his love bringing to ruin all the ways of the wicked against them. And it is because their happiness is because this saving God, who does these things, will reign forever over all the works of his hand as it's declared there in verse 10, the Lord will reign forever. Your God, O Zion, to all generations. And so this wonderful truth, this good news causes Zion, the church to stir itself up to the praise of the Lord. Verses one and two. Praise the Lord or Hallelujah. Hallelujah, O my soul. And it ends with the same phrase, hallelujah, praise the Lord. And that quite simply is the message of the Psalm. The happy estate of the people who trust not in man, but in God to save them. And who live comforted by the gospel or the good news that their God reigns forevermore, and who resolve themselves to the praise of this glorious God of his glorious gospel, or the God of this glorious gospel. And so what I want to do tonight is think and look at how can we take this message? And turn it to daily profit. Or how can you take this message and turn it to have a profit in your life every day? To be profitable to you. And I think that the question, or the answer, excuse me, to this question, it lies in the context of this psalm. And so, to get at the context of this psalm in such a way that I hope points at the application that I want to make tonight, I want to ask you this question. How do you pray? I'm not asking what is your theory of prayer But how do you put whatever theory of prayer that you have into practice? What is your practice? of prayer. How is it that you, when you go to pray, pray? Do you use a prayer guidebook, for example? Like the one that's put out by Kenneth Boa entitled Handbook to Prayer. And in it he takes you through various modes of prayer adoration, confession, renewal, petition, intercession, affirmation, thanksgiving. And a closing prayer. And in each of these different modes, he provides scriptural words to inspire your own prayers. Maybe you're asking the question, should you use a guidebook? Is it appropriate to use a guidebook to prayer? Well, we all know, right, that Jesus taught his disciples how to pray at their request. And it seems to me then that learning how to pray is just as much a part of Christian maturity as is learning how to act. So then the question I think becomes: what will you use to learn how to pray? And I can tell you what our forefathers, the Israelites, used. We've been looking at them, or you've been looking at them for three years. They used the Psalms. And I'm not sure how far back this goes into history, into their history. We know that it was practiced in Jesus' day, and it was most likely even practiced by our Lord. That at the Passover, when the Jewish Passover was celebrated, a group of psalms known as the Halel, have you ever heard that use Halel where you just knock off the Yah, hallelujah, these group of praise. Psalms, Psalms 113 through Psalms 118. That they were sung over the course of this meal as a sort of liturgy of prayer to be used. at the beginning, middle, and end of the Passover uh meal. Here what what Mark says after Our Lord gives or gave the words of institution to the Lord's Supper in Mark 14, 26. He writes, And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And hymn here refers, as many scholars say, to that halal, Psalms 113 through 118. Such scholars like Hughes, Oliphant Old, and his very excellent book I commend to you called Worship Reformed According to Scripture. But what does right all this have to do with Psalm 146? Let me tell you. Now, the context of this, or excuse me, the person who wrote this psalm, we don't know. But in the Septuagint, Psalms 145 through Psalms 148, which correspond to Psalms 146 through 148, in our English Bible, because our English Bible is a translation of the Hebrew Bible. And what the Greek Bible does is it takes Psalm 147 and it breaks it into two Psalms. So the next psalm we'll look at at verse between verses eleven and twelve, they split and make two. So 145 to 148 for them, 146 to 148 for us. Well, these Psalms have the superscription Haggai and Zechariah. Now, Haggai and Zechariah were both prophets in the post-exilic times And one of the biggest events during those times to which they were commissioned to speak was the completion of the Second Temple. And the likely occasion, then, as many scholars argue, for the composition of this psalm, was at the completion of this second temple, where it would have been sung. And so scholars also tell us that this Psalm 146, with the rest of the Psalms going to Psalm 150, formed a sort of secondary halel But the primary halel was always Psalms 113 to 118. But this psalm, through the rest of the Psalter, formed a kind of secondary halel. And they were used by Jews as a part of their daily morning prayer. And a habit, I think, not lost on the apostles. I think the evidence is clear that in the New Testament they were using Psalms and their hours of prayer. In Acts 10, we read: Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. And many Bible scholars believe that many of the references to prayer in the book of Acts refer to liturgical hours of prayer. Right? We know the Psalms speak of I'll pray to you in the morning, in the evening, sometimes even three three times a day. And the sixth hour would have been the middle of the day, noon, right? Morning, noon, and evening, I'll pray to you. So, for example, in Acts 4 we read, and being let go, they went to their own company. And they reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, Lord, thou art God Which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of thy servant David has said, Why did the heathen rage? And the people imagined vain things. The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. That phrase or that, why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? Right, you probably remember that from the second psalm. And it is a clear reference there to Psalm 2, which very well may have just been recited by them in their prayers And what's my point then? Well my point is that you should, or at least you could, utilize this psalm. As a rubric for your daily morning prayers. For one, we know that the Jews did And we, being their spiritual children, really ought to follow their example here. It is our blessing and privilege to live in the age of the true temple. Jesus Christ, in which temple we worship God in spirit and in truth So we should always be reminded, right, that we inhabit first and foremost in Jesus Christ a house of prayer. And that it would be good for us, it would be good for you to let this psalm inspire you and teach you how to pray. For that is what I think the purpose really of this psalm is: to stir up the affections of those who call Zion home towards their God. And in doing that to stir them up to praise, which is one mode of Prayer, that the purpose of this psalm is to stir its readers up or its hearers up to praise is very obvious from the first verse Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. Right, both those spoken to, the first, hallelujah, is a plural, second person. Ye praise the Lord. You all praise the Lord. And the speaker, oh my soul, are exhorted to praise the Lord. And verse 2 is the soul's response: I will praise the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. And so you see in verse 2 that the soul, the soul of both the hearer and of the speaker, Answers back with a renewed purpose to praise the Lord forever. The I there in verse two, I will praise the Lord, could be both the speakers, O my soul, or the hearers, ye praise the Lord. Seeing that both are exhorted to make this personal response to praise the Lord. And so I think particularly for you heads of households, it is your duty to address your households in this way. The slumbers of sleep, the slowness of the heart towards spiritual things, the apprehensions of the day all need to be rebuffed With the call to praise the Lord. And it is your duty daily to repurpose your household to this glorious task of worshiping Yahweh. And the temple of the Lord Jesus Christ by offering up together your prayers of praise and thanksgiving and petition and intercession. And even if you're not a part of a household in which you have ones to pray together with, right, the Lord Jesus Christ is always with you. You always have somebody to pray with and praise with. So the purpose of the psalm is clear to praise the Lord, but How does the Psalm go on to achieve this purpose? How does it move us to praise the Lord? It does it in two ways. It does it by stirring up our affections. First, it draws a contrast between God and man. That's verses 3 and 5. And second, it focuses our attention upon the works of Yahweh. Which highlight his magnificent character. That's verses six through ten. Now, when I read verses three through five, put not your trust in princes. And on and on. I get the hint of a sort of lesson learned here. And if the Septuagint translators are right, and this psalm originates in the post-exilic times at the completion of the temple, then I think this hint is even stronger because putting your trust in princes summarized the major sin. committed by both the kingdoms of Israel and Judah prior to the exile. And right, who who doesn't know by experience the disappointment when human aid fails, right? Right? Either by treachery or just human frailty. Parents forget, friends are not strong enough, or quick enough, or smart enough, or patient enough, right, and and on and on. Human help. But yet both kingdoms persisted in turning to man for help. But what great truth, right, did the return from exile bring to light? God's faithfulness in helping Jacob. What then blessed and what happy people indeed who worship back in their homeland. in a rebuilt temple. Israel's exile and return from exile taught those favored few The important lesson of trusting in man versus trusting in God. And furthermore, they experience the favor of God's chosen. That God faithfully helped his servant Jacob, redeeming him from exile. And today, right? Today, you should let the daily remembrance of your redemption stir up your heart to praise the Lord. And so then the first way to stir up your affections, to praise the Lord, is by daily remembering the contrast between God and man. And what help your God has given you in the past and promises to give you in the future. What better way to start your day than to remember God and His help? The second way this psalm achieves its purpose of moving us to praise the Lord is by focusing our attention upon his deeds. Which highlight his magnificent character for us, and which ought, of course, to move us to love him. Verses six and ten, they tell you, right, of an Almighty, of a faithful, of a just, of a merciful, of a loving, and of a wrathful God who reigns for. Ever. And he is surely praiseworthy. So that then the second way to stir up your affections to the praise of God is daily to remember God's saving deeds. That show his wonderful character. Now I began this sermon, right, with asking you the question, how is it that you pray? And as the Jews did, you could take this psalm and just pray it and use it as a prayer. But you could also take this psalm and use it as a rubric for your prayers. An aid to help you in your prayers. And again, I stress that the temple of Jesus Christ is a house of prayer. That prayer ought to be the top priority of every single one of us. It ought to be our most cherished duty and our privilege. And so then I want to show you how you can take this psalm and help you to pray. There are many kinds of prayer in the Bible, but using 1 Timothy 2. 1, here are four major kinds of prayer. Petition, intercession, thanksgiving, and praise. We read, I urge you then first of all that request, prayers, intercession, and thanksgiving be made for everyone. And so let's start with petition. To petition is to make a request. In this kind of prayer, right, you're asking God humbly to do something for you. And according to his word and in the name of Jesus. But why, right, is it that we petition God? Because again, as verse 5 says, God is Jacob's help. And in our language today, right, God is Jesus' helper. God is He is true Israel. God helps His servant. God helps His church. God helps you. And so if you're a Christian, right, God is your helper. And furthermore, you see there in verse 5 that it those who have God as their help have God as their hope. And what is a Christian but a person who hopes in the resurrection? God raised up Jesus, his servant. God helped him, and therefore all those who are in Jesus Christ share in this same hope. In time God will help them and raise them bodily to new life. But God offers his servants More help in this life beyond just the future bodily resurrection. Many of God's servants throughout history, if you look again at verses six through ten. Have been oppressed unjustly, have been made to hunger, whom he feeds, have been cast into prison, Peter, and he sets them out. Who walked blindly under the Pharisees' yoke and whom he takes their teaching away, so blindly can be physical blindness, it could also be a mental blindness. Blindness. Many were made bowed down. Health issues, and he restores them to health. Sometimes miraculously, oftentimes to the means. Who has not been to the doctor? Hasn't had a stomach aim and the pancreatis or something, and etc. You know. Many of them have been bowed down, and he is made to stand up again Many of God's servants have been widowed or orphaned. Indeed, many of God's servants today are in these very conditions. In fact, you may be in one of them yourself. In all of them, God can be trusted to help. The Lord Jesus can be trusted to help. It is the nature of God to act in this way. He's merciful, so he sets prisoners free and opens the eyes of the blind. He's just, so he executes justice for the oppressed and gives food to the He's loving, so he cares for the sojourners and watches out for the widows and fathers and turns away the ways of the wicked. So you can use this psalm to help you to know what to petition God for help for. Another type of prayer is intercessory prayer. And this is where you pray for another, family members, friend. Other Christians. And really you can intercede on behalf of anyone, of almost anyone. And what are you to intercede on their behalf for? Well, of course, salvation, if they're not a Christian, you could pray using verse 3 that they wouldn't put their trust in princes, but seek God as their help and hope in Him Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from that. Or you could use verse 8 and pray that God would open their blind eyes when you speak to them the truth. If they are a Christian, right, then you can again go through verses 6 through 10 and match their condition with the corresponding feature of God's character. Are they widowed? Pray God's love to look after them. Which, of course, ought to be evident by a biblical widow ministry in the church. Are they fearful of the wicked? Pray God in his anger would ruin the wicked person's ways in their life. God's loving care for sojourners ought to be a matter of daily prayer for the church. Do you know someone bowed down by stress or physical illness? Pray God's merciful kindness would relieve them. But even if they aren't Christians, as we saw last week in Tom's sermon in 145 The Lord Jesus Christ's mercy is over all that He's made. On the basis of God's common goodness or common grace, you can intercede for non-Christians in these same ways. And if I'm very honest to you, this is where I'm sure that I fail the most in my prayers. That I should be interceding More for more people. You know, many of our politicians are blind in matters besides just spiritual truths. We could pray that God would open their eyes to lead effectively. We could pray that the Lord would show his love to the righteous who conform, even if it is only outwardly right to the laws of their nation. But there is much matter for our prayers. But a third kind of prayer is thanksgiving. Happy people are generally thankful people. So let us daily give thanks that in the Lord Jesus Christ we have God as our help, to give thanks that you live in this world with the only hope in it, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And that you give thanks for the gospel that Jesus Christ reigns forever. And finally, there is praise. You could use this psalm to praise. The chief object of praise is, of course, the Lord. Hallelujah. And the chief matter of praise in this psalm is his gospel. The statement in verse 10 that the Lord will reign forever is equivalent to the New Testament phrase, the kingdom of God. In fact, and we're going to look at this more in depth next week in Mark's Gospel as we get to this, the phrase kingdom of God refers to The kingship of God, that is that God's reign or God reigns as king. Jesus preached, right, the good news that God reigns. And of course, he made that claim because he was the Messiah, the one through whom God has set up his everlasting kingdom on earth. And we'll look next week at how God, of course, always reigns over things he makes. But there's still a sense in which he's coming, he's putting all his enemies in time, and all will bow down before him. That the kingdom is here and continuing to come. So you can use this psalm, right, to end your morning prayers on a gospel note of praise. That the Lord Jesus Christ at the right hand of the Father will reign forevermore, of whose kingdom there is no end. So I end by saying grace and peace. Pray using the Psalms. You can use them as your prayers, or you can use them as your prayer rubrics to help you in how to pray. And you can use this psalm to stir you up to pray and praise God. And so may God be with you all in your prayers. Amen. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for making us to be a kingdom of priests in the Lord Jesus Christ. Forgive us that we are slow to pray. Forgive us that we put many other things before it. Forgive us that we don't know how to pray. And help us to pray. Help us, Lord Jesus, to take these Psalms, these words you've given to us, and show us how to pray. Surely, if we need your word to show us how to act, we need your word to show us how to pray. Help us to be a praying people. That you might have all the glory. For it is you alone who answers prayers. O God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.