And I will ask you please to turn with me to Matthew chapter twenty-one. Matthew chapter twenty-one. First eleven verses, the triumphal entry of Jesus. So we read now when they drew near, so this is Jesus and his disciples, when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethpage to the Mount of Olives Then Jesus sent two disciples saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie her and bring them to me. If any one says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowds spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. Tremendous text. Did you ever hear somebody say? Did you ever hear yourself say, maybe when you're younger, nobody tells me what to do. Did you ever say that to your parents? To your teacher? I mean, many people Bristle at the notion of authority. And not only parent parental authority, but government authority, ecclesiastical authority, authority in a church. When you join a church You're putting yourself under authority. And um and many, many more people have no interest in submitting to God's authority. To bowing before Jesus Christ as their King and to submitting to his moral law. You have a problem with authority. You're not going to like Jesus Christ. Because if the Bible says anything about Jesus It teaches he is one who has authority. And you see this, you can go through Matthew's gospel. And this is a theme that runs through the gospel. Well, I guess all the gospels I want to point out in Matthew's Gospel. Remember chapter 5 to 7 in Matthew, Jesus preached the Sermon on the Mount A brilliant sermon. Then you get to the end of the of his sermon, Matthew chapter seven, verse twenty-eight and twenty-nine, and Matthew makes the comment That the crowds were astonished at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one who had authority. That was evident in his teaching. Matthew teaches demonstrates Jesus' authority over nature, right? He calmed the storm of the sea. It wasn't just a miracle to get people's attention, but it was to show, and this is rooted back in Psalm, I think it's 107-105, is to show that he's God because he has authority over the storms at the scene. We saw, or we would see it, we see in Matthew's gospel, Jesus' authority over Satan in the powers of darkness. That's why he cast out demons. To show that he has authority over evil. And also, remember Jesus healed the paralytic It wasn't just a miracle, but it was to say he not only has authority to heal, but he says, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sin. And so, and then one more, uh Jesus authority over affliction, right? All the healings is authority over death. This isn't Matthew, but in John eleven, Jesus raised Lazarus from the grave, right? He has authority over the final enemy. And then you get to the end of Matthew's Gospel and the Great Commission, last couple of verses, where he says to his disciples, all author Excuse me. All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. And so Matthew teaches Jesus Christ as the King, and he does have rightful authority over our lives. Sometimes we chafe against it. Unbelievers reject it. It says in Romans 8. 7, the mind of sinful man is hostile to God. He doesn't want to submit to his authority. We chafe against it as Christians, unbelievers, reject it. But my the proposition I want to make this morning is that Jesus' authority is something that we should desire. something that we should happily receive. And the reason I say that, based on this text, is because Matthew chapter 21 presents Jesus, yes, as a king. But it presents him as a different kind of king, and thus his authority is eminently desirable. We see three things. I want to point out three things about Jesus' authority in this text. Number one, he's a messianic king. He's a Savior King and He's a gentle King. Real simple, right? So first of all We see Jesus is the Messiah who is promised in the Old Testament. He is a Messi the Messianic king. Let's go back a little bit to chapter 20 of verse 29 to get a little bit of the context there. So Jesus and his disciples had just left Jericho. That's 15 miles west of Jerusalem. And now they had to make their way up this tall mountain on the top of which was Jerusalem. And Jesus coordinated for his arrival to take place at the time of the Jewish Passover. So it wasn't just a coincidence, but it was something that Jesus coordinated because Jesus was presenting him as the final Passover Lamb, right? Remember John 1. 29? John said, John the Baptist when he was on Jesus, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world 1 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul calls Christ our Passover Lamb. So that's why Jesus came into Jerusalem at the Passover, because he would be the final Passover sacrifice Of whom all the thousands, all the millions of lambs that had been slaughtered for the Passover over the centuries, they all pointed to Jesus Christ. So now they're nearing Jerusalem. And Jesus sends two disciples ahead to go get a go to this appointed place. I want you to pick up a colt. It wasn't a dodge colt, but it was a colt. And um he arranged all this ahead of time. So let's go back to chapter 21. Look at the first three verses again. Now they drew near to Jerusalem and gave came to Bethpage to the Mount of Olives Then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie her and bring them to me. If anyone says to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. Well Why did Jesus ask his disciples to go get get a donkey, a d uh a baby donkey? He he could have walked. He had already walked a hundred miles from Capernaum up to uh the foot of the mountain. So why couldn't he have just walked the last couple miles? And the reason, of course, is that Jesus wanted to show that he was the Messiah who had been promised in the Old Testament. Zechariah, when he last books of the Old Testament, Zechariah, chapter nine, verse nine had was is a prophecy that says the Messiah will come to you seated on the foal of a donkey. And that's past those verses are or that verse is uh recited in our text this morning, verses four to five. And so verse 5. Whoops, I'm sorry. Let me start at verse 4, get a running start. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet. And then there's Zechariah, Zechariah 9, verse 9. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. And so it's notable that up to this time, Jesus had been showing various groups, various crowds, that he was the Messiah, right? He would heal people He would multiply loaves, he would perform miracles. But after he did these acts, typically he would say, Now go and don't tell anybody about it. And so Jesus was disclosing his messianic identity, but he didn't want it to really get out broadly yet because he knew That if it did, that the Jewish religious leaders would arrest him and seek to kill him. And so this has been called a veiled disclosure up to this time. But when Jesus heads into Jerusalem, there's no more, nothing veiled about it He wants to make it clear that he is the promised king of Israel. And so that's why when he entered Jerusalem He entered as a king seated on a donkey as Zechariah had prophesied. Now I want to say this to our young people. If you ask me the question, why do you believe Christianity is true when there are so many other religions? One thing I would say Is that I believe Christianity is true because I cannot explain away the dozens of prophecies in the Old Testament. That are fulfilled in Jesus Christ in the New Testament. The Old Testament prophecies give us a very give us very specific details about Who the Messiah would be, what he would be like, what he would do, and what trials he would undergo. And I read that there are something like sixty major messianic prophecies in the Old Testament that are fulfilled to the T. in Jesus Christ. And I think I have on your bulletin 33 listed. We could go down. So let's go down through everyone separately. We'll look up the Old Testament verse, then we'll look up the New Testament verse. Okay? So put it no. But let me just read through there, in case you're not looking at the bulletin. This is this is a handful. So what does the Old Testament say about the Messiah? He'll be born of a virgin? He'll be the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He'll be of the house of David. So not only Abraham's descendant, but David's descendant He'd be born in this little backwood village, Bethlehem. He'll be a prophet, a priest, and a king. These were the three offices in the Old Testament. Jesus would have would fulfill all those offices. He'd be anointed by the Holy Spirit. He'd be preceded by a messenger. That's an Amalachi. Right, who was that messenger? John the Baptist. His ministry would begin in Galilee, he'd perform miracles, he'd teach parables, he would enter the temple. He'd be a light to the Gentiles. He would rise again from the dead. Psalm 16 He would be betrayed by a close friend. He'd be sold for thirty pieces of silver, but then the money would be thrown uh into the into God's house. And that money would be used to buy a potter's field. He'd be forsaken by his disciples. He'd be accused by false witnesses He'd be silent before his accusers, he'd be wounded, bruised, mocked, his hands and feet would be pierced, he'd be crucified with thieves, people would shake their heads, his garments would be pot would be uh parted. Locks would be cast, he would suffer thirst. He'd be given gall and vinegar, or offered gall and vinegar, and he would cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? His bones would not be broken, his side would be pierced, there would be darkness over the land. And he would be buried in a rich man's tomb. So, as Ricky Ricardo would say to Lucy, please explain to me how all that fits together. if the Bible is not from God and if Christianity is not a supernatural religion. And so I would say to those who are not sure about Christianity or who are even skeptical I would say you should come up with a satisfying explanation to explain these prophecies in the Old Testament and their fulfillment and their fulfillment in the New Testament before you dismiss Christianity. And I'd also say to the Christian, who you look around, and not many people believe this stuff, then you think, well maybe I'm faking myself out. Well have a little talk with yourself and say, wait a minute, I still have to account for the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. And the only way I can account for it Is that if this stuff is true and there is a God and He's the God of the Bible, okay? G. K. Chesterton said a stick might fit a hole or a hollow by accident But a key and a lock are both complex. And if the key fits the lock, you know it's the right key. And that's what we have here in the fulfillment of these very detailed prophecies. And so the first thing we see. Is that Jesus is the Messiah, the messianic king, in other words, Messiah, the one who is anointed by God. Well, what was he anointed to do? What was he set apart by God to do? Well, he was anointed to be the savior of his people. So that's the second thing we see about the nature of Jesus' kingship. Jesus is a Savior King. Look at verse 9. The crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David. Hosanna means save us now. And so that's why Jesus came, right? That's bizarre that people don't see this. But it's the uniform testimony of Scripture. Jesus came not to show us how to be religious or spiritual or to be better people. But he came to rescue us, to save us from our sin, from its power, from his pollution And from his penalty. You don't believe me? Read the Gospels, right? Matthew 121, before Jesus was born, the angel said to Joseph, About Mary, she will call his name Jesus. Why is that? For he will save his people from their sins. The very name Jesus is the Greek form of the Hebrew word Joshua, which means Yahweh, the Lord saves. Jesus, Luke 19, verse 10. He calls Zacchaeus, the tax collector, to come down. And he says, here's why I came, Luke 19, 10. The Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Could it be put any more clearly? Or the Apostle Paul in 1 Timothy 1 15 said, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners So there you have it, the language of rescue, of deliverance, of salvation. Jesus came to save us from our sin. And this room is filled with sinners whom Jesus Christ has saved, right? We were lost. We were spiritually lost. And we didn't go out on this great quest to seek truth and to seek God, not unless God foresaw it us. And gave us that desire. So as God, we were lost, and Jesus Christ sought us, found us, rescued us. We were spiritually dead, and Jesus Christ breathed life into us so that we could resonate to the things of God. We were blind. And his only reason that we believe, and the other guy doesn't, is because in his mercy, he opened our eyes, right? He removed the veil. So that we could recognize the truth of Scripture, we could recognize the glory of God in Jesus Christ And so if you're a Christian, you have been saved by Jesus Christ. If you haven't been saved Then you're a religious person, but you're not a Christian, and you need to be saved. And you might say, well I believe all this stuff, but there's been this great change in me. Well, God works in people in different ways. Some people are dramatically converted, as were some here. I was saying in in Sunday school last week I my wife was converted when she was twenty-three. And we often say, or I often say to her If I knew you in high school, I would not like you one bit. Uh you weren't my type. And uh and then she'll say, Well I wouldn't wouldn't have liked you either. And um and that's sometimes the case even now. But Some people there was this dramatic change. For others of us, right, it's incremental. But there is a change, right? We have a new affection. We want to know Christ. We stumble, we fall. W but we have the regrets, we have remorse and we repent. And we're trying to conform our lives. To what God says in this book. Why is that? When you had no interest before. It's because Jesus Christ has saved you. And he's given you a new heart. He's changed your heart of stone to a heart of flesh and given you a desire for the things of God. And so perhaps there's someone here to whom I should say, you know what? Has Jesus Christ saved you? Have you been forgiven by him. Are you right with God? Will you be with God when you die and avoid the pains of hell? Well Here's this presentation of Christ as the Savior. So we should say, as the people said in the end of verse 9, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. And that just happens to be another quotation from a psalm pointing to the Messiah. It's from Psalm 118, verse 26. And so these people recognize that Jesus was the promised Messiah. Now it's common For preachers to say that, hey, yeah, this crowd, they're singing Jesus praise on Sunday, but in five days they'll be calling out for his crucifixion. So preachers will often say, you know what, that's the fickleness of sinful man, right? But um one of the commentators, R. T. France, uh, points out that this was very likely a different crowd from those who are calling for his crucifixion. And he gives a number number of scripture texts that says that point out that the crowd that w were was receiving Jesus on this Sunday These were pilgrims from Galilee, and to this was Jesus' larger group of followers But on Friday, the crowd that called out for Jesus' crucifixion, uh, they were the people in Jerusalem. Now I I'll give you a couple of verses to look up later if you're interested. Luke 19, 37, Mark 15, 40 to 41. John chapter twelve, verse twelve and seventeen point out that the crowd that received Jesus on Sunday, these were the Galileans who'd come up for the Passover And this was Jesus' larger band of followers. Who's Jesus Christ? What kind of king is he? He's the Messianic king He is a Savior King, and he is a very kind, gentle, merciful King. Jesus is a gentle King. And that donkey on which Jesus rode not only identified Jesus as the Messiah, but it symbolized his humility and his gentleness. Because In the first century, the Mount of the King wasn't a donkey, it was a war horse. But Jesus rode into Jerusalem in an entirely unassuming manor. He rode in on a donkey and a it's even a borrowed donkey. You look at it's funny you read the Gospels, this guy this guy was borrowing everything, right? He he borrowed a boat to sail in, he borrowed a room to have the Last Supper in. He he was even buried in a borrowed tomb. Uh you almost don't want him as your neighbor. You'd be borrowing everything you have. But um And this donkey he borrowed didn't even have a saddle, but it served to convey something of uh Jesus' humility. But he was a different kind of king and he was bringing in a different kind of kingdom, right? He's a gentle king. And if you take if you take time at all to reflect on this uh text this morning, I think this would be a good good assignment to think about Jesus Christ as the gentle King, the gentle Savior, He's tender with us in our frailties. And one verse I'd encourage you to focus in on. Write this down, Isaiah chapter 42, verse 3. The prophet Isaiah, foretold 700 years before Jesus was born the kind of gentle the the gentle king that he would be. Isaiah 42 3 says a bruised reed he will not break and a faintly burning wick He will not quench. So that's telling us how Jesus Christ deals with us, right? In many here, in one way or another, you could say, I'm a bruised reed. Some of you would say, I've been crushed by personal upheaval Or I feel crushed by guilt or by fear or by loneliness. But a bruised reed he will not break. And a faintly burning wick he will not quench. And so that's something to reflect on. It says in I love Psalm 103, verse 14. He says, he knows our frame. The Lord knows our frame, right? He knows we're frail. He knows we're of dust. Uh we have great ambitions and things we want to do right, and yet we still stumble, we still fall, and we fall short. And you know I'd say, you know, think about people you know. Some people they're just not comfortable to be around because they come across as morally superior. They come across as experts, uh they come across as so scrupulous that if you don't cross all your T's and dot all your I's You know they're going to be looking down at you, looking down their nose at you, and even perhaps uh be rolling out rolling their eyes. Making veiled comments about your shortcomings. And I know one couple like that. And when we're with them after about an hour, We're done, I'll say to Becky, like, I need about six months uh before I'm around them again. Cause they're just they're crushing. Well, there's people like that. Then there are others. You're around them, and they're delightful, right? They're accepting, they're gracious They're kind. They can sympathize with your weaknesses and your failures. Well, this is what the Bible says Jesus Christ is like. Hebrews 4, chapter 4, verse 15. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, and yet was without sin. And so here's the here's a p here's the true picture of Jesus, right? He's not out to get us. He's righteous, he's holy, but he's also kind, tender, patient, sympathetic In other words, he's the fulfillment of what God in the Old Testament said about himself in Isaiah 57, verse 15. God said, I dwell in the high and holy place, but also with him who is of contrite and lowly spirit. Then it says to revive the spirit of the lowly. And so God himself comes. to what Jesus said in his Sermon on the Mount, to those who are poor in spirit, to those who recognize their spiritual bankruptcy, to revive the spirit of the lowly So there's a word of encouragement for those who feel a little bit a little bit beat up And so, as I said in the beginning, you know, it seems uh are not it seems it is our nature to have an aversion to authority. Say nobody tells me what to do. Right? Christianity's fine. I'll take the parts of it I like. The other parts I'll just put it aside. I'm not going to really bow to Jesus' authority in that area. But the teaching of Scripture is that Jesus Christ is the King You can't change that. You could recognize it or you could reject it, but he is still the king. And as it says in Philippians 2, 10, 11, one day you're going to bow before his kingship whether you like it or not. Because the first time he came, he came in humility on a donkey. When he comes, again, it says in Revelation 19, he's going to come on a war horse, and it'll be in judgment. So we want to bow before him now, not only because we will one day stand before his judgment throne, but as Matthew makes the case here in chapter 21, It's because he's a gentle, tender, gracious king. And so we should want to bow before him. He's a different kind of king. And so here the invitation that he issues in Matthew 11, 28 and 29, 30. Jesus said, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you'll find rest for your souls. And then he says, For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. And so my question is, have you made that decisive move where you say, yes, I do bow before you, Lord Jesus? Because you are my king. And I willingly bow before you because you're such a gracious king. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you that you've made yourself known to us in your Son, Jesus Christ, and His