And we are working through the Gospel of John this morning. We're in chapter twelve, beginning at verse nine. John chapter twelve, verse nine. You remember Jesus in chapter eleven healed Lazarus and his sisters Mary and Martha through a through a dinner for him? And after that he went out to the country, and now he's back in back in Bethany, and it says in chapter twelve, verse nine. When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, so they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they had they heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone out after him. And so after Jesus raised Lazarus, of course there was a further uptick. in his popularity. And verse 9 says that the these crowds came out to Bethany to see not only Jesus, but to see this man whom he had raised From the dead. And the bad thing for the Jewish religious leaders is that they were not only following Jesus, but they were abandoning the religion of the scribes and the Pharisees. And you can imagine that this gave these leaders not only heartburn, but They were panicking, right? The end of verse 19 we just read. Look, the whole world, look, the world has gone after him And then we read in verse ten, so the chief priest made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away, going away from them and believing in Jesus. And so it's been clear that the religious leaders in Israel at the time had not an ounce of interest in the things of God, not an ounce of interest in spiritual matters. These were professional clerics, and their only concern was to preserve their position and their power, and Jesus was a huge threat to their position and their power. This kind of reaction to Jesus Christ is not uncommon. Many people reject Christianity. They reject Jesus Not because his claims lack credibility, but because he is a threat to their autonomy. He is a threat to their current way of living, right? They want their freedom. They want to do what they want to do when they want to do it They want to be able to sleep around. They want to be able to control their schedule, control how they use their time, control how they use their money, control how they deal with other people, especially people who they don't care for, and then in a nutshell They want to live completely self-indulgent lives. And then Jesus Christ comes on the scene through something they've heard or through something through a witness of someone And he is laying claim on their lives and they don't like it. And so many people Reject Christianity not because they find it wanting or lacking, but rather because they find it to be demanding. But that doesn't change the fact that Jesus Christ is God, he is still the ruler, he is still the king. And when you ignore this, you are putting yourself on a collision course with reality. You might try to block him out, you might try to ignore him. But that doesn't change who he is and his claim on your life. Now this passage should be some encouragement. If that's you, if you're nibbling around the margins of the Christian faith, there should be some uh should this should be an encouragement because it teaches, yeah, Jesus is King, He is Lord, He is the Master of our lives. But he is a different kind of king. He is a king to whom we must submit But he's also a king to whom we should desire to submit because we recognize his goodness, his grace, his mercy, his kindness, and his wisdom. And what I want to point out from our text, and there's a lot in here, I want to just do a very simple approach to say that uh we see three traits of Jesus' kingship that should lead us to willingly bow before him. Number one, he's the promised Messiah, so he's the Messianic king, he is a Savior King, and he is a gentle king. It's going to be real simple, real clean, but I want to just say, look at this, and then consider its implications. So first of all, This passage teaches that Jesus is the messianic king. So why did Jesus ride into Jerusalem on a donkey? Right? He'd been walking all along. And all of a sudden he gets on this little donkey, a baby donkey. And one of the reasons is because He wanted to show that he was the Messiah whom God had promised through the prophet Zechariah 550 years earlier. And so go back with me in time to the 6th century BC. At that time, the prophet Zechariah spoke to the people of Judah. Judah was a vassal of the Persian Empire. And the people of Judah, the Jews, had all kinds of problems. They had enemies without And they had problems within. There was no king in Israel. Seventy years earlier, the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem And the kingship in Israel at that time was extinguished. The final king, the last king of Judah, was Zedekiah. And um he had been captured by the Babylonians, and before his eyes, his children and his relatives were executed. And then after they were all dead, the Babylonians cut out his eyes. So that was King Zedekiah. He was the last king of Israel. So from that time forward, Israel did not have a king. Alright, that's a problem. Here's a bigger problem. In 2 Samuel 7. 13, God made a promise to King David. In that text, God promised David that one of his descendants would always sit on the throne of Israel And so with the death of Zedekiah, with the extinguishing of the kingship, it seemed that God's promise had failed. In that he had abandoned his people. So it was during this time of kinglessness and national despair. That God spoke through his prophet Zechariah to the people. He gave them a message of hope. And he prophesied that God would one day come and would save his people Zechariah chapter 9, verse 9, the second part of the verse we read, God where Zechariah says, Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous And having salvation is he. So he's saying, God's going to come as a king, and he's going to redeem, he's going to rescue, he's going to save his people. Now I said I'm going to keep this simple. And here's the simplest way to look at what's going on here We see that God keeps his promises. We see all there are many prophecies in the Old Testament. In fact, I listed, I made a list of some of them. But there are like sixty major messianic prophecies in the Old Testament scriptures that are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And you know we everybody, you know, if you ask people, why are you a Christian, they'll say, because God allowed me to see this or God brought about this change in me or I saw a loved one who was changed I think what I would put on the reason if I were to say, why am I a Christian? Sure, all those things. But what really strikes me is, and I've said this in many ways as we've gone through John Is that the scripture is self authenticating, it's so convincing, and in one it one way is the fulfillment of these Old Testament prophecies in Jesus Christ. So on the bulletin I uh put thirty-three prophecies, so let's go through them one by one, look up every Bible verse. Now we're not gonna do that. But I it would be if you're if these are new and I say this to our young people, this would be a good exercise. Look up some of these Old Testament verses. Yeah, the Old Testament says in Isaiah four seven fourteen, Jesus the would the Messiah would be born of a virgin, right? That's Jesus. He would be a descendant of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and more specifically, David. Micah 5 says he'd be born in Bethlehem. Isaiah 43, he would be preceded by uh a messenger. That's John the Baptist. But Isaiah 35 says when he comes, he's going to perform miracles. He's going to heal the blind and uh help the and g uh give uh ability for the lame to walk. And then Psalm sixteen speaks about the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It foreshadows that Uh Psalm 41 talks about him being betrayed by a friend. Zechariah 11, he'll be sold for 11 or 30 pieces of silver. Psalm 22, his hands and his feet will be pierced, and also his garments will be parted, and there will be lots cast for them. So you go through all that and and I'm left saying, how do I account for those promises that were given before Jesus came and are fulfilled in the New Testament? And there, I don't think there's a reasonable way to account for them apart from this stuff is true. And so what I say To young people, to others who aren't so sure about Christianity because there's this cornucopia of religions out there, who are we to say that this is the truth And what I my answer is you need to deal with Scripture, read through Scripture, consider things such as the fulfillment of these prophecies. So that's the first thing we see about Jesus. He is the messianic king. He's the king who he who is the promised Messiah. Here's the second thing Jesus is a Savior King. Let's look at verse 12 again. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, so they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. So these palms were emblems a victory and this word they called out Hosanna means save I pray And the prophet Zechariah had promised that the Messiah would come. He would save his people. Zechariah 9, verse 9. Your king is coming to you righteous and having salvation is he This is the center of the Christian faith, the center of our message. Years ago I read a book by a professor at Westminster Seminary in California. His name is Michael Horton. The title of the book is Christless Christianity. And the the point one of the points he made was that in the majority of Protestant churches, not only theologically liberal Protestant churches, but so-called Bible-believing or evangelical Protestant churches, they largely proclaim a message that is therapeutic and me-centered It's about me. It's about my happiness, my fulfillment, my comfort, how to navigate my relationships, and how to deal with with the stresses that I encounter in my life. And so he said many American churches are proclaiming the message not that you need a savior but that you need a life coach. And a sociologist in Notre Dame uh called this moralistic the excuse me, moralistic therapeutic deism. This is largely the message that is going out in the American church. But the Bible teaches that Jesus didn't come merely as a moral example to show us how to be better people. or as an advisor to teach us how to have more fulfilling lives, but rather And this sounds old-fashioned, but we see in the Bible, he came as a savior to Rescue us right from our sin, from its from its penalty, death, eternal damnation, from its power, from its Pollution. That is the preeminent reason why Jesus came even before he was born. Remember in Matthew 121, the angels spoke to Joseph? About Mary who was expecting and said, She will call his name Jesus. Jesus means Yahweh is salvationer, Jesus in Luke 19. He said to Zacchaeus, the Son of Man came to do what? To seek and to save. The lost, or think about Paul in 1 Timothy 1. 15. He said Christ Jesus came into the world to do what? To save sinners, that he asks, of whom I'm the foremost. And so if you're not a Christian, you may think that your life is fine without Jesus, because right now things are going swimmingly. But according to the Bible, you do need a savior because He've broken God's moral law, and things are not well between you and the holy God of the universe. In fact, Isaiah 59, too, Isaiah writes, Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. But here we see Jesus came to rescue us so that our sins would be atoned for and that we would be in a right standing with God. So that's a huge thing to consider if you're not yet resting on Jesus Christ. Thirdly, okay? Jesus is a gentle king. Again, you see that in verse 14 and 15. Jesus found the young donkey and sat on it just as is written. Then there's that verse from Zechariah Firenato daughter of Zion, behold your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. And so this donkey not only identified Jesus as the Messiah Because Zechariah said that's how he's going to arrive, but it symbolized Jesus' humility, Jesus' lowliness, right? Kings would ride war horses Jesus enters Jerusalem, right? People thought he was a king. He thought he was going to deliver Israel from the Roman oppressors. And he makes it clear, I'm not that kind of king. I'm not coming in to do battle against the Romans. And so he rides in on a donkey to show that He is he to show his humility and his lowliness. And nobody understood this at the time. You know, his disciples had been with him for three years. They completely missed it. Look at verse uh sixteen, I think. Yeah. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered That these things had been written about him and had been done to him. And so Jesus Christ is a gentle king. He's tender with us And our frailties. And that's sort of good, right? Some people here you can beat up and you you make it through life, but they're below the surface. Uh there's a sense of fear The sense of grief, sense of guilt, sense of anxiety or despair. And we're told that Jesus Christ is tender with us. A wonderful verse I know many are familiar with that. I want to read it for those who weren't. Seven hundred years before Jesus was born. The prophet Isaiah spoke about Jesus' gentleness. This is Isaiah 42, verse 3. So write it down. Look at it later. Isaiah 42, verse 3. It speaks about what he'd be like toward his battered people. A bruised reed he will not break. And a faintly burning wick he will not quench. And so If you're bruised, right, well everybody's bruised in some manner, right, but some more so than others, but this tells us that Jesus is tender with us. You think about Psalm 103 The psalmist says, He knows our frame. He's mindful of our frailties. Or Hebrews four verse fifteen We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has in every respect been tempted as we are yet without sin. And so that's something good to think about. Jesus Christ, He lowered Himself. He came in on a donkey. We see, yeah, this king who has promised is gentle, is tender uh toward other people. A good lesson for us, right, in how we deal with one another. But I said in the beginning Many people reject Christianity, or they might not even reject it, reject it in a deliberate way, but they dismiss it. They don't want to consider it And the reason is that they do not want to give up their autonomy. They want to control their lives, how they live, and and and so on But we're reminded, not only here, but throughout the Gospels, that Jesus Christ is a different kind of King. Yeah, he is a king to whom we must submit because he is a Lord. But what I'm saying, and I'm trying to what I've been saying, is that he is a king before whom we should desire to submit, because He cares for us, He loves us, He has shown that in coming to us And think about his words in Matthew 11, another good verse to write down, Matthew 11, 28 to 30, where he said Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest. for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And so for those of you who are on the fence about Jesus Christ, Hey, he's calling you to bow before him. Let's bow our heads