Proverbs thirty-one, Proverbs chapter thirty-one. So good to have some new folks here. I'm preaching through Genesis uh twelve to twenty-five. I thought, ah, it's Mother's Day. So not that we wrap the service around Mother's Day every year, but once in a while it's good to take the occasion. Not to preach on mothers, but to preach on a family topic. And so I thought I'd take advantage of that. I know I could have preached on the Mildew laws from a Leviticus, not to be constrained by the secular calendar, but I thought, uh, maybe it's we'll just go with Mother's Day. Proverbs 31. Uh look at verse 1 and then skip down to verse 10 Says the words of King Lemuel, nobody knows who this guy was. He may have been some Egyptian king or a convert to the faith of the Hebrews. The words of King Lemuel An oracle that his mother taught him. Then you go down to verse 10. An excellent wife who can find. She is far more precious than jewels The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not harm all the days of her life. She seeks woolen flax and works with willing hands. She is like the ships of the merchant. She brings her food from afar. She rises while it is yet night, and provides food for her household and portions for her maidens. She considers a field and buys it. With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard. She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong. She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night. She puts her hands to the distaff and her hands to the spindle. She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet. She makes bed coverings for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sets among the elders of the land She makes linen garments and sells them. She delivers sashes to the merchant. Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. She looks well to the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. Many women have done excellency Excellently, but you surpass them all. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates. Now, you know, the preach on Proverbs 31 on Mother's Day It's almost a cliche, right? But if you look at the text closely, you realize this is not some greeting card sentimentality. But this is a passage with teeth, and it's a passage that's very instructive, and it's useful in two ways. The first way it's useful, of course. is that it affirms and it celebrates biblical womanhood. Okay? So it's not a Mother's Day passage. And it's not even a passage about women in general. The writer of Proverbs is stingy in who he chooses to praise, and the one he chooses to praise in this passage. is not just any woman, but rather, verse 30, women who fear the Lord. In the very way that this is laid out, this is a type of poetry known as heroic poetry. So it's a genre of Hebrew poetry. And a heroic poem recounts a hero's mighty deeds, usually his or her military exploits. And so for example, You had in Judges 5, the song of Deborah that was sang after she was victorious in battle. 1 Samuel 18 and 21. There were the songs that the women sang, praising King David and then King Saul for their military successes. 2 Samuel chapter 1, David's elegy for Saul and Jonathan. That too was a heroic poem. And so there was this type of Hebrew literature known as heroic poetry. And when you look at the structure, the style, and the themes of Proverbs 1, that fits that category of literature. And so what the writer is saying by framing what he says in this in this manner, he's saying that godly women Godly women are heroes, and they're the ones who should receive our affirmation. Just as Israel's judges and kings uh were heroes because of their military exploits, so the writer Proverbs says, you know what So should a mother who makes great sacrifices for her family. So should a faithful wife. So should a single single woman. who serve selflessly, so should these women be regarded as heroes in the eyes of God's people. So I was just saying the very form in which this poem is written, the author is saying, listen, take note, you need to give due affirmation and thanks. to women who are women after God's own heart. So that's the first way that this section is useful. But here's a second way that it's useful The second way that Proverbs 31 is useful is it speaks to young men. And it says to young men, Here are some of the traits that you should be looking for in a prospective life. Now I know there are young men. In young women, they have a journal or they have a piece of paper and they made a list of the things that they're looking for. And usually like there's the primary things, then there's the secondary things. So you're willing to negotiate in the secondary things. But what we have in Proverbs 31 are some of the primary things. Okay? And uh this was a this was a list that this guy King Lemuel made. He was I said He wasn't an Israelite. He was probably converted to the Hebrew faith. The only thing we know about this guy is that he had a really wise mother. Because apparently his mother taught him from the earliest years, here's what you need to be looking for. When you go out to search for a wife. Look at verse 1, right? Isn't that what she says? The words of King Lemuel, an oracle that who? An oracle that his mother taught him. So that's instructive. That's instructive for us. You know, from the time your kids are like in junior high school, I would think You need to be telling your daughters and sons, here are the things that are really important to look for in the person that you marry. You know, things come up, stories negative and positive come up and You know, we take that as an a as an opportunity. Um that's what you're looking for. And you're not looking for uh that kind of thing. In fact, years ago we had a We had a member of our church, they moved away, a lady named Rebecca Van Dudeward, and she wrote a book on uh finding a mate. The title was Your Future Your Future Other Half. The subtitle, It Matters Whom You Marry And I think uh is the girls group doing that now? Yeah, they're doing that book in the girls group. It matters whom you marry. Becky wishes she read that book years ago. But um you know, so there's a book for every young lady and you know th and this we could say the same kind of things To every young man. And that's what this king's doing. He's reciting this poem that his mom taught him. And it's an acrostic poem. So each line in the poem begins with a successive letter in the Hebrew alphabet. So Aleph is the first first word and or first letter. Next line starts with the second letter of the Hebrew alphabet, Beth and Gimel and Dalva. He goes down, there's twenty-two letters in the Hebrew alphabet, there's twenty-two lines. In this poem. Why did his mom teach him like that? So that he can memorize it, right? It was a memorization aid And also, it was a way of saying, listen, here's the woman who has it all from A to Z, if we were using the English alphabet The woman who fears the Lord, that is the woman who truly has it all. So let's look at our passage now. The introduction, verses uh 10 to 12. In a nutshell, the introduction introductory statement is a godly woman is hard to find. I remember when I was in college, I was out with a couple friends walking across the campus one Friday night And we saw another friend walking alone in the dark, a guy named Hap Trice. He said, Hap, what are you doing? He said, I'm looking for DG I said, who's Dee G? He said Dream Girl. Well That's what the fella here, King Lemuel, is doing. Verse 10: an excellent wife who can find. He is out there looking for Dee G And uh yeah, single guys are looking. Single gals are looking too, right? They're looking for dream guy And um many single women will say, and they they have they ha they do say all the time, you know, a good godly man It's hard to find. And I would say to our single men and our single women women, they're out there. Uh so just keep working at it. Keep meeting people, right? Keep keep circulating. Keep having your friends keep their eyes peeled too, because they're out there and don't settle or trust the providence of God Then he starts talking about some of the things to look for in a in a spouse. This is particularly, of course, talking to the man of what he wants to look for, but it goes both ways Well, uh verse eleven, she be trusted, the heart of her husband trusts in her And that's that's so basic, right? Everything in marriage uh depends. Can you trust the person you married? Can you trust your life to them, your future? Are they absolutely honest? You know, if you're if you date someone, you find they don't tell the whole truth or they lie once in a while. That's time to par company. You don't want to you don't want to be with someone who shades the truth or does it who's not completely honest. You're depending on this person. You want to marry someone who you can trust that person's integrity beyond the shadow of a doubt. And you want to marry somebody, you're convinced, there's no question that this person will be faithful Now you never know, people change. But you want to know as much as you can that I can trust this person that he or she will be faithful. So this person can be trusted, and then talks about this woman of God. Her allegiance is unwavering. Marriage is finding that one special person whom you can drive nuts for the rest of your life. Well You do that, at least most of us do that. And um but even though you annoy uh your spouse to death You want to know they're still committed. Look at verse 12. She does him good, not harm, all the days of her life. And so she doesn't waver She doesn't blow hot and cold, but you can know in the end of the day, although you're going to get under that person's skin. That they're not gonna they're not gonna abandon you. They're not gonna turn from you, but they're with you. That woman does you good all the days of your life. Verses 13 to 27 is the body of this poem. And remember this is about the end of verse 30: a woman who fears the Lord And so it's interesting you're looking at verses 13 to 27. And what does it say are the traits of a woman who fears the Lord? Well, I guess uh she reads her Bible and she prays all day long and uh maybe has a bread machine and wears a denim jumper. Is that a woman who fears the Lord? Um well that might be part of it. Not so sure about the jumper. But um sure, you pray you read your Bible. But that would be rather uh simplistic to say that that's that's the sum total of a godly woman Uh so there's all kind of things here. And before we go down the list, uh what you need to recognize is the writer's saying, these are the kind of things. a godly woman does. It doesn't mean that she does every one of these things. She just throws some things out there. These are the kind of things and so if you don't do all these things, it doesn't mean that you're not a a godly woman But if you boil it down, here's the heart of it. And it's the same, it could be the same could be said, of course, for a godly man. The essence of a godly woman, if you look at verses 13 and 27, you boil it down, the essence of a godly woman is that she's a giver and not a taker. Let me show you what it's talking about. Look at verse uh 20. Talks about how she contributes to the poor. Let's see here, verse 20. She opens her hand to the poor, reaches out her hand to the needy. She's a giver to her family. 21 She's not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet, and so she's made them clothes to wear. Verse 27. She looks well to the ways of her household, does not eat the bread of idleness. So she's looking out for her family. She's a giver there. Uh she's a giver. She takes care of herself though. Verse 22. She makes bed coverings for herself. Her clothing's fine linen and purple, so she doesn't act like a martyr, you know. Oh last piece of meat, oh you have it, I'll just have this little a crust of bread. No, she understands she has to take care of herself. She takes care of her husband. The end of verse 11. He will have no lack of gain. And so a truly godly woman is a woman who serves others, who cares for others, who's interested in others, who gives. Uh two others. And I and I I've said this before. Sitting at the cafet cafeteria table and be some guys and some gals and ah that girl she's pretty interesting and I'd watch her and if she would chat with somebody who had absolutely nothing to offer to her, I think that's a good that's a good Christian girl there Others, you know, they're just looking for who can serve them. Crossed them off my list. Took many years. I I met Becky and I saw, you know what? There's a girl who serves others. She was serving in her church, but more so the way that she talked to other people. She was interested in others. She wasn't turning the conversation back to herself. Very that's the kind of thing. This is the kind for our young guys. This is what we're looking for, right? Somebody who's a giver, not a taker, someone who's not to always turning things back to herself. Or I say to the girls, a guy who's always got to be the center of attention, always got to turn the conversation back to himself and his accomplishments. or whatever. And so you want somebody who's a giver. And I say to our single folks, this is what you look for. You look for You're looking at your friends or people you meet. How do they converse with other people? How do they deal with their parents? Are they kind to their parents? Or do they serve their parents? How do they use their time? How do they use their money? How do they meet strangers? How do they conduct themselves around others? Are they a generally kind person? Or are they self-absorbed? This is huge. Beauty, what's it saying in the end of the chapter there? Charms deceitful. Beauty's vain. There are things that are more important In the long run. And so looking, that's the general point: a godly woman's a giver, not a taker. Then let's look at a couple of the specifics here. One thing it says is that she's industrious. Verses 13 and 19 talks about her cottage industry. Verse thirteen. Let's see there. She s she seeks woolen flax and works with willing hands. Same thing nineteen. She puts her hands to the distaff and her hands to The spindle, so these were used for spinning uh threads to make two or three ply yarns, and she weaves clothes for her family, and uh she sells the surplus cloth And then with the profit she makes, it says in verse 18, she buys a field and goes and plants a vineyard. And so she's not only industrious, but she's shrewd. She's a good investor. Verse 14 Says she bought food from the local merchants, but then she's bringing home also delicacies from faraway places, and she can afford this stuff because she she worked hard. She rises while it is yet night. Now this isn't saying, I wish it were, but this isn't saying that if you're a godly woman, you're going to get up at five o'clock in the morning Uh but it's it's just saying that she seeks the well-being of her family before her own comfort. And that's something important for our young folks, right, to put this on your list. I want to marry somebody who has a strong work ethic Somebody who's not array not afraid to work, somebody who uses his or her time well. Then it goes on in verses twenty to twenty-seven to talk about how she contributes to her household and also to the community. And because she prepares ahead, she's not afraid of the future. Verse 21 again. She's not afraid of snow. Why? Because she made clothes for her family. The end of verse twenty five. She laughs at the time to come. And uh she's not only taken care of her family, uh, but she's cultivated the inner person. It says in verse 25, strength and dignity are her clothing. So So she's prepared herself to be a mother, she's prepared herself to be a wife. And um and uh just as an aside, I say to our to our young folks again, you know, when do you start preparing for marriage When do you start? Then when you meet DG, that's not the time to start. You start right now, right? Every every choice you make Today and tomorrow, how you use your time, what you read, how hard you study, what you set your mind to, how you cultivate personal godliness. Every choice you make is going to have a cumulative impact on the person you are the day that you get married. And if you're a fundamentally self-centered person right now, it's not going to change. You're not just going to turn a corner quickly and become other focused when you become married. That will not happen. You're taking yourself into that marriage. And if you're a self-centered person, you better start working on that. Can you resolve conflicts? Can you can you say I was wrong? Can you say we will you forgive me uh very important language for marriage, or else you're gonna have a hard time of it. You can have these big blow-ups and arguments. And things will only get better because time will have passed and your memories will have faded. How much better to be able to use this kind of language now So that when you're married, uh you can um you can navigate uh the conflicts that are part of marriage. Can you budget your money? Can you save? Are you preparing yourself, men, to earn and to provide? Do you guard what you put before your eyes? Do you use wisdom? And the people that you hang around with, all these things are important. And so because of her hard work She's not afraid of the future. She's prepared. And this is saying us to our young people, you want to be prepared too for your future. Here's something else. Let's go on. Because of her accomplishments, her husband can excel in his duty. Look at the end of verse 12. Says she does him good, not harm, all the days of her life. That's what every man wants, right? A woman who's not his opponent but who is supportive. And she look at verse 23. She's a blessing to him. In his public life, says her husband is known in the gates when he sets among the elders of the land. And so Back in the day, in the ancient world, business was transacted at the city gates, and the man in his poem is respected. and that he sets among the elders of the land. So it's like he's on the city council. He's a leader in the city. And this is really the heart of this poem. If you look on the back of the outline and look more closely this afternoon, but this is structured as a chiasm And so there's like the near the verses reflect each other. The last fur verse and the first verse reflect each other. And then it goes like that. But the whole purpose of this chiastic structure is to point out the middle verse as the most important verse. in the poem. In the middle verse in Proverbs, in this poem in Proverbs 31, is indeed verse 23, where it says, again, her husband is known in the gates When he sits among the elders of the land. So what's it saying here? It's saying something that goes against the course of our culture. But this is saying that an excellent wife has as her focus serving her husband. She's his helpmate She doesn't put her career before her husband. She doesn't put her children before her husband. But she recognizes that she is there to support her husband. Now in our in our country, in the past 60 years, there's been this huge shift, right? It used to be that uh families were marriage-centered Instead of being child-centered. But now typically families are very child-centered. Everything wraps around the children, right? Used to be that the mom was called the housewife If she stayed at home, now she's called a stay-at-home mom. And so just little subtleties like that show this shift in our culture about how the family is to be ordered. And so what we want to see, what we see here is that, of course, well of course there are occasions when you put the children first, right? They're needy. They have needs they have to be attended to. And but this is what this is reminding us is that the marriage relationship should be the center of the family in general. And when that's in place, then the children learn to be more appreciative, less demanding. They won't have this entitled sense about them So that's something we we we struggle with, and it's something that many families struggle with, right? We need to make sure that the marriage relationship is the center of the family, and the children understand that And when they understand that, I think they're more secure and uh they're gonna they're gonna be nicer people to be around in the long run. Same idea about the wife serving the husband. Chapter 12, verse 4. An excellent wife is the crown to her husband. Then it goes on. A couple more things. Look at verse 26. It says, because of her words, other people are built up. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. And so she's a wise person when she speaks, right? She opens her mouth with wisdom. And then you discover she's also a kind person. The teaching of kindness is on her tongue. But her words are other focused, right? She she's she's still looking out for other people. And uh again to our singles, right? You're looking for Miss Wright or Mr. Wright. These are important this is really important. Is this person just obsessed with him or herself? That is not good. That is gonna wear you out. uh that that will not work. You know, you d do you see looking in you're looking at prospects. You know, does she talk to others or does she always turn things back to what's going on with her and her concerns and her problems And I and I've said I remember one of our girls, Haley, she's like in her late thirties now. She said, the best advice you ever gave me was to quit talking about myself and asked other people questions about themselves. And now she's like, it's just completely transformed the way that people respond to her. Well conclusion then. The conclusion he draws is that a godly woman uh should be affirmed. And um, you know, uh well before I point that out I want to ask her ladies, is there anybody here who feels like you nailed it on Proverbs 31? So you know, you know, fall short Thankfully there's not a Proverbs 32 that talks about the traits of men, because we would say that that, you know, of course we fall short And so the purpose of this text, though, if you look at it in the context of the entire Bible The purpose of this text is to remind us, one of the purposes I should say, is to remind us. Of course we fall short. We're sinners, right? We're being renovated by the Holy Spirit. And our value, our worth does not depend on whether we can say we measure up. To a number of these traits, our worth is based on Jesus Christ. He gives us his righteousness, right? This is why we're acceptable in God's sight. But then, as people, as men and women, who have been made acceptable by the work of Christ, who died for our sins and who gives us his righteousness As men and women who are acceptable in God's sight, we're still praying, Lord, we want to live lives pleasing to you. We want to make a contribution to the church, to those others around us. We want to make a contribution to our families. And so we do ask, Lord, that you would help us to make progress in this school of holiness and make progress in our sanctification. So that we are more pleasant, we are more pleasing as husbands and wives, as moms and dads and uh children. But what I want to underline, and I think this is this is important And this I want to say this to our our single folks, and I want to say this to everybody, really. Is that our culture puts so much emphasis on a on charm in physical appearance And in the Bible, that's not even on the radar. But what we see here in Scripture are those things that are truly important. Godliness, industriousness, and a serving spirit. And so the king said in verse 30. Charms deceitful, beauty's vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. And she should be praised by her family. Look at verse 28. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also. And he praises her. So we want to, those of us married, we want to encourage our wives to say, you know what Uh I value you for these traits that are really worthwhile. And um Then he says, many women have done excellency, excellent, excellently, but you surpass them all. So she should be praised by her family. And then just the the kicker, 31, he says, she should really be praised by all people. Give her the fruit of her hands. and let her works praise her in the gates. In other words, in the public places, in society. Uh too bad we weren't a society that esteemed men and women uh for the things that are truly important. Well we don't live in that world, but we want the church to reflect something of these ideas. So let's bow our heads. So we do pray, Lord, for uh the women in our church and the girls We pray, Lord, that you'd work these virtues in them more and more. And also pray, Lord, for our young men and young women who are who desire one day to marry or who will perhaps one day have that desire, we pray, Lord, that you'd make them sturdy, godly servants And grow them in holiness. And we also pray, Lord, for the marriages in our church. Help us to continue in our struggles to make progress Help us to be servants to one another. Help us to be kind, gracious, forgiving. Help us to be quick to admit when we fall short, when we mess up, and also quick to offer forgiveness. And we also pray, Lord, for our future marriages that you would grant those who desire to marry. The the uh the those wishes give them good godly spouses, that they may have Christ-centered families. And enjoy your gift, but also be a light in this dark world. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're gonna sing a psalm. It's in the song book. It's hymn number seven seventeen. Bless the man that fears Jehovah. Let's all stand and sing Numbers 717. My shell and leave her all your day. Why you shall have rather she shall fill your home with God. Happy in my loving slowness, and the joy will ever go. Join me, children, heaven loves, shall about your table me. You shall see God's kingdom prosper all your days till I shall see. You shall see all children's children. Oh no, I believe in a little while Look up and receive the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen.