Let's turn to Genesis chapter 22. Good to see Leo. Where's Leo? I just saw him walk in. Leo's back from Holland. He has his master's degree now. He's back for good, so we're glad there. And then I was gonna I was gonna text Colin last night. He's living in New York City this summer doing an internship Do you find a church to go to tomorrow? And then I look up and there he is, the Good News Press. So he's down for the weekend. So good. So here we are. Genesis 22. I'm going to read the first section, then we'll come back to it. Keep your Bible open, of course, as we go through this. We read, after these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham And he said, Here am I. He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains. which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose, and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son. And he took his hand, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went, both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. He said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for burnt offering, my son. So they went, both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God. seeing that you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place. The Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, on the mouth of the Lord it shall be provided. But we'll come back and finish the reading. So many of you have heard the name Richard Dawkins, a renowned atheist in uh Britain. And he hates just about everything about the Bible, uh, but he has a special animus uh toward the passage. uh we just read. And so his comment about God's last intermittent last-minute intervention uh to keep Abraham uh from killing Isaac uh was that, oh, so God's only joking. And uh then he says this disgraceful story Is an example simultaneously of child abuse, of bullying, God bullying Abraham, and then Abraham bullying his son Isaac. Then he said it's also the first recorded use of the Nuremberg defense. I was only obeying orders. It's not my fault. And so um you know what shall we say to this? I'm not a big fan of Richard Dawkins. I'm not a fan at all of Richard Dawkins, but um Uh it does seem, you read this passage, it does seem cruel, uh even sadistic for God to command Abraham to sacrifice his son And we think about all the years that Abraham and Sarah had awaited God to make good on his promise to give them a son. They finally have a son. Then God says, Go sacrifice your son. That does seem That's one problem. There's another problem. The problem that the death of Isaac would pose. It was through Isaac. He's called the child of the promise, right? God had promised them this child, and it was through Isaac That all God's promises would come to pass, that God would make from Abraham's descendants a great nation, and through that nation he would bless all the peoples on the earth. But if Isaac died before he had children of his own, then he would not be the founder of a great nation. And the world would not be blessed. And so God would have, that would leave God being a liar. Then there's also a moral dilemma, right? God uh telling Abraham to sacrifice his son, well, Leviticus 18 and Deuteronomy 12 Forbid child sacrifice. This was the practice of the pagan nations, not of Israel. And so how could God then require Abraham to sacrifice Isaac? Well we're gonna talk about that next week, but no no. So this is um this is this is interesting. Um So real uh simple question, why did God command Abraham to sacrifice Isaac? And if you boil it down I think there are two reasons. One reason is told in the text, and the other reason is apparent as you look at the uh as you look at the whole of Scripture, how it unfolds. And so the first reason God commanded Abraham to sacrifice Isaac was to test Abraham. And it says that right in verse 1, Abraham doesn't know This of course, but uh the the passage tips the reader off that God did this to test him. And so it was an it was a way for God to say to Abraham, Do you trust me? And that's an important issue in Abraham's life because throughout his his life with God after he had been called out of Earl of the Chaldees. Oftentimes he did not trust God. Remember chapter 12 and chapter 20, when Abraham went to a foreign land, he lied about his relationship with Sarah, he said, well, uh she's my sister, not my wife, because he was afraid that the ruler would kill him if Sarah, who was beautiful, uh if they had known that uh Sarah was his wife. And so Abraham lied. He didn't trust that God would protect him, although God had promised he would protect him. And then in chapter 16, you know, there was this promise given way back in chapter 12 uh twenty-five years earlier that Sarah, who was what, uh sixty-five at that time, would have a son, and the years went on and on and on, and so I think Sarah's now in her eighties and she still had not had a son And so Sarah says, why don't you sleep with my slave girl, Hagar? And by Hagar, she will give you a son. And so Abraham said, well, I guess we need to do this because God's not keeping good on his promises. And so Abraham didn't trust God there. But now Isaac has finally been born, 25 years after the promise was originally given, and Abraham saw, God keeps his word. And so now Abraham is once again more tested by God. This wasn't a test for God's benefit. There's nothing God needs to discover about us, right? He knows everything. He knows our hearts. But it was for Abraham's benefit. And you see this throughout Scripture that God does test us. He tests our faith and it it teaches us about where we are in our in our walk with God. He allows temptations To come our way. If you read that in the book of James, chapter 1. Doesn't say God tempts us. In fact, James 1. 13 says God doesn't tempt us to evil. But in his providence, he allows temptations to come before us. Not because he's a mean God, not because he wants us to stumble. But so, well, for a couple reasons, it says in James 1. 12, so that we'll develop steadfastness, right? We'll learn to resist, we'll learn to avoid, we'll learn to flee these temptations. And on those occasions when we succumb, and there are many, right? We see more clearly the the the power of indwelling sin. We haven't made so much progress after all. And we are utterly dependent on Christ for our spiritual growth and for our sanctification. And we're humbled, right? When we come to the Lord's table, we recognize we're sinners and Christ died for us. And he still welcomes us. And so we we magnify him for his grace. And so this this is one reason that God allows us to be tempted. It's not because he's cruel, but it's a test. And when we pass the test, when we withstand, we feel like, you know what? God's at work in me. I'm not the same person I was 10 years ago or 20 years ago. I'm making some progress. I have a lot of work In this area, but in this other area, at least I can see God is God is shaping me more into the image of Jesus Christ. Another way that God tests us, well the first way is temptations. The second way is allowing trials to come into our path. And that's what James says again in chapter 1, but here in verses 2 and 3, James says to Christians, cannot all join my brothers when ye meet trials of various kinds. Why would that be? For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. So you think about that You have a wavered child or you're struggling in a relationship, maybe at work or in family. uh with your spouse, um you you suffer physically and uh we don't say, oh, this is wonderful, right? But there's a secondary sense where we say, you know what? God is sovereign, and this is an opportunity for me to say to myself, am I going to trust God or not? Also, am I going to handle this in the way that the Scripture instructs me to handle it? Am I going to handle this according to scriptural principles? Or I'm gonna uh am I gonna just take a shortcut and do what I think is right in my own eyes, or am I just going to react And so God uses trials to test us. And you think about, you know, for those who have kids, um we want our kids, we should want our kids to face trials because that teaches them to persevere and that teaches them resilience and it teaches them to look to Jesus Christ. So we don't want to always rescue our kids, right? This is a huge problem in our culture. Remember my brother, my brother's a dean at a college north of Pittsburgh. And uh he said it's bizarre. This is he's been saying this for like the past ten years, he'll get calls from parents Their kids are now adults, right? They're in college, and he'll get a call from a parent. My son is having a disagreement with his roommate about the thermostat at night in the room. It's like and he's like, why are you calling me? This is this is crazy. So these kids have not learned resilience But anyway, um so we want our kids to face trials, and they will of course face temptations. And as all of us are right, but this is our opportunity. As Abraham had an opportunity. to test himself. For God, God was testing him, but you know when something comes your way like this, like you should say, and I say this to myself sometimes when I'm clear-minded. This is my opportunity to say, do I believe this stuff or not? Am I going to do this God's way? And unlike previous tests where Abraham failed, Here he passed the test right in the most impressive manner, just reviewing verses 9 and 12. When they came to the place of which God had told him Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. And then he said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know. That you fear God and seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And in response God reiterates his covenant promises. And so let's just finish it out, verse 15 to 18. The angel, the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord Because you have done this and and have not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you And I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore, and your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Bersheba, and Abraham lived at Bersheba. And so why did God command Abraham to sacrifice Isaac? Well, number one, it was a test. Number two, number two, and you need to have your pencil out or your pen to mark down a couple New Testament verses. I don't like to do this, but The Old Testament, this passage is connected to many New Testament passages that interpret it for us, so you might want to mark down three or four verses. as we go along. But anyway, second reason God issued this test or gave this test was to foreshadow the way of salvation the way of salvation. Here's how God is going to save his people So the gospel is in the Old Testament. You know what the gospel is, right? God saving us through Jesus Christ. Okay? God doing for us what we can't do for ourselves. And so one of the reasons we're persuaded that the Bible is from God and that there's a God and that Jesus is God is because the Old Testament is answered so intricately by the New Testament That we say, hey, how else can we explain this book that was written over the course of what? 4,000 years? I forget. 4,000 years? 2,000 years? I forget. But anyway, long time. Hundreds of years. So, remember after Jesus throws from the grave, here's the setup. After Jesus throws from the grave, he's walking on the road to Emmaus with a couple of his disciples. And he these his disciples were Jews, right? What were their scriptures? Our Old Testament. It says that he explained the scriptures to his disciples. How they were about him. Okay? Luke 24, 27. Luke writes, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, and I know there are folks here who are brand new to the Bible. So when it says beginning with Moses, it's talking about the first five books of the Old Testament. Beginning with Moses, and then the rest of the Old Testament and all the prophets. He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So what is he saying? The Old Testament's about me. If you don't see Christ in the Old Testament, you don't understand the Old Testament. That's why you have to read the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. But anyway, I want I want to I want to do like a for instance uh for example let's look at this passage And we will see three ways that this passage is about the way of salvation God provides in Christ. And you'll notice everything I say, I'm backing up by the New Testament. So I'm not allegorizing I'm not, I don't have a great imagination, but I know how the Bible fits together, right, after all these years. I know how some of this stuff fits together, okay? And so three ways this passage points to the way of salvation God's provided us in Christ. Here's the first way. We see in this passage the firstborn son as the family representative. Okay? So, God in commanding Abraham to sacrifice Isaac wasn't Calling him to murder, but he was calling him to execute a just judgment Whoa. Well, think about God's character. He's just, he's holy, he's righteous. And when we see wickedness and evil, there's something in us that calls out for justice. And how much more so with a just and holy God, because Abraham and his whole family They were sinners. Okay? And just as we're outraged by injustice, so we see here God has every right to condemn sinners to death Well, as the Old Testament unfolds, we find that God requires the firstborn son to die for the sins of the family Turn over to Exodus chapter 12. Don't do it. I'm just saying in Exodus 12. Um, when God the night before the Uh Israelites fled Egypt, God slayed the firstborn sons of the Egyptians as his judgment against the Egyptian sins. And the Israelites, their four firstborn sons also uh deserved to be slayed because the Israelites also were sinners, but God made a provision uh by which uh they could have a lamb offered in the place of the sun, right? So that was a Passover. An innocent, unblemished land with slaughter as a as a substitute for the Israelite's firstborn son. And so we see here that it was perfectly just for God to call Abraham to sacrifice Isaac as his firstborn. But there's a problem here in that Isaac was also a sinner, right? So that sacrifice would not really work. That would be an adequate If you have one sinner die in the place of another sinner, that doesn't work. He needs to die for his own sins, not for uh my sins, so a sinful son could not cover the sins of a uh of his father. Um so God provided a substitute. He provided a lamb or what was a ram. Well That's no good either when you think about it, because uh an animal can't die in the place of a human. And so that was just an object lesson. That was just a type. That was just a type pointing forward to the final sacrifice who would one diet one day uh cover Abraham's sin. And so we're talking about ways that this passage points forward to the salvation God's providing Christ. One thing we see We see the firstborn son dying as the family representative, just as Jesus died as a representative for his people. Romans chapter 5. Here's the second thing or second way. Sort of connected. We see the idea of substitution, a substitute sacrifice. Look at verse 7, the second part of the verse. So Isaac, you know, his kid, he's probably like 13, 16 years old. He said to Abraham, his dad He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And in verse 8, we find really the centerpiece. of the chapter where Abraham said, God will provide for himself the land for a burnt offering, my son. And indeed God did provide the lamb, right? As Abraham's about to plunge his knife into Isaac, it says in verse 13 and 14. Abraham looked up, and there was a ram caught by the thicket, caught by hook by his horns. Abraham went, took the lamb, offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son And then it says in fourteen, so Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide. Okay So God provided a substitute. And if you think about it, you know, that question that Isaac asked his dad, now, where is the lamb? You could take that question And you could use that as a headline for the entire Old Testament, because as you go through the Old Testament You see, that's what the question over and over again, right? Exodus 12. The Passover, a lamb was sacrificed in the place of the family. The priests in Israel. What was their job? It was to sacrifice lambs and other animals for the people. And they did this continually. Why'd they do it continually? Well, uh because the Israelites kept sinning, but also because these animals were insufficient, as I said earlier, they were just object lessons Pointing forward to the uh final sacrifice, Jesus Christ. But when you turn over from the Old Testament to the New Testament, Immediately it changes from where is the lamb to what? Yeah, there's the lamb, right? John the Baptist, John 1. 29, what did he say? He said, he looks, he looks up. Hey, you know, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world Then Paul, the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 5. 70 is writing to the Christians in Corinth. And he says about Christ. He says, Christ, our Passover Lamb. has been sacrificed for us. One of the requirements of the Old Testament lamb, Passover Lamb, is that he be without defect. Well, that explains why in 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19, Peter says to Christians That they were ransomed from their feudal ways, not with perishable things, but with this, but it says, quote, with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb. without blemish or defect. And so going back now to Genesis 22 verse 8, when Abraham said, God him, he said to Isaac, God himself Will provide a lamb for the burnt offering, my son. He was speaking better than he knew. Right? He he he he he was talking about Christ. He didn't even know it, but there was a sense he knew that God would provide make a final provision for sin. Why do I say that? So, 2,000 years later, Jesus shows up on the scene, and in John 8. 56, Jesus said, Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. By the way, where did all this take place? It took place, look at verse 2. The land of Moriah. Land of Moriah. Alright, what's that? 2 Chronicles 3. 1. I bet you already know the answer to this one. I never knew this one. Um but I get to study it a week ahead. And uh Second Chronicles three one says the land of Moriah, that's where Solomon built the temple. Where was Jesus crucified? Not far from there. Okay? And so there's this connection even geographically that Jesus was crucified in the same area. where God provided the substitute lamb for sacrifice. And so from the very beginning, right, from the very beginning God's design was to provide salvation through the sacrifice of a substitute. And so God has made this wonderful, wonderful provision for our sin. And so you see, how are you saved? It's not by being nice. It's not by going to church. It's not by turning over a new leaf, right? But rather it's recognizing your sinner than looking to the Lamb. that God's provided to cover your sin, to substitute for yourself as the victim And so we're talking about, getting to the end here. This is about, this passage is about the gospel, right? God, God saving through one representative. One sacrifice representing the others and a substitute. But also we see the resurrection. I'm not reading into this, okay? Let's look at it closely. We see the resurrection, okay? Abraham, and you have to then well I'll get there. Abraham expected Isaac to die and to rise again. So look at verse 5, okay? It says so this is when they're heading out there. Says Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey I and the boy will go over there and worship and come to you again. So when he says and come to you again, that's still in the plural tense in the Hebrew. And so Abraham was convinced that after offering Isaac, they were going to come back together. Why would he think that? That that's uh that's fantastic. Why would Abraham think that they were going to come back. He was convinced that Isaac was going to rise up again. So he wasn't convinced. When I read this, I always thought, oh, he knows God's going to provide a substitute sacrifice, like they found that ram. But that's not what the New Testament says about this passage. So in this passage, Abraham was convinced that he was going to sacrifice his son and that his son would rise again. God would have to raise up Isaac, Abraham's thinking, because God had made this ironclad promise That through Isaac, a great nation would come, and all the nations on the earth would be blessed. And if Isaac remained dead, then God would be a liar. And Abraham's like, God's not a liar. He's gonna raise them up. Now, am I sure? Yeah, look at Hebrews eleven nineteen. Hebrews 11:19 confirms this interpretation. It says, Abraham considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead. So that's exactly what he was thinking. And he had learned through experience that God brings life from the dead, right? When was Isaac born? He was not he was a hundred and um his wife Sarah was ninety, okay? And uh and they and she had a son. And so Hebrews 11. 12 says, that's bringing life from the dead. Hebrews 11. 12, from one man in him as good as dead. were born descendants, as many as the stars of heaven, and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore. So Abraham was as good as dead But God gave him a son. And so as God brought Isaac to life through Sarah, so so Abraham was convinced, you know what? God will do it again. He'll have me slay Isaac, and he'll raise him up from the dead. And so here we have Jesus' resurrection foreshadowed. This is hinted at in the other places in the Old Testament. In fact, uh 1 Corinthians 15, 4, and I'm throwing all this stuff out. We're almost done. 1 Corinthians 15, 4, Paul wrote that Christ was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures. What were the Scriptures? The Old Testament? So Paul says, listen, the Old Testament says that Christ is going to rise again from the dead. You see that in Psalm 16, verse 10. You see it in Isaiah 53, verse 10. And you see it here in Genesis 22, where, in a sense, Isaac was brought back from the dead. because God provided this substitute sacrifice. So where am I going this? It all boils down to this one thought And I say this, you know, for those who aren't sure about Christianity, or you're new to the Bible, or you've been in church for a long time, you're a kid, it's like, is this stuff really true? Well, what I say to you is do not the scriptures speak with one voice. Way back in Genesis. You have all these types, all these promises. Then you turn to the New Testament and you see the realities and you see the fulfillments. And so that's why it says in Galatians 3, 7 and 9, the gospel was preached beforehand to Abraham. The gospel was preached in Genesis chapter 22. I'm going to read that. Galatians 3, 79, and then we'll stop. Paul says, know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. So it's not that you're a Jew. That doesn't make you a son of Abraham. If you have faith in Jesus Christ, then you are Abraham's true son. Okay? You are among, you are numbered amongst God's people. Then it says, and the scripture, what's that, the Old Testament For seeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. Okay? So those of faith are the sons of Abraham. And so, do you believe that Jesus Christ is God, that he is the substitutionary sin bearer that God has provided? He's the only way that we can be made right with him. Let's bow our heads Thank you, Lord, for how the the Bible authenticates itself. It persuades us. For those who aren't Christians, for those who are not fully persuaded, we pray that they would see that the gospel It's preached not only in the New Testament, it's preached in the old. There's only one way of salvation, and that is to take hold. of the lamb that you've provided as a substitute sacrifice. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing the songs right in the bulletin. There's a Redeemer. Let's stand and sing. There is a meeting Jesus got on some Precious Bramless by a holy one I live oh my daughter for giving my good time And leaving your spirit over Jesus my reading name of Precious Lama God has done sinner slav Thank you, O my brother, forgiving us your time. And leaving your spirit till the work honor is done. When I stand in glory, I will see There might be forever in that holy place And you oh my God, forgiving your time. And leaving your spirit till the work honor is done. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen.