So we're going to go back a little bit to verse 10. That's where we were last week, just so we can get the thought that Paul's referring back to in verses 12 to 16. Verse 10 he speaks of his ambition, his ambition. He prays that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and may share in his sufferings. becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection of the dead. Not that I've already obtained this or am already perfect But I press on to make it my own because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own. But one thing I do Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. But those of us who are mature think this way. In if in anything, you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you Only let us true let us hold true to what we have obtained. Let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, that you would Give us ears to hear what you speak to us today through your scripture by the Holy Spirit. Help us to be attentive. Help us to be teachable. We pray, Lord, you'll use this passage to change us, to conform us to your image. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. I'm not too loud, am I? No. Am I okay? Alright. Sometimes I get feedback after the service. My head's ringing. You're so abrasively loud, but alright. If that's not the case. Alright. This is r this is a great passage. I hope you'll see uh what I'm talking about in a minute It has to do with having the right mindset, really. And if you want to succeed in anything, right? If you want to succeed in anything in life, in athletics, In your studies, I was talking to one person before the service who just lost 30 pounds. And I'm like, I can't lose 10 pounds. I just don't have that willpower I don't have the right mindset. Um certainly uh in military conflict it's it's crucial to have resolve And to be determined. And you think about, you know, military conflict Winston Churchill really saved the Western world, and the way he did it was by stealing the British people to be determined to fight against the na the Nazis. In one of his great speeches it was called uh look back to was called uh on the fighting on the beaches his his f sorry his fight on the beaches speech But here's just a couple lines. He's saying this to the House of Commons in Britain in 1940 He said to them and also to the British people, we shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be. We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields, in the streets, we shall fight in the hills, and we shall never surrender. Now I didn't say it like Churchill said it, but that man, the way he spoke, uh Fortified the British people to stand against Nazi aggression. And the reason I bring this up is that to make progress in the Christian life. To make progress in sanctification, you have to be determined, right? You have to resolve to say, I want to follow Jesus Christ, I want to know him, and I want to grow in holiness. And that's what Paul's talking about in this passage. Look at verse 15. He says, let those of us who are mature think this way. So he's talking to the Philippians about how they think, and he's saying you have to have a certain mindset. Then he takes it a step further. He says, do you want an example of someone with a with a determined mindset? He says, look at me. Look at verse 17. He says, brothers join in imitating me. And so what these verses are about, it's a statement of Paul's resolve to pursue holiness and the knowledge of Christ. And he's sharing that with the Philippians so that they'll develop a similar mindset. Okay? So do you see where the you see that's clearly the purpose of this passage. Paul is holding himself up as an example. of someone with a single-minded determination to know Christ and to grow in holiness. Why? Not just so that we'll know about him, but that so that we'll say, yeah, that's what I need to be doing as well. Now before he gets into his mindset, the first point is he he makes a qualification. Because he's talking about growing in holiness. He's talking about sanctification. He starts with a qualification, and he says you need to recognize That you're never going to attain perfect holiness in this life. And um Paul's, he didn't have any illusions. You know, the great apostle Paul Did not have any illusions about his spirituality. He didn't think he arrived. In verse 10 He wrote about his desire to know Christ, and then you get to verse 12, and he says, I'm not there yet. I have a long way to go. Look at verse 12. Not that I've already obtained this or am already perfect. Same thing in verse 13. Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own. And so Paul holds himself up as an example, but not as an example of a holy man, but as an example of a sinner who is striving to know and to honor Jesus Christ. Now I'll bet you a hundred bucks. There's not one person here who thinks that they've arrived, right? None of us thinks that I've attained holiness, right? So what's the point of this? It's just to beware, because there are Bible-believing groups That teach that it is possible to attain a state of spiritual perfection in this life. The Wesleans, these are Bible-believing groups, the Wesleans, the Nazarenes, the Pentecostal Holiness Church. They say that it's possible to attain what they call entire sanctification. And this theology was a big deal in the 1800s, early 1900s. It's called perfectionism. Okay? Perfectionism. Charles Finney was an evangelist, a very popular evangelist in the 1800s. And he had he had so many things he was messed up on. And this is just another one where he taught his adherents that they could attain a sinless state in this life. And then there were offshoots from this. There were movements, one was called the higher life movement. I bet you some of you have heard of the Victorious Life Movement. There were Bible conferences over in England called the Keswick Bible Conferences, and these higher life speakers would speak. uh to these uh folks and they taught that after you're converted okay it's great you're converted right God saved your soul but after you're converted There's like a second conversion. There's a second baptism of the Holy Spirit. And once you receive this second conversion or baptism, you will attain a higher you would a higher level of spiritual living. Did you ever meet somebody like that? Um I don't think so. I do have a a pastor friend though, he said when he was a teenager he was working in a restaurant and he started talking to this couple in the restaurant and they were sm all smiles. And uh he said, what are you all so happy about? So well we just came out to dinner to celebrate the fact that we hadn't haven't sinned in three years. Yeah So I I'm just saying there are people like that. Now, if you're a new Christian And you run into one of these groups, you might think, maybe I'm missing something. Maybe I need a second baptism by the Holy Spirit Uh I haven't heard much about it, but if they haven't sinned in all this time, then maybe there's something I need And then the same friend was saying that when he went to uh the seminary over in England, uh one of his professors said, I hadn't sinned in 27 years. And the guy, my friend's saying, yeah, I wonder I'd like to meet your wife sometime. But but how is it that honest Christians say these are this is not these are not this is not a cult. How is it that honest Christians can talk like that? And uh the answer, if you drill down a little bit, you learn that they have lowered the bar as to what constitutes sin. So by sin they mean conscious sin. uh premeditated sin or maybe sins on this list that they have of outward you know behavior uh so that they lower the bar as to what constitutes sin. And so if you think you're still a sinner, it's not because you're not a holy person. It's because you understand something that these people uh do not understand. Because one of the first signs that you're growing in godliness Is that you don't say I've arrived, but you have the opposite assessment of yourself, right? You realize, wow, I've got a long way to go. I thought I was a pretty good person. In fact Charlotte Lee, she shared this, uh one of our older members, 93 years old, 94. She was converted at 88. I think I told this story. Sylvia Little said to Charlotte, you're a sinner. And Charlotte was like, I'm not a sinner, but there are people, there are a lot of people who say, I'm not a sinner. When you become a Christian, you begin to grow in the knowledge of Christ, Christ begins to change you. The first thing you recognize Is what a big sinner you are in how far you have to go. Remember, look at Apostle Paul, right? What did he call himself in 1 Timothy 1:15? He said, I'm the chief of sinners. And he had been a supposedly holy man, right? He was a Pharisee and a rabbi and all this stuff. Once he met Jesus Christ, he recognized that he was the chief of sinners. You know, sort of like if you're in your house. You don't see the dust in the room, in the air, until the sun shines through the window. Then you're like, whoa. There's a lot of dust in this place. And so it is a Christian who grows in his knowledge and experience of the holiness of God. sees uh the darkness of his or her heart. So J. C. Ryle had a good uh comment about those who are deluded and think that they can attain perfection in this life. He said, those who speak of attaining perfection in this life Either know very little of the nature of sin, or of the attributes of God, or of their own hearts, or of the Bible, More of the meaning of words, right? The word sin means something. And so we all understand that. We're not going to attain perfection in this life. So what should we do? Just give up. No. That's not what Paul says. Paul, so he says, look at verse 12, I have not already obtained this. But he still pursues it. So in verses 12 and 13, he speaks about his resolve. to nonetheless pursue holiness. The end of verse 12. He says, but I press on to make it my own. Because Jesus Christ has made me his own. Well when was that? When Christ appeared to Paul on the road to Damascus, right? And Christ converted Paul, brought him to a knowledge of himself. That's when Christ made Paul his own And so then in verses 13 and 14, he uses this language of straining forward, of pressing on toward the goal. for the prize. So the image here is of a runner in a race, right? He's determined, he's stubborn, he's tenacious. And so my question to you, and this is really the question that I want you to bring to this passage. Is Paul describing your disposition to Christian growth? Do you have this kind of determination? I want to know Christ. I want to be a holy man. A lot of people, they're incident of Christianity because it'll help them have a more pleasant life. Well, that's fine, but what about this earnest desire to grow in the likeness of Jesus Christ? That's preeminent in Scripture. And to grow in holiness, it just doesn't happen, right? Just because you've obtained a certain level of outward respectability amongst the Christian group or church you're in That's not enough. Paul says that we we want to strive for more. We want to pursue Jesus Christ. But we need we need to exert ourselves, right? Turn down the TV, put down the device, go to bed at a reasonable hour so you can get up and order your weeks so that you have some time on Sundays just to nurture your soul. And then um we're we're assaulted, right? Every every Which way we turn, we're assaulted by temptations. And so we have to have this mindset I need to try to avoid those temptations. I need to take a different route. I need to be amongst different people. I need to not have access to certain things. I want to avoid certain temptations. And but I can't avoid them all. So then I want to flee it. Or I should want to flee it. But I can't flee it all, right? So then when I can't avoid it, I can't flee it. Then I need to say, I need to, by the grace of God, I need to resist these temptations. And I want to say something to our young people. This is this is We live in a culture where most people, not just young people, everybody. People live for the moment and they don't consider the brevity of their lives They don't want to think about the fact that they're going to die. Right? They studiously live in such a way That they stay busy, they acquire things, they enjoy experiences, they have trivial ambitions, but they do all these things. Because they don't want to think about death. But it's approaching. But when there's no hope of eternity, when there's nothing bigger to live for than this world, Then that's what you want to do. You're trying to console yourself. But the message of Scripture is that It's right here. We have a purpose that is bigger than ourselves, that goes beyond the here and now, and that purpose is to know Christ, is to serve Him, is to develop the likeness of Jesus Christ. It's to do whatever we do for God's glory, and as it says in Genesis 1, to exercise dominion over the earth over the earth, right? Whether you're a farmer or an accountant or a teacher or a custodian, you have this greater purpose. I'm a custodian. Because I'm bringing order to God's world, right? I'm exercising dominion or I'm organizing these figures or whatnot It's all a part of this greater purpose of knowing and serving Jesus Christ and introducing others to him. Because we know that whatever we do, it's not trivial if it's done with this mindset. And so that's the big lesson here. It's a sort of a shot in the arm to say, listen, you've just been rolling around, rolling along on cruise control, right? And I say this to myself too. But it's like, hey, wake up a little bit. We need to take this more seriously. We need to pursue Christ and we need to pursue holiness. And then here's a third thing Paul says, and I think this is helpful as well. And he remember he's speaking out of his own experience. He says, don't look back on your past victories or failures. We'll look at the verse in a second. But one of the great you might want to pull this up on the YouTube this afternoon. It's just four minutes long, I can guarantee you. It's uh it was the greatest, one of the greatest track meets or track and field events in history. 1954, August 7, 1954, the British Empire Games in Vancouver, Canada. And it was dubbed the Miracle Mile. Now we have some track people here who know what I'm talking about. The great British runner, Roger Bannister, the first man to break the four-minute mile. Went up against the second greatest runner in the world, an Australian by the name of John Landy. He was the second man in history to break the four-minute mile. And Bannister's plan going into this race was to stay with Landy, not to push too hard. Especially in the third lap, his plan was to relax during the third lap during the third lap, and he would save everything for the final lap. But as the third lap, as they went into the third lap, Landy put the pedal to the metal, and he began to increase his lead over Roger Bannister And so Baxter realized, listen, if I'm going to have any chance with this guy, I'm going to have to hold on to him. And so he tried to stay right uh behind him. And then with the final lap, uh the two men were about even. And Landy would not let up this punishing pace, and Bannister fell, I I can't, I'm not gonna be able to hold on to this guy. But as they came out of the final curve into the home stretch, there was this huge roar from the crowd. And Landy, who was in front, could not hear Bannister's footfall. And at that point he made a fatal error. He turned back, he looked over his shoulder to find out where Bannister was. Well, Bannister, while Landy's looking back, Came up on the other side of Landy and just gave it one final push. Landy turns around. He sees Bannister He lost his rhythm and he lost his resolve. And Banster won this race by five yards. And that's what Paul's saying here. Look at verses 13 and 14, talking about this long race. Which we call the Christian life. In the end of verse 13, he says, One thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, and straining forward. To what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Now when Paul says he's forgetting what lies behind, you go back to verses 4 to 8. He's talking about his former life as a great Jewish man of God, a Pharisee, right? A zealous Jew who was circumcised on the eighth day. He says, listen, I don't look toward that. I look toward Jesus Christ. Because though I was this outwardly holy man, I was really a sinner in need of a Savior. So he says, I forget, I've forgotten what lies behind. And there are people, there are Christians who look back on their past victories. They go on and on and on. The same stories. I remember one guy, not in his church. But he was in Mark Jones church and my church. We were in a chain same church back in North Carolina, and Mark will not know who this guy is. But um He talked about when he was converted, he was like 19, 20 years old, and then he got involved in this young person signaling group, the New Directions. And this guy's in his forties now. He was a spiritual sluggard. Or he wasn't in his forties when he was telling these stories. He was just a sluggard. But he kept bringing up the glory days. Well this guy would talk about his glory days, or people talk about the glory days of the church. There's a church up the road in near Westminster So always talk about the glory days, so the church I passed from North Carolina. The Glory Days, I was there in the 90s, the Glory Days was 1965 to 1970 under the founding pastor They were the glory days. But I always scratched my head, you know, if those days were so glorious, why did the church enter this 25-year decline. Why is it that hardly any of the kids of the congregation in that generation were going on with the Lord? So maybe they just reinterpreted history. So we don't want to look back on our victories. And I think for most of us, our biggest struggle struggle is not looking back on our glory days. Uh but looking back on our days of shame, right? Looking back on past moral failures, and there are many earnest Christians Who are paralyzed uh by their past sins and and they're full of shame and they keep a distance from others and they won't serve in the church because they feel like if other people knew me they wouldn't want me to serve because I'm unfit because of who I was and the things that I've done. And Paul says you don't need to look back on that if you're a Christian. You're forgiven. There's a guy uh we had speak uh another former church years ago, guy named Cleve McClary, who's a Vietnam vet. He spoke at our church, great Story of his life. And then after the service, I was walking out with Cleve and his wife to his car. It was a big suburban. It had a South Carolina license plate on it with the word FIDO And I said, what does phido mean? And he said, in the southern verse, it phido is forget it and drive on. And that's the lesson here. You know, Paul could have looked back on his uh pre-Christian days when he was full of self-righteousness. He was a persecutor, he was a murderer of Christians. And he could have been paralyzed by his former weakness, but he wasn't. He said in verse 14, I press on toward the goal of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. So that's a good lesson. My wife has a couple uh quotes that she likes to use. One of her favorite ones is this. She says Let your past be your guidepost, not your hitching post. And that's Apropos in this passage. So remember what Paul's talking about. He's saying, here's how you need to think. Here's how you need to adjust uh your evaluation of who you are and of the gospel, you know your outlook on life and service and knowing Christ. Verse 15, let those of us who are mature think this way. And what he's talking about again is developing a mindset characterized by resolve A determination to know Christ and to pursue holiness. And so here's what I want you to think about then this afternoon. If I'm to do that, what adjustments should I make in my priorities and in my practices? What adjustments should I make? Right? Rome wasn't built in a day, but there's certainly some things that we can adjust. about the things that we expose ourselves to, about how we spend our time, and then we can make a little more progress. And I want to say to our young people, and everybody says, oh that must be me, right? Well, I want to say to our people in their twenties and teens and elementary school Where do you want to be five or ten years down the road? Where do you want to be five or ten years down the road spiritually? Like what kind of I always say to our boys, you know, we want you to grow to be godly men, right? Men who take the initiative. Men who are you lead your family, we want to be men who lead in the church. Well to get there, what adjustments do you need to make? Do you need to open up the Bible? Take time each day to open up the scripture. Develop a reading plan. Do you need to go to bed earlier? You need to tap the brakes on your devices in your gaming. And then girls, you know, where do you want to be five or ten years down the road? Do you want to be a woman who is confident in Jesus Christ, or do you want to be a woman who just follows along with the world and its trivial things? And so here's something, and this is really for all of us, the the message in this passage is something larger than ourselves, and that's really what we need, right? We need to be a part of a movement that has a meaning, that has meaning that goes beyond the present. And that's what Christianity offers All of us, and certainly the younger generation, where there's so much despair and sometimes confusion, let's power heads.