And let's turn on our Bibles to Isaiah chapter nine. And I want you to keep, I want to encourage you to keep your Bible open because there's a lot of details we'll be coming back to. And so we read in chapter 9, and this is about 700 BC. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan. Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of deep darkness, on them has light shined. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you, as with joy of the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. For the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Midian For every boot of the trampling warrior is in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. In his name shall be called, Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom. to establish it and uphold it with justice and righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. So, Isaiah is speaking to the people of Israel, in that there was a northern kingdom at that time, Israel In the southern kingdom, Judah, we believe it's around the year 732 BC. And there was this division in Israel between the northern and southern kingdom, and it was really a horrible time in her history. uh injustice, moral degradation, and religious apostasy uh just about everywhere And the people lived under the threat of invasion by the Assyrians And in fact, the Syrians did conquer the northern kingdom about ten years down the road in 722. So that was the end of the ten tribes. They were gone. They were wiped away forever. Remaining was the southern kingdom, Judah, and Judah was conquered by the Babylonians in 586 BC. And so look back at chapter 8, verse 22. This was the situation. It says it was a time of distress. And darkness, it was a time of gloom, and it was a time of anguish. But you turn to chapter 9 And there's this swing in the mood because Isaiah announces good news and it's it's signified In chapter 9, verse 1, by the word but. And so we see in verse 1, he writes, but there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. And so there's this great transition that takes place in verse 1 of chapter 9. And God tells his beleaguered people that he will break into history. He speaks of uh what Malachi describes as a sunrise of salvation. And every wrong, he says, the day is coming when every wrong will be made right, justice will be established, and peace will reign. And so one writer described this as an empire of grace that God promises his people. This empire would be inaugurated at the first coming of Jesus Christ, his birth, his life on earth, his death and his resurrection. That was the inauguration of this empire of grace, but it would only be consummated when Jesus comes back a second time. And so, like most Old Testament prophecies, there's an immediate fulfillment on the closer horizon, and then there's a final fulfillment when Jesus Christ returns. And um this good news that Isaiah spoke to the Israelites in the eighth century is also for God's people down through the ages, right? Because the final fulfillment has yet to come. And so this is why I want you to hear the promises that God makes in this passage. God has gone on public record. And he has something to say to discouraged Christians in our day as he had to his discouraged people somewhat a thousand years ago. Okay? We live in an age like the Israelites, an age of national distress. We live in an age of moral degradation, and we live in an age like the Israelites of religious compromise. And yet the promise here is that this empire of grace will prevail. You'll be there. If you're trusting in Christ, you will see the final fulfillment of the promises in this passage. And so let's look at it, okay? Because we're looking at our future, what we will be a part of. And so in verses 1 to 5, God promises to deliver his people And yeah, it was a time of gloom, but he promises that light will dispel the darkness. And it's notable that at this point in history, 732 BC, the Assyrians, who were a threat to the northern kingdom of Israel who destroyed the northern kingdom of Israel, as I said, in seven twenty-two BC, it's notable that they had already made an incursion into the northern part of Israel, the territory occupied by the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali. So look in the middle of verse 1. Isaiah says, In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun in the land of Naphtali. He's talking about the misery that that section of the northern kingdom is suffering at the moment. But he says that the dawn of God's salvation will break in that very region. So look at the end of verse 1 now. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. So God is saying here through Isaiah that in the very region that was suffering at the time of Isaiah's prophecy, it would be in that region Where God would break through in bringing his Messiah. And when he comes, look at verse 2. He says, The light will illumine the darkness. The people who walk in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in the land of deep darkness, on them has light shined. Okay. So what's this talking about? We don't have to speculate. Am I loud enough? Okay. You guys in the back. Alright. I feel like I gotta really yell. Alright, but if you can hear I'm behind the speaker. Okay. We don't have to speculate Because if you turn over to the book in Matthew, chapter 4, Matthew explains that at the beginning of Jesus' public ministry, Matthew quotes from Isaiah chapter 4 or from Isaiah chapter 9. So Matthew chapter 4, verse 13. We read about Jesus. Matthew writes, Lee leaving Nazareth He went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of where? Of Zebulun in Napoli. So that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. So there you have it. And then he quotes Isaiah. The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light And for those dwelling in the region of the shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. And so Isaiah, or sorry, Matthew is quoting These first two verses of Isaiah chapter 9. And he's telling us very clearly, right Jesus Christ is the light of whom Isaiah spoke. And so very, very clear Promise in Isaiah, fulfillment in Matthew's gospel, verse two of Isaiah. The people who walked in darkness. He's saying these people are morally blind. They're separated from God. They're under God's anger. And they have no hope. Well, that was a description of Israel in the 8th century B. C. It's a description of the world in our day. It's a description of our nation, right? We're blind outside of Christ. We're in moral and spiritual darkness. What happens when somebody becomes a Christian? God removes the veil. And all of a sudden you see, you recognize what truth is. And you reckon you hear God's voice in the Bible. You start reading the Bible when you become a Christian, when God's drawing you to Christ. And there's the ring of truth. And you see things that you never saw before. How is it? It's because God in His grace Opens our eyes so that we can see the light of Jesus Christ. Second Corinthians chapter 4, verse 6. Paul says this precisely. He says, God who made light shine out of darkness made his light shine in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of God's glory in the face of Jesus Christ That's what happens. That is what conversion is. You recognize that Jesus Christ is the light. And when that happens. Isaiah goes on to say, your sorrow will change to joy. He compares in verse three the joy that the people will enjoy when the Messiah comes, to that of a farmer taking in his harvest, to that of warriors after a victorious battle, dividing the spoils of war. And so he writes verse 3. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy, they rejoice before you, as with joy at the harvest as they are glad when they divide the spoil. And so Isaiah is saying that the day is coming. He's saying this to Israel, right, in the 8th century BC. He's saying the day is coming When the your your fear, your despair will be dispelled And what I want you to notice here, so he says in verses 1 and 2, he says, darkness will change to light. Your fear or your your discouragement will be changed to joy. And then he gives in verses four, five, and six. Three reasons why God's people will have this joy. And so the outline doesn't reflect this. I printed the outline on Thursday. uh but the cake wasn't baked by Thursday. And this is um now now I see it more clearly. I don't know how I missed it. You'll notice in verses four, five, and six You have the statements for, okay? So he's saying, here are the reasons why beleaguered, God's beleaguered people should take heart, should be encouraged. And the first reason is that in Jesus Christ, God's people will find release from their oppression. And in verse 4, he refers to two great deliverances in Israel's history. I'll read it and then I'll cop uh comment. He says in verse 4 For the yoke of his burden, and the staff for his shoulder, and the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Videon. And so this discussion or this talk about Israel being under a yoke of oppression, that's a reference to the Israelites in Egypt under Pharaoh. And then he makes reference to Midian, where God raised up the great warrior Gideon in the book of Judges to defeat the Midianites. And in the same way God promises the faithful remnant in Israel. And they were not all faithful, right Israel and Judah had abandoned the God of Scripture. But there will always be a remnant. There was a remnant in Isaiah's day. And God's promising them. He's going to deliver you from your oppressors. How will it happen? It won't be anything you do, right? The Israelites They were the ones who defeated the army of the Egyptians. They weren't the ones who defeated the Midianites. But it was God who miraculously delivered his people. And that's why it said Isaiah says in the end of verse 7, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this And so that's the first reason that the Israelites can be encouraged, because God will in his good time Diver them from their oppressors. The second reason for their joy is that there's going to be no more war. When Jesus Christ comes, he's going to fight the final battle and he's going to secure the victory of his people. And in fact, all the evidence of battle, all the trappings of war, are going to be incinerated. Look at verse 5. So this is the second reason that God's people should have joy. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle excuse me, so hard to see. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. So there will be no more war. When Jesus returns. Remember, I said this is a two-part prophecy. There's still war today, right? But one day there will be no more war. So that's the first two reasons for joy. Here's a third reason we find in verses 6 and 7. And the third reason is that in God's good time he says to the Israelites, He's going to bring into this world the ideal ruler. And so in verse six, we have this birth announcement. Unlike every birth announcement I've ever seen, though It's not given after the birth of the baby. This birth announcement is given before his birth, and it doesn't announce his weight or his height. But rather, it ascribes to this child four titles. And so this is this famous text that we're most of us are familiar with. Where uh we read in verse six, for to us the child is born, to us the son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Then we have wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace If anybody has the King James Version, I think it says wonderful, counselor, so the King James translates it at five as five titles. That's what Handel followed right in the Messiah, wonderful counselor. Um but that's probably not the best translation. The more recent translations has four titles that It maintains the parallel structure. Wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. So let's look at those four titles. First one, wonderful counselor. And we've heard that, you know, and I was thinking, that's great. But then I I I read a really interesting uh uh commentary uh by an old testament uh scholar named Paul House. And he suggests well let me s let me back up a little bit, okay? The word wonderful just mean like, oh, you're wonderful, but it's just about the closest word that the English translation can get to the Hebrew word that means supernatural. So it means at the very least, supernatural counselor, which is reasonable, right? This this Messiah is God. But the word counselor It could be translated, and I hate to contradict what the Bible says because when they translate books of the Bible, you have committees of scholars And so a committee of Hebrew scholars translated the book of Hebrews. So whenever a pastor says, here's a better word, you should take it with a grain of salt. Because who's he? I mean, there was this committee of scholars who specialized in the book of Isaiah that translated the English version of your book of Isaiah. So with that said, Nonetheless, there are some Old Testament scholars who suggest that the word counselor might better be translated planner So not wonderful counselor, but supernatural planner. Why do they say that? Well, it's because The word that's translated counselor has a range of meanings, okay? So you have to pick one meaning when you're, or one word when you're moving from Hebrew to English. But more so, this makes sense when you consider the main thrust of the book of Isaiah. The main message of the book of Isaiah isn't that God gives good advice to his people. The main message of the book of Isaiah Is that God is bringing to pass his plans for history? That's what Isaiah is about. That's what God's telling the people of Israel. That's what God's telling the people of Judah in this book. Listen. They're going to be conquered. But down the road, there will be liberation. And in chapter nine, it's not just the liberation from the Babylonians. It'll be liberation from evil, from sin, and from death. And so Isaiah is giving us a picture of how we should understand history. And we see Isaiah talking in this language about God's plan throughout the book. Let me give you a couple examples. Chapter 14, verse 24. Isaiah writes The Lord of hosts has sworn. Then he says, As I planned, so shall it be. And as I have purposed, so shall it stand. Another example, Isaiah 14, verse 27. The Lord of hosts has purposed, and who will annull it? His hand is stretched out And who will turn it back? Nobody, right? Because God's plan, God's purpose has always come to pass. Here's a longer passage, chapter 49. Look at verse 9, the middle of the 9. Middle of verse 9, chapter 46. I'm sorry. Chapter 46, verse 9. The middle of the verse We read, I am God, and there is no other. I am God, and there is none like me. Declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, things not yet done saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. Then it goes on in verse into verse eleven. I have spoken and I will bring it to pass. I have purposed and I will do it And so I'm per I'm I'm fairly persuaded that what God is saying what Isaiah is saying about this Messiah is that he is the supernatural planner. And that's something that the beleaguered Israelites need to hear That's something that we need to hear in our day. Because I heard it this week from two of you, and I hear it all the time. And I say it to my wife. I can't watch the news anymore. This is so depressing. Everything's turned upside down. Things are evil and these evil things are being applauded, and then Things that we would think are good and noble are being discredited. There are deceptions It seems like even in just the ten years, there's this been the there's been this huge shift Away from this consensus that we had in our culture, that Christianity, it's okay, it's not for me, but I tolerate it. But now there's in many aspects of our culture a hostility toward horse toward historic Christianity. And so we we we we can just drop our heads in despair. But what Isaiah says to Christians in our day Not only in America, but around the world. Sure. There's cause for concern But we have to remember that Jesus Christ is still the King, He still rules from His throne, He is still sovereign over the events of history. And he is accomplishing his purposes. And that purposes aren't always pleasant, right? It seems like his well, I shouldn't say it seems, his purposes include judgment, just like it did on the people of Israel. And and believers are part of that environment. So we shouldn't be surprised, but we should take, we should have hope because Isaiah goes on record to say that God is the supernatural planner. Then he goes on, the second title. The Messiah is described as mighty God, and that's to say he fights on behalf of his people. And the Assyrians were a fierce and dreaded people. They were on the brink of conquering the people of Israel. They were a threat to the people of Judah. But nonetheless, God was going to one day conquer them And that happened, what, seven I said 722 BC. God sent in another army to conquer the Assyrians. And then when the southern kingdom of Judah was conquered by the Babylonians in five eighty-six, some seventy or so years later. God raised up the Persians to conquer the Babylonians and those uh Jews who are in captivity in Babylon. They were allowed to return uh to the promised land and to rebuild the walls and to rebuild the temple. And so the Messiah is the mighty God. And that word mighty you might translate warrior. And that's a huge theme in the Bible. You don't hear it much But the Bible teaches that God is a warrior. In the Old Testament, he fought against Israel's flesh and blood enemies. Remember? Who brought him out of Egypt? God brought him out of Egypt after the Israelites went through the Red Sea and the Egyptian army was drowned. What did Moses sing? He sang in Exodus 15, verse 3, The Lord is a man of war. You turn over to the pages of the New Testament. And you discover that God fighting Israel's physical enemies was an object lesson of the greater battle that Jesus Christ fights on behalf of his people. And so for example, in Colossians 2. 15 Jesus' victory on the cross is described in distinctively militaristic language. Colossians 2. 15. Paul wrote, by the cross, God, quote, disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. And then a couple years ago, remember, we went through the book of Revelation. And it says in Revelation 19, now there's a st there's a out there's a uh Picture of history too. In Revelation 19, in the end, there will be a final battle at which Jesus will consummate the victory. that he secured on the cross. And so it pictures Jesus riding on a white horse leading a heavenly a heavenly army. And in this final battle, Satan and death will be vanquished. And then it goes on to say there will be a new heaven and a new earth. So here we have a Christian view of history, right? I mean, the Bible is not just a devotional book with warm thoughts to encourage us day by day But it's also a book that provides an outline of history, a general outline of history, because Revelation's is written in symbolic language, so we don't understand the details, but we do see that for a time evil will prevail. But that's not the last word There will be a final judgment and there will be a writing of all wrongs. And this is a warning to us, right? It's a warning to Christians. that we must persevere. It's a warning to unbelievers that you m you must Come into a right relationship with this holy God. And you come into that relationship by bowing before Jesus Christ. By recognizing that you're a sinner, but he is the savior of sinners. And so here's this Christian view of history, which is to say, as you read Isaiah 9. Let not your heart be troubled. That's the message here. We need to remind ourselves of that because we get discouraged. Then he goes on, the third title. The Messiah, Jesus the Son, is described as the everlasting Father. Well, he's not the father, he's the son. Why is he described as the everlasting father? Because that is what a good king was was supposed to be to his people. He was supposed to be like a father who cared for the people in his kingdom. And that is the kind of king that Jesus Christ is to his people. Then the final title, Jesus is called the Prince of Peace. Now that's a head scratcher. Wait a minute. Where's this peace? Uh in verse seven, we're told that he's going to establish a kingdom. And he's going to uphold it with justice and righteousness. Where's this justice? Well Perhaps Isaiah got carried away? Perhaps he overstated the credentials of the Messiah? No, we'd say no, because we understand, as I said earlier. that these prophecies have a nearer horizon and then a furt a farther out horizon in which they're fulfilled And you read the New Testament and you discover that Jesus nowhere claims that at his first coming that there will be peace. Rather, for example, Luke 12, 51, Jesus said, Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division. But one day when he returns, there will be peace. And so you read Isaiah chapter 8, verse 22. We have a description of the world in the 8th century BC, and we have a description of the world uh in our day. It's a world of gloom, of darkness, of despair, and of anguish. But we also have this promise in verse 1 that there is coming a day When there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. And God is indeed executing his plan. He is carrying out his plan for history. And it's a plan of redemption, right? We're part of that plan. By his grace, he redeemed us. We didn't deserve it. We weren't better than the next guy. But God was merciful to us. He allowed us to recognize the light of the glory of Jesus Christ. And he has more to redeem, right? That's why the world goes on. That's why we want to be faithful witnesses in one day There will be justice. The plan's already been inaugurated by Jesus' death and resurrection. And we pray, Lord, come soon. Consummate your kingdom. And then we will be a part of this empire of grace. And so this is an encouragement to Christians, don't lose heart. And it's also, uh you might say a warning to those who aren't believers, that faith This is how this is how history is going to unfold. And so no matter how attractive things might be at the moment, by just going your own way and doing your own thing Jesus Christ came to save you, and so you should turn to him. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do thank you that you have spoken. You've given us a perspective on our lives and a perspective on history. To help us to keep our discouragements and hardships in perspective and to press on, to soldier on for those who are uh suffering uh great despair. Uh we do pray, Lord, that uh you would help them to see that the day is coming uh when they're gonna be able to lift their heads enjoy. And for those who aren't Christians but they've heard this stuff, they're acquainted with it, but That you have other concerns at the moment. We do pray that you'll rouse them and you'll turn them to you That they can receive the forgiveness and the salvation that you give to all who come to Jesus in faith and repentance. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Let's take our song books. We're going to sing 211. The song is God Rest Ye Mary Gentlemen. And every year I take a moment to explain this. God rest you means God uh make you. Okay, God make you merry. But merry doesn't mean like happy. It means mighty, okay? So Robin Hood and his merry men were not these guys dancing around their leotards. They were mighty warriors. That's what this is saying. Be mighty, uh gentlemen, and may God make you strong. So let's stand and sing. Lord rest, be merry gentlemen, let nothing you dismay Remember Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day To save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray. Whose hidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, whose hidings of comfort and joy From God our heavenly father, blessed angel came. And unto certain shepherds brought tidings of the same How that in Bethlehem was born a son of God by name, O tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy. Comfort and joy. Fear not then, said the angel, that nothing you are fright. This day is for the Savior of our pure virgin pride, To free all those who trust in him from Satan's power and might. Oh tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, Oh tidings of comfort and joy. Jeffers at those hidings rejoiced at marching mine, and left their flocks up feeding