Hello everybody. Nice to see you again. Glad you didn't take a break while Peter was out of town. But we're glad to be able to minister the Word of God to you today as it's found in Psalm three. So if you will turn there, we will read together Psalm 3. And for a change of pace as well as some matter of church history, let's stand for the reading of God's Word in Psalm 3. Well you now hear what God says to us through his prophet and King David. O Lord, how many are my foes, how many are rising against me, how many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God? Sayla. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. Selah, I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek. That is on the jaw. You break the teeth of the wicked. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. Sailor, he may be seated. You can follow along in the bulletin as we uh treat the subject this morning of assurance and hope. During painful discipline here from Psalm 3. Let's pray as we begin the ministry of the Word. We pray our Father. That you would be with us today as speaker and listeners alike We pray especially in view of the fact that corruption of sin remains within us. And how we look forward to that day when it will be gone. But meanwhile, O God, by your Spirit, according to your word, build into us Christ's likeness. That we might indeed live lives that glorify you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Assurance and hope, despite or during, painful Discipline. The psalm that we've read today, as you can probably tell, comes out of humiliating incident in David's life and the suffering that followed. You can tell that from the superscription in particular. King David is recalling a time when he was in mortal danger. Mortal danger. Because he was on the run from his own son, Absalom. You can read the backstory in 2 Samuel 15 through 18. King David, the sweet psalmist and war hero of Israel, and now King, this same David was living with the consequences of his moral failures with Bathsheba. And with Uriah, her husband, he was now found to be an adulterer and an accomplice to murder. Driven from his throne by Absalom, David was learning by experience the truth that the prophet Nathan had told him after his sin, after confronting David about his sin, God told him through Nathan, told David through Nathan Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the Lord, behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. David, you see, was on the run from that evil that had arisen in his own son, Absalom. Absalom had fought against David to drive him off the throne, but as the psalm says David knew himself to be threatened in his very soul as well. You and I don't have to be in mortal danger like David was to benefit from this psalm. This psalm is for any believer whose assurance and hope of salvation has been shaken, has been weakened, has been temporarily lost. Anyone here like that this morning? Maybe you've given in to some sudden overwhelming sin, wounded your conscience, grieved the Holy Spirit. And now you're walking around in this world under a cloud of darkness without the light of God's shining countenance upon you. King David had been there too. In Psalm 3, he reflects on that time when he was enduring God's painful discipline for his sin. And he wrote this song as a prayer and a song to teach us about assurance and hope of our salvation, even when God brings about painful discipline, painful fatherly discipline for our sin into our lives You'll notice there in verses 1 and 2 that King David endured painful discipline for his sin, and he describes it to us. At the very beginning of his psalm, he turns to vivid memories that he has of the danger that his sin had put him in He had once had the hearts of the people. You may remember that from 1st and 2 Samuel. But now he had lost those hearts. He can still see Absalom, my son, leading the rebellion that sought to take both his throne and his life. And it was humiliating to David. More than that, it was intimidating to him. Look at the way he describes what he's experienced, what he recalls experiencing. My enemies are many. Many, many, three times, many, and increasing is the idea, they're surrounding him, he remembers. They were encircling him. It was extremely dangerous And getting worse for David, those enemies were closing in on him. Not only that, you'll notice that he describes his enemies as malicious, not just many, but malicious. They were using tactics meant to shake him to his very soul. They were taunting him, mocking him, yelling at him, even saying, not even God can save you now. His enemies from within Israel, the covenant people of God, were so arrogant that they even blessed God the Redeemer of Israel in the process. But David. David did not join them in their blasphemy, did he? He addresses the Lord with his lament. He makes his affliction known to his God. He does so because he knows what the Lord said to him. When he despised the word of the Lord to do what is evil with Bathsheba and Uriah, this is what God said to him. David's suffering then was suffering in this context of the evil that God had determined to raise up against him out of his own house. Absalom, after all, had grown up in David's house. He knew him when he was a little boy. Now he knows him as his opponent, David's pain. At Absalom's rebellion and that of his other loyalists with Absalom was the affliction that the Lord had told him to expect. on account of his sin. David knows still more, however, doesn't he? He also knows God's covenant promise to him. He said, that is, God said, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, what's going to happen? I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men, but, hear this, but my steadfast love will not depart from him. The threat from Absalom then was not only a time for David to humble himself under God's painful discipline. It was an opportunity to experience still more of God's steadfast love for him as a son. This scene reminds me of the last of the Mohicans. That was a time of war between the French and the British, you may recall this. The French had surrounded a British fort. They were making daily progress in their approach against that fort. The British captain had seen that his troops were outmanned and outgunned, and so he had sent for reinforcements from a nearby British regiment. There was hope for deliverance in that nearby regiment, but the British captain soon learned that the men had that he had sent with the dispatch for help. Was intercepted. Hope for deliverance was lost Under God's painful discipline, David was suffering because he had given in to some sudden forceful temptation. His conscience was wounded. He had grieved the Spirit. Despite his pain under God's discipline, however, you'll notice that he did not sink into utter despair. He confessed his sin and turned from his sin, and he trusted in what? In the steadfast love of his God and Father. So, believer, are you under God's painful discipline today? Hold fast to that steadfast love of your God and Father He says, it will not depart from you. It will always persevere with you. King David had endured God's painful discipline for his sin, but he also had assurance during his discipline. We see that in verses 3 through 6. You'll notice that here he describes himself as under attack, yes, but not defeated, in peril, but at peace. He does not give up, nor does he give in. Why? Why does he not give up? Why does he not give in Because he had learned who and what his God is to him. Look at verse 3. He knows better the character of his God now. He declares, you are my shield about me. You are my glory. You are the lifter of my head. Let's look at those individually. You arm a shield about me. In him there is safety, protection on all sides from every direction, despite the taunting that you may hear from enemies and even from his own son in David's case. David knew that God is his protection. He's also David's glory, you'll notice. You remember that by his own fault David had no glory of his own anymore. He's now in disgrace, isn't he? The crown has fallen off his head. He's off the throne and out of the palace. The Lord himself is the only glory that David has left, isn't he? Best place to be. The only reason for boasting that David head was the Lord his God and Father. No one other than David's God and Father is or can be his glory. He says, you are the lifter of my head as well. You can well imagine that under God's discipline, David's head dropped from time to time. Yet he knows that it is the character of the Lord his God and Father to restore dignity and position that he had lost by his own iniquity. by his transgression, by his sin. Why does David not give up? Why does he not give in? Because he had learned something of who God and who and what his God is to him. But he also had assurance during his discipline because he had learned not only more about God's character, but also God's care for him. Look at verses four to six in particular. He said, I cried aloud, I cried aloud with my voice, with a shout to the Lord, and he answered from his holy hill, from Mount Zion, the most powerful place in all creation. In heaven and on earth. And look what he narrates. It may be surprising to us. Maybe we can throw some light on it. He says, I lay down and slept I woke up again. Even when I slept, David says, when I was in my most vulnerable state in the midst of warfare and at night. I was safe. I was secure. Why? He tells us. Because the Lord sustained me, he says Since God has shown me his care and his character for me while I sleep, then he says, I will not be afraid of all these enemies that are around me. Against all odds, even in a situation that's calculated to drive me to utter despair, David declares, I will not be afraid. Now ask yourself, as I did myself, where does such assurance come from? David has trusted that the Lord his God meant what he said when he declared when he commits iniquity. Yes, I will discipline him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the sons of men. But did you catch this? But my steadfast love will not depart from him. The Lord had promised never to depart from David, even as one who committed iniquity after he was justified by faith. The Lord had promised always to persevere with him, even when he had committed iniquity. Because of God's steadfast love for him, no one was more safe, no one was more secure in body and soul than David was. Believer, the same is true of all who trust in the Lord, who is now revealed to us in his greater son, David's greater son in Jesus Christ. You see, David learned to trust the character and character and care of God that had been revealed to him according to his word. That's where David's assurance came from. That's where it will come from for you and all other believers also, even during painful fatherly discipline. King David, you see, had assurance even during his discipline. But you'll notice that David prays further in this context. He prayed for God's defeat of his enemies. May sound a bit surprising for us. We're not usually accustomed to hearing prayers for God's defeat of his enemies and our enemies. But you'll notice that David appeals to his greatest ally here in the midst of his spiritual warfare. The divine warrior who fought for him and the kingdom, and who promised his steadfast love for him and the kingdom, is the one to whom he cries, Arise, O Lord! Save me, O my God. In other words, take action now, deliver me, defeat them. He appeals then to his divine ally to do what? Really striking imagery here. To strike all my enemies on the cheek, on the jaw. You've seen pictures of this in other contexts of warfare taking place. Strike them. On the jaw, humble them, shame them for opposing God's anointed. Not only strike them, but break their teeth. Punch them in the mouth. Disarm them is the idea. Make them powerless to harm me The same is true for you, believer, to pray this prayer from time to time. You can pray this prayer as David prayed it. You can pray for God to destroy the works of the devil. We do so in the second petition of the Lord's Prayer. The kingdom come, we pray for God to destroy the works of the devil and every power that raises itself against them, and every conspiracy against his holy word Have you done that prayer recently? A prayer of what we call imprecation, prayer for God to defeat our enemies, the enemies of Christ and His church? You see, David was assured of God's steadfast love for him. And so he prayed that God would defeat his enemies. whom God had used to discipline him too. Lastly, this morning you'll notice that God Through David, David prays and proclaims in that prayer that God's blessing is on his people there in verse 8. David closes his psalm here with the answer to the taunt of his enemies that there is no salvation for him in God. This is David's answer. It is God who is Savior. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Someone else has said, he alone has the right to save, the power to save, the pleasure to save, the promise to save. that all belongs to God alone. He is the one to whom salvation belongs. It is he who says to his believing people, even when they commit iniquity, My steadfast love will never depart from you. It will always persevere with you. And so David can declare, your blessing be on your people. Maybe he says Your blessing is on your people. Either way, God not only has the power to save his people, he assures them of his gracious intentions to do so. You see, God's people, though they are disciplined by their God and accused and condemned by others, are blessed to the end by their God. This psalm is a psalm for any believer who has their assurance and hope of salvation shaken, weakened. Temporarily lost. That ever been your experience? I can virtually guarantee you, every one of us has had that experience. As many of us as have professed faith in our Lord Christ. Maybe you've given in to some sudden, forceful, overwhelming sin, and you've had a wound on your conscience. You've grieved the Holy Spirit. And you're still walking around in a cloud of darkness because God is not shining the light of his countenance on you as he previously did. We now know from this psalm that David's been there too, hasn't he? Because of his own moral failure. But interestingly enough, carried along by the Holy Spirit as the prophet of God, a prophet of God, David has written in this psalm a prayer and a song to teach us. That assurance and hope of salvation is found only in His God, our God. It is God's alone to give this assurance and hope of salvation. And King David teaches us about that assurance and hope, doesn't he? And in doing so, he teaches us that though he was God's choice to be King of Israel. There was no assurance of hope of salvation through him because of his sinful nature and his sinful thoughts, words, and deeds. But elsewhere in these Psalms, he does make known to us that there is another son of David to come. Who will be David's Lord? He will have no moral failures. And for the joys set before him, This son of David, who has come and whom we know as Jesus, suffered not for his own sin, did he, but for the sins of us sinners, the just for the unjust. We know that the life that he lived was one without sin before his God and Father. The death that he died was that sacrifice for the sins of sinners. And once he had done his father's will in life and in death, that same Jesus was raised from the dead, and he is now seated back on the right hand of God's throne from which David had been driven because of his moral failure. You know his name, don't you? He's Jesus, David's son, and David's Lord And God's appeal to you this morning and to me, take King Jesus as your shield Take him as your glory. Take him as the lifter of your head. Then But only then will he become to you the assurance of ass the source of assurance and hope of eternal salvation. Then and only then will you hear his words with refreshed faith. My steadfast love Will not depart from you, even when I discipline you with pain. Let's pray together. Oh Lord our God, how we marvel at David's experience And we pray that by your Spirit, in keeping with your word, that it might be ours as well, grant us The assurance and hope of salvation that comes from our God and Father, even His Son, Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.