Eat along with me, listen carefully. I'll try to uh make it clear as we as we go through it. So Paul well chapter one verse thirty-two He had uh made the case that all men are sinners, and I think he's particularly uh speaking to the Gentiles. saying that uh they stand under God's judgment. Then it says in chapter one verse thirty two, though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. Now in chapter two, he turns to the Jews. And he says, Therefore you have no excuse, O man. Every one of you who judges from passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself, because you the judge practice the very same things We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who do such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and honor and penitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works, to those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil. The Jew first, and also the Greek. But glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good. The Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned without the law will perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness in their conflicting thoughts. accuse or even excuse them on that day when according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness, an instructor of the foolness of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth, you then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? Well, ye preach against stealing, do you steal? Ye who say that one must not have committed must not commit adultery? Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols? Do you rob temples? You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law. For as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision is indeed of value if you obey the law, but if you break the law Your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical, but a Jew is one inwardly and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God A lot there, huh? Yeah, how do you think I felt last Tuesday morning? Well, you know, there's Romans, I mean, there's a lot of there's a lot in this book. And we're gonna take some parts, we're gonna take very small part, uh little segments, and that's that's good. Other parts, I think it's good to take a big chunk. I think about my daughter, Sarah She's very careful about what she eats, so when Becky brings home one of those big bags of MM, she'll take ten out, she'll put them on a napkin on a table, and she'll eat them one at a time. And I'm like, what do you want a knife to cut it in half? But you know, the bag will be sitting on the table. I'll pour it into my hand. And I'll deliver the whole load right there in one shot. And um there's something to be said, and we'll get to chapter A, we're gonna probably take there'll be sec times we'll just take a verse a week But other times, um, you know, chapter two, we're gonna take it in one fell swoop. We wanna because if I preach chapter two in three weeks The bottom line would be the same. So we're going to take it one fell swoop, and I know there's a lot in here that is not familiar. Uh but in a nutshell, this is about God's judgment of the moralists. It's one unit of thought. And so when we look at chapter 2 through a wide lens, we will see that there is much that is relevant uh to us. And what I want to do, and I know this the all this well for many I imagine this is unfamiliar territory. But if you just stay with me, look at four the four headings, I think we can bring some some clarity to chapter two, even if you're not familiar with this passage. And so the first thing I want you to notice about this. Is the bad news as you look at not just chapter 2, but how chapter 2 fits into the sweep of Paul's argument in Romans. We see that the bad news of God's judgment precedes the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ. So I want you to notice here how Paul lays out the message of salvation in this letter. And I think this is very instructive. He does not begin his letter by saying, You're a sinner and you need a savior. When we begin our discussion of the gospel with somebody who's not a Christian like that, you're a sinner and you need a savior They can very well say, well that's fine for you, but I'm okay as I am, and so no thanks. Paul doesn't operate like that. When Paul makes his case in the book of Romans, he begins by saying, You're a sinner, and one day you're going to meet a judge. Look at verse 5. So Paul's writing here to the Jews. He says it says that in verse 17. He's talking to the Jews. But in verse 5 He says, Because of your hard and in penitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. And so that's how he begins. In fact, in chapter 14, verse 10, he says something similar. He says, we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Now this approach of saying, not merely you're a sinner, but you're a sinner and you're going to one day meet a judge is quite common in scripture. We see it in the book of Acts and ch in Acts chapter ten, uh Peter uh was preaching. And uh he first this is Acts chapter 10 verse 42 and 43. You don't have to turn to it, but if you want to. But anyway, Peter in that sermon He alerts his hearers that they will all stand before the judgment seat of God. After he says that He talks about how they can find forgiveness in Jesus Christ. So in Acts 10, verse 42, we see Peter preaching, Christ commanded us to preach to the people and to testify. That he is the one appointed by God to judge the living and the dead. Okay? So it talks about Jesus Christ. He's going to be the judge. And then in verse 42, he goes on to say, or verse 43, he goes on to say: everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his names. And so it's only after speaking about the final judgment does Peter then turn to talk about forgiveness that is offered by believing in Christ. And so you're not going to appreciate the good news. And this is I want the kids to hear this, right? You've been in church all your life, you heard all this all your life. But you're not going to appreciate the good news. Until you understand your desperate condition outside of Jesus Christ. So that is why in Romans, from chapter 1, verse 18, all the way to chapter 3, verse 20, Paul makes this case that we're all sinners and we have no hope apart from Jesus Christ So last week we looked at chapter 1, where Paul made the case, chapter verse 18 and 32. The Gentiles are sinners. Now chapter 2, all the way up to chapter 3, verse 8, he makes the case, the Jews are sinners. Then chapter 3, verse 9 to 20, he caps it off by saying, we're all sinners. We're all completely depraved. And we have no hope. Chapter 3, verse 10. None is righteous, no, not one. Okay? And so the reason the Bible speaks about the final judgment is to alert us. Especially those outside of Christ. If you're not a Christian, you need a Savior. Jesus said the same thing in Mark chapter two. Remember, he said, it's not the sick, who or excuse me, he said The sick have no need of a physician. Did I say that right? The healthy have no need of a physician. It's the sick, right? You have to realize you have a problem And so that's why the Bible puts this emphasis on our sin, on our spiritual bankruptcy, on our hopelessness. So some people say, well, that's negative, and I don't want to hear that. I want to go to church to be encouraged, just be nice with the pastor to pour some warm milk over me and uh make everything better. But no, the Bible is wonderful news, but it does say You need to recognize you need a savior, okay? And so my question then, as we finish out of the first point, Is, are you ready to stand before God as your judge? Because one day you will stand before God. And the message of the gospel, the message of Romans, is that you can be ready if you know Jesus Christ. That's the first thing. Here's the second thing. And this gets more to really the center, the the the the the theme of chapter two Paul makes clear to his Jewish readers, now remember he wrote this to the church in Rome, composed mostly of Gentiles, but also some Jews who became Christians. And he says, God will judge not only pagans, but he's also going to judge the moralists. He's going to judge not only the pagans, but also the Jews. And remember I said in verse from verse 17, we know he's talking to the Jews because he says there, if you call yourself a Jew, okay? And so think about this The letter of Romans is being read to the church, and the Jewish Christians heard this first part from chapter 1, where Paul condemned the pagan world, right? And you can imagine they were licking licking their chops and they were nodding their heads and they were saying, yeah, uh, and rightly so, because those pagans deserve it. And so it's at that point when you get to chapter two, Paul turns his guns on the Jews, and he says. You better get off your high horse because you are guilty of the same sin. And outside of Jesus Christ, you too would stand under God's judgment. So go back to chapter 2, verse 1 again. Let's see this. Therefore, you have no excuse, O men, every one of you who judges, for impassing judgment on another, you condemn yourself. Because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who do such things. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who do such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? We go down to verse 21. Same thing. You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? Yes, the questions While you preach against stealing, do you steal? Ye who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? Ye who abhor abhor idols, do you rob temples? And so he's saying, listen, it's not just your religion, it's not just your outward mor moral moral uh record that's going to commend you to God. And we're the same way, right? We say, you shouldn't gossip, but oftentimes we speak ill of others. Uh we condemn others for their immoral for their uh immorality But sometimes we secretly envy them. If we could get a away with it, hey, you know, maybe I would do that too. Or we don't like upity people. And yet certainly there are times or people uh that we look down on. And um so and typically, I don't know about you But I'm hard on others when they fall short, but I excuse myself. And so this is what Paul's saying. You who judge others are you going to excuse yourselves? And so the Jews presume that because they were Jews, because they were God's chosen people That they would enjoy God's unconditional favor. Look at verse four Paul asks them, do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience? Yeah, they were presuming. That was a Jewish mindset. In fact, there was an ancient Jewish writing. It's not in the Bible. It's an ancient Jewish writing. It's called the Wisdom of Solomon. And it made statements to this effect. Here's one of them. Or the Jews say to God, But you are God excuse me, but you are God, are kind and true and patient and ruling all things in mercy. For even if we sin, we are yours. That's what Paul's addressing in the Jewish mindset. You know God'll I'm one of God's people, and so that's fine. And we're the same, right? Or most of us are I'm forgiven, I believe in Jesus Christ. Yeah, I shouldn't do that, but you know, God'll forgive me. That's what Paul is speaking about. And then he adds in verses twenty-five to twenty-nine that the Jews' circumcision is of no value if their hearts have not been set apart to God. Verse 28, let me just read that again. I know I'm I'm going back and forth here, verse 28. There he says, for one who is a Jew, excuse me, for no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly. Nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from God, not from men, uh but from God. And so for the Jews, because they were circumcised, I thought, you know what I'm good with God no matter what they did. We could be like that, right? It pretty easy connection, right? I was baptized or I prayed to receive Christ or uh I joined the church. Uh you're not a Christian, Paul says. If you're only one outwardly, you know you have a church membership or you know your daddy was a Christian and your grandpappy was a Christian. Well, that doesn't make you a Christian. It's just not outwardly. There must be an inner engagement with Jesus Christ Because verse 11, God shows no partiality. God's righteous judgment will not only fall on the pagans, but it will fall on self-righteous moralists. And so the upshot is don't trust in your record to give you favor before God, right? Don't trust in your moral efforts, don't trust in your religion. But you must genuinely be resting on Jesus Christ and receive his righteousness. Let's go on, okay? Here's something a little surprising. I want you to concentrate on this. Point three. And listen before you go. Point three. God's judgment according to Romans. God's judgment is according to works. Huh? Look at verse six. Right there. He will render to each one according to his works. That's not the only place. Revelation 20, verse 12. Says the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. Matthew 16, 27. Jesus. Said, the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, then he will repay each person according to what he has done. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 10. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. And so you go, wait a minute, what's going on here? Right? Chapter 1, verse 16 and 17. It says we're saved by the gospel. It says that we're saved by faith alone, right? The Bible teaches we're saved by faith alone and Christ alone. In fact The Apostle Paul, unless he's schizophrenic, in chapter 3, verse 20, he said, By works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. Chapter 3, verse 22 The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Nothing said about works there. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. A lot of you know that one, right? It's by grace you've been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It is a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. So how does that all fit together, right? Well, here we go. We're saved by faith, right? I don't just mean by faith, I don't just mean intellectual descent. I mean resting on Christ, right? Trusting in Christ as your Savior. We're saved by faith. However, The final judgment is based on our works, on what we do. How's that? Well, because works are the evidence of genuine faith, right? So good deeds or good works or morality They're not the cause of our salvation, but they are the proof of our salvation. So that's one of James 2. 18. James said, I will show you my faith by my works. James 2. 17. Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. And so if a person is truly trusting in Jesus Christ, then it will express itself in a changed life. It won't express itself in perfection, right? We still struggle with sin. But there will be some change. Change will be taking place. We'll be a different person than we were five years ago. Yeah, many of the same sin patterns. But there's other areas where I made some progress. So I say, yeah, God's God's done a work in me. I feel a little I feel some confidence that I I'm I'm truly saved. I'm not just making some kind of uh verbal or intellectual uh ascent uh to the gospel. And so good deeds are not the cause of our salvation. through the evidence of our salvation. So that's why the Bible says the final judgment is based on our works, is based on the evidence, right? And so I ask you, do you see in yourself the marks of Christian conversion? I'm not saying are you uh without flaw. But do you see some marks of Christian conversion? You go to the New Testament, Galatians 5, 22 and 23, right? It talks about the fruit of the Spirit. In other words, the marks of someone who is inhabited by the Holy Spirit. And again, then it gives us a list of character traits. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Hey, do I see any change in those areas over the years? Uh do I have a conscience? Uh is my conscience pricked? when I continue to fail in one of these areas. Well that's a good sign. Another good reading on this topic is what are the marks of conversion? 1 John, the letter of 1 John. You can go through that book and I count up five different marks of how you can tell that you've passed from death to life. You love other people. You love the brothers. Pretty simple, right? Jesus said, if you don't love the brothers, not a good sign, even though they're angular and they have all these strange ways about them. There should be some love for other people, for other Christians. He acknowledged that Jesus is God's anointed Son. Third one in 1 John You seek to obey God's commands. That's chapter 3, verse 9, chapter 2, verse 15. You don't love the world? Right? It's distasteful. Doesn't mean it's not attractive, but you you look at it clearly, you go, no. There's something wrong with this. This is not right. It's distasteful. Then chapter 4, verse 6, you have an interest. In hearing God's word. This book's from God. You see this? I want to know what it says. I want to know God. I want to know what this is all about. So that's why Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount said, by their fruits, you'll recognize them. And so works are important. It's not a means of salvation. You'll never be saved by works because you'd have to be perfect. But they certainly are an evidence of salvation that yeah, you're seeking to live for Jesus Christ now. If you have any problem with that, or I'm actually you got a problem with that? I'm from New Jersey. You guys got a problem with that? No, I'm not saying that like that. I'm saying if you if it's confusing, uh let's let's try to sort through that uh one on one, because that's very important to understand the gospel. Fourth thing, final thing. And here's something else. I think it's really interesting. It says, God will judge people according to the light that they have been given. Okay? That's verse 12 to 16. So, God gave the law, right, his command, summarized in the Ten Commandments, but he gave his moral law to the Jewish people. Remember? Moses given the law to the people. Every day they heard the law read in the synagogue. What about the Gentiles? Right? They didn't have the law. It doesn't seem fair that they should be judged by God if they did not receive his commandments like the Jews. And so Paul addresses this. And he says, though the Gentiles did not receive God's law inscribed on stones. God has still written it on their hearts. So look at verse 14. Verse 14 He says, For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires. They are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them. So Paul is saying that God has installed in every individual a conscience, right? Everybody knows there's a God in their heart of hearts. Everybody knows we have an inner duty to this God. Everybody knows You shouldn't lie, you shouldn't steal, you shouldn't teach, uh shouldn't cheat, shouldn't teach you shouldn't I say you shouldn't cheat, uh you sho Then murder You should not commit adultery. You should honor your parents. Okay? So, tribes in their most remote places on the face of the earth that are isolated from other cultures still missionaries have found everybody has a commitment to these general moral principles. How can this be? And Romans 2. 15 says because God has written his commands on their hearts And their conscience bears witness to them. So when we fell into sin, our consciences were damaged. But they weren't destroyed, right? So and that's why we pass judgment on our own behavior all the time, don't we? Hey, that was something good I did Shouldn't have done that, and I feel ashamed of it. I feel like I fell short, right? What is that? It's our conscience. And w in this moral law that God has given us is we pass judgment on other people too, all the time, right? We can't help it. It's just part of who we are. That was mean. That was selfish or self-centered or whatever it is. But it's this this component that God has placed within us. One one of the great Reformed theologians, uh Corneli Cornelius Ventil. He said the most depraved man cannot fully escape the voice of God because they're made in God's image And God has placed us within each of us. And so that's why Paul says, the Gentiles they will not be judged by God's written law. But they will be judged by the standard that they have known, by the moral compass that God has placed within them. Look at verse 12. Go back. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. Okay? And so somebody who's never heard the gospel or heard about God or the God of the Bible, they're still going to be judged for their sin Uh because there they know God's law in their heart of hearts, okay? And they know that they did not do the right thing. And so that's a bit of a I don't know, I shouldn't say a bit, I think we pretty much uh nailed, I hope we did, mail nailed the f the main uh contours of Romans chapter 2, encourage you to go home. If you're not familiar with it, read it closely and take that outline with you. But I think the big takeaway is that, yes, we're all going to stand before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. That's what Paul is is hammering in these first three chapters of Romans. You know, last week we had a very uh blistering passage that talks about God's judgment God's wrath being poured out on all mankind. And now in chapter two, he continues. He says, Yeah, uh the Jews, you guys are sinners too So after this, aren't you like, well let's just get on now uh to the good news. But Paul doesn't do that yet. You get to chapter three. He goes on for the first eight verses to talk about uh Continue talking about the sinful Jews. And then in the coup de graph, verses 9 to 20, he talks about we're all totally depraved, okay? We're all completely lost. And um yeah, I think about Jonathan Edwards, the great American preacher in the 1700s, uh he he preached a blistering sermon on the judgment of God and eternal damnation. And uh one of his parishioners just cried out, Mr. Edwards, is there no mercy with God? And he said, Well, we're gonna have to wait till next week for that. Well It's even worse here. You're going to have to wait two weeks before we really get to the gospel, which begins in chapter 3, verse 21. But Paul really he takes us apart. And if you read Romans on your own during the week, this is your condition outside of Jesus Christ. But then when we get to chapter 3, verse 21 and 22, in the rest of the letter, we hear the good news. Chapter 3, verse 21, just as a preview. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believed So that's at that point we'll get to the good news. And so hang in there, as it says Paul wrote in second 1 Thessalonians 1 10. Jesus Christ delivers us from the wrath to come. And so my question is the obvious one. Have you taken hold of Jesus Christ as your deliverer? And if you have Then you could go to bed tonight, you could put your head down on your pillow, you're in good shape. All is well in the universe because you're right with the holy God and King of the universe. And you're invited to the Lord's table, right? So the Lord's table is a confirmation that you're forgiven, right? Jesus invites you to his banquet. Hey, I'm a sinner. Well no, if you're trusting in Christ, your sins have been paid for, and you've been clothed in pure white garments of Christ's righteousness. So you're welcome to come, and you're welcome to sit at his table, and you're welcome to f to feast with him. So this is the confirmation. If you're a Christian, this is the confirmation of your forgiveness. If you're not a Christian, it's a wake-up call, right? Because this little banquet we're having this morning is just a token of the great heavenly banquet. And you're not there yet. And so you do need to turn from your going your own way, turn from your sin, and you do need to lean on Jesus Christ as your Savior. Well, let's bow our heads. I do pray, Lord, that uh each of us will recognize that It's not our righteousness that could ever commend ourselves to you, but it's only the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And we thank you That you have provided that and that is for anyone who would reach out to you who would receive you uh by just trusting that Christ is their King and their Savior. So I pray for though if there's any of those folks here. I pray, Lord, they'll see, they'll believe, they'll turn from going their own ways, and they'll receive this free gospel. We do thank you, Lord, for all that you've done for us. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.