In the last book of the Old Testament, Malachi, Malachi chapter two. This is sort of an obscure book, but really um there's a lot in it And we happen upon now, so well, we've been happening upon some very concrete topics as we've gone through Malachi. And that's certainly the case this morning So in chapter one, uh well, you know, Malachi's rebuke, I said this last week, so it's not a happy book. Uh it it's it's an upgrading of Israel. And uh we can certainly uh listen to this and and also uh be uh be rebuked in in many ways and also be reminded the grace of God. But in chapter one, the Israelites uh didn't show any love for God, and God spells it out to them. Then the le the problem was the leaders in Israel They were corrupt. The priests, chapter 1, verse 6 to the end of chapter 2, verse 9, the priests were corrupt. They were They were not offering right worship to God. They were not worshiping God with pure hearts and sincerity and according to God's word And also they weren't teaching the people God's law. So that's really the foundation of the problem of Israel. And now in chapter 2, verses 10 to verse 16. God rebukes the uh the men for being faithless to their wives and also for marrying women who did not follow the God of Israel. So I'm going to read chapter 2, verse 10, up to verse 16, and then our sermon is up to verse 12, and then next week we'll talk about 13 to 16, which talks about divorce. So chapter 2, verse 10. We read, have we not all one father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profane profaning the covenant of our fathers? Judah has been faithless, and abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god. May the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob any descendant of the man who does this, who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. In this second thing you do, You cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. But you say, Why does he not? Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Did he not make them one, with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth. For the man who hates and divorces, says the Lord the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence. says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless. Now it's interesting you'll find the word faithless five times in these verses. The Israelites had grown faithless to God. And as it turns out, uh if you're faithless to God If you break faith with God, sooner or later, it's very likely you're going to end up breaking faith with other people. And In this section, verses ten to sixteen, Amalachi points out how Israel's unfaithfulness toward God um corrupted the most fundamental of human relationships, the relationship between a husband and his wife So as I mentioned, I'll just summarize it again. There are two basic acts of faithfulness that Malachi condemned in verses 10 to 16. The first act was what we're going to look at this morning, verses ten to twelve. The Israelite men were marrying women who worshipped foreign gods. Look at the end of verse eleven. For Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord which she loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign God. So that means if she's the daughter of a foreign God, she still worshipped that God. And then the second act, a way that they were unfaithful in their marriages, is that the Israelite men were divorcing their wives. That's in verses 13 and 16. We're going to look at that next week. verse also raises the uh topic of what is the purpose of marriage and there are a number of purposes one or two are mentioned here and we'll look at the rest of the what the Bible says about the purposes of marriage And so um this next two weeks is on is on marriage, but on in verses 10 to 12 we have this very specific statement. It's a prohibition that a believer should not marry an unbeliever. I have a book of short stories by Flannery O'Connor on my bed tape, my night table. And one of the stories has a title, The Life You Save May Be Your Own. So I want to say to our young people, I want to say to our single people. Listen to what this says, because the life you save may be your own. And this warning comes from a God who is good, who loves you, who is all wise, who has designed the universe to be lived uh d designed us to live in a universe in a certain manner that is productive and purposeful And so it's very important that we that we hear what the Book of Malachi says on this issue. Because we see here, we see in the New Testament, we just read a passage from 1 Corinthians seven, 1 Corinthians 7, 39. It says believers may not marry unbelievers. You can marry just about anybody you want, but there's a couple stipulations in Scripture. That person cannot be currently married That person must be divorced on biblical grounds, which is another discussion for another day, and if not, there needs to be repentance And then also this person must be a believer. First Corinthians seven thirty-nine said, uh she's this a widow is free to be married to whom she wishes. But then Paul says Only in the Lord. So that's a very clear statement from the New Testament only in the Lord. And that's just the New Testament follow-through on what we see here in the book of Malachi. So we're going to ask the question first of all, why? Why does the Bible prohibit believers from marrying unbelievers? Especially when there are so many nice good uh decent unbelievers out there who might apparently make or at least in many ways make uh good good a good husband or a good wife. And uh there's a number of reasons. There's a couple here I want to mention from Malachi and then I want to expand it a little bit And so the first reason it gives us why we should not marry unbelievers is that it violates our covenant with God. And so The nation of it God excuse me, God had chosen the Hebrews, which later became the nation of Israel. God had chosen them to be his special people. There was nothing special about them. They didn't deserve it. But God was gracious and he chose the people of Israel. He entered into a covenant with them, this commitment that God made to Abraham and his descendants, and he said, I'm going to be your God, and you're going to be my people. I'm going to bless you. I'm going to multiply you, and all nations on the earth will be blessed through you. Right? And there's not many people here of a Jewish descent. So we see that promise came true because we are heirs of that promise. We're part of all the nations that came to know the God of Israel. In response to this gracious covenant that God made with the people of Israel, they were to worship God alone and they were to obey his commands. Because God was the fat God is the God sorry, God was the Father of Israel. Look at verse 10 He says to these Jewish people, Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers? And so the first reason, and it might not strike you right or scratch you right where you're itching. But the first reason is just a fundamental statement that it violates our covenant with God. We are part of God's set apart people And we don't want to violate that covenant. A second reason Malachi gives is that it violates the unity of God's people. Let me explain. And this it's not uncommon for a professing Christian who makes a decision to marry somebody who's not a Christian. And then when you alert them or point that out, you know, that's n we're that violates scripture. It's not uncommon for them to react and say, you know what, this is none of your business. This is none of the church's business. This is my business alone. And that has nothing to do with you or with the church. But Scripture speaks otherwise. It says The Bible says to marry an unbeliever is to deal treacherously with the Christian community. The end of verse 10. God says, has not one God created us? Now he's talking not talking about their physical their physical creation. But he said he's talking about the fact that God constituted Israel as a particular nation. And it wasn't based on their ethnicity because people from other nations became part of Israel. Remember Ruth, the Moabitus? She became part of Israel when they left Egypt. uh Egyptians went out uh with the Israelites uh uh uh uh uh in the Exodus in Joshua you had Rahab the harlot Uh she wasn't an Israelite, what was she, an Amrite? Can't remember. But anyway, she came in to the people of God. So God constituted Israel as a particular nation that was set apart and was distinguished by her allegiance to God. And the same is true of the church The church, when I say the church, I'm not talking about this church or that church. I'm talking about the universal church, those who are trusting in Jesus Christ alone for their salvation. The church, the Bible teaches that the church is set apart as a distinct holy community to God. For example, in Titus 2. 14. Paul writes that Christ died to purify for himself a people for his own possession. And so just like Israel in the Old Testament, the church is the fulfillment of that. The church is the New Testament. people of God. Paul said in Galatians 6. 16, he called the church, the Israel of God. And so we are set apart. And so for one person, one Christian to marry somebody who's outside this community is to violate that covenant with God and also to corrupt. the Christians you the Christian church's uni with God as a distinct people. Alright, so there are two reasons from verse 10. Maybe a little abstract to some, but let's let's get a little more concrete here, a little more personal. A third reason that the Bible teaches that we should not marry unbelievers uh is that it joins you with someone of a different nature. What? Well let let's think about this, okay 2 Corinthians 6. 14 addresses this in a general manner. It gives a principle that applies to many relationships. Not the least of which is marriage. There, Paul writes to the Christians in Corinth: Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship has light and darkness? Now it was just talk about being unequally yoked Well, it's a word picture that goes back to the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 22, verse 10, where there was a prohibition. For farmers. When you're plowing your field, don't plow with an ox and a and a bull or an ox and a donkey joined By the same yoke. Don't do that. First of all, it's cool to the animals because they they have different natures And it's not going to work. They have completely different natures. You cannot plow a field With these two fundamentally different beasts yoked together. And also, they're going to respond differently to the leading of the master. And so if you yoke them together, they're never going to perform in the way that their master desires them to perform. And um the Bible says that though a Christian and an unbeliever can both be Eminently delightful people, they can both be caring and kind and considerate But they nonetheless have fundamentally different natures. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if you're in Christ, you're a new creation Christ is in you. You've been made alive in Jesus Christ. So when you become a Christian, you receive a new nature. The unbeliever is still, Ephesians 2. 1, is still spiritually dead. That person does not know Jesus Christ. And so that's a fundamental distinction. I'm not saying Christians are better people or more noble people. I'm just saying that God, if you're a Christian, God by his grace has imparted to you spiritual life. And so there is a fundamental difference between who you are for all your flaws and uh even the most virtuous unbeliever, you are still people of fundamentally different natures. So it's not just that you have a different set of religious values. Oh, we'll just live together and we'll work that out. No, that's not the fundamental problem. The fundamental problem, again, is that you have two different natures. And so when you get married and you struggle in your marriage, as ninety-nine point eight percent of people do when they get married, right? And you say, well, we're going to have to go talk to somebody, the marriage counselor or the pastor or a friend, or we'll go to the re-engaged marriage group, which I hear is really good. But you're going to You're gonna you'll go to that, you know, go to a counselor, right? Or some friend or and you're, you know, it's you and your husband or wife who's not a Christian. And they can say, well, all right, here's how you can communicate better. And here's how here's some things you can do to help you when you're having conflict, maybe help you work through these things in a more civil manner. And uh, hey, here's this book on love languages. You can learn to speak each other's love languages, and maybe that will help your marriage. So there's a lot of things that a friend or a pastor or a maybe a counselor can do. But there's only s one thing, there's something one thing they can do, and that is they cannot change that person's nature. That's only something that God can do. And God does it, right? And it's happened in our church. And I should have asked permission, but there's I mean, Dan Court, right, after years, and he came to our church for ten years with Katie, then he became a Christian. So it happens. Uh well I forget what the conversation was, but yeah I believe this stuff. It sort of went along those lines, right? So yeah, God changed we're thankful for that. And then uh others too. And um That but that we don't want to I don't I want to say to those who are Christians and single or young people, you can't bank on that and you should not presume upon God And you should not violate his commands, especially if you want to be a witness to this person whom you have a heart for. Do not get into a serious relationship with someone until they're a Christian. And that invite them to church and talk about the Bible. And God make brings people to Christ, right? I mean most people in the church became Christians in their adult years, and so it happens, but do not presume upon God by saying, oh yeah, we'll get married, and we love each other so much uh that everything's just gonna be fine. And I trust that God's gonna convert uh my wife or my husband. Because that that's wrong and and oftentimes or I said more often than not It's not the case. Uh the unbeliever is going to bring the believer down as opposed to the other way around. We've seen that. So that's uh that's a third reason uh why we should not marry unbelievers. And then the fourth reason, letter D is it can it can turn us away from God. You see that taught in Deuteronomy chapter seven, verses three and four. God says, You shall not intermarry with them, those who worshiped other gods. That's the end of verse or verse three, and then you skip it to verse four. For they would turn away your sons from following me to serve other gods. And so if you marry an unbeliever, uh no matter how wonderful she or he uh may be, uh you're ever going to be torn, you're forever going to be torn in two directions, right? Between your spouse and wanting to be faithful and uh a a companion to your spouse and then your allegiance to uh Jesus Christ. And um even if you you continue going to church once you get married and you're you're going to church alone, uh you'll you'll no longer uh be able to have a single-minded allegiance uh to Jesus. You're not gonna be able to have exercise hospitality at your house, or it'll be very unlikely. You're not going to be able to have a common devotional life where you're just talking about the things of God. And um your parents are going to have sorry, your kids are going to have parents Who are singing off different pages. And even if your spouse isn't antagonistic toward Christianity, uh your spouse likely, if he's not a or he or she's not a Christian, will likely be indifferent about that And that will likely have an influence on your children. And then with your values, right, and uh and conflict, you don't have a common court of appeal Uh you know when you get in an argument, uh there a Christian has a sense, I need to get right. I was rude, um, uh and not just because um I want to be decent and civil But but I feel this uh God's law pressing down on my conscience that I need to I need to deal with that. And so that very stern warning, uh I know it's uh uncomfortable for some, uh, but but I share it uh for our young people, for our single people. I share it preeminently because this is something taught in the Bible, and this is something the church uh needs to be teaching. But the Bible is not just like, do this, and if this isn't your situation, you're done for. But hey, you know, uh God meets us where we are. And so what does the Bible instruct Christians sorry, how does the Bible instruct Christians Who are married to unbelievers. And we read 1 Corinthians 7, and Paul said, stay married. That's the situation you're in. Just stay there, you know. And These words were written as encouragement to those who were married, and then they became Christians, and they also applied to those who They got married when they were Christians and their and their spouse isn't a Christian. Well, what's done is done. And um, you know, pray pray that God'll God'll use you So look at the the wonderful case he makes for staying married. So let's go over there to First Corinthians seven again, look at a little more closely. Paul says to the rest chapter seven, verse twelve To the rest I say I not the Lord. Well he was just quoting or referring to some things Jesus said, but now he says here's what I want to add to what Jesus said. And Paul is as as inspired by the Holy Spirit as were Jesus' words, so we take this as gospel. So he said, if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, And she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him Then it says, for the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. Okay? So um When one marriage partner is converted, becomes a Christian, uh that that typically puts some kind of strain on the marriage, right? Because now the Christian has a new set of loyalties and a new set of priorities and ambitions and uh desires and so on. So it puts a strain on the Christian and also puts a strain on the unbelieving spouse, right? Because He or she is saying, I did not sign up for this. She was not like this when we got married, you know, and now I'm married to this holy woman or this holy man You know, like w Kim Kardashian and who's she married to now? Kanye West. I don't know what's going on with Kim Kardashian. I don't follow her. You might be surprised. But If Kanye West is really a Christian, I suspect uh there there are some issues going on there. She didn't sign up for marrying this guy now who who's this Christian, this this holy man. But anyway, so it causes this conflict. And uh Paul gives a couple reasons uh why Christians who are married to unbelievers should remain committed to their marriage. And very interesting in verse 14, he says, having one Christian in the home sets apart that unbelieving spouse in the eyes of God. Do you see verse 14? He said For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife. It's not saying that his nature is transformed and he becomes a holy person, but it's just saying That the word holy just means most fundamentally set apart. And all it's saying is that if one partner is a Christian Then the other partner, the unbeliever, is somehow set apart in the eyes of God. He receives some kind of benefit. And the most obvious benefit is that. That unbeliever is exposed to the wit a witness to Jesus Christ up close. Okay? So you're, if you're an unbeliever and you're married to a Christian, hey, you're privileged and you need to come to know Jesus Christ. And also Paul says in the end of verse 14, your children are set apart, even though they're not Christians. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is they're holy, it's saying they too are set apart, they enjoy a spiritual benefit, right? They have the influence of a Christian father or a Christian mother in their house, and that's That's a tremendous uh witness and uh privilege for the child to have. And by the way, that's one reason we baptize the children of Christians. We're not saying that baptism makes that child a Christian We're just saying there's a privilege to have a Christian parent or Christian parents in your home. And that's just a sign that they're inside the community of believers and they have to come to know Christ. of someday. And so how does the Bible advise Christians who are married to unbelievers? It says, stay married, okay? And the second thing it says, turn to First Peter, turning back to First Peter. is uh Peter says uh to wives in particular he says to Christian wives who are married to husbands who are not believers uh that they here's here's here here's how you conduct yourself You conduct yourself in a way that points your husband to Christ through your manner of wife. your manner of of wife, omerfut, your manner of life. Okay? And so um and I uh if you're a Christian lady and your husband's not Christian Here's the secret. You know, if God is going to use you to bring your husband to know Jesus Christ, Here's how he's going to do it. It's right here. 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. Peter writes, likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands. So that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives When they see your respectful and pure conduct. So Peter is saying it's your behavior Not so much your words that God will use to awaken your unbelieving spouse to the truth of Jesus Christ. That's pretty that's a that's a that's a liberating con uh concept there, right? Um you don't have to jump At every opportun you know, I'll just say to Christian ladies who are married to unbelievers, you don't have to feel like I need to jump at every opportunity uh to tell my husband about uh Jesus. I need to talk about Here's why I believe, here's why you should believe, and here's why you're a fool for not believing. You don't have to do that. You don't have to have that conversation twenty-four hours a day. You don't need to leave Christian literature all over the house, you know, next to the toilet, you know, your devotional guide or whatever, your evangelistic child You don't have to have the Christian radio station on whenever you're in the car. You don't have to tell your Christian friends, hey, can you talk to my husband about the gospel? You don't have to do any of that. Peter says basically what you need to do is to be a loving, kind, supportive, submissive wife And the same principle holds in many ways for husbands. Not that the husbands are to be submissive, but we're to be loving, kind, supportive. To say, you know, I I was wrong, will you forgive me? I mean some marriages, it's been that, whoa He's really changed. He was talking a lot about Christianity, but something's different about him now. He's never done that before. Or or to be more considerate, to be less self-centered. This has a tremendous impact, right? To be a servant of the other and looking out for the other's interest. This is what gets a person's attention, the unbelieving spouse's attention. And so uh very simple and very very it's it's revolutionary though. And so we want to pray. For our are folks who are Christian folks who are married uh to their spouses are not Christians, at least not Christians yet. Continue to pray. But also remember, this is God's work. But if God does it, typically He does it through your change. And we've seen that happen in this church But also remember how we started out, I want to say to our young people and our single people, the life you save may be your own. And the Bible is very clear that as you head toward marriage, the only people whom you should be considering are those who are Christians. And not just some guy or some girl that says, Yeah, I'm a Christian or yeah, I go to church or or occasionally go to church. That doesn't cut it. I mean uh you want to marry someone who has who understands the gospel, someone whose character no not just a great guy or great girl But you see the evidence of Christian conversion, you see the fruit of Christian uh of the work of God in that person's life. This person wants to tell others about Jesus. This person has a high view of their church. They want to be a part of it. They want to serve in it. They want to worship God. They're spiritual self-starters. I said that for many years to myself. I don't want to marry a woman who might have to drag the church. I mean I want to marry someone who is a spiritual self-starter, uh somebody who's gonna wants to know the scripture, someone who has a personal prayer life That's what you want. And that's eminently attractive when it's done in a humble, Christ-centered manner. And so that's that's an that's an exhortation to our singles and to our young people. And um And it's all in God's hands, right? And I was single for a long time, so I understand. And I wanted to get married from the get-go. I mean in college I was looking and I was looking and then finally when I was thirty three I met Becky and we were in a Chinese restaurant the The second night we went out, and a lady from the church I was pastoring came in. She said, Who is this? And I said, This is Dee G. DG, I said dream girl. And Becky thought I was a complete dork uh for saying that. But nonetheless, all I'm saying is, yeah, it's a long road, but this is you know whether God fulfills that desire or not. Uh This is what it means to follow Christ. I'm going to I'm going to trust Jesus Christ to provide for me. And there is going to be lonely times. And we need to