Huh? Oh yeah. And if you're age four or under and you can walk, I want to ask if you are you're welcome to go with Miss Linda Babcock, Mrs. Linda Babcock. That way. Alright, all these distractions. Okay, I think I got it. So anyway, um there were seven letters that Jesus gave by an angel to the pro to the apostle John, and then he delivered these seven letters to seven churches in Asia Minor, and this would be in present-day Turkey. And this morning we're in chapter three, the first section there. It's the fifth letter, the letter to So let us read chapter 3. John writes unto the angel of the church in Sardis write the words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know your works. You have a reputation for being a life But you are dead. Wake up and strengthen what remains and is about to die. For I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember then what you received and heard. Keep it and repent. If you will not wake up, I will be like come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will be I will come against you. Yet you still have a few names in Sardis, people who have not thrown their garments, and they will walk With me in white, for they are worthy. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Now It's interesting if you followed, and I know we had a couple weeks off from Revelation, but if you follow the first four letters, uh this fifth letter is a little bit different. Um Jesus is not charge the believers and Sardis with any great heresy as he had done earlier churches. He does not uh charge them with uh committing acts of idolatry or being engaged in acts of sexual immorality, but his only beef against the people in this church is that the majority of them are sluggers. They're spiritually complacent. And I think this is notable Because if ever there were a message in these seven letters for the church in America, it is the message here because We we're we can be comfortable. I think about Amos 6. 1 where God said to the people of Israel, You are at ease in Zion. And we can be like that, especially after uh we've been a Christian for several years. Sometimes uh we fall into a bit of a routine and uh we we slack off our practice of prayer. Uh uh can become perfunctory. Our engagement uh with the scripture uh can be hit or miss depending on what else we have going on We can become content with an outward moral respectability, but not have as a serious uh zeal to grow in holiness, and uh we can lack an interest for the souls of unbelievers around us. And there are some who are you thinking about a uh going out biking, you can draft a a fact I was out biking yesterday. And I saw these real fast bikers, and some of that guys were drafting uh behind uh the guy in front of them. And that's what it can be like for some families. The husband drafts off the wife or the The wife drafts off the husband or the children draft off their parents. In other words, uh they're not they're not spiritual self-starters but rather uh they're just uh any kind of structure, any kind of spiritual structure in their life is provided uh by another family member who is more Committed. And so this letter is for us. And it comes from, it says in verse 1, him who has the seventh spirit of God and the seven stars. The seven spirits of God. We saw that phrase in chapter one, I think. It's a reference to the Holy Spirit in his Uses the word seven to underline the fullness of his ministry. And then Jesus is described as the one who has the seven stars Go back to chapter 1, verse 20, and I said this some time ago. The best way to interpret Revelation is let it interpret itself, and it does explain what a lot of these symbols are. Chapter 1, verse 20 And so what this is telling us is that God has angels ministering to his churches. This is a testimony that God cares for For us, God helps us along. And um, Jesus' message to the church at Sardis is not solely for them. In fact, in the very last verse of our Section verse six Jesus said, He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And so this is a statement that the contents, the instruction, the commands, and the rebukes in these seven letters are for anyone who has an ear to hear. the word of God. And so first of all, we're going to look at the problem in Sardis. What was the problem? Well, the Christians and Sardis had a reputation that exceeded the reality. They had a reputation For being alive, but in fact they were dead. And churches have reputations, and there are many churches that have reputations that are undeserved A church can have a reputation for being alive. It bustles with activity. And the worship services are lightly Enough. But this can be just an appearance. It could be due to uh skill of organization and the and the style of music that's used, and uh in some cases even due to a theatrics. Or a church can have a reputation for being alive because it's large, right? A lot of people go there. That church must be alive. Well, that's oftentimes the case, right? Because when you see Life it is attractive and people start attending uh such churches. Not always the case. Uh Scottish theologian Sinclair Ferguson made a interesting uh observation about this. He said that in the history of Christianity, enormous churches typically have been signs not of spiritual life, but of spiritual decay. And that's a generalization, of course, but his what he was saying is that there's a reason for this. The larger the congregation the lower, typically, the lower the level of commitment required of its members, right? You can slip in, you can slip out, uh there's Not as much awareness of what's going on in your life, not as much accountability. And so there is some truth in that And so the church in Sardis likewise had a reputation that exceeded the reality. Look at the end of verse 1. Jesus says to these folks, you You have a reputation for being alive, but you are dead. And so at one point, apparently, uh this had then a vibrant church, an earnest church, but now they were dead. They were running on fumes. And uh I don't know if you've ever Notice this, and I've I've read about this churches have life cycles. And so you have to be vigilant. You know, we have to be vigilant as a church. And I even see some of the study in after twenty years. But when a church starts out, there's a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of uh diligent uh uh spiritual uh engagement but as time goes on uh you can but we can become comfortable and we could uh fall into certain certain routines and certain patterns and uh things are things are working out in a comfortable way and so we don't we're not as vigilant uh spiritually, we're not as vigilant about personal piety or about uh learning the scripture and how it applies to our lives and to our families and to our church. We're not as concerned about evangelism because we've reaped a critical mass as if that should be a motivation for evangelism. But there there are the tendencies of churches, and the same is often true uh when when it comes to evangelism of personal piety, right? After you've been a Christian for several years or even uh several decades, it's easy to start running on autopilot And um you might have a regular routine where you read the scripture and you pray, but you're not as engaged in the process. It's more of a uh it's just something you do because that's what you do as a Christian. And uh we can become content uh with some kind of spiritual respectability. 2 Timothy chapter 3 Uh Paul talked about those who have an appearance of godliness, but they deny its power. So this is the problem in Sardis. They have an undeserved reputation And this is something I want you to think about as you examine yourself. Does who you are in private measure up to how you appear in public? Now the ideal would be that our public Persona uh is less than our private persona. But for most of us, we're more concerned about how we appear in public, right? And so this is what we want to think about. This was the disease in Sardis. And I want to take a little bit of time to look at the text a little more closely and consider three symptoms of this Disease, this disease of an undeserved reputation, this disease caused by spiritual complacency And I wanted to note three uh three statements in this section or this uh passage that are really various manifestations of the same problem. The first problem they had, or the first symptom Is that early promise had been unfulfilled. So early promise had been unfulfilled. You see that in the end of verse 2. Jesus said to these folks. I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. In other words, they had a good start, but a disappointing follow-through Yeah what you what you begin, the the works you begin, they have really not been carried out. They have not come to completion. And sometimes you see this in other Christians When I was in my early twenties, I was over went overseas with a missionary group for a year and a half, and one of my cohorts was just uh I thought an outstanding Christian young lady, a lady named or a girl named Liz. And um I was there and Belgium and England and it came back and I don't know whatever happened to Liz. But ten years later I'm watching the news. It wasn't like the news, it was one of those news comments shows and who do I see making it one as one of the talking heads but this woman lives uh as it turned out she became a uh the White House Correspondent for the LA Times. And then later she became an environmental reporter for NPR. And I thought, how did she get from there to there? And um then I read some things that she wrote that were on the internet, and I discovered that she she was she had an opposition to Christianity. How did that change? What happened? What happened to this person? And I saw early promise had not been fulfilled. And I think this is important for our young people to be careful about. I want you to remember that Christian life is not a sprint, you know? It's not something that takes place uh just this little window of your life life, but it's a lifelong uh pro it's a lifelong commitment and so it's not a sprint, it's a marathon. And you want to keep you want to continue You in the most basic rudiments of the Christian life. We're going to talk about what those rudiments are in a little bit. So the first problem in Sardis was that early promises Had not been fulfilled. And another symptom is that early convictions had not been carried out. Early convictions had not been carried out. These people had been instructed and graduated. Founded in the Word of God, but they strayed from it. So that's why if you look at the beginning of verse 1, Jesus says to these people People, remember then what you received and heard. And so they had not followed through on the things that they had been taught. And I think this is important in our church because over the years there are certain themes that are distinctive to A reformed Presbyterian church. There are certain practices in the Christian life that we really encourage people in, and we say These are, you know, these things may be neglected in the larger Christian world, but we think These are some additional practices that are vital to a vibrant Christianity. would be setting apart the Sabbath, right? As a day of worship, as a day of rest, as a day of fellowship with God's people. That doesn't get much discussion in the larger Christian culture, but we look at the the Ten Commandments We see right there number four is this command to set apart the Sabbath day, right? We're not we're not created To go seven days after seven days with never taking a rest, with never attending to the needs of our souls. And so remember what you heard, and you hear this occasionally, right? It comes up in a passage. And some people say I gets on this hobby horse. It's not my hobby horse, it's just something that I see that is so empathy Emphasized in Scripture. Exodus 20, verses 8 to 10. Look at that when you get home. But there's this command, the days to be set apart. And also we're not to even have our servants work for us. And so the application would be we should not hire people to work for us and let it unless it's a work of necessity or worship. And so the problem in Sardis, one of the problems, is that early convictions were not carried out That kind of teaching. Many of you have heard that. Okay. Maybe you have a conviction about it. Maybe you're not persuaded. But if you have a conviction, carry it out. We can say similar things about uh financial stewardship. We can say similar things about establishing a practice where we gathers a family daily, right? Pray to read the scripture to worship God. This is a fundamental uh practice in the Christian Life that we're taught in Scripture and that we've been taught in this church. Public prayer, gathering together with other believers, personal, private, individual prayer, these are all fundamental things. And so What I want to say is that do you share these convictions? Do you see how these things are taught in Scripture? Do you recognize that To make progress in the Christian life, we must remember what we've seen and what we've heard. So that's the second symptom. Let's go to the symptoms. Early promise had not been fulfilled. Early convictions had not been carried out. And then the third thing that Jesus points out To the believers and Sardis, he says in so many words, early purity cannot be maintained. Look at the beginning of verse 4. Jesus says to these people, You excuse me, yet you still have a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments. And so the the by the fact that some have not soiled their garments implies that there were many who had. They had not soiled their garments that's a reference surely to surely to a a sexual purity, but I think it speaks more generally as well of maintaining a clean conscience in a godless culture. And so the application then we could take in many directions, certainly. Of the things we view on TV, the things that we look at on the on our phones or on the uh on the computer screens, uh the things we listen to. And um this past week, or maybe uh well last week, got a text message from our friend that had a little link on it, a little ten minute video. I looked at it, it was It was funny. I laughed out loud. I told my wife about it. And my wife who has a higher spiritual uh sensitivity or higher moral sensitivity. She said yes That's funny, but that's really crude. And um I I forget what she said. But it wasn't an honorable thing to laugh at And so uh we we want to be careful. And so that's the the disease, the symptoms, and then the cure No surprises here, so I'm sorry. But the cure, verses two to three, is basically you need to wake up And you need to repent. Look at verse 2. Jesus says, Wake up and strengthen what remains, and is about to die. For I have not found your remote Works complete in the sight of my God. Remember then what you have what you received and heard, keep it, and repent. So it's a it's like a slap in the face. You need to wake up if you're spiritually complacent. You need to wake up if you need to repent. And I want to focus now I think in that question. is what if he says number three on the middle of verse two. He says strengthen what remains. Strengthen what remains. How do we strengthen what remains of us or what remains in our strength? Well, I got this really fat book on my shelf. It's called The Puritan Theology by a guy in Grand Rapids by Joel Beacon. I bought that years ago. I happen to notice there's an entire chapter devoted to how the Puritans would stir up Christian zeal. I never saw an article or a a book or heard a sermon on that, but there's an entire chapter devoted to this issue of how do you stir up as deal For God, right? Because it's not just something you can say, I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna be more zealous. How does it happen? And um I discover Complete secrets Never discussed down through history. And it's a quick fix. It takes no effort. And so if you'll buy my book, uh No, it's never like that, right? The Christian life, everything's been laid out in the scripture, it's repeated, it's repetitive. How do you grow in your love for Jesus Christ? And your zeal for his glory and for serving him. And it gives the the Puritan said, well, they're just these four basic things. And you've heard them But this is all there is. There there is no secret key. There is no quick fix to growing and and steal. So the first thing they They talked about is prayer. And here's what Vicky wrote, and this is important. He said as the grace of God is dealing with So by the grace of God, we say it's something God gives, it's something God imparts to a person's heart, right? You don't just say I'm gonna be more zealous like a little train that could. No, he goes on, as the grace of God God, it must be asked for by prayer, humbly offered in the name of Christ. So in other words, order I'm sort of tried Can you can you would you work in me? Would you awaken me spiritually that I might love you and be zealous for you and for your honors and for your name and for the extension of your glory amongst men. So we pray. Right? Strength and work remains. So we pray. You might not say I'm going to pray for two hours this afternoon, but you just begin the practice, right? You pray more often, you pray for mentally. Second thing is the Word of God, right? God has instruments. We use the phrase means of grace. God has instruments that He has ordained for our spiritual nurture. So but next to the prayer we have the Word of God. And so I want to be more engaged in the scripture. I want to take time to read it and to reflect on it and even take certain times where I also study it and learn more about it in private. I certainly want to be uh sitting under the reading and the preaching of God's Word in public So here he said, the word means our passion and love for God, which he graciously placed in our hearts. And so it's God's word that nurtures and enlivens our passion for Jesus Christ. Here's a third one, okay? See this is often in little books on how to grow. But this is huge. Christianity is not an individual matter, it's a corporate matter. And so the Puritans will talk about the importance of church attendance, of being In fellowship of being in in the public worship services of the church. JC Riley wasn't a Puritan, but he had a great comment on this. He said never to be absent from God's house on Sundays without good reason. Never to miss the Lord's Supper when it ministered. Never to let Let our place be emptied when means of grace are going on. This is one way to be a growing and prosperous Christian. Then he goes on The very sermon that we may needless excuse me, the very sermon that we needless needlessly miss May contain a precious word in season for our souls. The very assembly for prayer and praise from which we stay away may be the very gathering that would appear And established and quickened our hearts. We know little how our spiritual health is dependent on regular habitual health and how much we suffer if we miss our medicine. And so the mean That the Puritans use the stir of repentance, prayer, the Word of God, staying in a fellowship and the worship services with God's Word. people. And then the fourth one is ongoing repentance and resistance against sin. So he saying we have a responsibility. It's not solely our responsibility. Sanctification is a is a is a work that God does in us. We participate. So Philippians 2. 13 says about God's part. It is God who works in you to will and to work for his good pleasure. So there Paul's saying spiritual growth is something that God imparts. But at At the same time, we have commands in scripture that say we need to exert ourselves. We need to resist. We need to fight against the the the desires of our flesh. Peter 211. Peter says, Abstain from the passions of the flesh. Yet God works in us. But Peter can still say, We need to pull back, we need to flee. Passions of the flesh. Same thing, Colossians 3:5. Paul says to Christians, put to death therefore what is earthly in you. Sexual immorality. Purity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness. And then you have in Romans 8:13, Paul says to the Christians, by the Spirit. So in other words, it's the Holy Spirit who sends Sanctifies us, Paul says, by the Spirit put to death the deeds of the body. So it's the work of the Spirit, but still we need to be engaged engaged, we need to exert ourselves, we need to put these things to death. Now this kind of language about personal responsibility for our for our Moral and spiritual growth is not popular in an evangelical culture that promises spiritual growth if you just do these three things. You read this little book or whatever if you go to the seminar uh or or or an evangelical culture that says if you come and you get engaged uh in some kind of emotional you foric worship experience, you're going to walk out of there a different person, and life's going to be easy. That is mysticism. That is not how God grows Christians And so we have to exert ourselves. And as we do that, God will then awaken within us. By his spirit, because it is a work of God, it is a work of grace, he will awaken within us a greater zeal for him. Let's go on to the uh the fourth point If you have an outline there, there's a warning and a promise. Okay? A warning and a promise. This is um, first of all, there's a warning to the complacent in the end of verse 3. And Jesus Warns the stubborn and sardist that he will come upon them unexpectedly. Look at the end of verse 3 He says, if you'll not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Now that was a warning That would have struck a chord with the Christians in Sardis. Because centuries earlier the people of Sardis had thought their city To be invincible. And the reason they had such confidence is that Sardis was situated on the top of the hill, the sides of the which were nearly perpendicular. And so Sardis could not be attacked. Well there was one narrow precipice that would that came up the hill, but they Fortified that precipice because I knew that would be the only point of entry for an invading army. Nonetheless So the people had this confidence that their city was unable in 549 BC And then in 218 the fortifications of Sardis were breached and the city was captured by enemy armies. How'd this happen? The watchmen along the precipice where this where there was this fortification, they grown complacent. And so the enemy came It came like a thief in the night. Then in 8017, there was an earthquake that came upon Sardis unexpectedly, and again the self-satisfied citizens of Sardis. uh were caught off guard. He became like a thief in the night. And so here was a city, proud of its in of its invincibility, but really it was living like the fumes of its former fame. And so just as a city had been conquered by armies that came by stealth, so Jesus warns if you don't wake up I will come upon you when you least expect it. He's not talking about the second coming. He's talking about he's going to come and he will judge the church In Sardis. Remember back in chapter 1, Jesus, or chapter 2, verse 5, Jesus said to the church in Ephesus, I will take away your lampstand. What he was saying there It was I will unchurch you. You will no longer be a church. And that has happened uh down through history to churches, right? You see a lot of empty church buildings that are now uh coffee houses or whatever, they were unchurched. You see it of of of great deno one of the great denominations that have abandoned uh the scripture In the basics of Christianity. Jesus came and he judged them. So there is this warning to be complacent, then there's a promise that ends with a promise to the to the faithful. And as I said, there was a group of people in this church who had not soiled Where am I? Chapter 3, verse 4. Let's look at that. Then we're then we're done. Jesus said, Yet you still have A few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in wife, for they are worthy. Is concerns their garments and concerns their name. And so Jesus promises these faithful Christians that he will clothe them in In white garments. Many have soiled their garments. But look at verse five. The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments. In other words, Jesus Christ will honor you. Then he promises in the end of verse 5 that he will put their name in, quote, the book of life. I will confess his name before my n My father and before the angels. So the Bible talks about several places about God having a book. You see this in the Psalms, you see this in the Old Testament, you see it several times in the book of Revelation. Now it's not a physical book, but it's saying that God has a register on which He lists those who are truly His people. You get that, you get over to Revelation 20 verse 15. It says one day the books are gonna be open. John writes, if anyone's Name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Now you get your name written in the book of life, not by mustering up some kind of zeal for the things of God. You get your name written into this book by resting on Jesus Christ And so we say we're saved by grace, right? We're not saved by what we do, because I gave a lot of things that scripture calls us to do. But that doesn't save us. We're saved by resting on Jesus Christ who live the perfect life where we fail and die to take the penalty for our sin that we deserve. And so we're saved by God's grace. But those who are saved demonstrate a changed set of interests, a changed set of affections, a changed demeanor. uh change priorities, change behavior. And so that's why we want to uh Those of us who are saved, we want to be consistent. We want to honor our word. So that's why Jesus said that he who has an ear to hear, hear what the Spirit says to the church. Here we are 2,000 years after after this letter was given to a church that located somewhere in present-day Turkey. This letter is still being proclaimed because it's a message to Christians still in our day. And the message again is Beware of the slough of spiritual complacency. Wake up and repent. And then, by God's grace, strengthen what remains. So let's bow our heads. Our Lord and God, we see this sin in our lives. We're very slack, comfortable We do not take appropriate measures to stir up what remains. us a people of prayer, feed us by your word, help us to feed upon it. We pray, Lord, that we would have a greater love for you, greater zeal. For holiness and natural desire to give you thanks and worship. We pray that our Our disposition toward others would change and we'd be gracious and loving. Some of us are very set in our ways, so we ask So when our bullet tunes uh there's a great song and says as long as the prayer that God would do uh just what this passage brings up. Um help me to help me to follow you with a more sincere work. So that's Santa's thing right there in the still thing. Oh wait, what are we looking for? But we're not going to be able to have any way we see the questions. I'm going to find me. Amen. Receive the benediction. Lord blessed. Bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you, to be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you his peace. Amen No, you're just gonna do it.