Mr. Rundell, and let's turn in our Bible to Matthew chapter two. Matthew chapter two. So by the way, so we're not going to have Sunday school next week either. We're just going to have worship and um but then we'll get back on track. We're in Matthew chapter 2, familiar Christmas passage Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east. came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. In assembling the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. And you Bethlehem and the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him Then opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense, and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we pray that you'd help us to see truths in this text that we haven't seen before. And help us to submit to these truths. So give us ears to hear. Give us pliable hearts. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The challenge of preaching at Christmas is all these texts are familiar. Well, maybe in a superficial manner. There's a lot of details really that we tend to overlook and I think sometimes our idea of what the Bible says about Christmas is things we pick up in a Christmas pageant when we were kids or we've seen many Christmas pageants, right? Baby Jesus in the manger. shepherds, the wise men, and then uh maybe the singing of the carol of we three kings of Orient are. And if you look at this passage, you discover that the popular rendition of the events surrounding uh the birth of Christ are not entirely faithful to all the details of the text. Jesus wasn't visited by kings. He was visited by these magi or wise men. And there we don't know how many were. There weren't necessarily three. We conclude or we surmise that because it says they brought him three gifts, gold, frankincense, and herb. Maybe there were more. Maybe there were less. We don't know And they weren't from the Orient, as we typically think of the Orient. They were merely, it says in verse 1, they came from the East. And they didn't come to a manger when Jesus was born, but rather it says in verse 11, they came many months after Jesus was born, and they came to a house. So I mentioned this not to spoil your uh Christmas memories, uh, but to I guess I already did that. Uh I don't wanna I don't wanna come across as a smarty pinch, no like but I don't want to do that. But I mention this uh rather just to spur you on to read the Bible closely because when you do that deep digging there are rewards to be had. And so that's our purpose this morning, just to look at a couple things in this passage about Jesus Christ. And really the Gospels, when they present Jesus Christ, one of the big things they they're they're raising, the writers are raising is the question, who is Jesus? You know, was he just this great man? Was he just this wonderful teacher? And the answer they give across the board is no, he was God. He was God incarnate. And so, and not only who is he But what claims does he make on our lives? And because he is God incarnate, the claims he makes, he makes. are really all encompassing. And so that's what I want you to think about this morning. And so why does J Matthew record these events surrounding uh Jesus' birth. It wasn't just to give us a nice pastoral origin story of Jesus Christ, his His coming. But rather it was to it was to convey certain truths. And and one truth we see here is that he was worshipped by outsiders, right? The wise men. These were called the Magi. where we get the word magic. And so uh these guys were outsiders. Uh they were uh interested in magic. They were also interested in astrology. Or maybe we should say astronomy because astronomy and astrology were closely uh connected in the ancient world and it wasn't foreign to the ancients because it was really The stars at night were the only means of uh nav navigation, right? They didn't have a GPS uh back then. So they these guys who were so smart, they could look at the stars and understand how the stars were were uh place, uh they they were professional sky watchers. They were respected. They were uh wise men. They weren't kings, but they were probably a del part of a delegation sent uh by a king uh to search out uh this newborn uh king Jesus Christ, verse one does say they came from the east, uh not China. Maybe it was Babylon, maybe it was Persia. Maybe it was the uh Arabian desert. A lot of people would say it was could have been Persia because several of these astrological cults Now we're based in Persia. So how this came about, the Bible doesn't say, but somehow these astrologers, these astronomers from the East recognized that this star that had arisen would mark the birthplace of the one who would be the king of the Jews. Now There's a bit of iron there not a bit there's great irony here. There's great irony here, okay? Because these foreigners, these astrologers from way over east. They're interested in the birth of the Messiah, whereas Herod, the king of Judea, and The Jews in Jerusalem, including their religious leaders, they didn't recognize it And so something's going on here. Matthew doesn't explain how these uh these magi knew, but he is making a point. These astro the I shouldn't say these astrologers, these wise men coming from afar, constitute the fulfillment of Old Testament Scripture. Let me give you a couple verses The key one is Isaiah chapter 60 verse 3. So 700 years before Jesus was born, God promised the people of Israel. He said, nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. So the Magi themselves weren't kings, but kings would one day follow their example. Same idea, Psalm 72, verses 10 and 11. The psalmist says, May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute. May the kings of Sheba and Seba bring him gifts. May all the kings fall down before him. All nations serve him. Well here we have the beginning the precursor of the fulfillment of that prophecy. Again, Genesis 49, verse 10. The writer says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler staff from the from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. So this is beginning to happen now in Matthew, right? Even now, you go through Matthew, you get to the end, chapter 28, the Great Commission. And we see Jesus calling his disciples to make followers of all nations. But it even begins here in Matthew chapter 2. And so it says in verse 3, it says, news of Jesus' birth troubled King Herod and all Jerusalem with him. And so the Jewish leadership, they were happy about Jesus' birth, but these pagans from afar came to worship Jesus. And they came from afar, right? And they didn't take the Amtrak or they didn't take a plane. But they probably traveled through months. There was a threat of of wild animals, the threat of bandits, uh, there there was the harsh elements But they made this journey to worship Jesus Christ. Here's what an old Bible scholar, a guy named Alfred Plumber, says about this passage. I want to read it. He points out, pagans who had nothing to guide them, but smatterings of science mingled with much superstition. nevertheless are so kindled with enthusiasm by the signs with which God, by means of these imperfect instruments, had granted to them that they take a long journey and make careful investigation in order to pay due reverence to the new ruler who's been sent into the world. But the Jewish hierarchy with the with the Pentateuch and the prophets in their hands are so far from being elated at this report of the fulfillment of types and prophecies. That they do not care so much as to verify it. They're content to be ruled by Herod rather than to be roused out of their accustomed modes of life. And so the Magi, they're like the men of Nineveh who are going to rise up on the day of judgment, and they're going to condemn the Jews who had this greater light of the Messiah. But did not act on it. And this is instructive for us. This is instructive for young people. This is instructive for adults. who have lived within earshot of the gospel, but Have brushed it aside, have not really sought to examine the claims of Christ, to search out the scriptures. And to deal with Jesus Christ. And so the warning here is don't be like Herod. Don't be like the Jews in Jesus' day. But rather search these things out, right? Search these things out. Examine the scriptures. Ask questions. And God promises in Jeremiah 29, he says, you'll seek me and find me. When you seek me with all your heart, all you have to do is open up the book, start reading it, and I did order something really interesting. I got six copies of a little book called More Than a Carpenter. I read it when I was a senior in high school. I thought it was a great book. I've read it several times since. But it it sets forth very plainly, especially for young people, but also for adults, the claims of Jesus Christ. I'm going to put it here, okay? Take one. If you read it. If you take it and you don't read it, just bring it back, okay? We'll give it to somebody else. But encourage you to take a copy of More Than a Carpenter. So we see Jesus was worshipped by outsiders. The second thing we see, he was rejected by the insiders. And so first of all This guy Herod, okay? Herod's all through the New Testament. Is this the same guy? Oh, not really. There's five different Herods. Don't write this down because it's not really going to serve you in life. But just uh no extra charge, uh five different Herods mentioned in the Old Testament, Matthew 22. Sorry, Matthew chapter 2, verse 22 talks about a Herod Archelius. And then in the guy who murdered John the Baptist in chapter 14, that was Herod the Tetrarch. And then in chapter or Acts chapter twelve, there was Herod Agrippa who murdered James. And then in Acts 25 and 26. There was Agrippa, the son of Herod Agrippa, who interviewed the Apostle Paul. Okay? You got all that? Good. Great. Clears the bill, right? But the Herod here is Herod the Great, okay? So he was the father of these other Herods. And um And he was he was the king of Judea from 40 BC for about 40, maybe 44 years, okay? So this guy reigned Throughout he reigned over Judea through the reigns of several Roman emperors, and so he had he knew how to maintain his position And he wasn't even a Jew. His father was from Edom, and his mother was from Arabia, but somehow he maintained his position. And the way he did it was by living in constant paranoia of someone rising up to challenge his claim to the throne. And so as soon as he got a whiff of that, he would go on the war path. He killed his associates. He killed his mother. He killed one of his wives. He killed three of his sons. He killed half the Jewish ruling council, the Sanhedrin. And so the ancient historian who lived in that time, Josephus, called Herod a pitiless monster The Emperor Augustus said it was safer to be Herod's pig than his son. And so that explains a lot about Herod's reaction in this passage, does it not? When he had heard that the Magi came from afar to worship Jesus at his birth, he was threatened. Verse 3. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled. Well, listen, if you're a Jew in Jerusalem and Herod's troubled, that's not good. And so it says in the verse 3, and all Jerusalem with him. Because I knew when this guy's troubled, heads are gonna roll. And so they too were concerned. And so Herod gathered his scholars to figure out where this Messiah would be born. Verse 4, assembling all the chief priests and the scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. And then you have in verse 6 that Micah's prophecy that Messiah would be born, would be born in Bethlehem. And so then Herod spoke to the Magi. Look at verses seven and eight Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child Wherein you have found him, bring me word. And then I want the kids to notice, he says, that I too may come and worship him. So kids, did Herod really want to worship Jesus? Anybody real smart? Nobody's m nose moving. They're afraid they'll get a Okay, good. Alright. We got one who said no. Exactly. I'm gonna give you a ten dollar bill after the service. Just to spite the other kids. I forgot my wallet, I would have otherwise. But um No, this was a ruse, right? And so we see Herod's true intentions in verse 16. Then Herod, when he saw he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious. And he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem in all the region who were two years old and under, according to the time that had been orsained, had been ascertained from the wise men. Now we skipped a passage verses 13 to 15 say that Jesus' parents had been warned about what was going to happen And so they fled down to Egypt to protect, uh, to preserve Jesus' life uh during this terrible, terrible time. But um Interesting. Verse 3 tells us that not only was King Herod troubled by this news of Jesus' birth. So were the Jews in Jerusalem, okay? And because these people had suffered terribly, right, over over the years, and Herod was a terrible ruler, but at least he brought a some kind of peace and stability To Israel. And if a rival to his throne arose, that would likely lead to more warfare and more hardship. And so this is really sad. So you have these Jewish religious leaders, right? They were acquainted with their scriptures, the chief priests and the scribes who told Herod about Jesus' birth. Citing the prophecy from Micah, citing their own scriptures, nonetheless weren't interested to go to Bethlehem and to discover if this prophecy had indeed uh been fulfilled. So they were passive. They wanted to keep the peace. They didn't they didn't They don't want to draw Herod's ire, even if it even if Jesus had were were the Messiah. And so um They're more concerned about inciting the powers that be than to bowing before Jesus Christ. And that's the same oftentimes in our day, right? Because if you do that in certain uh fields in our country, you're gonna you're in trouble if you're some Hollywood celebrity and You come to terms with who Jesus is, and you say, I'm I'm following Christ, I'm going to follow him, you know, more likely than not, you're going to be a pariah in Hollywood, or if you're a Christian scholar and you apply for a position at a secular university, more often than not, your application will not be considered. And now even in the corporate world, right, if you don't subscribe uh to their very uh pagan creeds, then You're in trouble and you might even be threatened with losing your job. So you're going to draw the power the ire of the powers that be. But if this stuff is true, right, if Christianity is true, despite that, those threats, we should all also be thinking, you know what? This is all going to be sorted out one day There will be vindication, and God is sovereign. He will preserve me. He will accomplish his purposes in history and in my life Regardless of what comes my way, regardless of the bitter consequences that I suffer for following Jesus Christ. So we should say, right, let the chips fall where they may. This stuff is true. I'm following Jesus Christ. Here's the third thing, okay? So first thing we said he was worshipped by outsiders. He was rejected by insiders. And then thirdly, we see in this passage Jesus was born in obscurity. And so back to verse 4 again. Herod had asked this panel of experts about where the Messiah was to be born. Now it was an easy question for these Jew Jewish um uh leaders to answer because it was right there in their scriptures he was to be born in Bethlehem, right? So you have in verse six this quotation from Micah 5 verse 2. In fact, the second part of the quote says, He'll shepherd my people Israel. That's from 2 Samuel 5 verse 2. But anyway, what we see here, Jesus being born in Bethlehem, that'd be like saying, you know, uh He wasn't born in New York City. He wasn't born in Washington, D. C. He was born in Burketttsville. It would it would not even cross our mind that, you know, the great king would enter the world in such a such a uh meaningless or unknown place. And his mother wasn't a queen, uh seems inappropriate. She was just a peasant girl, perhaps fourteen years old He wasn't born in a palace, but it says in Luke 2 verse 7, he was placed in a manger because there was no place. for him in the inn. And um his birth wasn't announced to the great and mighty, to the rulers, right? It was announced to shepherds, men who occupied the probably the I don't know if the lowest, but amongst the lowest rungs. in society. And so we see discreetly, without fanfare, the God of the universe makes good on his promises to come and to be with his people. He breaks into history Then even the life that Jesus lived, right, it was obscure. It wasn't notable by the world standards. Back in the early 1900s, a Baptist pastor out in Los Angeles, James Francis. Reflected on Jesus' life. He said, He never wrote a book. He never held an office. He never had a family or owned a home. He didn't go to college. He never visited a big city. He never traveled two hundred miles from the place where he was born. He did none of the things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. Nineteenth centuries have come and gone, and today he's a central figure in the human race. All the armies that ever marched, all the navies that ever sailed, all the parliaments that ever sat, all the kings that ever reigned put together, have not affected the life of man on this earth as much as that one solitary life. Now, and I don't you can't dispute that. You cannot dispute that Jesus Christ is the most influential figure in history. Unbelievers who think it through, who study it, will agree with that. And so the question then is Is this just a quirk that he would that this teacher, this holy man, would have such an influence? Or is he God? So that's the issue that those who are not settled on following Jesus Christ must deal with. You're confronted with this, and you just can't say, oh, you know what, I'm just going to push it aside and go along. Because if you're wrong, you're in trouble. And so we see these divergent responses to the birth of Christ. So how do you respond? Will you respond in hostility, like Herod? Or will you be indifferent, like the Jews in Jerusalem? Or will you be like these wise men who sought him out, who searched him out? And as a consequence, worshipped him as their king. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, I pray that you would awaken us from our casual dealing with the claims of your Son, Jesus. I pray for those who aren't Christians or who just sort of nibbling around the edges of Christianity. I pray that they would search these things out and that by your spirit you would open their eyes to see. In that you would turn them from unbelief to belief, from hardness to repentance, and that they would become Sincere followers of your Son, receiving forgiveness through faith and repentance. Help those of us, Lord, who say we believe this stuff. Help us to be more brave, more bold and more at peace in this troubling world because you are sovereign. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen