And let's turn. So we're going to take a break from Philippians. We're going to look at a passage in Matthew this Sunday and next Sunday, of course on the birth narratives. So we're in Matthew chapter 1 this morning, verses 18 to 25. Next week we'll do the passage that follows. So Matthew 1, verses 18 to 25. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Benjamin Warfield was one of the great Reformed theologians of the uh, I guess you'd say the 19th, 20th century. He died in the early uh 1900s But he said there are three pillars. There are three pillars on which the structure of Christianity rests. Number one, the supernatural. Number two, the incarnation, number three, redemption. Without these, you do not have Christianity. You have a false religion. And it's not uncommon in our country to have churches that do not preach these three pillars. So the supernatural, that's to say that Christianity is not merely an ethical system It's not merely a worldview, but rather we believe that there is a God, the God of the Bible, and He's broken into history miraculously. Secondly, the incarnation. And so we say Jesus is not merely a man, or not only a man. He is fully man and fully God. And he came not just to be an example, not just as a demonstration of one who's the fairest flower of humanity, but he came as God with his people. And then thirdly, Christianity teaches redemption. Okay? And by that we're saying That Jesus did not come merely to instruct us how to be better people or how to live more fulfilling lives. But he came with a mission to rescue us, to redeem us, to deliver us from our sin. Okay? So these three pillars, the supernatural, the incarnation, and redemption, just happen to pervade the passage that we're looking at this morning. And from the outset, we see that Matthew confronts us with the revolutionary character of biblical Christianity. Now I know this is a familiar passage, but what we want to do is we want to peel back the layers of sentimentalism that have enveloped this text Over many, many Christmases, right? And we want to consider afresh. It's earth shattering claims. And if you're not a Christian I want you to recognize that if these things are true, then it changes everything So and you know and people you know some big say, I think I'm a Christian, but I'm not sure about all this stuff. Well, you gotta deal with it, right? If this stuff is true, it's really important and it has implications For your life. So let's go through these three things. Number one, we see the supernatural and that Jesus came into the world by a supernatural birth. It says in the end of verse 18. Mary had been betrothed to Joseph. And so this is a passage about uh engagement That's why they got engaged last night, just to give me an object lesson. Appreciate it. You guys uh fifty years, sixty years, but at least you gave me a good object lesson here. But actually betrothal was more uh it was more binding, really. Uh you could not break one of these uh contracts uh without a letter of divorce And it says in verse 19 that Joseph was called Mary's husband. He didn't live with her yet. They had not been intimate, but they were considered husband and wife during the period of betrothal. In fact, it says in Deuteronomy 22, verse 23 and 24, that if a betrothed woman were unfaithful to her husband, she could be punished as an adulteress. And so as I said, this could only be broken by divorce. And that's what Joseph determined to do, because he thought, well, why would he not have thought? If she was expecting that she had been unfaithful. But he didn't want to shame Mary, and so he determined, it says, to do this quietly. And at that point, the angel intervenes and he tells Joseph, let's not push the panic button just yet. Look at verse 20. Verse 20, but as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. So this is a miraculous thing. This is supernatural, right? There was no male seed involved in this conception. This conception was from the Holy Spirit. And this constitutes the fulfillment of a promise God made 700 years earlier through the prophet Isaiah. And so, you know For those who are like, I'm not so sure about Christianity, I think it's true, but I'm not sure. The Bible is self-authenticating You have promise in the Old Testament, you have fulfillment in the New Testament, and that helps buttress our belief And so we have these promises. So about the virgin birth, Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14. 700 years before Jesus was born. It said, where am I, verse 22 and 23? All this took place to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet And then here we have Isaiah 7. 14. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name. Emmanuel. Okay? So there's the fulfillment. Everything in Matthew really is about fulfillment. Matthew 1, it says Jesus is the son of David, the son of Abraham. Earlier part of Matthew 1, I should say. And so that was the fulfillment of Old Testament promises. And this theme of fulfillment continues now in the passage before us. And so, but what I'm the main thing I'm driving at is we have to recognize Christianity is a supernatural religion that's demonstrated in the virgin birth Now we live in an age of skepticism, right? Not only outside the church, but inside the established church. There's a lot of skepticism. about things like the virgin birth and in the late 1800s, early uh 1900s, uh in many of the theological seminaries. Those who had a skeptical stance towards scripture scoffed at the idea of a virgin birth. And they said, well this is sort of primitive. It's it's uh it's not going to fly in our culture because we're uh we're a very uh sophisticated culture now And so they started trying to explain away this idea of a virgin birth, and they said, you know, it's just a myth. It's sort of like the pagan stories of uh got the gods mating with humans And uh in fact, you know, they take surveys in the mainline Protestant denominations and they discover uh a significant number of the pat even the pastors Do not subscribe to the idea that Jesus was born of a virgin. But to do that, you have to then deny that the Bible is a credible or is a reliable document or that we can base our beliefs on because the Bible is very clear. Jesus was born of a virgin. Look at our passage. The end of verse 18 Mary and Joseph came together. Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. Verse 23, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. Verse 25. Joseph knew her not. until she had given birth to a son. And so yeah, I mean this stuff is true or it's not, but it's not something in between. Uh Christianity is true, it's not true. but it's not something in between. Great story. I told this before. C. S. Lewis is setting in his office. Where was he at Oxford? Oxford? Maybe Cambridge. He's in his office and one of his colleagues who wasn't a believer comes in during Christmas time and uh they hear down in the courtyard below some uh Carolers singing Ian Lewis's colleagues said to him, isn't it good that we know better than they they did? And C. S. Lewis asked him, well, what do you mean by that? Well, isn't it isn't it good that we know more than they knew? And uh still Lewis said, I'm I'm not tracking with you on this. Uh could you could you explain what you're talking about Isn't it good that we know that virgins don't have babies? And then C. S. Lewis looked at him and he said, Don't you think they knew that? You know, like right that that's the whole point, right? It's a supernatural religion Why now let's move back. Why is it important that the Messiah be born of a virgin? Well, number one, it points to the supernatural character of Christianity. Now it wasn't required, but it does point to the supernatural character of Christianity. And um you know if you think about it, if you believe in God and He performs miracles, then what's the problem with the virgin birth? Right? Once you can see that there's a God, after that everything's downhill about what the Bible says. But this is more important, I think, concerning the virgin birth. Our Savior had to be at the same time fully God and fully man. And so the virgin birth enables that to be the case. Okay? So he had to be God. Well, he had to be without sin But also, he had to be a sacrifice of infinite value. So suppose even if there were, and there would not have been, but even if there were a man without sin, He would only be able to die in the place of one other man. So he had to be God, but he had to be without sin because the sacrifice had to be of infinite value. So he's born of a virgin to show that Jesus was fully God, but also our Savior had to be man. It says in Hebrews 2 verse 14 and 17. Only a man can stand in the place of another man, right? Think about it. In the Old Testament they sacrificed goats and uh sheep and Lambs and whatnot. But those sacrifices were never sufficient. You needed a man to stand in the place of another man. And so Jesus was fully God and fully man. And if that's the case, that changes everything. Because we have a sin problem, but now we see in Jesus Christ a sufficient, a qualified Savior who can stand in our place and bear the penalty for our sin. Let's go on The second theme I brought up in the beginning was redemption. We see that in verse 21. Jesus came to save us. Remember the idea? Old Testament promise, New Testament fulfillment. This is how the Bible authenticates itself. We certainly see that. Patrick read Psalm 130, particularly verses 7 and 8. Talks about God there's a promise where God says, I'm gonna come and I'm gonna rescue my people. So I'm gonna read verse seven and eight again. Psalmist says, O Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Well, Matthew 1, verse 21. Constitutes the fulfillment of that promise. So here we are now, Matthew 1. 21, one of the most one of the clearest statements in the New Testament about the purpose of Jesus' coming. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Now that's the Greek form of the Hebrew name Joshua Which means Yahweh is salvation. God is salvation. So even wrapped up in his name is this idea of redemption. You shall call his name Jesus. Why? For he will save his people from their sins. He will save his people from their sins. It doesn't say He'll provide an opportunity. He's going to die to provide an opportunity for humanity to be saved. Should they choose to meet him halfway? That's not what he said. It says it doesn't say he's going to provide an opportunity. It says he's going to save And not humanity in general, but his people from their sins. It's saying Jesus came to redeem a particular group of people So this is a doctrine of definite redemption. And he's not merely saying, you know what? It's out there. You just have to take it. But it's saying he will save them. It will happen. If you're one of Jesus' people, you will be saved. So that's a great confidence. And so we see here, again, the idea of redemption. Jesus isn't merely an example who shows us. how to be better people. He's not merely a teacher who instructs us in how to live more fulfilling lives, but rather he is a savior, right? He rescues us. from the pollution of sin, from the power of sin, from the penalty of sin. This is taught throughout the New Testament. 1 Timothy 1. 15 Paul writes, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And then Jesus himself said about himself in Luke 19, verse 10, the Son of Man came to seek and to save sinners What is lost. And so the incarnation is a divine search and rescue mission. That's why Jesus came. Now I hate to be negative. I'm such a positive guy, just ask my wife at home. But I'll step out a character. Because I when I became a Christian, I started attending a church where everything was blurry, everything was vague. There was no straight talk about what the Bible says. It was just uh platit it was ri platitudes and uh you couldn't even get your arms around them. So I'm thinking I'm a pastor. I'm going to make it clear. I don't want to have blood on my hands. But many churches, you know, they're uncomfortable talking about man's sin. They're on there they will not say that we're separated from a holy God. They will not say that we need to be saved. They will not say that we need a new birth. That sounds um that's primitive. That's not nuanced. That's not sophisticated. And that's what people get. It's a shame you have all these Christmas Eve services and in many places people are not hearing the gospel. Thankfully, they're still singing the hymns, and you can't avoid it, and the hymns, right? God rest you. We're going to sing after this. God rescue Mary, gentlemen. That means God make you mighty, gentlemen. Okay? God rescue, Mary, gentlemen. Let nothing you dismay. Remember, Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day. To do what? To save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray. Oh, tidings of comfort and joy. How about little town of Bethlehem? A holy child of Bethlehem, descend to us we pray. Then what does it say? Cast out our sin. Recognize us we have a sin problem Cast out our sin and enter in, be born in us today. So it not only recognizes our sin, but our need for spiritual birth from God. Have come thou long, expected Jesus born to do what? To set thy people free, to liberate us. From our fears and sins, release us. Let us find our rest in thee. Then the greatest Christmas hymn. Hark the herald angels sing, glory to the newborn king, peace on earth, and mercy mild. Then what's it say? God and sinners reconciled, right? There was this breach, there was this alienation. Jesus came to effect the great reconciliation Between men and God. And so the question I ask you is: are you saved? Are you saved? You recognize Outside of Christ, you're spiritually dead. You're unable to save yourself Do you recognize that your sin has separated you from a holy God and you stand right now under his righteous wrath? And you need to be saved. And Jesus Christ is that savior. What a wonderful statement of God's love for his people. I remember I was a new Christian back in the early 1980s. Bob Dylan wrote a song called Save, and everybody was saying, Bob Dylan became a Christian. Who knows? I don't want to litigate that. But this song, Saved, I mean it it it is of hymn quality, the theology in this in this uh this song. So Bob Dylan wrote I was blinded by the devil, born already ruined. Right? He recognizes his sin. Stone cold dead as I stepped out of the womb. Right? Even when you were born, you're spiritually dead. Stone cold dead. Then he says, by his grace I've been touched, by his word I've been healed, by his hand I've been delivered, by his spirit I've been sealed, I've been saved. Now that there's there's a a a vi there's vines of theology in that terminology are are are are corruption by sin Our spiritual dormancy outside of Christ, God's grace, the power of His Word, the power of His Spirit, and the power of God reaching down to rescue us. and to save us in Jesus Christ. So Bob Dylan, what wherever he stands, uh we don't know that, but he understood in that song You can't save yourself by your religious efforts, by your morality. You have to be saved. And that's what Jesus Christ came to do. In Romans 10, 13, Paul said, everyone. Who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Jesus came to save sinners. And if that's true, that changes everything. Let's go on one more thing, briefly. Ah sort of briefly. Section three or point three is about the incarnation. Jesus came to dwell with us. Old Testament promise, New Testament fulfillment. Here's an Old Testament promise, Isaiah 7:14. Originally spoken in the 8th century B. C. God promised the king of Judah, his name was Ahaz, that his enemies would not destroy him. And as a sign of God's promise, he said to King Ahaz way back then, Isaiah 7. 14, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Matthew takes that and says, listen, the promise to Ahaz was initial, but it had a fuller application. It applies to Joseph, it applies to your fiance bearing a son. And he will be God with us. And if you take, you know, one of the things that you run through the Bible is God's promise to be with his people, starting Genesis, right? At creation. Where did Adam and Eve dwell? They dwelt in the immediate, unhindered, unmediated presence of God. When man rebelled, he was banished from the garden, right? There's a separation now between God and man. But God had a plan to restore that fellowship. And the rest of the Bible records the unfolding of that plan. So you need to divide the Bible in two parts. Number one Adam and Eve sinned. That's the first part. Second part begins in Genesis 3. 15 and goes out to Revelation 22. The second part is God's plan to restore that fellowship. And um and so the Israelites, they went through Egypt, they carried this portable sanctuary, a little tent or tent they carried called the tabernacle And that was like an object lesson symbolic of God dwelling with his people Israel. But it wasn't the final uh purpose of God, it was just an object lesson, but as a way of saying that God is with his people. So it was a type, it was a shadow of the reality that would one day come. Jesus Christ. And that's what we have here, right? Chapter 1, verse 23. Jesus is Emmanuel, God with us. And that's why in John 1 14, uh the King James says the Word of God uh became flesh and did what? He tabernacled among us. So he God pitched his tent among us and uh Jesus Christ. You go through Matthew's gospel and this theme sticks because you get to the very last statement that Jesus makes in Matthew's gospel and he promises his people. What? I'll be with you always to the very end of the age. And so we're in this period now, but the consummation hasn't come. But when it does come, Jesus will uh will be in his presence. Meanwhile, he's given us the Holy Spirit, right? Jesus ascended to heaven, but he said, I'll be with you always at the end of the end of the age. And so that's why in John 14, verse 18, Jesus said to his disciples, I'm not going to leave you as orphans, I'm going to come to you He came to his disciples or to his people in the person of the Holy Spirit. So in the person of the Holy Spirit, Jesus is with us. But we need to ratchet it up a little bit and add that he's not only with us, he's in us. 1 Corinthians 3. 16. Paul says, do you not know, Christian, you're God's temple in that God's Spirit dwells in you And now we're on this course, right? History is not just cycles, but it's it's going toward a goal. It has a tell loss or an endpoint. And the end point of history Is summarized in Revelation 21, verse 3. John sees, he says, or he says, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they'll be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. And so Jesus Christ is Emmanuel. He's with us in the person of the Holy Spirit. One day we're going to see him face to face, and we're going to be completely cleansed. from the sin that still taints us. But that's our hope, and that's a great encouragement even now, right? Some here know what it's like to be abandoned. You've been abandoned by a parent. You've been abandoned by a spouse. And it's a terrible thing. But Jesus promises, I'm with you, right? Even in the Old Testament, he said, yay? David said, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil, for you're with me. This is a huge promise. That goes throughout the Bible. Christian, Jesus Christ is God with you. Never will he leave you. Never will he forsake you. And so the claims in this passage, Jesus was born supernaturally. He was born to save us from our sin. He came to dwell with us are extraordinary. These are revolutionary claims. And if these things are true, So, like I said, that changes everything. Let's do another C. S. Lewis. He had a great point here. He said, Christianity, if false, is of no importance. If it's true, it's of infinite importance. He said the only thing it cannot be is moderately important, right? It's all or nothing. So I ask you, what do you think? What have you come to a conclusion? Well, many have, of course, right? Others are like, no. I'm still exploring. All right, continue to explore, but don't explore forever. I mean there comes a point where you have to deal with Jesus' claims. I have something here. Oh, here it is. So one of my favorite books, in fact, I I met a cousin at a funeral, and he's not a believer, and I sent this to him yesterday. It's called Basic Christianity. by John Stott. That's a great book. I'll give it to you. And I'll read through it with you if you're interested. Because this stuff is worth exploring. Let's bow our heads Father in heaven, we thank you that you've made things clear I pray that for those who are not believers, that they would seek this stuff out, that they would explore it, that they would read the scriptures. And that you would persuade their hearts and turn their wills toward you and by your Spirit give them new birth and redemption. Jesus Christ. For the rest of us who are believers, we waver between belief and unbelief. Help us, Lord, to be more confident. In its revolutionary message and to go forth with boldness, engaging others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we're going to sing God Rest Ye Mary Gentlemen. It is number two hundred and eleven. God rest ye Mary gentlemen. Let's stand and sing.