Suggest you stay here, uh you'll get a lot more out of the sermon. Which is on humility. No. Now let's uh we've been going through the book of Philippians. We're going to do something differently, or a little different today, since it's New Year's Day. I thought I'd just do something off the beaten path. Turn to Colossians. Colossians chapter four verses two to six. Colossians four verses two to six. So Paul writes to believers in Colossae and to the believers in Frederick, Maryland. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear which is how I ought to speak. Conduct yourselves wisely toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt. so that you may know how you ought to answer each person. So this is a great passage. This passage is about Praying for opportunities to share the gospel with unbelievers. And then when those opportunities arise, taking full advantage of them. And I know from discussions, from conversations that many of us have, that that's a that's something we want to do. Right? You're honest Christians. You want to engage people in conversations about Christ, friends, family members, people you meet. But they do not come up as often as we wish. And it's interesting when there's different gatherings for prayer, that's one of the themes that often comes up. We're praying for opportunities to share the gospel. Well, here we have the Apostle Paul, right, the greatest evangelist whoever lived, and he gives us some guidance here about how to pray. in how to conduct ourselves when opportunities to share the gospel arise. And so I broke it up nicely. I didn't break it up, but the passage breaks up nicely into three themes: how to pray. How to act and how to speak, okay? So first of all, in verses 2 to 4 Paul tells us how to pray. We should pray that God will open doors, that God will uh Put before us opportunities to have gospel conversations. Before we look at the verse where he says where he talks about praying for opportunities to share the gospel, in verse 2 He starts with a general exhortation to prayer. Verse 2 continue steadfastly in prayer. Does that ring a bell? Does that remind you of any of the parables that Jesus taught? You think about it? Yeah, right? Luke chapter 18, the parable of the persistent widow. Jesus in that parable he says here's what this is about to teach you that you ought always to pray And not to lose heart. And that's what Paul's saying here. We ought always to pray. We ought to remain steadfast in prayer. Right? It's a new year. You want it every single morning, you well, you want to go to bed the night before. Oh right, it was New Year's Eve. We'll let you off there. But in in general You want to go to bed the night before so you can get up and before you start tackling things and getting distracted by everything you have to do, I'm going to spend some time in the Word. I'm going to spend some time in prayer. And I'm going to develop this habit. It'll be second nature. That's what it means to be steadfast in prayer. We're on a lonely winter afternoon. You're sort of tired. You had a late night, or some of you had a late night, right? But we have a prayer meeting one Sunday a month, one hour a month. Well, come on out to the prayer meeting. That's being steadfast in prayer. And you do this, not because you're that spiritual, but you do recognize that we're in a spiritual battle And God has given us an appointed means for fighting these battles, and one of the weapons He's given us is prayer. Okay? And so we want to continue to pray. So there's that general exhortation in verse 2, and then in verses 3 and 4. Paul asked the Colossians to pray for him and pray for his colleagues. Now they're in prison. So what does he ask them to pray for? Pray they they get enough food, pray that they're comfortable. Well they're good things to pray for if you're in prison, but Paul asked them to pray for opportunities to proclaim Christ. to the unbelievers that with whom they come into contact. And when they have these opportunities, he prays that they'll be able to declare Christ. With some clarity. Verses 3 and 4, so here we go. So Paul says, at the same time, pray also for us. that God may open to us a work a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I'm in prison. That I may make it clear which is how I ought to speak. And so the first thing he prays, Lord, give us opportunities. To share the gospel. It says in the end of verse 3, to declare the mystery of Christ. And the Bible, this is just a little side note. In the Bible, a mystery isn't a puzzle. It's not something that's hard to or that can't be explained. But in the Bible, a mystery is merely something that was previously hidden. And now has been disclosed. And in Colossians 1, verse 26 and 27, the mystery of which Paul referred to which Paul refers is the fact That the Jews and the Gentiles now in Jesus Christ have access to God, have the forgiveness of sins through faith in repentance. And so this is Paul's passion that he can tell others about what God has done through Jesus Christ. He brings salvation and he gives Christ to those who would look to him. And so that's w so sorry. I went to bed early too. Um So, yeah, we want to pray, Lord, uh give us opportunities uh for discussions about the gospel. And in this culture where there's such a uh a uh uh a schmorgesborg or a a cafeteria of religions that are on display, right? People wonder, you know, is anything true? Or is it just a matter of personal preference? Is everything subjective? Well, as Christians, we believe that Christ is the truth, and we believe that Christ is the only way. that fallen sinners can come into a right standing with God. But for for us to have those conversations in this culture It usually doesn't happen uh just w with a quick uh chit-chat, right? You have to have a relationship, it takes time. You have to build credibility. People have to develop some trust. And you want to have these, so you want to have these relationships with people Because also in our world today, I mean, it most people have no acquaintance with Christianity. Uh most people have not grown up in a church as it used to be, right? Twenty years ago, uh forty years ago And so people have many misunderstandings. They don't understand the most basic things, what scripture teaches teaches about the holiness of God, or what it teaches about um our f our sin and our need of a savior. And it does people don't understand that the Bible teaches that Christ Isn't merely this great teacher who shows us how to live fulfilling lives or how to conduct ourselves uh ethically, they don't understand that the main reason that Jesus came was to live a perfect life where we fell short and then to die on the cross Taking the punishment that we deserved as our substitute. They think Christianity is just a code of mor uh code of morality. And that the way you get to heaven is by good deeds. And so to break through to people, it usually takes several conversations because these preconceptions Are so stubborn. And so that's the importance of relationships with co-workers, with neighbors, with people with whom you come into contact. And so Paul says, Lord, uh give us opportunities to share the gospel. And yeah, sometimes you can just have a chit-chat with somebody in the locker room or something. At least it opens the door, it plants some seeds, but we also want long-term relationships. And then when those opportunities do arise, and they will arise, right, if you have your ears open and your eyes open. Paul says, pray that we can be clear when we do have these conversations. So verse 4, pray that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. And um how do you become clear? Well, one thing you want to do is just become acquainted with the content of the gospel, right? You don't have to be a theologian, but you do need to be a student of the Bible And you want to think, you want to read the Bible, you want to read a couple good Christian books that helps just go over some of the basic content. of Christianity, you want to reflect on your own life and what Christ means to you. And you you want to share that because that that has some power. When you say, here's what Christ did to me For me, here's how I used to live, here's how I used to think, here are my fears, and here are the changes that Christ worked into my life Over the years. People are interested in that. Uh if if you just if you if you meet them on their level and you share uh from from where you're you're coming from uh in a way that they can uh follow. And a lot of it's just experience, right? You just Just do this over and over, and you learn what works as far as conversation. And so Paul, you know, we're talking about sharing the gospel in the year to come. We want to pray for opportunities. And then Paul secondly says, here's how you need to act. So how you need to pray, secondly, how to act. And um He says, act wisely. Before I read verse 5, I was talking to a friend. He said that he and his wife spent six weeks in Florida. He's a Christian, and they visited the same Presbyterian church for six weeks. Guess how many people introduced themselves in that church? Not one person over the course of six weeks, he said, just took time to introduce introduce themselves. He said people might I mean some people said hi as they you know crossed paths, but nobody took the time. Now this is no this is no skin off my friend's nose But you know, had he been an unbeliever, uh that would not have made uh Christianity uh very attractive. And at the very least the Christians should be hosp hospitable, right? Have uh uh certainly having people over, but even more basically, just Being kind, noticing people, having a hospitable disposition. Hebrews 13, 2. The writer says, do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers So that's the minimum. I'm going to read something I read years ago. I think it's pretty good. It's a little piece titled, Remember Me. Inus is written for receive about restaurants and going into stores and receiving service But the principle certainly carries over the churches. So this guy writes, he says, I'm the I'm the fellow Who goes into a restaurant, sits down, and patiently waits while the waitresses finish their visiting before taking my order. I'm the fellow who goes into a department store and stands quietly while the clerks finish their little chit-chats. I'm the fellow who drives into the service station and never blows his horn but lets the attendant take his time. You might say I'm a good guy, but you know who else I am? I'm the person who never comes back. Then he says, it amuses me that businesses spend so much money every year to get me to come back when I was there in the first place. And all they needed to do was to give me some service and extend me a little courtesy. Now I know the church is in the business. Well, you know all that, right? But the principle of courtesy carries over. And so Paul's saying, how do you build bridges to unbelievers? Well, you need to pray, but then in verse 5. Conduct yourselves wisely toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Open your eyes, right? Be aware. Seek to encourage others. Here's the third thing. Verse 6, Paul talks about how to speak, how to speak. So verse 6, he says, let your speech always be gracious. Season with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person. So what is he talking about? He's talking about being winsome. He's talking about being winsome, right? What does that mean practically? Oh, it means you're not so wrapped up in yourself. You you look toward others, right? You take an interest in others. Yeah, you ask other people questions about themselves and about their interests and their views on things. You know, you you have might have somebody you you've known from the YMCA or or wherever you you go out and you you meet people. And you just have a you just ask some basic questions and and then you listen, uh not because you have an agenda, but because they're a human being made in the image of God. And everybody is interesting in some way, right? And they they have experiences and there's things they've done or that they're doing and You just want to know people because they're worthwhile. That's why James 1. 19, Paul said, let every person be quick to hear and slow to speak. And most people Including Christians, most people are not very good conversationalists, right? We talk too much, we listen too little. We offer unsolicited opinions. And I think a huge thing is that we're just not curious. We're just not curious about people. Hey, you know what? You meet somebody, they have a whole life. Try to you don't you don't want to be a snoop. Oh, that's our fear, right? I don't want to come across as nosy You people don't usually think that. They usually think you just don't care about them. And sometimes we go on about ourselves, right? We're completely unaware how turned in on ourselves we are, that we never even ask a person uh about their interests or about uh their experience. And so a winsome Christian takes a genuine interest in others. Something else we see here is that winsome Christians speak with zest. Okay, look at verse 6 again. He says, let your speech always be gracious. And then he says, seasoned with salt. And so that's it. He's saying, don't be boring. Don't be tedious. Don't be sanctimonious, right? It's funny. This fellow passed away, but years ago there was a pastor in our denomination down South Carolina. His name was Eddie Bland, but he was so boring. Uh they called him Bland Eddie. Uh you don't want to be like that, right? Um you you what what'd you say? Too good to be true. Right? With a name like that, the jokes write themselves, right? But um So yeah. So all right. How not to be bland. Well, of all the people, uh giving advice on that, uh we we we We've come to a pretty pass, have we not? Well, um you share your failures, you share your weaknesses, uh you don't have to But you just share a couple things. Uh use a little humor, right? Don't take yourself so seriously. Uh just don't go on and on and on and on about yourself and just ask a couple questions. Sometimes I mean I I was at the YMCA a couple days ago and I wasn't even in this conversation, but I heard these two guys talking. And one guy, and I was like, how can I break into this conversation to meet these guys? And I heard one guy said to you, hey, how's your father? And the other guy said, My father's on the other other side of the world. And so I said, where's that? You know, I just broke in a stranger. But then he answered me and we we had we were off to the races, you know, because and he's looking to make some friends. He was from Iran And so he was looking to make some friends, and so it was it worked out fine, but sometimes you just have to take a bit of a chance. Something else about being Winsome, coming from Mr. Winsome himself, um Is that when some Christians answer skeptics graciously, right? Let your speech always be gracious. And if we conduct ourselves wisely, if we speak to others graciously, then in time More often than not, our acquaintances or our friends who aren't believers, they just might ask us some questions about our belief in Jesus Christ. But we want to have this accepting disposition. It doesn't mean that we condone everything that they believe or everything they do, but they are human beings, and so we need to have a disposition toward them that's gracious. Here's a great, I want to read a couple paragraphs, an article, a guy named Dennis Hack wrote. He asked the question, what does Winsom look like? And he says that to graciously converse with unbelievers means, among other things, I'll not be dismissive I'll not be dismissive of them, their ideas, their lifestyle, their choices, or their values. And even if they seem repugnant to me, or irrational, or inconceivable, or entirely lacking common sense Now that might be difficult, of course, especially if they don't return the favor, but that's the cost of following Jesus Christ. To be winsome means I'm going to work hard to never be guilty of misrepresenting what they think or summarizing it unfairly. And oftentimes we do that. I do that. I will honestly seek to learn from them, realize that they live in God's world as I do. And so they'll have learned much that I don't know yet, right? You can learn something from anybody. Just have to be curious And he goes on, I'll remember how painful it is to face up to being mistaken. So my probing of their beliefs will be clothed with humility. Right? I won't be trying just to get him to any argument, but I'll listen and then I'll say, well Here's my understanding. And so I'll be gracious. I will realize that calling them to repentance requires me to demonstrate repentance, since, like them, I'm a sinner in need of grace. Treating those with whom we disagree with respect, with the respect worthy of the person created in God's image. Is both disarming and heartwarming because you don't see a lot of that in this fallen world. So when you treat somebody with respect, even though you differ from them, sometimes that Does disarm them and um and they and they their ears open up. I know some of you read a book uh by Rosaria Butterfield. She was a Unbeliever, feminist, lesbian women's studies professor, Syracuse. And this Christian couple an older Christian couple uh had her for dinner and it turned into a long-term friendship. But it was a wonderful example. of what it means to listen to somebody. You don't agree with their lifestyle or their choices or their beliefs, but this couple was very, very warm in accepting. and engaging. And it led to Rosaria Butterfield's uh conversion over it took a couple years, but it led to her her conversion. And um and if you're gracious, right? If you're if you're gracious, if you're winsome You're not just going to force things in these conversations. That's what we always we're always afraid of. You know, what if they don't want to talk? Well, I always say, ask them permission. You know, if they say something crazy that you disagree with, you know, like you know, you go to a funeral and the person's a non-believer, And afterwards somebody's saying, Well, at least we know he's in heaven. Now, if you're not very wise, you're going to go, How do you know he's in heaven? What do you mean? Uh what are you crazy? Um you don't you say It's more like, you know, I used to think that being a nice person got you to heaven. And uh then I saw something differently from looking at scripture. Can I take a moment to share with you what I learned? So you're asking permission, right? Then they can't come back and say, hey, what are you pushing religion on me? Say hey uh I asked you for permission. What what do you what what was wrong with that? And so what what we're talking about is this conversational courtesy, right? Before you hold forth on a subject uh Just to be a little bit aware and and then um instead of sharing ten things you learned, uh just share one thing, right? You want to meet people uh where they are. And so that's Paul's exhortation. And Paul's in prison. And he reminds us there's never a time that we can take a vacation. From uh engaging people in gospel conversations. So what does he say? Always be praying for opportunities to discuss the gospel Conduct yourself in a manner that makes the gospel attractive and then speak graciously because you never know And I saw I this I saw the truth of this the other day. So let me give a little background. I think it was like 17 years ago, uh a girl was coming to our church, her name was Jennifer. And she came for several months. We didn't know where she was a Christian or not, but um she would come for a while and then she quit coming. And I tried calling her, and I emailed her, no response, just complete silence. I wonder what happened there Never heard from her again. And then like about eight months ago, I'm at Mission Barbecue having lunch with somebody. And I get up to go, and there's a guy I know from Frederick, Vaughn Thurman. Some of you know him. And he has a computer or IT business. And we start chatting And then the guy who he's having lunch with, he says, I know who you are. And I say, oh. And he goes Your wife told my wife when we were dating that she shouldn't marry me. Like, uh oh. But then he said, and she was right. Uh because Yeah, Matt, I think you worked with this guy. But um anyway, he said my girlfriend who I was living with um She said your wife took her out to eat or after lunch and said you shouldn't be living with a guy and you shouldn't marry this guy. And um so that's why I found out the girl broke off contact. But anyway, so the guy says, um Yeah, so your wife told my wife that she shouldn't marry me and she was right. And um I'm going to Bob Jones Seminary now, I'm studying to be a minister. And I go, oh wow. So I went home and I told Becky. And Becky's like, who is that girl? She couldn't remember. She's getting old and she forgot. I remembered. So I I tried to re I tried to reconstruct it and she still didn't get it. And then Thursday uh we went out to dinner. It sounds like all we do is eat, but anyway, we're at the dinner, and this lady walks over to our table. She says, are you Peter and Becky? They're like, yeah. And she says, I'm Jennifer. She she told her last name, I don't want to share it. So I'm Jennifer. Whoa! Sit down. And so then she told us, she said, yeah, I I married uh the you tell me not to marry Tobin, uh, but I married him And um Tobin was reading like socialism and all this stuff. But then he started said, hey, let's read the Bible. And we start reading the Bible together, and we became Christians. And so now Jennifer, she got five kids, and they go to Calvary Baptist Church up in Taylorsville. They live in Westminster Like, whoa, you never know. But Becky, you know, she she was faithful and uh She the word she said convicted Jennifer. Uh Becky's not a harsh person, so I'm sure she did it graciously. But in time It all came to fruition. That should be an encouragement, huh? You never know. Well that's powered heads. Father in heaven, we do pray that you would help us to be more aware of others, help us to look for opportunities.