It's good to see John Andrew here back at worship. Jane is in a rehab center. And I saw the Gordon and Bethany Perfader walk in. You probably want to slip in and not be noticed. Hey, there they are. Glad you're back. What a blessing to have you all back. Let's turn to Romans chapter four. Romans chapter four. One of the less familiar uh passages in the book of Romans We're gonna take it in one chomp, one bite. It's one unit of thought. I didn't think it would work to cut it up. And have to re-orience you next time. So let's read the first uh section, then we'll read the rest as we go through. So Paul writes, and he's in the middle of an argument, I'll explain the argument in a minute. He asks the question: what then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift But as his due. And to the one who does not work, but trust him who justifies the ungodly. His faith is counted as righteousness Just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works, then here's a quote. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Is this blessing then only for the circumcised or also for the uncircumcised? We're saying, is it only for the Jew or also for the Gentiles? What we say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised. who are not merely circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. For the promise to Abraham in his offspring that he would be the heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be heirs, faith is null and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law, there is no transgression. Okay, we're gonna we're gonna figure this out. Let me just say this by way of introduction. People who are unfamiliar with the Bible. I'm sure there are some here. You're not real familiar with the Bible. People who are unfamiliar with the Bible oftentimes perceive it uh to be a book full of implausible events and uh maybe some sappy religious sentiments And also antiquated moral codes. There's just these caricatures that people have heard about the Bible, and they say, well, you know, they dismiss it. The more you read the scripture, you know, and I'm talking about over years, studying the Bible over years, the more you see really And I've said this before, it's self-authenticating, right? It proves itself, and I could give a list of the ways that I believe it is. But also I mean, I had the privilege, right, of preaching through books of the Bible. I've been doing this for over 30 years, and I've seen that each book is argued With a lawyer's logic. And that's really the case in the book of Romans, right? I mean, Paul, he just hammers, he makes his case with an unremitting logic, and you just can't Weasel your way out of what he's saying. And that's what's been going on. So we come to this rather obscure passage, Romans chapter 4. And if you haven't read it, you know, slowly, closely before, it's like, ooh, this is sort of a blur. But let me let me just say He's capping off an argument. And so he started out, chapter 1, verse 18 to chapter 3, verse 20. making the case that we're all sinners, right? We're all condemned, not only those wicked pagan Gentiles. But also you Christians from a Jewish background. We're all sinners. We all fall short of the glory of God And he labored that up until almost the end of chapter 3. Then finally you get to the last part of chapter 3, for example, chapter 3, verse 28. Then he discloses the good news. He says, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. Right? So this is one of the pinnacles in Paul's letter to the Romans. We're justified by faith. And we were on that for two weeks talking about it. And in a nutshell, if you weren't here Justification by faith is an act of God by which He declares sinners righteous. It's not because he just turns a blind eye, right? But it's because Jesus Christ lived a perfect life. He died on the cross in our place. And so we can have his righteousness, his work credited to us. How do we receive this? And this is where we're going here. It's not by being a religious, it's not by working or trying harder to be a good person, but rather it is by faith, right? And so we're not saved by faith, we're saved by Christ But the way that we take hold of what Jesus has done for us is that we trust in Him, we rest on Him, we believe on Him. And so that's why it says in verse chapter 3, verse 28, one is justified by faith. Okay. Why does God save anybody? Well, it says in chapter 3, verse 24, it's because of his grace, right? We're justified by his grace as a gift. Now, that brings us up to chapter four. Paul wants the Christians to whom he is writing To understand, and many of these Christians came from a Jewish background. He wants them to understand that what he is teaching here, justification by faith, is not some new teaching, okay? This is not a New Testament plan of salvation. This is not something that God instituted with the apostles' teaching, because his way of salvation in the Old Testament didn't work as he hoped it would have worked out. Paul's making a case in chapter four that the only way God ever counted anyone righteous was through their having faith in His promise Then he says to his Jewish Christian readers, if you doubt me, verse chapter 4, consider Abraham, the father of the Jewish people. And he says, and here's our outline, he says, Abraham was justified by faith. He was not number one, justified by human efforts, by his attempts to keep God's commands. Number two, he wasn't justified by religious ceremonies like circumcision. And number three, he wasn't justified by his religious lineage, by the fact that he came from a Jewish uh but were that he was the father of the Jewish people, okay? He was justified by faith. And so that's the outline, okay? So number one, and we'll spend the most time on this point. Abraham was justified by faith, not by human effort. That's important for Paul to write because most Jews living in the first century thought that Father Abraham was made right with God because he kept he kept God's commands. Well, not to what last year we studied Genesis 12 to 25, the life of Abraham. He didn't keep God's commands. He lied. He did crazy things. And so no, we know that. I don't know why they didn't know it. But that's what they thought. Early Jewish writing, uh rabbinical work called the Mishnah. Said, Abraham our father had performed the whole law before it was given. Another ancient Jewish writing, the Book of Jubilees. Abraham was perfect in all his deeds with the Lord, in well-pleasing and righteousness, all the days of his life. And so that was the Jewish conception In this chapter, Paul's trying to puncture that misconception. How does he puncture it? Look at verse 3. He asked the question, what does the scripture say? Right? So how does Paul handle matters of religious controversy? He doesn't hold his finger in the wind to find out what's uh socially fashionable, right? He doesn't go, hmm, what's politically correct, nor does he say, you know what? This is what I've always believed. So don't confuse me with the facts. You know, this just I like it like this. No, what does he do? He asked the question. What does the scripture say? Right? This is the bar of truth. This is the bar to which we bring all controversies, all questions. Because we get truth here. It's not exhaustive truth, but when the Bible does speak on something, we know that it's reliable. So we asked in the verse 4 What what does the scripture say? And then, or did I say verse 4 or verse 3? So he asked the question. Or he makes the statement, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness So that's a quotation from Genesis chapter 15, verse 6. But remember that, well, you may not. Let's just review this. We were in Genesis last year. So God promised Abraham, Genesis 12, you're going to have a son. Well, Abraham was 75, and then his wife, Sarah, she was, I think, around 65. She'd been there all her life But God made this promise to Abraham. Okay. Many years pass. God still did not make good on that promise. I he said, I'm going to give you a son, through you, you're going to have a great nation, or a great nation will come from you, and through your heirs, through this nation, all the peoples on earth will be blessed That was the promise. Go back to Genesis 15. And um Genesis 15, verse 2. So after God made that initial promise, many years had passed. It says in verse 2 of chapter 15, But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. Well at that point God reiterates his promise. Listen, I told you Sarah is going to bear a son, she's going to have a son, and from that son will come innumerable descendants. Chapter 15, verse 4 Uh God says, um, behold the w uh or it says behold the word of the Lord came to him, this man, that's his servant Eliezer, this man shall not be your heir Your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars, if you're able to number them. Then he said to him So shall all your offspring be. And so that was God's promise. And what was Abraham's response to God's promise? It says there in Genesis 15, 6 That he believed the Lord. So now he's over 80 years old, his wife's over 70 years old, but still he trusted the bare word of God. And it's because of that, and this is really the key now, in Genesis 15, 6, the end of the verse, it says, God counted it to him as righteousness. So how are people saved in the Old Testament? Oh, by keeping the Ten Commandments. No, the Ten Commandments it says in Galatians were given four hundred and thirty years after God made this promise to Abraham. No, it wasn't by trying to keep the commands. No, it's right here in Genesis fifteen six. Abraham believed the Lord, and God counted Abraham as righteous. So God reckoned Abraham, a sinner, to be a righteous man because he trusted God's promise. And so how were people saved in the Old Testament? They trusted God's promise, and as the Old Testament unfolds, it becomes more focused that this promise would be fulfilled by God sending a Savior, Jesus Christ. And even Abraham Got some glimpse of this in Genesis 15 where God made a covenant with Abraham and there was this cutting of an animal and this strange ceremony. But God was making a promise where he's saying, listen, if I don't keep my promise, I'll suffer the penalty, okay, for being a liar. Genesis 22, God told Abraham, Sacrifice your son Isaac Abraham said, okay, but I what's going to happen? How if you finally gave me a son, how are you going to make good on this promise where I'm going to have all his descendants? And God said, Trust me. And when Abraham was about to slay Isaac, God says, wait a minute, uh stop You could substitute this uh this uh what was it, a goat, a lamb instead. So there's the idea of substitution. You're going through the Old Testament history, right, time goes on in Isaiah We find out like in Isaiah Isaiah, what am I from? Louisiana, Scott. Isaiah 53 says he's going to suffer in our place, he's going to take our sins. So it comes into focus As the Old Testament unfolds, Micah 5-2, he's going to be born in Bethlehem. He's going to be descendant of David, he's going to be the descendant of Abraham, and so on, okay? But so he was looking forward to God doing the saving. We look back on it, right? We understand now how he did it through Jesus Christ But he was looking forward. And that's why in John 8. 56, John or Jesus said to the Jews, your father Abraham rejoiced That he would see my day. He saw and was glad. Okay? Now, let's go back to chapter 4, verse 3 of Romans. Okay. He makes this argument. What does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. So there's that reference to Genesis 15. My translation says counted. You could also translate it, it was credited to him, it was reckoned to him, it was imputed to him as righteousness. So God credited it to Abraham's account that he would be a righteous man. It's not because he tried to he kept God's commands, he did not. But it's because Abraham believed the bare promise of God. So there you have it. Look at verse 4 now. He continues. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. Right? You go to you go to work, you get your paycheck. My son's working part-time with Steve Deweese this summer. Steve, John's birthday is July 1st, 4th You could just give him the money owe him for what he did. Just put it in the card and say, hey John, happy birthday, buddy. I'd like to give you this gift of $200. Well John would probably say thanks, but if it were me, I'd say, what do you mean gift? Right? I work for this. It'd be ridiculous For your employer to pretend they're giving you a gift when you earned it, but this is not what's going on here. God gives us our righteousness as a gift, verse 5. And so the one who does not work but trusts him who j who justifies the ungodly. His faith is counted as righteousness. And so it is a gift, right? We do not earn it. And so after pointing out that Abraham was justified by faith, we're like Got it. Let's move on. But Paul doesn't give up. He wants these Jewish Christians to understand. So he points out not only the forefather of Israel, but Israel's greatest king, he also was justified by faith. Right? Remember David? Great man of God, well, he committed this trifecta of sins. He coveted Bathsheba. He committed adultery with her, and then he had her husband killed. And um He was convicted in time. He praised this devastating prayer confession in Psalm 51. And then when he recognized that God forgave him, we have his uh prayer in Psalm thirty-two, where he rejoices. in the righteousness that God gave him, though he didn't deserve it. And that's what is quoted in verses six to eight of Romans chapter four For David says, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. And so here's this idea, again, he was justified by faith, right? And when we stand before judgment day If we're trusting in Jesus Christ, we can know that our sin will not be credited to our account because it was already credited to Jesus Christ. And he bore the penalty for our sin. And so There is his first point he's making. Listen, if Abraham, if David were not justified by by their effort to keep the law, Then what chance do you have just because you say you're a decent person and you try to give live a good life? It's not going to work, right? It's not going to work. Your only way of being right with a holy God is through resting on Jesus Christ as your Savior. You must understand that. A lot of church people this isn't taught in churches, right? It's just nice being nice people. But this is what the Bible teaches. Here's how a person is right with God. So, first of all, he says Abraham wasn't justified by faith, or excuse me, he was justified by faith, not by human effort. Here's the second thing more succinct, okay? Don't worry. Relax. Abraham, secondly, was justified by faith, not by religious ceremonies. So I remember my father telling me, so he was he was drafted right out of high school at the beginning of World War II. He was drafted out of high school. And he said I got I said, when'd you get baptized? Well when I got drafted in the army I went and got baptized in case I got killed. So he he didn't have a Christian upbringing. I don't think he wa he became a Christian, but he just had this idea. Then I get a phone call a couple weeks ago Some lady had uh twin uh babies and she said, Hey, you baptize my babies. And I said, Well, uh let me I have to sit down and explain to you. Baptism isn't just some magical rite that Yeah y uh is conferred upon your children, but Christians have their children baptized. It doesn't save them But it shows them that they're part of the church. And so you should become a part of a church and n and grow and understand the gospel, believe in Christ yourself and so on. But that's this idea that people have that some kind of a religious ceremony, whether it's baptism or joining a church or or taking the communion. In fact, some people in some churches they're just on the church roll. And years ago when I passed North Carolina, there were people who had been on the church roll for years who were trying to deal with it, we were trying to clean up the roles. And people thought just by having their name on that church roll, that was that's all they needed to say that they're right with God. Well that's not how it works, right? Religious ceremonies won't get you to heaven And Paul points this out about Abraham. So he underwent a religious ceremony. He was circumcised. And the rabbis taught that circumcision made you right with God, but Paul, a former rabbi Corrects them. So look at verses nine and ten closely, okay? I know there's a lot of this is unfamiliar. 9 and 10 closely though. So he's talking about the blessing of being right with God or justified by faith. In verse 9, he asks the question, is this blessing only then only for the circumcised? That means only for the Jew, right? Is this blessing then only for the circumcised or also for the uncircumcised? So it's trying to point out That whether you're Jew or a Gentile, the only way you're saved is by faith in Christ. And if you're a Jew and you have faith in Christ, you're not in a higher class or category than the Gentiles who have faith in Christ. So let's try it one more time, okay? First time with feeling this time. Is this blessing then only for the circumcised or also for the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness, remember? Right? God reckoned Abraham as righteous. So he's asking the question now. Verse 10. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? Think about that. Right? Because the Jews are saying, well, you've got to be circumcised, that'll get you to heaven. Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. So God reckoned Abraham as a righteous man when he believed And later on, so that's Genesis 15 and Genesis 17. That's when he was circumcised. So what then is the purpose of circumcision? Well It's just a symbol, it's just a sign that serves to confirm God's promise that you're saved by faith. And that's what Paul says in verse 11. He received the sign of circumcision, right? Just an object lesson. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal, a confirmation. of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. Okay? And so God counted Abraham righteous because he had faith. Fourteen years later, in Genesis 17, Abraham was circumcised. That gives us a window into the sacraments, right? What is baptism? What is the Lord's Supper? It's just a sign That confirms God's promises, right? And then when you're trusting in Christ, those promises belong to you. Now In the end of verse eleven, Paul ramps it up one more level, and he says, Listen. Abraham's not only the father of the Jews, he's the father of the Gentiles who believe in Christ. Right? Abraham believed, that's how he was justified. So it is with anybody, Jew or Gentile, if you believe, you're made right with God. And so chapter 4, at the end of verse 11. He says the purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, right? The Gentiles who believe, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well. But then in verse 12 he says, But also the Jews, well those who are truly believing in Christ, and to make him the father of the circumcised, were not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith of our father Abraham before he was circumcised And so yeah, the Bible says if you're Christian, you should be baptized, right? It's a command, right? Great commission, right? You should be baptized, but it's just a sign. You should take the Lord's Supper. You should be a part of a church, right? And to not do these things. would uh be highly irregular if you're able to do it. We'd say if you're able to do it, I mean unless you're out some on some desert island, uh you should be baptized and take the Lord's Supper and join the church However, these religious rights will not save you if you do not have faith in Jesus Christ So Paul's making his case. Number one, Abraham was justified by faith, not by human effort. Number two, he was justified by faith, not by religious ceremonies. And then number three, briefly. Abraham was justified by faith, not by his religious lineage, not by the fact that he was a Jew. That's verses 16 to 25. We're not going to do justice to these verses But if we just get the big idea, that might be enough because I've been really getting into a lot of details. And so, yeah, let me just say by way of introduction Some people think they're saved by their religious lineage, right? I mean I don't know how many people I've talked to in in this area. Yeah, try to raise some kind of co uh topic related to the gospel in uh make some c reference to Christianity or do you Do you you know w what's your spiritual interest or where you're standing with God or whatever? And sometimes they get the response, I'm Catholic. It's like it it's almost like you don't we don't need to talk about this. I'm Catholic, you're not, and um Everything's good. I'm Catholic. Not only amongst the Catholics, so I I said I pastored in the South. Our denomination is a great Christian denomination from Scotland, like over 200 years ago However, it's concentrated in the South. And in the South, a lot of people go to church and they put their church affiliation higher than their relationship with Jesus Christ. So I remember and I've recounted this somewhere. I was at the Synod, that's the annual meeting of our denomination. I was at the Synod meeting. And people, you know, they're debating policy and doctrine and whatnot, what's going on with the mission board, or having these discussions. One guy gets up, an older guy And he asserts his authority to speak on the uh whatever matter it was by saying My daddy was an ARP. That's the letters of the domination. My daddy was an ARP, and my grandpapa was an ARP, and my great-grandpapa was an ARP. So we're all supposed to fall over and bow because this fella has this uh denominational lineage. He's a blue blood I'm from New Jersey. There's one ARP church in New Jersey. I never heard of the ARP until I was like 28 years old And so what I say doesn't carry any weight down south. But that's the way the people are, right? They think their church lineage or their denominational affiliation, they think that'll get them to heaven And Paul asserts in verse 16, it's not your religious lineage that saves you, because that's what the Jews thought, right? We're Jewish, Abraham's our father, we're the Jewish people, or uh we're the chosen people, we've been given a law, we've been circumcised. We're good. And Paul says it's not your religious lineage that saves you, right? The only way that you're saved Is by faith in Jesus Christ. In verse 16, if there's one verse to reflect on this afternoon that sort of captures a lot of what's going on here, it's verse 16. Because you have the words faith, promise, and grace, which are really key words in Paul's argument. So Paul says this is why it depends on faith. In order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring. So who are Abraham's offspring? Not only to the adherent of the law, not only to the Jew, not only to those with a Jewish religious lineage. but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is a father of us all. He means the father of not all like all humanity. but of all true believers in Jesus Christ. Abraham is our father. And if you don't believe it Well just believe it. I'm the pastor, right? I'm a nice guy. You should just believe it. No, you shan't. You should always check scripture. Galatians 3. 29 Paul says, if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. So that's why we believe it, right? And so, are you trusting in Jesus Christ? Or are you thinking I'm good? My parents are Christians, or I grew up going to the church. Kids, that's not going to do it, right? You have to confess Jesus Christ as your Savior and as the King of your life. So here we are, Frederick, Maryland, 2023. The pastor just spent 30 minutes examining An obscure argument that Paul made to Jewish Christians in Rome two thousand years ago Man, why would he do that? Well, because this this text answers one of the most fundamental questions, right? How can sinners be made right with a holy God? Well, he has devastated the objections that people make. And he says, listen, it's not by good deeds, even though you're a really good person, it's not by participating in religious ceremonies, although you're in church four times a week And it's not by religious your religious heritage, although your line of uh denominational affiliation uh goes back for generations. No. The only way that we're saved, the only way that we can come into the presence of a holy God is if he takes away our sin and if he gives us the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Ian If you're not Christian, God will do this for you, right? All you have to do is trust That Jesus Christ is your Savior, that he lived the life that you failed, then he took your sins when he died on the cross. So that's why we say, right, we're saved by God's grace alone, his unmerited favor, through faith alone, and Christ alone. That's the wonderful news of the gospel. Paul really took a long time, right, to make his case. Well now he's done. Okay. Chapter 5, something different. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, uh thank you, Lord, for the compelling uh logic you've given us in this book. Help us to trust. In Jesus Christ, in Him alone, and not anything that we do or any affiliation that we have. I certainly pray for our young people. Help them to understand that they're not going to get to heaven on their parents' coattails, but that they must trust for you. For those who are new to the scripture, we pray, Lord, they'll search it out And you'll convict them and help them to see and to believe. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.