So we're in the book of Genesis. Looking at the life of Abraham, that began in chapter 12. We're going up to chapter 25. Now we're in chapter 21. It's an obscure chapter. Um I weren't preaching through books of the Bible and went for preach on this, because I never would have picked it. And when I started working on it, I'm like, whoa, this is confusing. I'll just do something else. But I couldn't do that because I have to preach the books of the Bible. And so I had to struggle. Hopefully we'll get some uh we'll we'll try to nail it down. So Genesis chapter 21 The Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him. Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight years old, as God had commanded him. Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. And Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh over me. And he said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. But Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing. So she said to Abraham, Cast out this slave woman with her son, for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son Isaac. And the thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son. But God said to Abraham Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. and I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring. So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water, and gave to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, to send her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba When the water in his skin was in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes. Then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about the distance of a bow shot, for she said Let me not look on the death of the child. And as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. Up, lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation. Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water, and she went and filled the skin with water, and gave the boy a drink. And God was with the boy, and he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with the bow. He lived in the wilderness of Pharon, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. At that time Abimelech and Fikal, the commander of his army, said to Abraham, God is with you in all that you do. Now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, or with my descendants, or with my posterity. But as I have dealt kindly with you, so you will deal with me, and with The land where you've sojourned. And Abraham said, I will swear. When Abraham reproved Abimelech about a well of water that Abimelech's servants had seized, Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing. You did not tell me, and I have not heard of it until today. So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two made two men made a covenant Abraham set seven ew lambs of the flock apart. And Abimelech said to Abraham, What is the meaning of these seven ew lambs that you have set apart? He said, These seven you lambs you will take from my hand, that this may be a witness for me that I've dug this well. Therefore the place was called Beersheba, because there both of them swore an oath. So they made a covenant at Beersheba. There Abimelech and Fikal, the commander of his army, rose up and returned to the land of the Philistines. Abraham planted a Tamr's tree in Bersheba, and called there on the name of the Lord the everlasting God, and Abraham sojourned many days in the land of the Philistines. Now many of us, I think we acknowledge behind our behind our apparent mastery of life, we we struggle. Uh we doubt. at times about God's presence and about his faithfulness to us and to his people. That's understandable. We live in a fallen world. Think about Jeanette losing her son in such a tragic way. I mean, what what kind of questions would be going through your mind? I was talking to a lady just a couple days ago, uh, one of the Kendall's neighbors, she just lost her son, her uh her husband died uh just a week before And I said, You must be in a daze, and she said, Yeah, I'm in a daze. And she's a g she's a Christian lady, uh, but still, uh, you know, when that happens Is there are m is there gonna be a reunion about when I die, am I gonna go to heaven? Is there a heaven? Or have I uh faked myself out? Uh struggling in your marriage, you might be struggling with a child or uh some kind of relationship, you might be under financial strain. Some live with uh uh very significant, unfulfilled longings. And um you wonder, you know, this isn't what I anticipated. Um you know, Mike Tyson And the box made a great line. He says, Everybody has a plan until they get punched in the face. And uh that's what it's like with life, right? You think you're Here's from the the trajectory that my life will be on and uh things don't unfold. And you start to wonder, or at least you wonder at times, about God's presence and about his promises. So that's largely what this chapter is about. It answers the question: can God be trusted? And we have in Genesis 21 a testimony to the faithfulness of God. And it's just telling us, in in bold letters, it's telling us that amidst all the uncertainties of life, God is a God who keeps his promises. That's a huge lesson that we're going to see in this chapter. And we're going to spend a good part of our time on the first seven verses. And the principle there in the bulletin is that you can trust God to keep his promises And I didn't just say his promises, I said his laughable promises, because God makes some extraordinary promises in the Bible. We certainly see that with the promise that he made to Abraham And Sarah, right? Remember for those who were here back in chapter 12 when God called Abraham. So Abraham was 75. Sarah was 65. She had been barren all her life. And he said to Abraham, your wife Sarah, who's been barren all her life, is going to give birth to a son. And through that Son, God's going to raise up a great nation. And He's going to make good on all His promises to you. Well that's that's quite a that's quite a promise there. Uh but years marched on. Ten years passed. And uh Sarah didn't conceive yet, so I think at this point she's 75 years old. And Sarah says, listen. God's giving us promises about posterity and about all these blessings. But you need a son. So take my slave girl, Hagar, go to bed with her. And she'll give you this son. And then you'll have your son, you'll things will be all set. And um so they Went to bed, and Hagar gave birth to a son. His name was Ishmael, but this was not the way that God was going to fulfill his promises And so that was a whole ordeal. But then you get to chapter 17, verse 15. And God reiterates to Abraham. That don't worry, your wife Sarah will give birth to a son. Okay? And now they're 14 years past. And then sometime later, I don't know where we are in the timeline, but a lot of time has passed. You get to chapter 18. Look at chapter 18, verse 10 to 12. And God again, after all these years, says, No, your wife's gonna have a son. Chapter 18, beginning at verse 10. Okay. The Lord said, Abraham, I will surely return to you about this time next year and Sarah your wife will have a son. So this is pretty specific, right? She's gonna have a he doesn't only say she's gonna have a son It's going to take place now about this time next year. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. Now, Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of woman had ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed. Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I am worn out, my Lord is old, shall I have this pleasure? And so that's a that's a pretty that's a pretty time definite promise that about this time um Sarah's gonna have a son. So once that year year's up They can say Abraham and Sarah can know God either kept his word or he did. But there's not much wiggle room in that kind of statement. As it turns out, Sarah's 90 years old, the year passes, and she gives birth to Isaac. So God kept his promise. That brings us up to speed. That brings us up to chapter 21. And if you go back to the first two verses in chapter 21 now, you'll see the stress that these verses put on God having kept his word. So let's look at it again. The Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God has spoken to him. Now a year earlier, when God made that reiterated that promise, Sarah laughed, right? Chapter 18, verse 12. She laughed. It was a laughter of unbelief. But now, chapter 20 and verse 6, she's laughing in joy. So you've got to ask yourself. Well, you don't have to, but it'd be a reasonable question to ask. Why was there this delay of 25 years before Isaac was born? That was sort of that was a miserable uh span of time for Abraham and Sarah. Why did God put them through such heartache? You know, I can make two suggestions and I think they're reasonable. The first suggestion is to assure the people of Israel Yeah, we're God's people. We were supernaturally conceived, right? The people of Israel are the descendants of Abraham And Isaac, our forefather, he was supernaturally born into the world, right? Sarah was 90 years old. And God had promised that he would be born, and he was born. And so they had this assurance that God had his hand on Israel. And that's just not talking about the Old Testament nation of Israel, but Galatians 6. 16, Paul says to the church, you're the Israel of God. And so we can look back on Isaac's birth and say, you know what? We're a super we're a work of God. And and then you you move on to the birth of Christ. That was a supernatural thing too, right? He was born of a virgin. This all underlines this God's people. He has his eye on his people. He has a purpose for his people. He will accomplish his good purposes for his people. And so there's this assurance that Isaac's birth gave to the people of Israel. So they look back on that. Think about their times in captivity and whatnot. But something else I can suggest is as to why God had this huge delay in time before he fulfilled the promise of Isaac's birth. And that was, and this is something we've seen as we've been going through Genesis, it was to teach Abraham that God could be trusted. Now, Abraham on many occasions did not trust God. But when we get to chapter 22, which will be in two weeks, we're doing something different next week. But when we get to chapter 22, Where God calls Abraham to offer Isaac as a sacrifice, Abraham at this time now, he trusts God. And he passes this most severe test. But we've seen Abraham and his faltering and his unbelief So when we see Abraham willing to sacrifice Isaac, we realize that this trust did not materialize out of thin air. But God used these experiences to grow Abraham to believe that God would keep his word. And so what this story reminds us of, chapter 21, verses 1 to 7, is that God is faithful to his word. And that's the theme that's been coming up a few times in this passage. God is faithful to his word. Never will he fail those who trust him. One of the great English uh or from England, one of the great Bible teachers from England, guy named Malin Stibbs. He wrote, What we need to learn from Abraham Is not to be dismayed by the natural hopelessness of our condition and circumstances, but to find sure and unfailing hope in God, in his words of promise In his covenant pledges, in his faithfulness, and in his certainty to do as he has said. And so think about yourself. You know, if there's is there something that you're waiting on from God And I know for some of our young adults from conversations, and I was in this boat, I remember, yeah You're waiting for a spouse. You want to marry a good Christian man or woman, right? You're waiting. You're praying? You're seeking to live in an upright manner? Well, God will be faithful. He will, I'm not saying he'll promise to give you a spouse, but he will be faithful to you. And if that's his purpose for you to be married, he will give you a a credible Christian spouse. And so march on. Continue to pray. Continue to mature and grow and serve. Or you might be desiring to work in a particular field. That door hasn't opened. What do you do? Well, you pray, you continue to equip yourself. You look for opportunities, seek wisdom from others. But you march on. Don't despair. You're praying for a loved one, a wayward child, or a parent Who's not a Christian? What do you do? Don't despair. God will accomplish his purposes. Pray on. Come to the prayer meeting, right? Wednesday morning, first Sundays Praying. So be patient. Don't give up. Don't settle. Don't compromise. Here's a good verse. Isaiah chapter 28 verse 16. God says, whoever believes will not be in haste. Do you hear that? If you believe the promises of God, you're not going to be impatient. You're not going to take a shortcut. You're not going to act in haste. But you're going to trust God. Okay? So that's the first thing. You can trust God to keep his promises. Here's the second thing. You can trust God. Excuse me. You can trust that God saves his people by faith and not by works. Or is that? This is displayed in the fact that God excluded Abraham's son Ishmael from receiving the inheritance. So let's look at this, okay? Beginning chapter 21, verse 8, just to refresh your memory, it says, talking about Isaac, it says, and the child grew, and he was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. So the traditional time that a child in Israel was weaned was when he was three years old. So we know Isaac is three years old, okay? And um that means that the child that Abraham had by uh his servant, Hagar, then Then uh Ishmael so Hagar's son Ishmael is sixteen. Isaac's three and uh Ishmael is sixteen. And something uh uncomely takes place in verse nine But Sarah saw that the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing. It wasn't just a good-hearted laughter, but Apparently it was the laughter of derision. The couple versions translate it not laughing but mocking. Okay? And so the birth of Isaac, this was a miraculous fulfillment of God's promise But in mocking Isaac, Ishmael was scorning God's promise. And in fact, Galatians 4 verse 29 comments on this It says that Ishmael, quote, persecuted Isaac. Okay? Well, Sarah didn't take to that too well. Right, Mama Bear rises up in her. It says in verse ten, this is a key verse. So she said to Abraham Cast out this slave woman with her son, for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son, Isaac. Well, all right. One of Parvus says, yeah, I can understand that, right? Ishmael was uh scornful of Isaac. But we can understand it, but we can't excuse it because how did Ishmael come to be in the first place? It was it was um Hagar scheming and Hagar offer it was Sarah scheming and Sarah offering her servant Hagar to Abraham And so she was the cause of this mess in the first place. And Abraham, understandably, was distressed, right? Ishmael was his son as well. And uh Abraham loved Ishmael, but grudgingly he acquiesced uh to Sarah's uh demand. And it says in verse 11, The thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son, but God said to Abraham, Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. And I'll make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away, and she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba. Surprisingly, God took uh Sarah's side in this dispute. And uh he agreed that Hagar and Ishmael should be uh sent away, but God uh does that for a different reason than Hagar did. Hagar I'm sorry, uh than Sarah did. So Sarah went a Hagar sent away, it says in the end of verse 10, because she didn't want Ishmael to have any part of the inheritance God's reason for sending Hagar away was different. It was to make clear that through Isaac God's covenant people would be born. So look at the end of verse 12, okay? The end of verse 12. Here's why. God says, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. Now, okay? Now I want to take this. I want to turn to the book of Galatians. We just read ch Galatians 4, 21 to 31, which happens to be the most difficult passage in Galatians. But I want to I want to make a point here, okay? A point that Paul makes from this event. And I think I'll stop after that. I think I'll skip the third point because that's not developed well anyway. So we're just going to focus now on the second point. In Galatians 4, Paul takes this story and he draws some analogies, okay? He expands. And he says that Ishmael, Ishmael stands for the flesh. Now what does that mean? When he says in Galatians 4, Ishmael stands for the flesh. By that he's saying Ishmael was of the flesh in that he was the product Of human scheming, right? Abraham and Sarah's scheming. So he was the product of Abraham and Sarah's scheming to bring about this blessing that God had promised. So that was the he was of the flesh. It was human contriving. But in Galatians 4, Paul says Isaac stands for the promise. Isaac's birth was miraculous, and it was a fulfillment of God's promise. And so, and God brought about Isaac's birth without the help of Van, right? So Ishmael is of the flesh, right? Abraham and Sarah hatched a plan. They said, listen. Uh go to bed with your slave and she'll have a son and everything will work out. That's human effort. But that's not how God blesses his people through the promise. God promised You're gonna have a son, and he's gonna be supernaturally born. It's gonna be a miracle. And that was God's promise, and God kept his promise. Alright, now. If I can explain this clearly, you'll get your money's worth. In Galatians four, verse twenty-three Galatians 4 verse 23. This is exactly what got what Paul says He says, the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, human contriving, while the son of the free woman was born through the promise. Okay? So in Paul's reckoning, as he takes this passage in Genesis, in Paul's reckoning Ishmael stands for those who are of the flesh. In other words, for those who think that they can earn their salvation. By their own scheming, by their own efforts, by their own religious exercises or moral strivings And you think about it, and you might say this about yourself. You were like this at one point. Churches are full of people Like this, throughout the flesh. They think my religion, my moral reformation. That will put me in a right standing with God. They think they can be saved by the good deeds and by their prayers. That's Ishmael. And he's going to have no part in the inheritance. You will have no inheritance in the kingdom of heaven if you think that by your religious exercises, you're going to attain salvation. Isaac, Paul says in Galatians, represents those who are saved by believing God's promise. And God's promise is that if you, a sinner, rest on Jesus Christ as your substitutionary sin bearer. then Christ will forgive you, He will clothe you in His righteousness, and you will be saved. That's a promise from God, and I can give you chapter and verse in many many places. In the Bible that says just that. If you trust God's promise of salvation through faith, then you are one of Isaac's true descendants. Let me see it. Let me look at here in Galatians 4. Alright, look at chapter 4, verse 28. Paul says to these Christians, he says. Now you brothers like Isaac are children of promise. And so that's the question. Are you a child of the promise like Isaac? Or are you a child of the flesh, like Ishmael, trusting in your own efforts? Something to think about. Let's just round up this section. So um Hagar and Ishmael they're sent into the wilderness. It's a harrowing or a harrowing ordeal, verse 15 to 716. Oops sorry, I'm in the Wrong Testament. Alright. Oh yeah, we're in Genesis. Okay. Chapter 21, verse 15. Here we are, back on planet Earth. Okay. When the water, when the water in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes And then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about the distance of a bowshot, for she said, Let me not look upon the death of the child. But God pitied them in their misery, verse 17. And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar, fear not, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. Up, lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand. for I will make him into a great nation. Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water, and she went and filled the skin with water, and gave the boy a drink. And God was with the boy and he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with the bow. He lived in the wilderness of Perrin. And his wife, his mother took away for him from the land of Egypt. And so God pitied uh Hagar and Ishmael in the wilderness. And he did promise in verse 18 that from Ishmael would come a great nation. He directed them to the water And he assured Hagar in verse 20 that uh he would be uh with Ishmael. And so here again we see uh God's kindness. uh and his grace. And um but we also see that you're saved by faith and not by works. So I'm going to pass over that third section and I'll send you my notes if you send me an email. But I think uh there's a lot there to think about in Galatians, and I don't want to I don't want to muddy the waters too much. But I want to get back to the big question. Can God be trusted? That is a question I think we're constantly facing. Almost subconsciously it plagues us. Can God be trusted? Well The the answer of uh Genesis 21, and really you go throughout scripture, you see how God deals. The answer that the scripture gives is a resounding yes. God never utters a syllable that he does not fulfill uh to the uttermost detail. He keeps all his good promises, even the fantastic ones, even the laughable ones And the great promise that God has made is that if you, a sinner without hope, would but look to Jesus Christ, then your sins will be removed and you will be right with God and you can come into his presence You can set at his table. You can be numbered amongst his people. That's a wonderful promise. Let's bow our heads. So Lord, we say with the uh man in the gospel, I believe, but help my unbelief. And I