Matthew chapter seventeen, Matthew chapter seventeen And this is sort of different because this is the only gospel in which we find this account And it raises a lot of questions. Matthew seventeen verse twenty-four We read when they, that's Jesus and his disciples, when they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the half-sheckl tax went up to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the tax? He said, yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him, first saying, What do you think, Simon From whom do the kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others? And when he said from others, Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up. When you open its mouth, you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself. What's going on here? Well what what is this tax uh that was levied to support the temple? And what is this what does Jesus mean when he says the sons don't have to pay it? The sons are free. What what are they free from? And then what's going on with this Jesus taking a or sending Peter take a coin out of the mouth of a fish now as if the fish is an ATM And so I looked at this Tuesday and I go, oh boy, what's going on here? But um you wrestle with it and you study it long enough and you have some good books to help you through it And you realize it is here for a purpose. 2 Timothy 3. 16 says all scriptures not only God breathe, but it is useful. And this passage is largely about the freedom that Jesus' followers have in him But it also says the big lesson is there are times when we should be willing to forego the freedom that we have in Christ for the sake of advancing the gospel. So let's go through the story a little bit, just look at some of the details, and then I'm going to draw a few lessons. Okay. So as I said, they're in Capernaum, so this is a northern part of Israel. Capernaum's right next to the Sea of Galilee. That was Peter's hometown. We suspect they're at Peter's house. They stayed there before. You see that in chapter 8, verse 14 And it says gee uh that Peter dealt with these uh tax collectors and then he went back into the house. So it sounds to me like it was Peter's house. They asked him If Jesus paid the half shekel tax, this was not a tax imposed by the Romans. The Jews hated the Romans. They hated being under Roman oppression and they hated, or excuse me, they resented having to pay tax to the Roman government. This was a tax that most Jews were happy to pay. It was a tax that was collected annually for the upkeep of the temple. Excuse me. And back in Exodus 30, verse 11 to 16. You had this tax or this practice of paying each man between the ages of twenty and fifty, paying a half shekel. Back then it was for the tabernacle. That was a portable tent in the uh wilderness. But then they built a temple and they carried over this command uh to support the ta to to support the temple. My verse or my translation says a half a shekel. Some translations say two drachma. They're equivalent amounts. Is they're talking about the same thing. But as I said, the Jews are happy to pay this tax because this was an expression of Jewish patriotism. They probably put a bumper sticker on their chariot or something uh saying that I paid uh my due share uh for the temple. And interestingly, uh this was collected throughout Palestine a month before the Passover So that gives us a point on the timeline. We are a month away from the crucifixion of Jesus Christ And it says in verse 24 that the collectors of this temple tax, look at how they phrased the question to Peter. They said, Does your teacher not pay? the tax. And so they're assuming that Jesus would not pay the tax, and they were asking in effect, is Jesus pro-Temple? Is he supportive of the temple? I was reading about this. Jesus was a rabbi. He could have said, I'm a rabbi. I'm exempt from this tax. But this could have led to a long dispute with the authorities down in Jerusalem. And it could have antagonized the patriotic Jews and closed their ears to Jesus' message. So he should pay the tax, but then if he went and paid the tax, it could also give the impression that he was just a regular guy. He was just an ordinary citizen. and he stood in an ordinary relationship to the temple like the other Jews. So what to do? A lot of nuances in this situation Peter didn't think through any of the nuances. He just shot from the hip and he said, Yeah, he pays the tax. Maybe he had paid it the year before. I don't know why, but Peter said, yeah, he pays the tax Peter walks into the house and Jesus explains that it's not that simple Uh if a simple yes could lead people to misunderstand uh that he's not just a regular Jewish man or a rabbi, they might not recognize his his messianic identity They might not recognize his unique relation to the Father. They might not recognize his superiority to the temple. So you go back to the middle of verse 245. It says, and when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons, from their sons, or from others? Peter rightly answered, Well he they take it from others, right? You don't a king doesn't tax his own family And uh Jesus said in the end of verse 26, well then the sons are free. The sons are free. Now Jesus is God's unique Son, right? He was an eternal relationship with the Father from all eternity. And the temple was something that the Father called to be built. And so, of course, Jesus had no obligation uh to pay this tax uh that was imposed in Exodus chapter 30. Uh the temple Jesus and John or on uh yeah John 216 He called the temple my father's house. And so Jesus was a son. He didn't have to pay that tax. And um Neither are his disciples obligated to pay that tax. We'll look at that in a little bit. But we are sons of God. We are children of God. Jesus in John 12 calls us his brothers and sisters. And so Jesus had every ground not to pay that tax. And he could have said, you know what? I don't care what people think, I'm not going to pay that tax. It's the principle of the matter. They might figure it out down the road, and if they don't, I'm still sticking to the principle of the matter. But in order to present a misunderstanding that may well have become a barrier to these people Hearing his message, being open to what he had to say, he says to Peter, let's go ahead and pay the tax, verse 27. Whoops, so what's the verse 27? However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook. And take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself. And so um Jesus, if he had asserted his independence from this law in the Old Testament, He may have closed these people off to him. Because they didn't understand. They didn't understand that he was God's unique son Are they to understand that Jesus is God's true temple? He fulfills all the pictures of the Old Testament temple. And so that's the story in a nutshell. What lessons do we draw from this? I think it's pretty simple. Well, the second one's simple. The first one, I just want to make a couple comments. Jesus said, the sons of the kingdom are free. Jesus, I said, is God's royal son, right? He dwelt as God's Son, the second person of Trinity from all eternity. So of course he's free from that. And those who follow him are considered God's sons, right? John 1, to all who received him. To those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. So what is that telling us? How are we free? Now this is where we read this statement from the Westminster Confession. It talked about the ceremonial law. What's the ceremonial law? I bet you there are many here who have never heard of that that term, the ceremonial law. Where you can you can categorize the different commands, different sections of commands in the Old Testament under three labels. One would be God's moral law, summarized in the Ten Commandments. They're valid always How we relate to God, how we relate to others. Jesus said, I haven't come to abolish the law, I've come to fulfill it. God's moral law is always binding. Then you had civil laws that pertained to Israel as a unique nation with God as its direct ruler. So Israel was a theocracy. And so there were civil laws that no longer apply because we don't live in a theocracy. There was another section of laws. that related or pertained to the to religious worship. You had laws about the temple, about priests, about offerings and sacrifices. And so you're reading through like Exodus, Leviticus, you have all these detailed stipulations about worship. And then God gave to Israel laws, these ceremonial laws, which were like object lessons, that taught them we're to be holy, we're to be different from all the other nations. And so he would say like don't blend two types of uh cloth together or material together in the same garment. Why is that? Well just to remind you that you're to be pure, you're to be holy, you're to be distinct from the nation. When you're planting your crops, don't mix the seeds of two types of vegetables in the same patch. Was it was a problem there? Just a little object lesson for the Israelites here to be different. So these are parts of Israel's uh ceremonial law. And what Jesus was teaching is that the temple is part of the ceremonial law. And in Jesus Christ, his followers are free. They're no longer obligated to the requirements of that law. Because what was the temple? That was where they worshiped in the Old Testament, and that was a picture, that's where God dwelt amongst his people, Israel. The temple was the meeting place between man and God. And it was really hard to come before God. They would send a priest in there, right? And he had to go through all these preparations to represent God's people before God. Jesus comes on the scene, and John writes in John 1. 14, that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And so in the Bible, excuse me, in the New Testament, we discover that the Old Testament temple is not something that's going to continue forever. But it was disappointer to God dwelling amongst his people, Jesus Christ is the temple. And that's why in John chapter 2, verse 19 to 21, Jesus is in this uh dispute. with the Jewish religious leaders, and I think they said, How are you going to prove you're the Son of God? And Jesus said in John 2. 19, destroy this temple in a three days, I'll raise it up. The Jews weren't following, and they said to him, It has taken 46 years to build this temple. So they're talking about the temple in Jerusalem. And you're going to raise it up in three days. But then John writes, but he was speaking about the temple of his body. Same idea, Revelation 21, verse 22. I was reading that the other day. And it says, in the New Jerusalem, that's to say, in heaven. John says, I saw no temple in the city. Why is that? Oh heaven? You don't have a temple? And uh John writes For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. So the temple in the Old Testament, that was just part of the ceremonial law. And Jesus is saying the sons are free now from that law. That law was concerned about how Israel was to worship God. And to confirm that Jesus is indeed the Son of God, in everything he says about, don't worry about the temple anymore, He says to Peter, go down to the lake and grab a fish or catch a fish, and you're going to find a coin in that fish's mouth. How is this? All under the providence of God, right? We were talking about that in Sunday school. God's providence allowed this fish to scoop up a coin and somehow I guess it was caught in the mouth the cavity of the fish's mouth and uh Peter went fishing and he got this coin and he went and paid the tax But it was all a lesson to say, you know what? When you follow me, you are free from all these ceremonies. because the book of Hebrews says all those Old Testament religious ordinances were just pointers to the finality of Jesus Christ as the final priest, as the final sacrifice, and as the true temple where God meets with his people. So that's the first lesson. The sons are free. I think this the second one is more is bigger when you think about life in the church and you think about the Christian life. And the lesson here, and really just getting along with people The lesson we see in verse 27 is that there are times when we should forego our rights for the sake of advancing the gospel. So there we're verse 27. Jesus said, however, not to give offense to them. Go to the sea, catch the fish, get the coin. So not Jesus was concerned about not offending people. Now it's interesting because Jesus had this habit of offending people wherever he went. But when he offended people, it was for good reason, and they needed to be offended. But there are times when you need to recognize, as Jesus does, that We should bend a little bit, not to give offense, because we want people to be receptive to hearing the gospel of Christ. Now Are we not concerned about people hearing the gospel? Jesus was And that should make us think a little bit right there. I don't even care. But Jesus cared. And so let's think about this a little bit. So, number one, here's an application, it's on your outline. I should be concerned not to exercise my freedoms as a Christian, my Christian liberty in a way that would keep others from being receptive to the gospel. You see this in the Apostle Paul, Acts 16, on Thursday nights we're in Acts 16. And Paul's going along on his first missionary journey. He picks up Timothy, and Timothy joins in as Paul's missionary partner in Acts chapter 16. Timothy's mother was Jewish. His father was a Greek, a Gentile. That meant that Timothy had not been circumcised. But Paul circumcised Timothy. Why did he do that? That's surprising because Paul wrote an entire letter. The letter to the Galatians, and he said in Galatians, it doesn't matter whether or not you're circumcised, he said in Galatians 5, 6. In Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything. The only thing that counts is faith working through love. But then in Acts 16, he says to Timothy, you need to be circumcised, buddy. So Timothy was circumcised. Why did he do that? Because though it wasn't necessary for Timothy to be circumcised to be saved. Paul and Timothy were going to be going to evangelize the Jews. The first place you'd go, they would go when they arrived in a new village or town. They'd go to the synagogue. And they would preach the gospel. They would explain from the Old Testament scriptures that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. Timothy would not be admitted to the synagogue if he'd not been circumcised. And so Paul said, you know what? You're free. But because we want to present the gospel, let's go ahead and get you circumcised. So we don't want to exercise our freedom that puts up a barrier to people hearing the gospel. And many of you have read the book or heard of the book by this lady Rosaria Butterfield. Great title, The Secret Thoughts, The Secret Thoughts of an Unlikely Convert. Rosaria Butterfield, she was a militant, anti-Christian uh woman. Uh she was a lesbian She was a professor of English and women's studies at Cornell University. She was an animal rights activist. And she wrote this editorial in the newspaper up there where she just uh decimated this Christian parachurch group, the promise keepers, and they were popular back in the 1990s And a Presbyterian pastor up there and his wife, Floy, uh, what was it, Ken and Floyd Smith. Ken wrote a letter back to her, and it was a very gracious letter. And she said, you know, I want to throw this letter away, but every time I went to throw it away, I was sort of intrigued because he was so winsome and uh kind in the way he disagreed with me. And uh in that letter he'd invite her, you know, give me a call, maybe we can get together and talk about it. And she was she was haunted by this, I guess, for a long time, and she finally said, I gotta call this guy. I just can't put this letter away. She called up Ken Smith and they have this little phone conversation. He said, Well, uh, you want to come over for dinner sometime? And they said, well maybe you don't want to come over. That might be awkward. Maybe it's more you'll be more comfortable at a restaurant. She said, no. She was like, this guy is really kind. I'll come over. Because she's thinking I've been ripping against these Christians. It'd be sort of nice to see what what they're what it's like when you go into their house, what they're like And uh she went to see them and uh they met and they uh got off to a good start. And she was really impressed because they knew she was a vegetarian and uh F Floy Smith served up a a vegetarian dish, so some kind of vegetarian stir fry, uh she said. And um Rosary Butterfield said, You know what? That that is really thoughtful. Now Ken and Floyd Smith could have said, you know, come on over and you need to eat where you're served. You're a guest in our house. And if you don't like chicken, then you can just have beans and potato. But we're not gonna invent for you. But they realized, you know what? Why do that? Why start off this evening with a debate about whether or not it's legitimate to eat meat? And so they had this long extended Friendship and uh interesting, she said, uh Rosaria Butterfield said, they didn't nail me with the gospel right off, but they were interested in me. And so they were winsome. They they had a feel for the person to whom they had this building this relationship. And there was just this sensitivity. And um we want to we want to have that kind of love for people, we want to have that kind of sensitivity, right? We don't want to exercise our Christian liberty in a way that might impede somebody who's not a Christian from coming to Christ. Now you gotta think about how that applies because It's a little bit something we don't think about that often, but it's going to come up. It comes up sooner or later, so that's when you have to catch yourself. Here's another area of application. This principle about not giving offense in verse 27, it applies to exercising your Christian liberty in a way that could be an impediment to new Christians with tender consciences. Now there are some people who have been Christians for years, for decades And they're just stubborn and they're opinionated and they have their little theological hobby horses and they get upset at the slightest thing that if you do and it doesn't fit their their way of looking at it That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about younger Christians, spiritually younger Christians who have tender consciences. That's what the passage of Steve DeWiss is about First Corinthians eight. First Corinthians eight nine, Paul instructed Christians. Take care, he says, that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. What right are we talking about? Well, the Corinthians, here is the question The Christians in Corinth, this is Corinth, there were all these pagan temples, there were pagan sacrifices being offered. And sometimes, or oftentimes, you'd have the meat this animal sacrifice, some of the leftover meat that wasn't used for the sacrifice and that wasn't eaten by the priest that administered the sacrifice, some of the leftover meat was taken down to the market and sold at the in the marketplace. Well, the Corinthian Christians were like, hey, you know what? I got it at a good price. I'm going to get some of this meat. And it doesn't matter because These stupid gods that these pagans offered that cow to or whatever, they're just figments of their imagination. So it's fine. Let's get our stakes down there at the market. However, there were new Christians. Coming into the church. And they had just come out of paganism. And they were horrified Hey, how's your steak? Uh it's good. We got it from the Temple of Zeus, uh, the marketplace right out in front of the Temple of Zeus. And um These new Christians were horrified at the thought of eating this meat that had been used as part of a pagan sacrifice because they thought they were contaminating themselves, because they had all these associations They didn't just look at it as a piece of hamburger, right? They had all these associations from these vile pagan rituals. And so Paul said to Christians in 1 Corinthians 8. 13, If food makes my brother stumble, I'll never eat meat. Lest I make my brother stumble. He was willing to give up something that was completely legitimate. But he didn't want the cause, not some stubborn pig headed guy Christian But this new Christian who has a tender conscience, he realizes you know what? When you're a new Christian, there's a lot of things you have to come up with speed on And we don't have to deal with this meat issue right now. Let's think about how this applies. Okay? There's a new Christian, suppose there's a new Christian in the church. And before he became a believer, his weekends were just spent getting drunk and engaged in immorality. Yeah, and he's been in a he just went through the new members class and uh he stood up front and he joined the church and then some guy comes up and says, Hey, you want to come over Friday night? We have once a month on Friday night, we and we I know uh a friend who does this, uh we have a theology discussion. We drink a couple beers and we sit on the veranda And we talk about uh reform theology. And this uh this new Christian says, ooh, uh I d I don't know, that that doesn't seem right Uh because when this uh this guy would have a couple b he would have a couple beers, but uh when he had his beers he wasn't talking about Calvin and Luther He was talking about Carla and Lolita or uh or whoever. So he has all these all these um associations uh with uh with drinking beer and he won't just have one or two beers either. Now the Christian guy can be a smarty pants and say, well listen He hasn't even learned the Bible. Jesus drank, the apostles drank, and here's ten proof texts that teach that drinking in moderation is completely legitimate. But why but but why get into all this right now? Well w he had this guy has a lot of things to sort through uh from his past, and so it's better to say, you know, why don't you come over? We're gonna talk about theology and we'll have a milkshake or whatever And so that's the principle. Verse 27, Jesus said, but lest we give offense. Paul then takes that idea and he he elaborates on it in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Here's how we should be sensitive not only in evangelism, but we should be sensitive to other Christians who might have some scruple about something. Now we can't let there there are issues where you just have to explain, here's we can't let them control everything. But if this is going to cause them to stumble spiritually, we want to be sent we want to be sensitive to that Here's one more example, and then we'll then we'll close. This principle of not giving offense It also applies when it could cause division in the church. Let me give you an example. Some years ago, well, a number of years ago There is a great Presbyterian church in Florida, renowned. Most of you would recognize its name. had a great preacher. He founded the church and for 50 years he pastored the church. The sanctuary. It's a little nicer than this one. It's like a cathedral. It has a massive pipe organ, and when this man would step into the pulpit, he carried himself with sobriety and dignity, and he had a black pulpit robe three bars on the robe. He had a doctrine. That's the what that indicated. No embroidery because he was a Presbyterian. The purpose of the pro pulpit robe is not to make the minister look like some kind of holy man. But it's to darken the minister out. So not looking at his tie or whatever he has on, but it's to minimize the pastor. And so he was a picture of Godly of the gravity of preaching. He died a couple years later. They get a new pastor. And um no two pastors are alike, but this guy seemed to go out of his way to be different. No pulpit robe. Open collar, scruffy beard, spiked hair. Completely different. Is there anything in the Bible that says you can't do it like that? No. You know, you could you can walk into the pulpit wearing a bathing suit and carrying a boat or under your arm. It doesn't matter if you're preaching the word of God, right, in some sense. Maybe I'm getting carried away there. But It doesn't matter in a s like in a strict sense of the word, but in the culture of this church And maybe also just the tenor of what reformed worship is. The people have come to expect the pastor to have a little bit more serious presence in the pulpit. And people talked about this and they tried to challenge him on us. And he wouldn't hear it. And his response was, you know what? Pulpit robes are a non-essential issue. It doesn't matter whether you wear one or you don't wear one And then we'd say, well, if it's non-essential, why don't you just wear one and not cause a fuss? But as it turned out, he was free in Christ. He was exercising his liberty And I think it was 400, maybe more, just left that church. They just lopped a whole chunk of that church off and they went across town and they started another church. Why do people do that? Why are we so stubborn about these kind of things? J. C. Ryle He said, there are matters in which Christ's people ought to sync their own opinions and submit to the requirements of which they may not approve. rather than give offense and hinder the gospel of Christ. It may sound very fine and seem very heroic to be always standing out tenaciously for our rights. But it may well be doubted whether such tenacity is always wise or shows the mind of Christ. There are occasions when it shows more grace in a Christian to submit than to resist. And that's what we see. The very Son of God was willing To go with the flow, because it was not some principle that he had to stand on, so as not to give offense to others Go ahead and just pay the stupid tax, right? It's not like it's yeah you're sinning if you pay the tax. We see it in the Apostle Paul. He had this concern. For new Christians. And oftentimes, our concern, I'm right. Let me show you chapter and verse. Well we should have we should have this broader view and this longer view about how we want the gospel to go forth and how we want people to grow in their Christian walk. So let's bow our heads. We pray, Lord, that uh we would be more animated uh not by an interest to show we're right always and to uh have it our way, but that we show more of a concern for others, we'd have a graciousness, a humility, that we'd be patient with others, and that We would be so shaped by this concern for the gospel going forth and for Christians growing that we would become a gracious people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your songbook. The number in the bulletin is incorrect. Let's turn to 452. 452. The song is called Macedonia. Let's stand and sing.