Uh so today uh just for the parents is down the hall there and down that hall there. We have a couple more classrooms for renting uh this time around. So that's where the worship training is. So let's turn in our Bibles, please, to Romans chapter 13. So we're making progress through the book of Romans. And um so I've been a pastor like thirty-three years and never preached to the book of Romans. So that's sort of a a mark against me. So Hopefully I won't get hit by a bus before we get to chapter 16. I want to be able to accomplish the book of Romans, but not just for me, of course, for us. So Romans chapter 13 Just the first seven verses. Paul writes to the Christians in Rome Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is a servant of God, an avenger, who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For the same reason, you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. So let me remind you of the gospel context. So everything in the Bible has some relationship to the gospel. We have to remember this isn't just a bunch of commands. But it flows out of what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. And so Jesus Christ lived the perfect life where we fell short. He died on the cross to bear the penalty for our sin. That's the first 11 chapters of Romans. You get to chapter 12, as I said a couple weeks ago. Paul turns a corner in the beginning of chapter 12. And he explains how God's grace to us should transform the way that we relate to other people. So chapter 12, verses 3 to 16. He says to these Christians, here's how the gospel should affect how you relate to one another. Chapter 12, verse 17 to 21. Here's how the gospel should influence how we relate to unbelievers. And now in chapter 13, verses 1 to 7, he says Here's how the gospel should influence how we relate to the government. Now, before we look at these verses, You've got to ask the question, what prompted Paul to address the matter of the Christian's relation to the state? Nobody knows for sure, but perhaps some of the Christians in the church in Rome thought that to submit to the pagan authorities uh would require them to compromise their allegiance to Christ. Maybe that's why Paul said, no, it's good and right to submit to the governing authorities. Or perhaps Paul was concerned about the Christians in Rome rebelling against the government. This had been the case with the Jews in Rome some time earlier. And in response to uh an uprising of some of the Jews, it says in Acts chapter 18, verse 2, that the Roman Emperor Claudius expelled uh some of the Jews from Rome. And so perhaps Paul didn't want the Christians to follow suit. We don't know. But whatever the reason For Paul's instructions in this passage, it does present a Christian view of citizenship And on the side, it gives us some guidance into the proper role of government. So thus we're going to talk about a Christian view of citizenship. And then what is the proper role of the state? And the main things he says in this passage, he says, there are two main reasons. why we should obey our civil rulers. Now if you go through that passage, you're going to see a bunch of reasons and you could mark them out, usually indicated by the word for. Here's the reason you should do this So it gives several reasons, but the main reasons that we should honor and obey our governing leaders or rulers is number one, God instituted government. This is God's invention, and he has vested it uh with a certain amount of authority. So he wants us to recognize that. And number two, the second reason that we should submit to our rulers Is that God has delegated to the state the responsibility to maintain order and to administer justice? That is the purpose of the government. And so we're going to go through that. So number one, why submit to the government? Well, because God established government, God has given the government authority. And uh in this culture, as soon as you say the word authority, some people will recoil. Uh that's a bad word. No, that's a good word. That is part of creation. In fact Verse one says, God is the ultimate authority. Right? Look at verse one. There is no authority except from God. But God has delegated authority over the various spheres of life, right? Think about Genesis chapter 1. God made Adam and Eve. He put them in his garden And he commanded them in chapter 1, verse 28, exercise dominion over creation And so God called man to exercise authority over the world. Man is God's vice regent. over creation. And that authority was demonstrated in Genesis 1 by Adam naming the animals. And so we see authority there We see authority in the family. Husbands have authority over their wives. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 23. The husband is the head of the wife. I see husbands looking at their wives. Well that's good, okay? However, you know, it's a servant authority, right? So it's always qualified. And uh husbands recognize that. Parents, Ephesians chapter 6, have authority over their children. There's authority in the church. Why join the church? So that you can come under the authority of the elders. Well, I don't like that. Well, then you're violating Scripture. 1 Peter 5 says there is such a thing as legitimate authority in the church. Elders are to be shepherds of God's flock. Okay? Romans 13 says there's another realm in which God has vested authority, and that is the civil government. which has authority over its citizens. Look at verse one and two again Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever therefore whoever resists the authorities, resist what God has appointed. Okay? So we see here, the government's authority does not reside in itself. It has been granted by God. Jesus said the same thing, Pontius Pilate, John chapter 19 verse 11. He said to Pontius, You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given to you from above. I think it's quite remarkable that Paul would recognize the authority of the Roman government. For in the first century, the Romans were hostile and unfriendly to the church, and as it would turn out, in a few short years, it was the Roman government that executed The Apostle Paul. Nonetheless, Paul recognizes that the government does have authority from God, however It's not absolute. So that's the I want to make a qualification here and say the state's authority is constrained by and limited by the Word of God. So here's how we look at it, or how we I think we should look at it. In the Bible, God has established three basic institutions, the family, the church, and the state. Each of these institutions has its own sphere of authority, right? So the family has a certain sphere of authority, same with the state, same with the church. And one authority should not encroach on the sphere of the other authority. So this has been called sphere sovereignty. Fowler White can probably tell us about this. And here's something, no extra charge. There's a Dutch theologian named Herman Doyeveerd. And um he he wrote about that. I just always wanted to say that name in the pulpit because I think it's a cool name. Herman Doyabeard, okay? Take that to the next cocktail party. But um anyway, he talked about sphere sovereignty. But the idea is not from him, it's from the Bible. Each of these authorities needs to stay in its lane. The government needs to stay out of the business of the church. But we could also turn that around and say our church needs to stay out of the business of the government. So you have some of these mainland Protestant denominations. They're instead of teaching the Bible, they're making political pronouncements about foreign affairs. They're making announcements about economic relations between nations or within a nation I mean, what would make the church an expert in foreign affairs or economics? I have no idea, but that's what they're doing. Well, they are encroaching on the authority of the government. Now the church does have, should be speaking about moral issues, even though if those issues intersect in the public realm, right? And so that's why the church would speak about uh sexuality. That's why the church would speak about uh marriage and family. Uh that's why the church would have a voice on the transgender uh confusion in our society in the issue of abortion So when we preach about abortion and the humanity of the child, we're not preaching politics. We're preaching ethics. And yeah, we should have a voice to what takes place in the public square. And now, but when it comes to like endorsing political candidates? I mean some churches do that. I don't think that's wise. I don't there's no verse in the Bible that says it shouldn't. But I think we will confuse The gospel with a certain political candidate. We don't want to do that because every all these candidates are flawed, right? Now, as individual Christian citizens We should be able to say what we think, even pastors, but I'm not going to say it from the pulpit, because I don't want to cloud people's understanding that we join this political party with the gospel. But nonetheless, if you line up the moral issues, you'll see and you can make you can make a wise decision. And so, um, where was I? I was saying that the state's authority Is constrained by the Word of God, and so Christians must not submit to the state When the state tells us to disobey God. Let me give you a couple examples. You're probably familiar with some of these in Acts chapter 5, verse 29. When the Jewish Sanhedrin, the Jewish high court, commanded the apostles to stop doing evangelism. Peter, it says in Acts 5. 29, Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than man. Or think about Exodus chapter one, verse seventeen. When Pharaoh ordered the Hebrew midwives to kill the newborn boys. The midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live. Well that's good and right for them to disobey the government. They were commanding them to kill children. Daniel chapter 3, King Nebuchadnezzar ordered all the people to bow down and worship the golden image. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego They didn't they're not going to obey Nebuchadnezzar on something like that. That would violate their their allegiance to the one true God. Daniel chapter three. Or Daniel chapter 6, King Darius issued a decree that all the people should pray only to him. Daniel said, No way, Jose, I'm not bowing down. I don't care who you are. And so that's instructive for us because in our day the government has assumed authority over the consciences of its citizens. violating Scripture and also as an aside the First Amendment of the Constitution that they claim to abide by And so the government's assumed we see the ways it's assumed authority over private businesses. So there's been stories about uh this baker out in uh Colorado, Jack Phillips, he would not decorate a cake. uh to celebrate a gay marriage. You said I'll sell you a cake. I'm not gonna decorate it. Uh you could buy your cake somewhere else. It's a free country. But the Colorado Civil Rights uh Commission ordered this Baker to say, no, uh you're gonna do that. It's like they're holding a gun to his head. You must do that. So they went to court. I forget what came of it. I think Jack Phillips won the case at least at this point. Well, that's not the government's role. Uh that's a private business. What authority does the government have uh to ha make someone violate uh their conscience. The governments assumed authority over people's right to assemble for worship. We saw that and there we understand the beginning of the uh pandemic and things. We understand everybody's trying to figure it out But after several months, uh you can go into the hardware store, you can go to the liquor store, but you can't go to church. Well there's some inconsistency here. Is that the government's role Or do we have do we use wisdom? Do we stay home on our own if we're if we feel vulnerable to this disease and whatnot? In Canada. The government tells churches they cannot preach, they cannot say that homosexuality is a sin. They're threatened with imprisonment. Well, that's the government again encroaching on the authority to the chur of the church to preach God's word. Now whether you agree or disagree about what the church should do about that issue, it seems like we can all agree That it's not the government's role to tell the church what its doctrine should be The government has assumed authority over parents. You must educate your children in the public schools, or else we're going to come after you. That's not taking place right now in our country, but you see in Germany Oh, it is. Okay. Okay. And you s you see it across the board in some countries. And so this is this is what we're we're facing. But the Bible says Christians, yes, should submit to the government, but the government's authority is not absolute. It only has a certain sphere of authority, and its conduct within that sphere is constrained by the Word of God. So we're asking a question of why should Christians submit to the government Well, because God established government, he's given it authority, albeit a limited authority. The second reason is that God has a God has delegated to the state The responsibility to maintain order and to administer justice. So in the King James, anybody here of the King James, it calls the state a minister of God. My version and most other versions, it calls the state a servant of God. Verse four Paul says, he is God's servant to do you good. The end of verse 4. He is a servant, talking about the government. He is the servant of God. An avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Now that's sort of interesting because if you look at the passage where we were last week, chapter 12, verse 19 Paul said, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. Okay. And then now in chapter 13, verse 4. Paul identifies the state as one of God's servants who administers his wrath, his justice. Or again, the end of verse 6. Paul calls the authorities ministers of God. So, what then is the role of government? This is a hard one. I'm going to say a couple things that are tentative, okay? Um well num but some things are clear. From verse four We know that the legitimate, the rightful role of government is to protect the innocent and to punish wrongdoers. Right? We just saw that in verse 4. He's God's servant to do you good. If you do wrong, be afraid. He does not bear the sword in vain. He is a servant of God. So God has given the state the authority. to protect the life, the liberty, and the property of its citizens. And so that's the government should Have a military. It should have an intelligence um operate have intelligence operations to protect us from nations that seek to undermine us or invade us. The government should enact laws that protect the innocent, including unborn children. The government, uh sh got local government should have a police force. We should have a judicial system. Uh because it says in the end of verse four The state bears the sword. And that's just a a a way of saying the state has the rightful responsibility to administer capital punishment for capital crimes. Genesis 9 verse 6, if you kill somebody in a malicious and premeditated way, Because life is so valuable, Genesis 9. 6 says, the ultimate penalty will be required of you. And that is to be carried out, not in the sense of personal uh retribution, but that is the role of the state. And then he says, not only should the state administer justice, but in the end of verse 3 He says the state should approve that which is good. Paul writes Would ye have no fear of the one who is an authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. So how about that? The state should approve things that are good, right? It should be commending Abstinence before marriage. Fidelity in marriage. It should be commending faithful fatherhood in motherhood. It should be commending people who work hard and not penalizing them by overtaxing them, but it should be commending them uh for their faithfulness in their vocation. It should be commending other moral virtues. And people might s some people say, well wait a minute. The government's in the business of morality? And we say, it sure is. Every single law is based on some moral code. We may not agree with the code, but everything is driven by some kind of moral uh presumption. And so, no, there's no such thing as moral n neutrality. Our founding fathers understood that and that's why they chiseled into the wall of the Supreme Court building the Ten Commandments because uh you can only have a nation uh sir survive If it is populated by citizens with some kind of moral code. And so here's something also. And here's where it gets a little tricky, and I'm not sure myself, but uh you know, is the state's role limited to maintaining justice and approving that which is good And some would say, yeah, that's all you have there in Romans 13. Uh but we have to remember Romans 13 is not a treatise. on the um on the role of government. It's almost Paul's just making these comments as he goes through exhorting the Christians to submit to government. I think we should have limited government. It's not my political opinion. It's based on what the Bible says about the fallenness of man and the evil in the human heart. We I don't think we want the government to have too much power. I don't think it's the government's role to provide health care or education or retirement income. I don't think it's the government's role to redistribute wealth or to provide goods and services to favored uh constituencies. Uh don't we care about people? We sure do. But charity is most effectively carried out on the local level by religious uh groups, by uh charities by uh local communities. And that has been how it worked down through history until of late. But you know, but here's where it gets tricky. Well then w the government can't do anything else and this is where well I think we need wisdom. I mean, it seems like you need a government to build, maintain highways, to have public health regulations, to regulate child labor. So there are things, and this is why I'm very tentative in my understanding, even great Reform theologians, Charles Hodge, John Murray, they say look at verse 4. where it says uh the government should um approve of that which is good, they say that authorizes the government to promote the general welfare of society in ways that do not encroach on the authority of the church or the authority of the family. Yeah, John Murray makes a comment on verse 4, where Paul writes, He's God's servant for your good. Murray said, We may not tone down the inpour of the term good in this instance. So it seems like there is a little leeway for the government to do more than just administer justice and uh things in that realm. Or you look at Daniel chapter 4, verse 27. God condemned the pagan king, right? The pagan governor of Nebuchadnezzar for what? For not showing mercy to the oppressed. So it seems like there's a little room for the government to have some kind of role in caring for its citizens Well, um it's a pretty complicated issue, and honest Christians uh to agree or disagree, um, but there are a couple things we should be able to agree on. As people who believe the Bible and what it says about the fallenness of the human heart, seems like private initiative should take uh precedence over the government providing services. And as I said, it seems like the role of government uh should be limited Uh because the more power it accrues, uh the less individual freedom uh there will be. And I think we see that. So John Cotton, one of the founding fathers uh founders of the uh Massachusetts Bay Colony. He wrote an essay titled The Limitation of Government. And here's what he said. And I think it's it's it's it's wise. He said Let all the world learn to give mortal men no greater power than they are content that they shall use. For use it they will. It's necessary, therefore, that all power that is on earth be limited. As soon as you give the government a certain amount of power, they will seize it and you will never get it back from them. And that's the concern, and that should be our concern. We should not look to the government to meet our needs. It doesn't do it very efficiently. It doesn't do it very justly, it doesn't do it very economically, and it does it uh with a bureaucratic indifference. And so um that's enough about the government You're probably exhausted, I'm exhausted. But what was Paul talking about in this passage He was talking about our responsibility to the government, and he says a couple things here. I'm just going to review, and then we're going to pray. So first of all, going back to verse one again, he said, we need to submit to the governing authorities. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. Same thing in verse 5. One must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. And so, yeah, we have every right to be vexed uh by government government malfeasance and overreach. But we must also remember the great king of the universe, in his providence Has allowed these rulers to assume their rule. Proverbs 8 verse 15. God says, by me kings reign. And even corrupt governments are used by God to accomplish his purposes in history. That doesn't mean we cheer them on. That doesn't mean we're happy about it. But nonetheless, we recognize the providence of God. And if you think about, you know, you read about where has the church thrived most down through history? Well, it's been under oppressive governments, right? Look at how strong the church in China is. How is that? Well, because These governments purge the church, purify the church. When people are oppressed, then remember this life isn't all there is. There is a God. They look to them. So we're not looking for it to come, but when it comes and we see it in some manner here, uh we shouldn't just uh be distraught. We're saying, oh, God's accomplishing his purposes in history. So number one, he says submit to the government. Number two, Paul says obey the law. Anybody got a problem with that? That's pretty clear, right? We should obey the law. End of verse 3. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good. You'll receive his approval. First Peter chapter 2, verse 15 to 17. It says the same thing. Here's something else. I don't like this one, but it's right there in the Bible, so what do you do? Pay your taxes. Verse 6 and 7. For the same reason you also pay taxes for the authorities or ministers of God attending to this very thing Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. And let me add one more thing to Romans 13, our responsibility of government. 1 Timothy chapter 2, the first two verses. There, Paul says Christians should pray for their governing authorities. I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings, and all who are in high positions. Why would we do that? Paul says, if you pray for them, it's gonna be a lot better. It's gonna be a lot more peaceful. So he says That we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. And so that's instructive. Uh there's a lot of political animals in this church, right? We love politics. We get upset about politics Well, that's understandable. Uh some a lot of you are like, I can't watch the news anymore, right? That's that's the sentiment Okay, that's it. It's good to be politically aware and engaged. But Paul is saying, you know what This isn't all there is. This isn't the only authority. Remember there's a God, so we need to pray too. In fact, we should be more uh uh diligent to pray, then we should be to read the news or watch the news. Uh because God does Answer our prayers. He does change the course of history, right? We believe the Bible. We believe there's a God. We believe He's put the rulers in place. We believe He's accomplishing His purposes And so we should have a conviction that we should be praying. We should be coming to the prayer meeting if we're able. Because God is watching out for his church. We can't forget that. He will accomplish his purpose in his history. He is gathering people into the church. And that's amazing, right? In such a secular age, people are still becoming Christians. So we should pray and we should have confidence. So let's bow our heads. Lord God, thank you that you have given us governing authorities, and we do pray for the President, the Congress, the Governor, local leaders. We see things going on with the school board that are truly vexing, but we do pray for them. We pray you'll help them to have better insight, better wisdom We pray that we can live our lives. We pray that we can worship and raise our families and educate our kids in ways that are in accord with Scripture. We pray that we will not grow discouraged by the movements in our culture, but that we will recognize it in Christ. uh uh where that we will recognize that Jesus Christ indeed will prevail and He is indeed uh building His church. And so give us confidence in your good providence, and also give us a due respect and obedience to our governing authorities. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.