First Sunday of the month we have communion and every couple years I preach a sermon on that topic. That's what I'm going to do this morning. I think next week we'll get back in Revelation. We'll be at chapter 19 of the book of Revelation But this morning, I'm going to read the uh text from 1 Corinthians 11. We call these the words of institution. So you're familiar with these. We read these every month when we have the Lord's Supper. Paul writing to the congregation in Corinth, uh, but not just to them, uh to churches down through the ages. He says in chapter eleven of First Corinthians verse twenty-three, for I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you That the Lord Jesus, on the night when he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Now the first is that follow are the ones who are going to focus on the Verse 27 Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks, without discerning the body, eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined, so that we may not so that we may not be condemned along with the world. There is a reading of God's Word. And what I want to do, what I'd like to do is first of all, just make a couple introductory comments About what the Lord's Supper is about. The Lord's Supper is a sign, it's a visible sign that represents a spiritual reality. Now there's four realities that I want to mention. There are others, but the four that I'd like to mention just as sort of an introduction Is that during the Lord's Supper, it's a time when we recall Jesus' death for us, right? In verse 24, Jesus said, Do this in remembrance of me. And so the Lord's Supper, number one, it's a remembrance. We remember not just about Jesus, he was a good teacher and God and all that stuff, but we remember that he died for us Secondly, the Lord's Suffer is a proclamation. You notice that in verse 26 We proclaim Jesus is our Savior. We proclaim He died the death that we deserve. And so In verse 26, Paul said, As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death. And so one of the old Scottish pastors, Robert Bruce, said that the Lord's table is, in a special sense, an evangelist So this is like a visible preaching of the gospel. It's an object lesson that serves as an evangelist And we not only proclaim this to unbelievers who may be present, that Christ died for sinners, but we preach the gospel to ourselves. Now, we say to ourselves as we participate in this table, Jesus Christ is the only hope for sinners who will one day stand before a just and holy God. He's our only hope. And that's why we're partaking of the bread and uh the drink. And so it's an evangelist. Here's something else. Thirdly, the Lord's Supper is an occasion when we spiritually feed upon Jesus Christ. So you'll notice Jesus didn't say to his disciples, Hey, look at this bread. I broke it, I died a few times. you but he said take it and eat it and the same with the wine said take it and drink it and the idea there is that what we're seeking to do is to feed on Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ spiritually nourishes us. And that sounds sort of best up terroric, what am I saying? You think about when you hear the word preached, right, you're being nourished by Jesus Christ. You're discovering who he is, you're discovering his wisdom, his love, his uh righteousness. The fact that He's your King, He's your sanctifier. You're taking all that in. And that's influencing you. And by the Spirit, that's changing us, that is sanctifying us. And so it is. take the Lord's Supper, we're saying, Jesus Christ, I know that that you are my God and I seek to know you in all your fullness and all your attributes. I want to know you and I want to know I want you to change me and I want you to transform who I am and how I look at the world. And so that's something of what I mean when I say we're spiritually feeding upon Jesus Christ. Here's the fourth thing that happens during the Lord's Supper. We anticipate Jesus' return. So it said in the end of verse 26. You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And so there's this orientation that we have toward the future, that these little this little tokens. Meal that we're taking together is really just a picture of this great feast that we will one day have before the Lord. Mess spoke of them next week in Revelation 19, the wedding supper of the Lamb. And it'll be a lavish feast, right? It won't just be a little uh smidgeon of bread and a little bit of grape juice, but it will be a lavish feast. We will have perfect fellowship with each other and we will have perfect fellowship with Jesus Christ. We will see him face to face. So A little background there. Now we we focus in on verses 27 to 32. And this is a section about the Lord's Supper that is oftentimes misunderstood And I would add to great spiritual harm. Because here, what's Paul saying when he says, when he talks about eating the bread and taking the cup in an onworthy manner You know, is that something I do? Is that something I should be concerned about? He talks about examining yourself. He speaks of discerning the body less You eat and drink God's judgment on yourself. And so, and this is something I spoke about years ago, and I think this is an important issue For Christians to recognize to recognize that you should come to this table because when you understand the context that these warnings were issued you'll realize that you know what this does not speak to uh the average uh struggling Christian. Uh Paul wrote those warnings in verse To a grossly degenerate church. And there's oftentimes been misunderstanding, and even in the early part of my uh pastoral uh ministry, uh I think uh think I really misrepresented uh the thrust of this warning. And so what I mean is pastors oftentimes misapply the warning here to congregations and to Christians who are generally healthy. So one of our sister denominations, a denomination I used to be in when I was licensed, in their directory of worship, it instructs pastors, and this is not uncommon, this is just representative of how uh pastors present uh these warnings. It instructs pastors that when they administrate the Lord's Supper, they must warn those Who secretly and impenitently live in any sin, warn them not to approach the holy table, lest they partake unworthily Not discerning the Lord's body, and so eat and drink condemnation on themselves. So that was a that was a mouthful But the part I want to underline is this where it says pastors should warn those who secretly and impenitently live in any sin not to approach the table. Okay? So that's saying then, if you have any sin that you're not repentant of, you should not take the Lord's Supper this morning. Okay? So who's up for the Lord's Supper? And um realize, wait, that that is not right. Right? Right, regular struggling uh Christians, in other words, all of us, right, with tender consciences sometimes conclude, hey, you know what It's better not to take the Lord's supper than to provoke God's judgment. So that's the conclusion that many Christians draw. and they abstain uh from participating in this uh fellowship meal. So what I want to say Is that for regular struggling Christians, which is every Christian, right, is a regular struggling Christian The Lord's Shu the Lord's Supper should not be an occasion for severe and exacting introspection But rather, it should be occasion to joyfully come, to feed on Christ, to see the promises of the gospel confirmed in the bread and in the cup. And to celebrate, we call it the celebration of the Lord's Supper, to celebrate the fellowship that we have with Christ right here. He's invited us to his table and also to celebrate the fellowship. fellowship that we have with other believers. Now still I have to account for this warning, right? So that's what we're going to do now. We're going to look at this in context, this morning in context, and then I think we'll conclude that it's often been mishandled, and it's turned invitations to the Lord's table. into these somber, heavy seasons of introspection. Okay? So let's look at, first of all, this common misapplication of the warnings in verses 27 So verse 27, Paul warns, and he warns sternly: whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner Will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord. Then in verse 28, let a person examine himself Uh then to verse twenty-nine, lest he eats and drinks judgment on himself. So this practice, which uh I do I usually read that section when we had the Lord's Supper. That's called fencing the table. It's saying, you know what? If you're a Christian come to the table Except, you know, if you're engaged in this flagrant, some flagrant, egregious sin. And that's fair. But it's not fair to say, if you're a Christian who's living in ongoing and unrepentant sin, you should not come to Lord's table. Now, that'd be fine to say if we understood unrepentant sin to refer to willful, hardened, continuing rebellion against Jesus Christ. But conscientious Christians oftentimes misconstrue that to mean if they have any sin of which they've not repented, uh they should take the Lord's Supper. So I when I was in seminary uh years ago, uh there was a girl there in the getting a degree in Christianity counseling and she was from a denomination called the Netherlands, I think it was called the Netherlands Reformed Church, a little Dutch denomination And she said that many people in those churches have never taken communion, not once, because they take this warning so seriously. And they examine themselves, and they have this sense, no, I have not fully repented of all my sin. And so that's the logical outcome. Of saying that this warning applies to every Christian. And so what we need to do then is look at what is the context. What is Paul, well excuse me, who are these people Paul is addressing In the Corinthian letter, okay. So when he says um in verse twenty-seven to twenty When a pastor says if you're engaged in secret sin or sin that you're not repented of Don't take the Lord's Supper. My question is in 1 Corinthians, is Paul speaking to people who are engaged in secret sins? And the answer is no. You know, we should not nurse secret sins. I'm not recommending it. But Paul's concern with Corinthian church is not their secret sins. He's concerned with their public sins and sins that were egregious and sins that were scandalous And these sins were so public, they weren't secret, they were so public. The word of them made its way all the way back to Paul, who wasn't in Corinth, he was in Ephesus. Okay? What was going on with these people? Well there was nothing to figure out. You just have to read the letter. I I can name three categories of sin uh that they were involved in. First of all There were divisions. Chapter 1, verse 11. He says, It has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there's quarreling among you. Chapter 3, verse 3. There is jealousy and strife among you Chapter 6. Paul expressed his shock that these divisions amongst the community of believers led to them suing one another In secular courts, chapter 6, verse 6, brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. And their division spilled over into their time, their celebration of the Lord's Supper. Look at chapter eleven, verse eighteen, the second part. I hear there are divisions among you. Even during the Lord's Supper, these divisions were being displayed, the well off members of the congregation We were unwilling to share their food with the poorer members, and thus they were humiliating them. Look at chapter 11, verse 20. When you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper that you eat, for in eating each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk. What? Do you not have homes to eat and drink in? And so the congregation was fractured And their the vision showed up even during the Lord's Supper. And that's why if you go back to verse 17, the second part of the verse. Paul said, when you come together, it is not for better, but for the worse. Or the NIV says it more bluntly. Your meetings do more harm than good And so there are some, you know, ever hear somebody say, I want to have a New Testament church, it's like, no you don't. The church in Corinth It was a train wreck, right? There were divisions. Secondly, uh there was a party spirit. Chapter 3, verse 4. One says, I follow Paul, another, I follow Apollos Here's the third problem in the church. They were celebrating. They were not merely tolerating, but they were celebrating Sexual immorality in the church. Look at chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans. For a man has his father's wife. Guy was sleeping with a stepmother. Then Paul says, And you are arrogant. In other words, they were boasting about their freedom in Christ and saying, Hey, this is a good thing that we're We're free in Christ, we're forgiven, so we can do whatever we want uh morally. Paul says, ought you not rather to mourn? And so I guess you see now, right? Paul's not talking about those when he warns about examining himself. He's not saying if you have secret sins, he's saying these huge, flagrant, obvious sins. You need to deal with. And so in verse 30, when Paul explains that God has judged them with illness and death on account of their unworthy participation in the Lord's Supper. It wasn't these secret unconfessed sins But it was rather these gross sins that were public, that were not repented of, and they continue to celebrate the Lord's Supper. And so that's why in verse 29 he says they were eating and drinking without discerning the body. To what does the body refer? It doesn't refer to Christ's body But it refers rather to the church as a body. They weren't recognizing the church as a body of believers. That's why in chapter 10, verse 17, he said, We who are many are one body. So he's talking about you're not recognizing that there's this one body. We should be pursuing holiness as a body and there should not be divisions. Okay? And so all I'm saying so far, I guess it's taking a long time to Is that in 1 Corinthians eleven, Paul's not addressing the issue of secret unconfessed sins. He's talking about these outward public scandalous sins. So then let's move on to B. What are we to be? What does Paul mean when he warns against eating and drinking in verse 27 in an unworthy manner, right? Verse twenty seven Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be profaning the body and blood of the Lord Now I for years I took back to mean That a non-worthy manner means to come to the table without a spiritual without a sufficient degree of earnestness. Well, we should come to the table earnestly, right? I'm not uh arguing against it. But Paul isn't talking about that here. He's talking about when when he says don't come in an unworthy manner, don't come with your flagrant unconfessed sins. And that makes sense because no Christian is worthy to take the Lord's Supper, right? And that's the whole point of the Lord's Supper. Is that Jesus Christ, by the virtue of his perfect life and then his substitutionary death, he makes us worthy. He clothes us with his righteousness. And so that's the reason we come to the Lord's table. But if you're a struggling Christian, you sense your unworthiness, then you need to come uh to the table. Another question, and I know we're a lot of details here How about verse 28? How should we understand Paul's command to examine himself? Right? 28, let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. What is he saying? Is he calling, now I'm not against this, but is he commanding a season of deep introspection to determine whether you should take the Lord's Supper. Uh is he saying you must discern in yourself a deep, thorough repentance, and you must show its fruit, or else you can't take the Lord's Supper Now, they're all, right? We should do these things, right? We should examine ourselves, says the 1 Peter, I think. Examine yourself, see whether you're in the faith. Examine yourself for repentance. All those things are good and valuable But that is not what Paul is talking about in this verse. He's not calling us to discern every last um splinter of sin. that resides in the deepest recesses of our hearts. But he's saying, examine yourself To these Corinthians who are involved in these gross sins, say, you know what? Maybe you better not take the Lord's Supper. It'd be sort of like if you're talking to a friend And you find out that friend's a Christian. You know that friend's a Christian, but you find out that he or she is committing adultery or is embezzling from his employer or something. And you know they're going to go to church Sunday and they're going to take the Lord's Supper. What would you say? You need to examine yourself. Before you take the Lord's Supper, you need to see whether you're really in the faith. Because this doesn't look good. And if you take the Lord's Supper, you're going to bring down God's judgment on yourself. So you need to repent. That's what Paul's saying to the Corinthians. He's not saying to the average Christian, maybe you better not take the Lord's Supper. The average Christian, I see a Well, take the Lord's supper is for sinners. And that's what he's talking about when he says to the Corinthians. Your divisions, your party spirit, your sexual immorality blatantly contradicts The faith that you profess, so you need to take measure. You need to repent. You should examine yourself before you come to the table. And if you don't, you're going to bring God's judgment down upon yourself. So a lot there, something to think about. Let's just let me just make a couple practical points now. So there's this old term that we use, I think it's from Scotland. We talk about fencing the table. You know what that is? It's that section when I admit I Announce the Lord's Supper. I read verses twenty-seven and thirty-two. And I say. Usually I say. If you're not a Christian, don't take the Lord's Supper. Or if you're a Christian and you're engaged, In some egregious sin of which you're not repentant, then don't take the Lord's Supper. So that's that's fair, right? That's who what's the Lord's Supper for? Who is the Lord's Supper for? Well, you have to be one of Christ's sheep, okay? And you have to be acting like one of Christ's sheep. And if so if you're not one of Christ sheep, don't take the supper, or if you think you're or you're saying you're one of sheep, but your life really betrays that profession, then don't take the Lord's Supper. Suffer. So these are the type of sins that uh if if known by the elders in the church would lead the elders to suspend you from taking the church. Lord's Supper. But if you're just a regular struggling Christian, then of course come to take it. The best commentary on 1 Corinthians was written by a charismatic, Gordon Fee. It's just brilliant. But here's what he says. And I'm not endorsing the charismatic movement. I thought that was a novelty. He said in his commentary that in the history of the church, the table, quote, has been allowed to become a table of condemnation. for the very people who most truly need the assurance of acceptance that this table affords. The sinful, the weak, the weary. One does not have to get rid of sin in one's life in order to partake. Here by faith one may once again receive the assurance Christ receives sinners. And so that's what the Lord's table is about. Christ receives sinners. He invites sinners to himself to come into fellowship with himself. Here's something else. So that was about fencing table. Here's something else I want to mention. About Christians Who personally choose to abstain from taking the Lord's Supper. Have you ever done that? Have you ever seen that? You think, you know what? Um I don't feel like I've been a very good person this week or uh my thoughts or my words haven't been very good and so I shouldn't take the word supper. Well I mean that kind of sensitivity is commendable, but the Bible doesn't say that you should decide that you should not take the Lord's Supper. It's the elders who decide that, right? We heard your profession of faith. Hey, you're you're walking with Jesus Christ. And um then you should you should say to one of the elders, I don't think I should take the Lord's Supper. So are you repentant of your sin? Yeah. Uh perfect repentance? No. Well, that's fine. We're none of us are perfect in our repentance, but is that your orientation? Then take the Lord's Supper. But don't don't separate yourself. From this communion, this this fellowship meal, this family uh meal. And um because Christ died for sinners. Nathan Tricer wrote an excellent uh article on this passage, he said to voluntarily abstain from the table is to turn a means of grace Into a reward of grace, as if the spiritual food of the table were reserved for those who were already well nourished. Right? No. Like I said. This is saying Christ receives sinners. And so what we want to do, do you have this sense of guilt for all the ways you've failed, well that's sort of good. But after you sense your guilt, yet Lord forgive me. Lord forgive me. And help me not to fix my eyes on my unworthiness, but on Jesus Christ and his worthiness. He's the one who clothes me in his righteousness. So that I can come to this table. So John Calvin wrote: This is the worthiness, the best and only kind that we can bring to God. And then he says, so what is this worthiness that we can bring to God? Excuse me. To offer our vileness and our unworthiness to him, so that in his mercy He may make us worthy. We're to despair of ourselves so that we may be lifted up by Him. We're to accuse ourselves so that we may be justified by Him. And so come to the table, Christian, struggling, sinful, Christian, negligent in so many ways. Come to the table because this display Your sins are forgiven, right? Christ died for you. Jesus Christ has marked you as one of one of his own. And so that's why you can come to the team. If you're not a Christian, that's something else, right? If you're not one of the sheep, you don't come to the table. What you need to do is recognize you're excluded at this point from fellowship with Jesus Christ So you need to come to him as your Savior, repenting of your sin, and then resting on him as the one who died. for those sins. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you that you loved us and you sent your sins Son, who is the one who makes us worthy. And may the Lord's Supper remind us of your favor toward us of the fact that we have been clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And we do desire to feed upon Christ, to know him As our Savior, as our King, as our Sanctifier. Help us, Lord, to have all these great truths and promises. Confirmed by the fact that we're welcome to this table that you've set before us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. So we're gonna sing a happy song because the Lord's Supper. Well, it's a introspective, right? We remember Christ But it's also a celebration. So we're going to sing 420, 420 at the Lamb's High Feast. Let's all stand. When Brings World, from the lonely don't have his person he's going to So you're not whether we say raise rule. We were heaven and we're after the Lord, below our needs for the world on earth, properties and all sweet and all heaven. We gave us the end of the water through the wood home. Imagine Christopher So I never said one. Amen. Please be seated. The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread and having given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Okay, okay. The battle is about that um Early early team seasons and And guys, but uh Oh yeah Ferm, firm that's fall on a garden. So sperm. Take and eat. This is the body of Christ given for you. Do this in remembrance of Him. In the same manner, after the supper, Jesus took the cup, saying, This cup is a new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance Prince of me. Well you will first serve well service Very both sides. This cup is the new covenant in the blood of Christ, shed from many for the forgiveness of sins. Drink ye all of it. It's power news. Thank you, Lord, for this uh symbol, uh this seal, this confirmation of your favor toward us and of your promise to be our God, to help us through difficult times and anxious circumstances. We do pray, Lord, you'd help us to be a light in the darkness and help us to die to see And to live for Jesus Christ. Help us always to be quick to give a reason for the hope we have. Help us to more and more demonstrate the unity of the the spirit in this body of believers. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Our final psalm is a psalm we're going to sing in right in the bulletin, Psalm 6 Sixty seven. That's all Stan is saying. And you do every nation with your salvation show. Oh God, we hold grace. We the war que lord grace. I mean you could go up with that we know we So you can just call a lot of that. But I have a lot of people with any Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. And then for those phones with I throw it in. I mean I can't. But I have the comments down the case. You can think of the control. I don't think wait, I'm so confused with Johnson. I