To go to worship training with Ms. Babcock, Mrs. Babcock. And I just want to introduce our uh Clark Brookings. So Clark uh is a pastor in our sister denomination the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. He lives in Ellicus City, and our Presbytery recruited him to gather a core group in Eldersburg, uh about forty-five miles from here. That's where the Chamberlains live and the Lawrences, and they'll be a part of this core group and they've gotten uh at least one other family at this point. But anyway, so Clark's task for the next six months is to uh gather a core group, and we're thankful he's going to preach at our church uh once a month for the next uh six months. Uh he's here with his wife Cheryl. his father Hurley and then son Carson and is it Lincoln? Glad you guys are here. So and the Brookings are staying for lunch and so have an opportunity to meet them. Want to invite you up Clark to our uh pulpit. Thank you for being with us. There's a water definition on the right. Oh, thank you. Good morning. Our Old Testament reading comes from Isaiah forty. Hear the word of the Lord. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended. That her iniquity is pardoned, and that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries, In the wilderness, prepare a way for the Lord, the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain, hill, and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become a become level, and the rough places a plain And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. A voice says, Cry, and I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is as grass, and its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers. The flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Go up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. Lift it up. Fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord comes with might. And his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom. And gently lead those who are with young. Who hasn't measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance? Who has measured the Spirit of the Lord? Or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult? And who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice? And taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding. Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted as dust on the scales. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. To whom, then, will you liken God? Or what likeness compare with him? An idol? A craftsman cast it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts for it silver chains? And he's too who's too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. And he seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is He who sits above the circle of the earth And its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. who brings princes to nothing and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown. Scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him, says the Holy One? Lift up your eyes on high and see. Who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary And his understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Will you pray with me as we prepare our hearts to consider these words further? O Heavenly Father, we are so grateful. We are so grateful for the redemption that is ours in Christ Jesus. And we are grateful for the promise of an end to our suffering. of eternal life with you, of no more struggle with temptation or sorrow or pain, when you will wipe away all of our tears. We are so grateful. We ask, Lord, that you would give us insight into these promises this morning. Amen. Well, again, good morning and it is I am so glad to make your acquaintance. Uh I'm I'm thrilled. Uh to partner with you in this endeavor and trying to establish a core group in the Eldersburg. I do very much covet your prayers. I've been a pastor for a long time, but I've never planted a church, and this is scary, so uh please pray for me. Um and if you know anyone in the Eldersburg area, put me in touch with them. Um And uh one more thing before we turn again to our passage. Uh a couple of weeks ago I hurt my wrist, uh, and then last week I hurt it again. And so I'm usually the guy apologizing for the hard handshakes But my arm has gotten crushed several times this morning. So as eager as I am to meet you, shake my hand softly and don't think less of me for having a weak one Now as we turn our attention back to the text, I do want you to consider why you came here this morning. Why did you come to good news? What are we doing here? You know what happens on Sunday morning is is both a give and a take. We uh we gather to worship the Lord, giving him praise and honor, uh and he speaks to us in his word. He gives us truth from his word, and we respond in song and in prayer. But we also, as we gather together, In gathering together, we find in the fellowship of brothers, brothers and sisters in Christ, believers, fellow believers, we find encouragement. And uh, you know, when we share the the the Lord's table together, we are making a proclamation together. And when we gather over meals, it's the faith that we share that encourages us. And then, you know, Isaiah forty is really all over that uh that unity and that encouragement that we have. And and since I read it as our Old Testament reading, I I won't read it again. I'll just Pick pieces of it as we as we go along, but um if you have a copy of God's word with you, let me invite you to go ahead and find Isaiah forty. You know, as you make your way there, I wanted uh a little story. I I went camping with my boys and uh one of the things that we did was walk through a canal tunnel And uh and this thing was long. And it was dark. And you know the canals here and you've got this narrow little path and there's this walk uh a rail so that you don't fall in Uh but the the path is just enough for two people to pass each other. And uh and most of the traffic was going the other way. We were trying to make our way this way and Most of the traffic was coming at us. To make uh matters worse, it there was dri the the walls were dripping water and so every once in a while you'd get wet and every once in a while because it was dark you'd hit a puddle and your foot would get wet It was a m and and to make matters worse I had a skittish puppy with me. So uh well eventually the turnal tunnel turned so that I caught a glimpse of the light at the end And uh and and I knew then this miserable walk does have an end point. Well, that's you know how our passage begins this morning. It is it is for uh our forefathers, the original audience, it it is light at the end of a tunnel, a very dark tunnel And God commands that his people be comforted. Now did you notice that it was a command? Did you pick up on the fact that it's an imperative? Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly Tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, and that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Who's that command given to? Now unless you want to jump down to verse 9, you'll have to do a little re reasoning, but it it's fairly easy reasoning Uh the prophet is telling the people for whom the Lord is God to comfort his people. Now, I suppose you could say that the Lord's telling Isaiah to comfort his people, but as we're going to see in verse 9, Jerusalem is the herald of good news. It is Zion that is the herald of good news. Zion is spiritually faithful Israel, and so is Jerusalem. It's the Jerusalem above that Paul talks about in Galatians 4. 26. So we're talking about the Old Testament church here, the people of God. And look what the look what the message that the faithful people of God are to share with one another. And to and to proclaim from a high mountain as well, as we'll see. But it gives it begins this way. Her warfare is ended. Her iniquity is pardoned, and she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. That's the gospel. Plain and simple, that is the gospel way back in Isaiah 40. And that that double payment, that's an idiom for a uh a complete restitution. Double payment like it you can see this in in the law Exodus twenty-two for every beach breach of payment Trust, whether it is for an ox or for a donkey or for a sheep or for a cloak or for any kind of lost thing of which one says, this is it In the case of both parties shall come before God, and the one who God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor. Now, here's what that does not mean in our text. It does not mean that Israel, through her suffering, has paid for her sins in full. It does not mean that. It cannot mean that, because she has received a pardon. And she receives this double payment from the Lord. God has announced to her that her debts are paid in full, and she has received that payment from God's hand. He pays it. She is no longer at enmity with God and under chastisement. God's justice is satisfied with respect to her, and he's the one who satisfied it. Now, those words were promises to our forefathers. And our forefathers could not have possibly figured out that the Lord was going to come twice, once in humility and once in glory. Isaiah wrote these words in the 8th century B. C. That's the 700s before Christ. That's 2,500 years ago. More than that, right? So in a way, even though he's writing in the 8th century B. C. , a lot of what he writes doesn't happen until much later. So in a way you've got his audience that's on the one hand they're the listeners of the eighth century, but you know obviously those listeners didn't listen. And the reason I say that is because they didn't take his heed They were taken to Babylon in exile. Isaiah had warned them over and over again, the northern kingdom fell to Assyria, and the southern kingdom still didn't learn. So God raised up Babylon, and Nebuchadnezzar comes in and he destroys the temple and he takes the people off the land. They're not even in the promised land any longer. And that's why they needed these words very much. They are they're in a dark tunnel and they needed light at the end of it. And so God gives it. There is forgiveness. There is freedom. When they're brought low, God brings them comfort. And notice, I want you to notice That they were to comfort one another with this message Now the message is incomplete. Yes there's forgiveness and yes there's freedom, but we await the fullness of it. We we're still waiting. We're eagerly waiting We're awaiting new bodies, we're awaiting life eternal, we're awaiting vindication and reward, and we are waiting because the Lord is bringing those things with him. And that's why I hope you can appreciate that where we are and where the original audience of this book is is not that far apart. And yet it is, because we stand on the other side of an empty tomb. But now we get these these words that were on John the Baptist's lips in verse 3, a voice cries, In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain and hill made low, and uneven ground shall become level And the rough places of the plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Now again, our forefathers could not have known that the Lord would come twice. Once in humility to to reveal the Father to us and then to die for our sins and and once in glory to judge the living and the dead See, our forefathers divided time into what they were experiencing now, you know, the way things are uh in a world filled with sin and suffering and injustice. Uh th this age. They divided between this age and the age to come, when God would right every wrong, sickness and death and warfare and poverty, it would all be long gone. You know, all the ills brought upon this world by sin, when they are removed, we are in the age to come. And so our forefathers divided time that way, this age and the age to come. Well what we actually find out happened was that Jesus came first in humility and he bought our pardon. Now we await his glory when he returns. So the age to come for which our forefathers were waiting has already begun. You have already received the Spirit. And yet, we still await our full enjoyment of our redemption. This age is not yet over. We still struggle with temptations. We still face persecutions. We still face painful trials. Now the rest of Isaiah is going to go into some detail on Jesus' coming in humility. But our passage is really focused on his coming in glory, and I hope you will come to appreciate Our message, as we share the gospel, is also supposed to be focused on his coming in glory. Don't misunderstand. The blood of Christ, his death and resurrection, that's where our acceptance is found. That's why we are able to look with longing for his coming. It's what gives us peace. There we find pardon, the end of our warfare. But we still find ourselves longing for the end of sin, don't we? We're longing for the effects of sin to be gone in our own lives and the the experience that we suffer of other people's sins. No more stealing, no more lying, no more disease, no more wars. We're still longing for Christ to come in glory to put an end to this fallen age So the age to come has begun, but this age is not yet over. Now, remember, they were to comfort one another with a message. And we're going to see that they have they have words for the rest of the world too, and so do we, and interestingly, it's the same message. The message with which we announce the Lord's coming to the world is the very same message that encourages you and I to press on. Same merit message encourages us to not give up and it reaches the world with hope. What's that message? Behold your God. Look to him coming. The end is near. You know, the mountains being taken down, the valleys being lifted up. The idea, of course, is that you don't want to um inconvenience your king. So you want to make sure he has a flat place to walk. You change the topography so the king won't be burdened. Well that's the picture, but we all realize that God doesn't get tired. And so the readers understood it just as just as John the Baptist did when he took it on his on his lips. And proclaim that this is about getting ready. This is a command to be prepared. Your God is coming. Be prepared for it. It's a spiritual matter. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So bear fruit in keeping with repentance, because the Lord of glory comes. That is the message that we share with the world, and that is the message that we share with one another. In other words, get ready, stay ready But in verse 6, another voice commands Isaiah to shout, and uh and he so he asks what he should shout about, and here's the answer. So verses six to eight is kind of an aside In a way, it's directed to Isaiah. Isaiah is to make an argument He makes an argument and then crystallizes the message, the message of comfort that Zion proclaims to herself and to others. What's his argument? All flesh is like grass. It's fleeting. But the word of God endures forever. And knowing that, first nine commands us: go up on a high mountain. Hoseion, herald of good news. Doesn't that describe us, brothers and sisters, in the New Covenant? Don't we have the good news? Aren't we heralds of the good news? Go up on a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem. Herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Now, what I hope you can appreciate is that this text, even though it was written some 27 centuries ago, it applies to us directly. You don't have to do any mental gymnastics to understand what this means for you today. It means the same thing for you that it meant to our forefathers, the only real difference. Is that we now know that Jesus came in humility first. We stand on the this side of an empty tomb, and we know the lengths to which God would go to secure our redemption. But we still await his glory. That's still our hope. And it's still the context of the gospel. We are calling for people to save themselves. from this twisted generation by turning to Jesus now. Why? Because he's coming again, this time in judgment. And the time is short. Now is the day of salvation. Working together with him then, Paul says, We appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. So we have the good news part of our message accomplished already. We have pardon. There is peace with God. And just as our forefathers had to wait, trusting the Lord to fulfill his promises, that's exactly where we find ourselves. We have a message with which to comfort one another and encourage one another. You know, our love is supposed to extend beyond words, of course. It does no good to say be warm and well fed if you don't do anything. And yet the the words, the true comfort that we have does come with words It's a word of pardon. It promises an end of our suffering, and it's centered on Christ's return. That's precisely where you and I reside. Make no mistake, anyone who seeks to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And we belong to a kingdom where there is no sickness or sorrow or death. Those things are foreign to us. And yet we dwell in the midst of a twisted generation for whom those are normal. We look to Christ's return for the full experience of our inheritance when our own temptations and trials, let alone the trials that are brought to us. are gone. Well here in our benediction this this morning, I lift my eyes up to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord who made the heaven and the earth. So let me ask you something. When you think of sharing the gospel, what's the message? Do you speak of Christ's return in glory? You know I have I've often gone to the boardwalk chapel in Wildwood, New Jersey, sharing the gospel on the boardwalk with uh with random strangers, and it struck me as I was preparing the sermon That so little of our sharing of the gospel is focused on Christ's return. We tend to just talk about the blood, and don't get me wrong, that's important. But listen to Paul's focus in 1 Thessalonians 4. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, and the voice of an archangel, and the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Listen Therefore, encourage one another with these words. So, what are we waiting for? We're waiting for Jesus' return. That's where all of our hope lies. And getting others to grasp the urgency of that as well as the hope that's available in it, that's what verse 9 calls for, isn't it? So when Jesus gave us the Great Commission, he kind of made Isaiah 49, 40, verse 9, our central job. Go up on a high mountain and proclaim, behold your God. So that's why Jesus tells you, you are the light of the world. A a city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a sand and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give give glory to your Father who is in heaven. But then in verses 12 to 26 we get another argument. Put very simply God is set in relief against his creation. He alone is powerful. All of creation is as nothing before him. Verse 12, he measures the universe. He alone can. But verse 13, you can't measure him. You know, it's interesting. He weighs mountains and hills. But if you know your scriptures, you know that he also weighs hearts. But his heart can't be weighed. He knows your motivations, but you cannot see into his heart unless he reveals it to you. You know, we think God's thoughts after him. We know justice because God is just. Nobody had to teach him to be just And the things particularly that we tend to find so grand, they're really nothing to God. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. Flesh is nothing, mountains are nothing, nations are nothing, kings are nothing to him. Verse 22, it is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. He brings princes to nothing and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their sin taken root in the earth when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them away like stubble. And yet, again and again, our forefathers looked to other nations, constantly appealing to Egypt. Oh, Egypt, protect us from Babylon. They bowed to graven images. They trusted in rulers. They tried anything and everything except Resting in God's sovereign care. Look at verse 25. You know, whatever you replace God with What you're really doing is asking God to be like that thing. You'd rather have a piece of metal or a piece of wood if you're poor, than the Lord of glory. Rather, verse 26, look beyond yourself. Far beyond yourself. Look up at the stars. You know, I know he I know Elon Musk wants to go to Mars, and that seems like so far, but we're talking way beyond that. And maybe here in Frederick you can see them. I'm nearer to Baltimore, so I have to drive away before I can see the stars. But if you ever do get out away from the glare, they are truly innumerable. God created all of them and he knows them all by name and he keeps them. Now Jesus is going to point to something very much closer to home to make the very same point. God keeps the stars and he also keeps the sparrows, so he will certainly keep you too. So you need not fret. And yet, brothers and sisters, Jesus told us that for a reason. Because we so easily give up on God. We count on God as long as it's easy, but boy, when the going gets rough. You know, when Job lost everything. If you can be critical of Job. And and I think we're supposed to be. I mean, even though God said that he was right, Job had the sense to repent. So he let his mouth get away from him. When Job lost everything, he complained about God and to God, and one of the things that he said was that his way was hidden from the Lord. That his right was being disregarded by his God. And that is exactly what our forefathers are saying in Isaiah 40. Look at verse 27. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God? You know, it's when we find ourselves in times of trial or very painful providences. You know, we can have a tendency to think that God doesn't know or God doesn't care. Our forefathers who found themselves in Bob Babylon, they were at rock bottom, no land, no temple, all those promises that seem to be just Over now. And they needed to remember that the promises of God don't end. You know, you and I face trials too and hard ones. A cancer diagnosis, losing a job, a child rejecting the faith. Really dark times. And when those trials come, we have a tendency that our passage really wants us to avoid. We tend to fret over our troubles rather than praying about them. And so we try to solve our troubles That's what the our forefathers did when they would hire Egypt to protect them rather than trusting God. And we can have that same tendency. Maybe I'll ask God, but I'm also looking elsewhere for my real solution. And to them and to us the message is the same. Verse 8. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He doesn't faint, he doesn't grow weary, his understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youths shall faint and be weary. Young men shall fall exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength They shall mount up with wings like eagles and shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. So that's our task, brothers and sisters, to encourage one another with that message. God is coming in judgment. It's a warning to the world, but it is for us a tender hope. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. And you know, we need that encouragement for two reasons. One, we need it because what we're really called to in this faith of ours is to endure in it. And so we need to be one another's cheerleaders. Each of us wants to make it to the end of our days with our faith intact, don't we? And each of us face trials and tests along the way. And our job is to encourage one another toward love and good deeds. As we await our Savior from heaven. And the second reason is that we're prone to trust lesser things instead. We're given to count on money. We need money, don't misunderstand. But our Lord is clear that money cannot be our love. Money won't deliver you, and in fact, money can ensnare us if we're not careful. Greed is idolatry. We can count on medicine and science in a in a idolatrous way as well, especially as you discount prayer in the face of it. Where are you really looking for your help? We're prone to count on the favor and whims of men. But you know, Jesus, knowing what was in men, didn't trust himself, didn't trust himself to any of them. And you know, when we look to people, we're we're liable to care more about what they think than what God thinks. And again, it's idolatry Brothers and sisters, we call others to repentance that they might know the truth and be set free by it, that they might join us in a hope that endures severe trials with joy. They might join us in a love that considers others more important than our than yourself. That's not natural. That is from the Spirit. But we also preach a gospel to one another, the very same gospel, to keep one another pressing forward. It's what we're called to. Jesus said it plainly in Luke 21. 19. He says, by your endurance you will gain your lives. Galatians 6 9. Let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. Hebrews 10, 36, for you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised. Okay, but what makes endurance hard? Jesus told us that plainly too. You can't imagine that your love for Jesus is going to make you popular. It won't. Won't make it popular, won't make your life easy. That's a lie. Listen to Jesus' explicit promise. You will be hated by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. So we we have hope. We have a joy. Even in the midst of our greatest trials, we know joy that others don't. But anyone who seeks to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Suffering is our lot. In our flesh we fill up what remains of Christ's affliction. So of course We need encouragement to hold on. I think that's the message of Isaiah 40. God alone delivers, so only look to Him. He took on flesh, He shed blood for us. We say it to one another and we say it to the world. There is freedom. There is forgiveness. But we also need to be preaching that gospel to one another, looking forward together for his return. at the end of our sorrows, encouraging one another toward loving good deeds as we hasten his appearing. Will you pray with me? Oh Heavenly Father, we do worship you. You alone are worthy of our praise. Father, we are grateful that you have not abandoned us. That our way is not hidden from you. You have given us a shepherd, a great priest over the house of God, that we might approach you as pardoned people, beloved people. Your people. You have cleansed our consciences. You have washed us. And Father, by your Holy Spirit, it was you who began the good work in us. So help us to hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, knowing that the promise of God is durable, reliable, that you are faithful to your promises. And so, Lord, help us to know that how we might stir up one another toward love and good works. Help us to not neglect meeting together. But help us, Lord, in our gatherings that we would be encouraging to one another all the more as we see the day drawing near. And help us, Lord, to be patient in the waiting, knowing that with you one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is a day. So help us to recognize your patience. And to strive with all our might to be ready for your appearing, that we might live lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the return of our Savior. As we patiently wait, Lord, help us to recognize in your patience our salvation. And help us to see in it an opportunity for the lost. And teach us to make the best use of the time, bringing you glory as we proclaim your name and show forth your love to one another. We ask these things in the matchless name of Jesus, at whose coming all of our hopes will be fulfilled, and all of our tears wiped away. I could get you to uh rise to sing hymn one ten, hallelujah, praise Jehovah. First. For those who have been. Pray to So we'll use the author play file, so I don't like to try it, I think, five minutes, I'm just My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep