Ms. Wisner, Mrs. Wisner, let's turn in our Bibles to Philippians. So we're in our last uh sermon on the book of Philippians. In a couple weeks, I think we're going to start the book of Proverbs, because it's our practice of the Old Testament, New Testament. So we're going to do Proverbs. But today. Paul signing off in his letter to the Christians in the church at Philippi. Here we are, chapter 4, verse 10. He writes, I rejoice in the Lord greatly now that at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia No church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only. Even at Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. I have received full payment and more I am well supplied, having received from Epaproditus the gift you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. To our God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. So you remember, unless you haven't been here, I'll just mention Paul writes this letter from Rome. He's under house arrest. And one of the main purposes he wrote Philippians was to thank these Christians uh for the support that they sent him while he was in uh this situation in Rome. You see that in verse 18 I've received full payment and more. I'm well supplied, having received from Paphroditus the gifts you sent. And um the folks at the church, they took up a collection and they put it in a bag or whatever, I don't know. They gave it to Heppakhrophitus and they said, take it to Rome. Uh the problem is Rome wasn't three blocks down the street. It was six hundred miles away. But epaphroditis did it. And I think we read he got sick along the way, uh, but he he's better again And so things are well. Paul really needed this money. He was under house arrest. It wasn't uh you know three s uh three hot meals and a cot, uh, but rather he had supply he had to supply for all his needs, all his food. And so the folks in Philippi um sent this collection so that he could eat and so that he could have his needs cared for. And Paul is uh touched by this. This was a wonderful gesture. In fact, in the first chapter, he began to thank them, and then he goes on to other things, but now finally In chapter 4 verse 10, he thanks them in earnest. Look at verse 10 again. He said, I rejoice in the Lord greatly But now at length that you have revived your concern for me. So it had been twelve years ago, twelve years before that Paul planted the church in Philippi. You read that in Acts chapter 16. And then Paul went on. I think he stopped his next stop yeah, his next stop was Thessalonica, and then he went on to other uh mission cities. But so twelve years went by, and uh Paul's thankful for the gift, but also because it it provided an occasion, this is the verse 10, for their friendship to be revived. And they say that word could also be translated to blossom again. And so that's what they're giving Paul this gift. uh led to and uh so he's thankful their friendship could uh be re-established but also He says, I really appreciate the gift, but I want you to know I have learned to be content in various uh circumstances. And so here we have then the two themes of this section. The first theme is contentment, and the second theme is generosity. So we're just going to jump right in. So the first uh thing he says is that he has learned to be content. Verse eleven, the second part of verse he said, I've learned in whatever situation I am to be content Second part of verse twelve, I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need So this contentment is something we can learn. Has anybody learned to be content? I'll bet you there's some who'd say, yeah, along the way, over the years, I've learned some things. But um a lot of us are like man I still I still have a lot I still have a lot to learn uh in uh this department So as we approach Paul's writing here, you know, ask yourself the question: what would it take to make you content? What would it take to make you content? Um I won't bring up I won't bring it up. I might My wife's always talking about houses and uh decorating. And I and I'll say, okay, if we do that, then you'd be content, right? There's nothing else you're gonna ever desire. And she'll say yeah until we take care of that. So it's funny. It's funny. How about she like, was a thing if provided Or if resolved, you think, you know what? I'll be content. I mean, a long span of my life until I was 34, I was single. And um, that was a huge thing And um thought, if only I'm married, I'll I'll be content. And that is a huge thing, right? It's not good for a man to be alone, but it doesn't solve all your uh discontent uh for some. You know, if I had a better marriage, uh then I'd be content. If my kids were walking with the Lord, I'd be content, right? I mean you're never happier than your least happy kid. It's something that wears you down. It's something that is always on your mind, it seems. If I made a better living, if I had better health, and those who don't are not in good health They realize how important it is to be healthy. Or for our young people, the great desire for friendship. And these are all legitimate desires, these are all legitimate needs that we have. And yet we we are fallen. We live in a fallen world. And as it works out, no matter what we get We're still not content. Doesn't mean that we shouldn't desire those things, but we should have a sense of perspective on it. See, when you have everything, you want more. It's funny Uh Becky and I, we were we were talking to a lady this past week. Three years ago, she she had a really nice house. She spent like $10,000 to renovate one room Really nice. But then she got rid of it all because she went down the street to her neighbors and she saw a different style. And so she just did the whole room all over again. It's like, whoa! What's it gonna take? Or does anybody have one of these? Some of you are obsessed like having a here's this computer that's more powerful uh than that was used, the computer used to send the first man to the moon, you have every just about every piece of information In the universe right here in the palm of your hand, if you're out in the woods and you have a friend in Australia, you don't even have to find a payphone, right? You could just pick up this phone and call your friend in Australia That if you're hungry, you just punch a couple buttons and somebody will bring a pizza to you. How is that that when the latest version of an iPhone comes out? Some people start salivating like a starving man at the buffet at Dutch's daughter. I mean, is something is something wrong with us? And I'm looking up my son. So in these closing verses of Philippians Paul shares a little secret. Paul says, here's the secret to contentment. And it's worth listening to because Paul's a guy. Who had every reason to complain and to be miserable, right? He writes his letter, chained to a Roman guard. He faces the prospect Of execution, and ever since he met Jesus Christ on Damascus Road, he has not been singing every day with Jesus. is sweeter than the day before. Look at Second Corinthians chapter six verse four and five. He writes about his afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings Imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger. Second Corinthians 11, verse 24 He says, five times I received at the hands of the Jews, the forty lashes, less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I was adrift at sea on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles Danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers, and toil and hardship. Through many a sleepless night in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. So If a guy who suffered those kind of indignities says, I have learned a secret to be content, maybe we need to listen to what he's what he has to say. So in verse 13, he writes, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And there's another one of those verses that have been taken out of context. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. In Jesus Christ, I'm going to set a world record in the pole hole, or I'm going to become a brain surgeon. No, it's not saying that at all. But rather, it's saying in context As far as living in want or in plenty, Paul says, Christ can strengthen me to be content When I do have these unfulfilled needs and unfulfilled desires. So let's think about this scripturally. I just want to say three little, three short comments that I think are at the heart. Of what Paul says when he speaks about Christ strengthening him to learn to be content. And at the center of it, surely we would say that contentment grows as we deepen in our knowledge of Jesus Christ, as we grow in our relationship. with Jesus Christ, right? You take a passage of Scripture this afternoon, you might open up to the Gospel of John or one of the letters in the New Testament. And you reflect on it, right? And you reflect on who Jesus is and what he promises you, what he's done for you. You recognize or you reflect on his person, right? You could go through the New Testament. He's the image of the invisible God. So God has made himself known. He's the exact representation of his being. He's the maker of all things. He's the good shepherd, right? He doesn't he doesn't abandon his sheep, even though you might be going through a hard time. He promises he'll never leave you or forsake you He's not only the author of your salvation, but he's the finisher of your salvation. It says the Revelation, he's the beginning and the end. He'll always be there. He's sovereign over all things, and he's building his church. Even through trials and tribulations, Christians suffer around the world. He's still building his church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. I was reading an article this morning. about how Christianity is declining in the West and it's terrible what's going on. But you know what? God's even sovereign over that. And Jesus Christ is still calling his people out of darkness into his light. He is the Lamb of God. He laid down his life for our sin. Why should we be discouraged if he showed how much he loves us? And he says he's our prophet. The Bible says he's our prophet and our priest and our king. So he's a prophet. He speaks to us. He's a priest. He suffered as the sacrifice for our sin, and he offered himself as the priest as a sacrifice. And he says, I'm the king, I'm your king, I'm your ruler. And uh he he's a good king. He looks out for us, and he's the bread of life, right? You have we have things that we desire and we have longings, but he still says, you know what, I'm the bread of life. Look to me, not to deny the very human needs that God has put within us, but he says, I can satisfy the hunger in your soul, I'm the living water, I'll quench your thirst. I'm the light of the world, I'll guide you in the darkness. And we can go on and on and on reflecting on the person of Jesus Christ. Charles Spurgeon, right, the great preacher in London, late 1800s. Talks about reflecting on the person the Godhead. He said, he wrote, or he preached, there is in contemplating Christ a balm for every wound. That's how we learn contentment. There is in musing on the Father a quietus for every grief, and in the influence of the whole and in the influence of the Holy Ghost There is a balsam for every soar. And he said, I know nothing which can so comfort the soul. As a devout reflection on the subject of the Godhead. And so we do have to remember, we have to recognize the greatness and the glory of Jesus Christ to put our distress in some kind of perspective and also to know Everything's not going to work out in this life. There's no promise for that. Okay? It's not all going to work out. And some of us might die miserable deaths. We don't know what the future holds. But Jesus Christ is still sovereign over all these things. That's the second thing. So the first thing I said: to develop or to learn contentment, we must know Jesus Christ more. We must discover who He is. The second thing is we must become persuaded of God's providence over history and over our lives. God made me who I am. God has put me in this place, in this country, at this time in history. I wish I lived in the 50s. It seemed like a nice time. Maybe I'm a romantic. I don't know But God put me here, God put you here, and God has his purpose, and he will accomplish it. And some of you have been done dirt by others, by corrupt people uh some of you perhaps by uh even your parents and others by your peers. You've been done dirt. This is not right. And uh there there's a void in your life. But still, you know what? We don't understand, but God says he is sovereign over all these things. He will accomplish his purposes in history, despite what you've been through. Another thing, we read the Tenth Commandment when we did the catechism, because contentment grows as we repent of our covetousness. Right? We're always comparing ourselves to others, what they look like, how smart they are, or their athletic ability, or how winsome they are or whatever it is or how successful they are. And we're always comparing ourselves. You know, uh comparison really is really the seed of most of our discontentment. There's an old book by one of the Puritans. The guy's name is Jeremiah Burroughs. The title, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. And he made a great observation when you start thinking about what was me, he said If you put all the afflictions in the world in one huge heap and divided them up equally amongst everybody on the globe Would you have fewer afflictions than you have now? Mm. I'm good, right? So when you find yourself grumbling Just have a little talk with yourself. That's what the psalmist did in Psalm 42, right? Why are you downcast on my soul? Why are you so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God. So reorient yourself to these things. So that's uh Paul, a couple comments uh from Paul's statement about his contentment. And then uh he gets back to one of the main reasons he wrote this letter. He talked about giving. He commended the Philippians for their generosity. Okay? He brought that up in verse 10. Then he got off on this tangent about, hey, I'm good, I'm content. And now in verse 14, he gets back on the uh gets back on track. And he thanks the Philippians for their gifts. So let's review again. Let's reread verses 14 to 17. Yeah it was kind of you. So he's just talking about how content he is. But then he says verse 14, Yeah it was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only Even in Thessalonica, and that's where the next stop after Philippi, even in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases. to your credit. What I want to point out from these verses briefly are uh three reasons uh we should give to the cause of the gospel that we should give to the to our church, that we should give to support our missionaries, that we should give to credible, upright Christian ministries. And one reason we should give is that giving is a way to partner, to be a partner in the expansion of the gospel at home. and abroad. And I use that word partner because that's the language of Philippians, chapter 1, verse 5. Paul thanked the Philippians for their partnership and the gospel. Same thing. Look at chapter 4, verse 15. He commends the Philippians for their partnership with him by way of their giving. So that word partnership is the Greek word you've probably heard koinonia. It could also be translated for your active participation. And so the point there in verses chapter 1, verse 5, and chapter 4, verse 15 Is that when we give to the mission of the church, we are actively participating and advancing the gospel of Jesus Christ. So here's the great apostle, right? The greatest Christian who ever lived. He recognized he couldn't take the the uh gospel to the Gentiles on his own. He needed co-workers, right? Timothy and Silas and uh Barnabas. And um remember Lydia in Acts sixteen? Uh she was a lady in Philippi who opened her home. To Paul. So she was a partner with Paul in the gospel. And he needed people praying for him. That's why in 2 Corinthians 1:11, he said, You must help me by your prayers. That's why we have a prayer meeting. Because we understand it's not just some religious sentimentalism that causes leads us to have this prayer meeting, but We're partners with our missionary friends, the Benias in Spain and the Miaburks in France and the Goodmans in Wales And then Adnan Sandhu in the back row there is Pakistan Sunday School ministry. And so, yeah, we're partners of the gospel, right? You don't need to get on a plane. You just need to open up your checkbook. And uh not that you should get on a plane, so that some shouldn't, but uh there's other ways we do it too, by our giving and and by our praying. And I I want to say to our kids Yeah, you could be a partner in the gospel. If you get an allowance, give a tenth of it to the to the Lord. You know, fifty cents a week. You've got to start sometime and and now's the good time to start to develop that that discipline. Then young adults, you can be a partner in the gospel. We've heard prayer meeting on the first Sunday of the month. Not many young adults there. Why not? Isn't this stuff important? I want you to come. So giving, number one, giving is a way to partner in gospel ministry. A second reason that we should give is that it's evidence of spiritual health. Where do I get that? Look at verse 17. Paul refers to their gift in verse 17. He uses the word fruit. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit. Well, the fruit of what? The fruit of their conversion, the fruit of the fact that they've been regenerated by the Holy Spirit What happens when you're converted? Well, one of the many fruits is that you become generous. Remember Zacchaeus in Luke chapter 19, a crooked tax collector? And then he met Jesus Christ. What did he say? Luke 19, 8. Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I've defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And so his giving, his restitution, and his generosity was a fruit of his conversion. And if you're stingy, you need to assess the reality of your relationship with Jesus Christ. So giving is the way to partner in gospel ministry, giving is an evidence of spiritual health. Here's a third reason Uh to give. Uh says in verse 17, you'll be rewarded by God. What? Sounds like one of these health wealth health and wealth preachers on the uh On the cable news, uh the cable uh channel. We're what's going on here, verse seventeen So he says, I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. So what's he saying that if you give, you know, if you you know the the the the uh televangelist if you send us this money then you're gonna grow rich. Is that what it's saying? I don't think it's saying that. Uh the Bible, when it talks about rewards, typically, not always, but typically Speaks about eternal rewards, Matthew 6, 2-4, where Jesus says, you know, when you give, don't let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. Why is that? So that you will be rewarded by your Father in heaven. The emphasis there is on the reward to come. 1 Timothy 6, verse 18 and 19, Paul commands the rich, he says, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future. So there Paul's definitely talking about future rewards. But the Bible does also talk about blessings that often come in this life when we're generous. Look at verse 19. My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in Christ Jesus. That seems to be talking about temporal blessings. Proverbs 1124 is even clearer. The freighter says, one gives freely, yet grows all the richer. Another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want. Well, we can't sort all that out, uh, but we can say uh that God will honor your giving. We can say that because that's what the Bible says at the very least. And so in the end of verse 18 He describes the Philippians' gifts as a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. So there we have these two nice or grand themes, I should say, contentment and generosity. We're in the end now. Last couple verses, final greetings. Very interesting. Let's just read these again. So Paul writes in verse 21. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. All the saints, that's all the Christians, all the saints greet you. Then he says, especially those of Caesar's household. So Paul is saying That members of the emperor's family had become believers. That's pretty interesting. Remember, remember Christianity started with Jesus was born in Bethlehem, this little backwater of the Roman Empire. And then after his resurrection, Peter preached in Jerusalem, and he said the gospels can go from Jerusalem to Samaria to the ends of the earth. Well, this is the end of the earth, and it it expanded to the end of the earth in one generation. So it's remarkable. And the Philippians, in supporting Paul, had a hand in that gospel expansion. That's wonderful. He ends by saying, look at verse 23, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Back in the first chapter in verse 3, he talked about the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he bookends this letter with this reference to the fact that we're saved by God's grace, not by what we do. We give as a response, but we're saved by God's grace. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven Thank you for your kindness to us. Thank you for providing for our needs more than most of the people who've lived down through history could ever have imagined. Help us, Lord, to learn to be content. Help us to be generous with that which you've given us. Not out of obligation, but because we're zealous for the expansion, for the growth of the gospel. You saved us, we want others saved. You build us up, and we want others built up. We pray for our young people that they would learn to be content. where there's so many things that would cause them to be anxious. Help them to look to you, to trust in you. For those who aren't Christians, we pray, Lord, that they would discover Jesus Christ is God in the flesh, He's a Savior of sinners. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing in our songbook number four thirty-two, four thirty-two, we give thee but our own.