And um Ms. Mrs. Jenny, and let's turn to John chapter 19, beginning at verse 28. We'll finish out the chapter And so you remember from last week, of course, this is the account of Jesus' crucifixion, and picking up in chapter 19, verse 28. We read after this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Since it was the day of preparation, and so that the bodies could not remain, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath. For that Sabbath was a high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, that you also may believe. For these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled. Not one of his bones will be broken. And again another scripture says They will look on him whom they have pierced. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea Who was the disciple of Jesus? But secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might be might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission So he came and took away his body. Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about 75 pounds in weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. So because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there. Now you're probably familiar with Paul's comment in Galatians 2 verse 20 where he says, the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. The text that I just read really gets to the heart of Jesus giving himself for us, for his people. I have three goals this morning as we go through this passage, a rather long passage. The first goal is to build up your faith because you're going to see Believe me, you're gonna see it. I'm not gonna stop. Nobody's holding me back. You're gonna see that all the details, all the fine details concerning uh Jesus' death were foretold in the Old Testament. So that's for the first goal is to build up your faith by allowing you to see that the Scripture speaks with one voice, Old Testament and New Testament. My second goal is to confirm your, if you're a Christian, to confirm your right standing before God. For this passage talks about how Jesus' death has fully accomplished our salvation. And then my third goal Is to give you confidence in the reality of Jesus' resurrection Because the latter part of our passage reports that Jesus truly died and he was securely buried. And so that sort of that lays the groundwork for the resurrection. So we'll go through this. I'll repeat myself. Don't worry. I tend to repeat myself, right? I tend to repeat myself. No, but there I go. So uh first of all, we see that Jesus' death Fulfills Old Testament prophecy. For instance, verse 28: After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said. To fulfill scripture, I thirst. Okay. We're gonna see every as I said, and I said I'll repeat myself. Everything connected with Jesus' death, with his burial, with his resurrection happened to fulfill Old Testament prophecy. And one of the reasons I'm persuaded the Christianity is true is because there are so many details surrounding his death, not to mention his earthly ministry that were foret foretold, I can't explain them away. This is like I said somebody says, why are you a Christian? And I might give a list of like five reasons But one of them is just the self-authenticating character of the Bible. And so buckle your seat, Bell. I'm just going to r uh list like ten or fifteen verses, just a sampling. of Old Testament texts that were fulfilled in the crucifixion. Psalm 41, verse 9 said a close friend would betray him. Psalm 31, verse 11, that his disciples would abandon him. Psalm 35, verse 11, foretold he would be falsely accused. Isaiah 52, verse 14, quote His appearance was so marred beyond human semblance. Isaiah 53 verse 5. He was pierced for our transgressions. 53 verse 7 He was silent before his accusers. 53 verse 12. He was numbered with the transgressors, right? These uh thieves on uh both sides of him when he was crucified. Then you go to Psalm twenty-two verse five, for example. It says that he was forsaken by God, twenty-two verse sixteen David, who never had his hands or feet pierced, but who was speaking about the greater David, the Messiah to come Said, they have pierced my hands and my feet. Psalm 22 verse 18, they cast lots for his clothing. Psalm 22 verse 7 quote All who see me mock me, they make mouths at me, they wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord, let him Psalm twenty-two verse fourteen. All his bones are out of joint. Remember we talked about that last week? The weight of being nailed to that cross separated his shoulders. Psalm 34, verse 20. Said that none of his bones would be broken. And Isaiah 53, verse 12, he makes intercession for the transgressors Isaiah 53, verse 9, he was buried in a rich man's tomb. Now go back back go back to our text, the end of verse 28. Where Jesus said, knowing all that was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst A jar of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. So even this seemingly insignificant detail fulfills an Old Testament prophecy that was foretold in Psalm 69, verse 21. For my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. Now, if you've been a Christian a while, you've heard these, you've read these passages, this is familiar territory. But if you're new to Christianity, if you're new to the Bible, if you're a young person and you survey our cultural landscape and all the different religious options out there You go, well, I mean Christianity is just one option amongst others. The claim of the Bible is that Christianity is the only true religion. Jesus Christ is the true God and He's the only way of salvation. And one way that we make, we try to persuade people of this is that we see the fulfillment of Old Testament Scripture in the New Testament. And so there was a fellow by the name of Peter Stoner years ago, he's dead now, but he was the chairman of the math department at Pasadena College in California He took eight particular prophecies and he tried to figure the probability of one man fulfilling eight of those Old Testament prophecies. He had to list up forget which ones they were. But he took those, he did the probability on it, and he came up with the uh a probability of one in ten to the seventeenth power What is that? Well, he said it's comparable to covering the state of Texas uh with uh s with silver dollars two feet deep then taking somebody, putting a blindfold on 'em and tell 'em I want you to walk across Texas and pick up one coin. Pick up the coin marked with a red X on it. What's the probability of somebody walking across Texas blindfolded and picking up that coin? Well that's the same probability, he said of Jesus fulfilling those seven prophecies that he pulled out. And so If you're not a Christian, or if you're not a believer, or if you're somebody who says, yeah, sure, I think Christianity is true, but it doesn't impact you If that's you, I suggest that you not dismiss Christianity until you can explain the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. So this is what this is how the apostles operated. For example, now 1 Corinthians 15 verse 3 Paul wrote to these these Christians, he said, Christ died for our sins, then he adds, according to the scriptures. He's saying, listen, All this happened to fulfill what was told ahead of time so that you would know that when it happened, it wasn't just some fluke, but it was God's eternal purpose coming to fruition. And so I want to build up your faith by pointing out to you that Jesus' death fulfills Old Testament prophecy Let's carry on. Second thing. Jesus' death accomplished our redemption. Verse 30. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished in he bowed his head. And gave up his spirit. So he didn't say, unfinished, he said, it is finished. Here's what Leon Morris said. It is finished is not the moan of the defeated. It is the triumphant recognition that He has fully accomplished the work that He came to do. In other words, when he said it is finished, he was saying the atonement for the sin of my people has been fully made. The penalty for their sin has been paid in full. Well, we can say, we can take that And we can hold it up like a diamond to the light and consider various facets of what Jesus accomplished by his death on the cross. And I want to point out four And to have it there in the bulletin, the first thing he accomplished was Jesus' death was a sufficient sacrifice to atone for our sin and to remove are guilt. And so you go back to the Old Testament, you think about the the old the uh priest in Israel laying his hands on the head of a scapegoat and symbolically transferring the sins of the people to that scapegoat who was then sent out into the wilderness to an unclean place. Well, a goat can't take away a person's sin. That was an object lesson pointing forward to Jesus Christ, right? Isaiah 53, 6. The Lord has laid on him, on this suffering servant, the Messiah, the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And so one thing Jesus was saying when he said it is finished is my sacrifice is the final sacrifice necessary for the sins of my people. Here's something else Jesus' atonement accomplished. We say that his death served as the propitiation for our sins I wrote it down there. It's a pretty good word. It's very impressive throw it out in conversation. Somebody called me yesterday in fact and she was asking me, somebody who's who's been to our church She says, What was that word? I said it's propitiation. Ah, that's a great word. Yeah. Um it's an unfamiliar word. And it's not only an impressive word, but it's a Bible word, right? Not all translations, some translations the NIV They're afraid they use the word propitiation, they you use the word atonement, sacrifice atonement, uh sacrifice of atonement. They think, oh, that'll help people understand more. No, nobody knows what that means either. So let's learn the correct word that nobody knows, and that is propitiation. You should find it in the ESV translation Romans 3. 25, Hebrews 2. 17, 1 John 2, verse 2, and chapter 4, verse 10. So what is propitiation? It means to appease or to pacify the wrath of God. So Jesus stood in our place and he suffered the wrath of that otherwise would have been directed toward us. And some people who are more highbrow will say, well, that's a very primitive view of God. It's monstrous. to say that God is a God of wrath that must have his wrath satisfied. But we look at the scripture and we see in the scripture the Bible says God is full of mercy. His love reaches to the heavens. But it also tells us, in no uncertain terms, that he's holy, that he's just, and he does have a righteous wrath. Against sin. In Romans 5:9, it says, by Christ we are saved from the wrath of God How is that? Because Jesus, God incarnate, served as the propitiation for our sin. And so the first two facets of Jesus' atoning work is sacrifice, and then we talk about propitiation. And now we move on to reconciliation. What did Jesus accomplish on the cross? He reconciled us to God. So whereas sacrifice presupposes our guilt, propitiation presupposes God's holy wrath against our sin. Reconciliation presupposes that we were alienated from God. And that's what the Bible says, Isaiah 59, verse 2. Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. Then Romans 5:10. While we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. And so on the cross, when Jesus said, it is finished, he said, man and God are now reconciled And then fourthly, Jesus' death purchases purchases our freedom. The word we use here is redemption Ephesians one seven, Paul said, In him, in Christ, we have redemption, which means literally to Buy back. It means to purchase. The imagery is of a slave being purchased from a slave market in the ancient world. And that's why I quoted last week Mark 10, 45. where Jesus said, or Mark said, he gave his life as a ransom for many. Again in Revelation 5. 9 speaks about Christ by his blood ransoming or purchasing people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. And so in some We were guilty, and we deserve to die for our sin. Jesus is the sacrificial Lamb who died in our place. We are objects of God's holy wrath. But Jesus propitiated, he satisfied the wrath of God. It was spent on him. There's nothing to be poured out on us. We were alienated from God, but Jesus by his death reconciles us. And we were in bondage to sin and to Satan and death. We were enslaved, but Jesus purchased us, He redeemed us. So years ago I knew a fellow named Alan Lee. He was a missionary in Uganda. And he said, in Uganda, they have the cus a custom where if you hand somebody a gift It's not polite to receive it w with one hand, like if you're holding your your uh your lunchbox or whatever. uh in this hand you just can't put on an empty hand and take it. You have to put that thing down and you have to receive the you should receive the gift with two empty hands. That's a sign of gratitude And so Alan Lee used this as a demonstration of how do you receive Jesus work for sinners on the cross. He said you have to receive it with two empty hands. Put down if you're holding in this hand your church going or your good deeds or your moral strivings. And then you hold out this hand to receive the gift. He says, No. You need to put down all those efforts to earn God's favor, and you should hold out empty hands and receive the free gift of salvation that Jesus Christ accomplished for you on the cross. So that's why we're going to sing in a few minutes. The line, nothing in my hand I bring, simply to the cross I cling. That's what a Christian is. I'm a sinner. I contribute nothing to my salvation. Jesus completed my salvation and he said it is finished all I have to do is receive what he has accomplished with empty hands. Well let's go on, okay? Point three. And this sort of sets up things for next Sunday for chapter 20. The third point is that Jesus truly died and was securely buried. So John, in writing this account, he wants to close the door on any other possible explanation for this story About a resurrection. People will say, well, the women went to the wrong tomb, or Jesus didn't really die, uh, he just sort of passed out. Or the disciples stole the body. No, John wants his readers to understand that Jesus truly died. and he was securely buried because he wants to preclude any other explanations for the events that we read about in chapter 20 And so first of all, he truly died. We're going to race through this section, beginning at verse 31. Since it was the day of preparation, so that's the that's Friday, right? The Jewish Sabbath was Saturday, so it was the day in which preparations for the Sabbath were made. And so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for the Sabbath was a high day The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away And so uh Jewish law uh taught that a uh executed criminal should not be left hanging on a tree overnight, but should be buried, otherwise it would desecrate the land. The Roman practice was to allow those crucified corpses just to hang uh let the vultures have at them so that people would take warning and uh be cautious in the way they conducted themselves But the Jews said, No, it's gonna take those bodies down off the crosses. The Sabbath is the next day. And so they ha they asked the Romans to break the uh the um legs of these uh fellows on the crosses so that that the h so as to hasten the process of death and so that they could be taken down before the Sabbath And then in verse 32, so the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified with him. So a heavy iron mallet was used, and sometimes the blow itself uh was enough to kill the man on the cross, and if that didn't kill him, the loss of blood And with his legs broken, the fact that he could no longer push himself up to expand his chest cavity to allow Aaron would certainly hasten the death And then go down to verse 33. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water Verse 37. And again another scripture says, they will look on him whom they have pierced. So that's that verse from Zechariah 12. 10 that we saw read earlier. And then in verse thirty-six, for these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled Not one of his bones will be broken. Scripture fulfilled there, Psalm 34, verse 20. In the Old Testament elsewhere, for example, Exodus 12. 46 said the Passover lamb should not have any of its bones broken, and Jesus was the final lamb, the final Passover lamb. Then the end of verse 34, I know this is a lot of detail. Once there came out blood and water, what's going on there? John wants his readers to recognize that Jesus was truly dead. He really died. And so he's just setting the stage to say there's really no way to explain the resurrection. He really died But I was a new Christian in my early twenties, so I was I had this job and there was this guy, his name was Dave. He was in his forties. And he was a vicious skeptic of Christianity. And at lunch we would eat lunch in the cafeteria and we would have these debates. I didn't have the sense to realize I'm not going to get anywhere with this guy So I would we would have these debates at lunch and uh never made any progress, but once he gave me a book titled The Passover Plot And he said, Oh, this should this should straighten you out. So this book, The Passover Plot, claims that Jesus, he didn't really die. He merely swooned And then when they put him, his body in the cold damp tomb, that served to revive him And he was able to take off all those uh bandages in which he was wrapped and then he pushed back this huge stone And he appeared to his followers, and he convinced them that he had conquered death, that he had risen from the dead. But if you think about it As we looked at the details of his how he was flogged and crucified, uh I think it's reasonable to say that he would not have looked like he had conquered death. He probably would he he would have uh looked rather like a piece of hamburger. And so in verse thirty-five, we read, He who s John said, He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth that you may believe. John's saying, listen, I saw this. This is why I wrote this gospel I want you to recognize, yeah, this is a fantastic thing. But this is true. I believe it. I'm persuaded. I was one of the disciples. I doubt it at first. But I'm convinced that this is true. Jesus truly died, and hence He his resurrection was miraculous. Then finally, our last little section here, verse 38 to 42, speaks about Jesus being securely buried. So we read about Joseph of Arimathea in Nicodemus in verse 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus But secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body. Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night. Remember that, John chapter 3. Came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloees about seventy-five pounds in weight. And so these guys these were they were both uh members of the Jewish ruling council, the Sanhedrin, it says elsewhere in Scripture And uh they were timid, half-hearted followers of Jesus. They were Jews, and they came to believe in Jesus. But um They were afraid though, right? Because they were going against the uh other Pharisees and the Sanhedrin. And so that's why in John chapter 3 Jesus says Nicodemus came to Jesus at night And then in John chapter 7, verse 15-52, Nicodemus spoke out for Jesus before the Jewish ruling council, the s the Sanhedrin. They slapped him down And so he just zipped it out after that. And then in the end of verse 38, we read about Joseph. He was a disciple of Jesus. But secretly for fear of the Jews. So it's interesting, the eleven disciples, where are they when Jesus was crucified? They went into hiding. These two formerly reticent followers of Jesus now step forward to bury Jesus. Perhaps they regretted their former timidity and they want to honor Jesus publicly. And so they went to the Jews and asked for the body of Jesus. And that's that sometimes happens. Sometimes a half-hearted follower of Jesus something awakens him. And uh and they've become you know fully engaged. I remember when our church started, like the first couple years, there was a guy named Matt Smith And he like I didn't know if he was a Christian because he was sort of he would waffle. Then he moved away, I don't know where, but then years later he came back to visit because he was in the I guess he had a son in the area and he was a pastor. I'm like, well, you never know uh you never know what's going to happen To somebody. But the cross, the cross of Christ does have a persuasive effect, a convincing power And that's why, as Paul said in 1 Corinthians 2, 2, we preach Christ and him crucified. And that's certainly what this passage is about, right? It's about the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, and it had an effect. uh persuasive effect on Nicodemus and Joseph and yeah, we we need to preach the cross. Some people say it's not sophisticated. No, this is the center of Christianity. We're going to preach it. And then finally, hang in there. Verse 40, we read about the preparation of Jesus' body in his entombment. In verse 40. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews, and the spices uh wasn't uh wasn't to preserve the body, but it was rather just the c smell. uh the the uh it was the cover the smell of decay. First forty one. Now in the place where he was crucified There was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. So because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was close at hand They laid Jesus there. And so these tombs were typically carved out of rock. And Matthew 27 says they put a great stone in front of that tomb. uh to secure it and Matthew twenty-seven also says they put a Roman guard, some Roman soldiers to guard that tomb Because the Jews didn't want the disciples to steal a body and to st steal his body and to start a rumor about a resurrection. And so now the stage has been set for what we will read in chapter 20 about the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In the Apostles' Creed, we say Jesus was crucified, dead, and buried, and on the third day he rose again from the dead. In what we've seen Is that these events fulfill Old Testament prophecy in granular detail? That should help us. When we waver, when we doubt, when we look at our circumstances, we remember, no, I can't explain this stuff away. And the reason that John bore witness to these events, go back again to verse 35, he said, so that you also may believe. John wants us to be firmly persuaded of the reality. That Jesus is God and that he did really die and he rose so that we could know. That yeah, it is finished. Our sins have been paid for, and God is for us, and He is working history. so that he will be glorified and his people will stand before him. And so I close with his proclamation uh at the tomb of Lazarus, Matthew or John eleven, twenty-five, where he said, I'm the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live in everyone who lives and believes in me. shall never die. And then I think you said, do you believe this? Do you believe this? It's a it's a revolutionary Claim that the scripture makes. We're persuaded that is true. That's why we're here. That's why we bowed before Jesus Christ. If you're not a Christian, you need to deal with this stuff. Don't dismiss it. Don't put it off. Let's bow our heads.