But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus, who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, just as he said. Come see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead And behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell the disciples. Behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. So this is one of the classic Easter texts. Of course, we preach on the resurrection on Easter Sunday, but because Christianity stands or falls on the resurrection of Jesus Christ. If this is not true, if this is a myth, then Christianity is a complete farce. You've been deceived Uh your faith is in vain, and the Church of Jesus Christ is nothing but the gathering of the gullible. All the time, all the effort. And all the sacrifices that you've made over the years, if you're a Christian, but to follow Jesus Christ, uh have been for naught. But worse than that, they're gonna come when you're gonna close your eyes in death. And if Jesus Christ did not rise from the grave Then that's it, right? You will cease to exist. And loved ones who are believers in Christ, Who have preceded you in death, and you had this hope that you would one day see them again Well that's just wishful thinking. That's not going to happen. And so we read that passage from 1 Corinthians 15. For Paul made the comment, he said, If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied We're of all people most to be pitied. But we have not believed in vain. This stuff is true. We're persuaded And our belief in the resurrection isn't grounded in some kind of religious sentimentality. It's not grounded in mysticism or wishful thinking. But it's grounded in history. That's the difference between Christianity and every other philosophy and every other religion. Christianity is rooted in history There was a man, Jesus Christ, who lived 2,000 years ago. He was crucified and he was buried. Nobody disputes that part. Ancient writings outside of the Bible give testimony to the existence of Jesus and to his apostles. You can go to Palestine today, and you can walk where Jesus walked, right? He was on the Sea of Galilee. You could take a boat across the Sea of Galilee And there is a mount where they believe Jesus preached the sermon on the mount. Pretty sure of that. You could be there. You could go to the River Jordan where he was baptized. So you can go to all those places. Then you have the four gospels. They're not primarily religious documents. They're certainly not philosophical documents. These are historical documents that provide a reliable record of the birth, the life, the teaching, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And they speak not of a Jesus who, yeah, he died, but he's spiritually, he's spiritually alive In the hearts of those who love him. That's really just a sentimental syrup of liberal Protestantism that our country's been speaking. But no, these gospels speak of a Christ who physically rose from the grave and now reigns from heaven over the universe. So our task this morning is simple. We're not gonna grind this passage to find powder. We're just going to look at two remarkable claims set forth in this passage. And the first claim is that on the first day of the week The tomb in which Jesus had been laid was now empty. In the second claim made by this passage Is that Jesus physically appeared to others? So there were others who witnessed the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We're going to consider these two claims. We're going to consider uh alternative explanations. Are there explanations, reasonable explanations, to account for the empty tomb and also the claim that so many have made That they saw Jesus Christ alive from the dead. Okay? So real simple. First of all, we want to consider the witness of the empty tomb. So Jesus was crucified on Friday afternoon. It's now Sunday morning. Where were the eleven apostles, the eleven disciples? John 20 verse 19 says that they went into hiding. They were scared to death. They thought the Jewish authorities We're going to look for them and do to them what they had just done, what they have just done to Jesus. But two women Did go visit the tomb where they lay Jesus to rest. It says in verse 1, it was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary. Mark 16, 1 says this other Mary was the mother of James. They visited the tomb on this Sunday morning, not because they anticipated a resurrection, but because Jesus was crucified on Friday And they believe he died around three o'clock, according to a few verses earlier. And then at six o'clock, that was the end of the preparation for the Sabbath. So th they only had a couple hours to prepare Jesus' body for burial. And so they didn't finish the task. So these two women went out to the tomb. They want to finish uh the burial preparations In Mark's Gospel, so there's the Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, right, four independent accounts of the resurrection, of Jesus' life and also his resurrection. And in Mark's Gospel, he adds That as these two ladies were walking to the tomb, it occurred to them uh that there'd be no way to for them to get to the body because a stone had been placed in front uh in front of the tomb to steal it. It says in Mark 16 verse 3 They were saying to one another, who will roll the stone away for us from the entrance to the tomb? They arrive at the tomb And they're surprised to discover that the stone had been rolled away. You see that in verse 2. It says, Behold, there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and uh sat on it. He didn't roll back the stone so Jesus could get out, but he rolled back the stone so that Jesus' followers could get in and they could discover that his body was not there. And there was an angel there at the tomb to announce to these ladies what had happened. Verse 5 The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. So he had told them on a number of occasions that he would rise from the dead. He told his followers that It didn't register, they were distraught, right, when he was crucified. And if they did register, they thought then Jesus was deluded because now he's dead. But as it turned out, he did rise from the grave, and the angel invited his ladies, come here, uh looking in verse six, come, see the place where he lay And they went in and they looked and there he was. Gone. And so we have this empty tomb. Nobody In ancient writings, in the testimony here also, nobody disputes that the tomb was empty. And they can't dispute it, right? Because when the early when the apostles went out and they started preaching about the resurrection And they said, we witnessed the resurrection. You see that in the book of Acts, chapter 2 and 3. In other places, they said, we saw Jesus Christ. The Jews and the Romans didn't want this preaching to go on, so to squelch it, all they had to do was to produce the body of Jesus, and that would have been the end. of this great hoax uh that they were uh promoting in Jerusalem. Well they couldn't there was nobody to find And so um what skeptics claim is that something else must have happened. Okay? We talked about this last week. Here I go again. I just brought this up, but I just want to uh breeze through this to say, you know what? What alternative explanations have been offered to account for the empty tomb And probably the most popular one is one called I mentioned this last week, the swoon theory. Jesus just passed out on the cross And then when he was put in this damp, cold grave, he came to the the coolness of the grave, uh brought him to, and though he had been wrapped in, says one of the gospels, seventy-five pounds of spices and linen clothes. Uh though he had been uh wrapped up like that, he was sort of like Houdini, and he ex extracted himself uh from these wrappings, and though he had been uh crucified, he hung on a cross for three hours and Then he thrust a spear through his side. Nonetheless, he rolled away that big stone in front of the tomb. He overpowered the Roman soldiers who were guarding the tomb because they didn't want anybody to come steal that body and start this rumor of resurrection. And then he appeared to his disciples and uh he persuaded them that he'd overcome death. Okay? So that's the Slun theory. We say, well, I don't think that's really very convincing. Then there's a the claim that Jesus' disciples stole the body And the first to come up with that were the Jewish religious leaders. So let's finish now. We'll read verses 11 to 15. While they were going, while these two women were going to tell the disciples, behold some of the guards, some of the soldiers, the Roman soldiers who were guarding the tomb Some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priest all that had taken place. When they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed And this story has been spread among Jews to this day. So somebody came up and said to the Roman soldiers, Hey, how'd Jesus get out of the tomb? And the guard would say, Well, uh, his disciples stole him uh while we were asleep. Then what would that person say? If you were asleep, how do you know it was the disciples? And uh how do you know that they stole uh the body? And um But I think what's more uh interesting is that if the disciples did steal this steal the body, and if they did fabricate a story about the resurrection and I said this last Sunday they were really good liars because they maintained this lie all eleven Even in the face of persecution, even in the face of martyrdom, and ten of the eleven did die martyrs' deaths. And so it's hard to believe that all eleven would maintain that lie to the very end. It is certainly not fitting When you have many of the disciples or a number of the disciples wrote the letters of the New Testament, and those letters have the display the highest degree of ethical fortitude And yet for these letters to have been written by these men who conspired in this great lie, that's a little hard to swallow. Here's another theory or another way people try to Explain away the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And it's these these theories are desperate There is not a reasonable explanation, right? We're not the first to think about this. People have thought about this. Guy named Frank Morrison went out, he was a lawyer, and he set out to uh To show that the resurrection was a farce, and it he looked at the all the evidence and he ended up writing a book titled Who Moved the Stone? He said there's no way to explain what happened apart from a physical resurrection. But anyway, here's a third one. There's a couple others Guy named a British scholar by the name of Kirstop Lake, he suggested uh that these women they went to the wrong tomb. They were emotionally distraught. It was the light was dim. It was early morning. And they went to the wrong tomb But then you have to say, well wait a minute. Others went to the tomb too. Peter and John went to the tomb. Did they go to the wrong tomb? And then when this news of a resurrection spread across Jerusalem like a wildfire, people went to see the tomb. Did they go to the wrong tomb? Nicodemus owned the tomb. Did he go to the wrong tomb? And so the first thing I want to s well I want to say in making a case for the resurrection, and I say this especially uh to our younger folks who you know you're like, is this stuff true My parents have taken me to church all these years. But is this stuff really true? I wanna want to say to also to those who say I'm not a Christian, uh, but I'm here, I'm curious, or because it's easier or whatnot The first thing I want to say is that I want you to examine these claims, this claim of a resurrection. I don't think there's a reasonable explanation uh to account for the biblical record apart from a resurrection. But the second thing we want to look at now in this in this passage is that What turned these disciples who were despondent, who were fearful, who went into hiding? What turned these eleven men And to fearless evangelists was not so much that they went to the tomb and they found it empty, but it was rather that they saw the risen Christ. And so this is the second thing now in the outline. We want to look at the witness of Jesus' appearances. And I'm just going to go down a number of them, hopefully briefly And I want you to consider these and take the cumulative testimony here. And so we see in verses eight to ten that Jesus uh appeared first of all to these two ladies, the two uh Marys in verses eight to ten. And um of course the skeptic would say, well Matthew just uh fabricated this story But here's what I want to ask, here's what I want you to think about. If Matthew, along with the other disciples, but if Matthew were just making up a story of a resurrection because they were spiritual guys And they knew Jesus was in the grave, but they wanted people just to hold on to the memory of Jesus and be inspired by him. If they were just fabricating the story of a resurrection, why did Matthew say that the first two people to witness Jesus risen for these two women. That would not have advanced his case. That would not have been a good strategy And the reason I say that is because in ancient Jewish society, the testimony of women carried no weight They could not bear witness in a court of law. They were not credible. So if I were making up a story trying to get people to believe That Jesus rose from the grave, I would not put in that story that the first two people to see him risen were two women. So why then didn't Matthew write what he wrote that these two ladies were the first to see Jesus? Well, uh because uh that's what happened. Uh that that's why he wrote it. So he appeared to the two Mary's And in many others, later that first Sunday afternoon, there are two followers. They're walking down the road to Emmaus This is Luke 24, verse 13 to 49. And then, you know, look at chapter 28, verse 8. It says that it talked about the two ladies. They ran to tell the disciples And so the ladies ran to tell the disciples. And it says in the parallel text, Luke 24, verse 11 That the disciples initially didn't buy it. So it's in 2411 of Luke. These words seemed to them an idle tip an idle tale, and they did not believe them. This is an idle tale. This is the kind of thing a delirious person would say But so that's notable because the disciples' initial skepticism makes their later belief in the resurrection More convincing, one of the New Testament scholars, Leon Morris, said that the apostles were not men poised on the brink of belief and needing only the shadow of an excuse Before launching into a proclamation of the resurrection. He said they were utterly skeptical. Another guy said the same thing. He said, the evidential value of the disciples' slowness to believe cannot be overrated. Then you turn over to Mark chapter 16, verse 14. He appeared to the eleven disciples who were together. And uh these men who were initially skeptical, they ended up turning the world upside down And what were they preaching? Jesus Christ rose from the grave. So how do we explain that? So well there's only one way to explain it, and that's um He he he rose following Sunday, another appearance to the 11th. Remember Thomas, Downing Thomas, John 20, verse 27-28 Jesus said to Thomas, Thomas said, I can't believe this. That's not Jesus. Jesus, put your finger here, see my hands, and put and put out your hand and place it on my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Then Thomas, he believed, he saw it, he recognized this is Jesus, and he said, My Lord and my God. So again, Thomas's initial skepticism It's helpful now to us. It helps reinforce our belief. These guys were not gullible. They were not easily persuaded. Seven weeks later, again, Luke 24, 50 to 51, Jesus again appeared to the disciples. Alright, where's this guy going with this? Well, not entirely sure. No. Trying to keep quick here. Um so what do you do with this if you're a skeptic Well, how do you explain this? Well, it it could have been there were hallucinations. They they were really spiritual guys. You know, people see the face of Jesus in a piece of toast, right? Nowadays in the They make a shrine or something. Maybe it was like that back then? Uh no, these could not. That doesn't sound reasonable. I mean hallucinations Are fed by expectations. But as I said, nobody was expecting a resurrection. But more than that If that I mean hallucinations are individualistic, a la an awful lot of people were having identical hallucinations First Corinthians fifteen verse six. We just read that. Paul wrote to the Christians in Corinth about Jesus' resurrection. He said He appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most who are still alive. That's the important part. He's talking about the resurrection. He's writing to the Christians in Corinth, in Greece, and he's saying, you know what? There are 500 people who saw. And they're still alive. And um 1 Corinthians was written around the year 50. The resurrection was around the year 30. So that's just 20 years earlier. So the Paul's saying I'm not making this up. There are people amongst us who can verify what I'm saying about this resurrection. And if it were not true, that would discredit false claim and that would discredit his ministry. It'd be like there are people here who were in our church 20 years ago. Now, if somebody, if Linda Babcock said, Yeah, when Good News Presbyterian Church was meeting at Hillcrest Elementary School There was one Sunday I really remember a paraphl a paraplegic uh was healed right there uh after the church service And some most people say, really? Uh take your medicine today for something like that. But it would be a little bit I'm not so sure. What if though And there weren't that a hundred people back then, but what if there were a hundred people at the church service twenty years ago, most who are still alive, and a hundred people had the same story Then you'd say, well, I guess it happened. Um there are people here today who were here twenty years ago And um but anyway those hundred people could either verify or discredit uh Linda Babkov's story. Well, there's more than a few witnesses to the resurrection of Christ. And I think, you know when you talk about witnesses to the resurrection, one more, okay, and then then we'll stop. The most formidable uh piece of evidence for the resurrection uh is a conversion of Saul of Tarsus. Saul of Tarsus, he was born to dedicated Jewish parents. He could trace his lineage. He was proud about this, he says in Philippians. I trace my lineage back to the tribe of Benjamin. So you're saying I'm a Jew of Jews. He was educated in Judaism at Tarsus, a city in present-day Turkey. Then he moved to Jerusalem, where he studied under the great rabbi Gamalael, one of the great Jewish scholars. And while he was a student, he joined the strictest sect of Judaism, the Pharisees. And in Philippians 3, he talks about how proud he was of his Jewish lineage. And um he when the Christian church started in Jerusalem 40 days after the resurrection Paul viewed this church as a threat to the survival of Judaism. He regarded these claims that Jesus was the Messiah and that he rose from the grave to be scandalous. And so it was his personal mission to destroy Christians wherever he could find them. And so he began in Jerusalem. It says in Acts 8 verse 3, Saul was ravaging the church. And entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. And then he was armed with warrants. From the Jewish high priest, he traveled to foreign cities as far as Damascus, Syria, to take away Christians, to take them off to jail and to have them executed. And so wherever he found Christians, And this is what he said in Acts 26. 11. He said, I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme. In raging fury I persecuted them even to foreign cities. Acts chapter eight verse one There he presided over the stoning of Stephen, one of the early Christian preachers. And then something amazing happened, right? He was converted. This is in Acts chapter 9. For those who aren't acquainted with it, in Acts chapter 9, there's a an account that the risen Christ came to the Apostle Paul. And he, the Apostle Paul, turned into the most zealous, the most studied, and the most fervent Christian evangelist who ever lived. So how do you explain that? That's huge. I mean, how do you explain these writings in the new these letters of the New Testament from the Apostle Paul? And he counted the book of Acts about his missionary activity. We can't dispute that historically, that Paul was Saul and he was converted. But how do we explain the conversion of this man from being a rabbid uh hater of Christianity to being this great Christian evangelist. And so Guy named M. T. Wright excoriates those who dismiss the resurrection before considering the evidence. He wrote, the early Christians did not invent the antitomb in the meetings or sightings of the risen Jesus. Nobody was expecting this kind of thing. No kind of conversion experience would have invented it. He said to suggest otherwise is to stop doing history and to enter into a fantasy world of our own. And so the bottom line then is for the Christian, you live in a world where unbelief is in the air In our young people, you live in a world that says that the only thing that is true is that which you can see and touch And that the claims of Jesus Christ are not credible. No. This is credible Jesus Christ has risen. He has changed people dramatically, even in this room. So Jesus Christ is alive today. And so I say to the Christian Yeah, unbelief is in the air, but be of good cheer, as we sing one of our songs, though the wrong seems often so strong. God is the ruler yet. Jesus Christ is the King, and he does reign and rule over all. And then I would say to those who are not believers, I'll ask, what would you what will you do with the biblical testimony of the empty tomb? And these appearances that Christ made to others. What will you do with the biblical testimony? Is something worth studying? Is something worth considering? examining, asking questions about. Because really behind that question, what will you do with the biblical testimony? Concerning the empty tomb and the appearance appearances of Jesus is really the greater question What will you do with Jesus Christ? Because he does make a claim on your life. And you can dismiss him, but if you're wrong, one day you're going to stand before him. John chapter 11, verse 25, Jesus said, I'm the resurrection and the life. And he wasn't just talking about himself because then he went on to say, Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. If you believe upon Jesus, if you recognize you're a sinner, you're not that great, you've fallen short, but Jesus Christ saves sinners. And if you rest on him, then you have this promise, your sins are forgiven, and you're right with the God of the universe, and you're going to live forever. That's why we've gathered here. Let's bow our heads