Seven-year-olds who would prefer to go out to worship training, you have that option. I don't advise it, but that's your y it's a matter of liberty, and that's what we're talking about uh this morning And so let's turn to Romans chapter 14. Romans 14, open it up. It's probably not the most familiar passage in Romans. It's a big piece of scripture. We've been taking units of thought. Most of the units are smaller. This is a larger unit of thought. And I thought I was going to cut it in half. Then I thought, well, no, the whole thing's making one point. So that would not be right, and I've I don't want to review the same applications next week. So we're going to take the entire chapter, let not your heart be troubled. We can do it Paul writes, As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains Pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day is better than another, while another person esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes a day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord. Since he gives thanks to God, why the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God? For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then Whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lords. For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you? Why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. But rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brothers grieve by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by man. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do bow before you. And we pray that the message that Paul is trying to convey to the church in Rome and to the church in our day might further or might more deeply Take hold of us in our disposition toward others. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So The issue here concerns relating to Christians with whom you have differences on Disputable matters. And that's a good, that's an important phrase there, or the term disputable matters. Now we know, if anybody knows, we know that the Bible guides us in our belief and in our conduct in many details. I think about uh the Puritan Richard Rogers. He was out riding with the Lord of the Manor one day. The guy wasn't the other guy wasn't a believer And this Lord uh sort of was teasing Richard's Richard R uh Rogers for his precision ways, because he was such a Puritan. And Richard Rogers' response was, well, sir, I serve a precise God. So we don't want to minimize the fact That the Bible has a claim on all aspects of our belief and our behavior. However There are some matters over on which the Bible is indifferent. And so the Protestant reformers use the word, they use the Greek word, it's the word adiaphora. Which means indifferent or things that are indifferent. There are things in the Christian life. We know this. I hope we know this. If you don't, you're not good company. But there are things in the Christian life that really are matters of indifference. And Paul refers to these in the end of verse 1. My translation says opinions, the NIV translates it. Disputable matters. In other words, there are practices that the Bible neither forbids nor commands. That's what Paul is talking about in this passage. Let me give you a couple examples. I'm going to scatter examples throughout here so you know. That we're going to run into this, or we do run into this occasionally, but there's a bigger lesson that I'll point out in the end, which is really the thing that I think we need to walk out with. But this does come up. And so there are fundamentalist Baptist churches in Frederick who will say there's only one legitimate English translation of the Bible, the King James Version. These are our brothers and sisters in Christ, right? They believe the Bible is the Word of God. So how should we relate? To somebody who says, there's only one translation of the Bible that a Christian should use. Should we dismiss them as being narrow-minded and stay clear then? And then how should they view us? Compromised? Some do. Would that be a proper response on their part? Or how about this? Does the Bible prescribe what we should wear to church? And um on one occasion there's some some we shouldn't be casual about this. I mean The Bible does say it's an important occasion. We're going to worship God. If you go into an important event, you go into a wedding, you dress up. And so, yeah, uh there's an appropriateness to wearing uh to dressing up a little bit for Sunday worship. However, there is no precept or principle in the Bible that requires Christians to dress up for Sunday worship. If somebody walks in Sunday morning in a swimsuit and a t-shirt and he's carrying a boat or under his arm, we should just say, well, welcome. We're glad you're here Although, you know, as you grow in your understanding of the Bible, you realize, well, there are matters that we should use wisdom. Uh there's a sense of decorum that we should have. But there is no chapter and verse for something like that. How about this one? May Christians wear jewelry and makeup. Well, there are Mennonite groups that say, no, you should never wear jewelry, so they don't even wear a wedding ring, because they say that that is a sign of vanity. Christians, they say, should be humble and uh self-effacing. And we say, well, yeah, that's certainly true. We should be humble and uh self-effacing. Um however uh Where do you draw the line? I mean, does that mean that it doesn't matter if your tie clashes with your shirt? We all we all do certain things to make ourselves presentable Uh is this not just again an area where an honest Christian uh should exercise wisdom and if the Mennonites uh that they uh draw the line a little closer than we do That's fine. Let's just recognize that we're all trying to be humble and self-effacing, and I can't think of anybody more humble than me. And so just follow my lead. The Mennonites might disagree, I know you disagree. Um here's another one. And I I know We're like, these are on issues we deal with, right? I'm giving examples of the kind of things that Paul's talking about in this chapter, but there is something bigger for us to pick up on Should Christians go to movies? And um we're all like, well of course, that's fine. You shouldn't go to a a bad movie. Uh if you g if there's a good movie with a positive message, we say, well, yeah, that's good. We sh it's good to support that. Then they'll put out more movies like that. Well, that's one way to look at it, but then there are others who say, listen Hollywood is a completely corrupt institution. Why would we give it any credence? Then we say, well, I mean we're W how do we ex extract ourselves from all these other corrupt corporations? Is this perhaps not a matter? uh where honest Christians uh need to uh use some sanctified wisdom and maybe they'll come to different conclusions. Must we make this a a mark of orthodoxy. We say, well no, let's put that in a let's put that in a second category. of someone's orthodoxy. Well that's what Paul is dealing with. He's asking the questions How should Christians who have differing views on the types of issues that I mentioned relate to each other? Okay? That's what's going on here Here's what was going on in the church in Rome. Some in the church believed That obedience to Christ required them to be vegetarians and to observe the Old Testament festival days, the feast days. And so they probably Christians who came out of a Jewish background were not entirely sure. It's not super clear cut. because the Old Testament food laws did not require vegetarianism. So we're not sure, but it seems like some variety of Jewish folks who had uh some scruples about what they should eat, and it goes back to the Old Testament ceremonial law And so the issue for them was food and festivals. So you see, look at verse two. You see they're talking about food. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. And so the weak person in this case Were these apparently Jewish Christians who felt they were still obligated to obey some form of the Old Testament dietary stipulations? The second thing That this weaker, these weaker Christians got tangled up over was the festivals, the holy days. Look at the beginning of verse 1, or verse 5, I'm sorry, verse 5. Paul writes, one person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Now, this is not referring to the Sabbath. The Sabbath, the Lord's day, was instituted in a perfect world, a creation. And so he's not talking about that, but he's talking about these Old Testament feasts. You see some of them, Leviticus twenty-three, um, the Passover, the feast of First fruits, the feast of the feast of weeks, the feast of trumpets, the day of atonement, the feast of tabernacles. Well, we would say these were all parts of the Old Testament ceremonial law Christ has fulfilled all those stipulations, but there were in Rome Christians out of that kind of background, out of a Jewish background, apparently. Who thought, no, we to be observant and honor God, we need to obey or observe these holy days. Okay? And so We understand that Christ has fulfilled the requirements of the ceremonial law. That's what the New Testament book of Hebrews is about. But how should you how or I should say in Rome, how should those who are more informed deal With the less informed Christians in the Roman church who still observed the Old Testament holy days. And Paul says, you have a good summary in chapter 15, verse 1. We who are strong. In other words, we who are more informed have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. And by this, the weak Christian, Paul's not saying the Christian who's morally weak, who easily succumbs to temptation. But in other words, he's saying the one who has an oversensitive conscience. The Christian who records certain practices as sinful, but the Bible does not say those practices are sinful. So we can say perhaps a weak Christian Is the uh the immature, uh the the the less experienced uh Christian It's not, and this is important, the weak Christian is not the person who has been a Christian for twenty years. And has all kind of scruples about this and that, but he's too lazy to read the Bible and sort some of these things out And he's too pigheaded to listen to anybody who tries to persuade him otherwise. And so we would say that the church is not required, and I've seen this in churches, not in this church But the church is not required to bend to the dictates of those kind of Christians to say, oh, we can't do that. You'll be a stumbling block to me. No. We're not talking about them. One of the reform writers, John Murray, said the weak must not be allowed to erect their own ignorance and weakness. as a standard of morality and piety. Okay. So that's the issue that Paul is addressing in Romans 14 in a nutshell How should mature and immature Christians relate to each other on practices that are not Clearly addressed in the Bible. These are not matters or articles of faith. In Paul's counsel I'm just gonna go through some of Paul's counsel here. Here's how we should deal with b fellow believers who have tender, uninformed consciences. The first thing he says is don't condemn them over disputable matters. Verses 2 and 3. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. He's saying, don't say, you're a bunch of legalists. That's what he's saying, okay? And then it goes on in verse 3, and let not the one who abstains cast judgment on the one who eats. And so it goes both ways. For God has welcomed him. Okay. So and this is just I don't I I don't have anything against fundamentalist Baptists, but there there's some good illustrations come out of this camp. And so I had a friend in Frederick. Uh we do we have any fundamental factors here? I don't think so. We won't next week. Um yeah. I was talking to a fundamentalist Baptist friend. He said, we were at our soccer and Bible camp, we were playing scripture songs that had a like a like a rock tune, rock beat, right? He said, whoa. There, you know, the the the beat to rock music, he said, is inherent inherently It appeals to the flesh. And I didn't just dismiss him because he did have something of a point. Musical styles do elicit certain responses, right? When soldiers march off to war, the army band's not playing a waltz, right? They're playing a march. And so music styles do elicit certain responses. I I appreciate that But the question is, does this tendency require a wholesale abandonment of rock and roll music Must we say that? Is that required? Or can an honest Christian come down a little differently from this other honest Christian? Okay? How do you respond when someone with such a viewpoint comes into the church? Do you roll your eyes? Do you assume an air of superiority? Do you view them as second-class Christians? And Paul says in verse 1: As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him. And then he says, you don't welcome him just because if you welcome him, it'll give you an opportunity to sit down and set him straight. Look at verse 1. Welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. So he's saying, esteem him as your brother, esteem her as your sister. even if he or she never changes, okay? And that and to esteem that person, to welcome that person It doesn't mean that at an appropriate time you can't discuss these issues. We're not saying that. It's not saying we're not saying that you would allow them to dictate your conduct were voiced their views on the church? You know, think about the Apostle Paul with the issue of circumcision. So the Jewish Christians in the church, many of them thought that a Christian should be circumcised. And you have Paul saying in the book of Galatians, you do what you want to do, but if you're going to foist that view on the church and make that a requirement for salvation, Then no way are we going to tolerate you doing that. So we're not saying that we're going to allow them to dictate the views of the church or our personal conduct. And let me say something else, and I don't think you pick would assume that or conclude this, but to accept them doesn't mean that we're saying that doctrine doesn't matter. So it's interesting in chapter 14, Paul is being collegial. He's being ecumenical in a sense, not in the bad sense of the word, but in the good sense. Hey, you know what? It takes all sorts, right? We're all at different points in our understanding and our Christian growth. And so we should welcome one another and not make require a certain viewpoint before we have fellowship with one another. If Paul um but Paul doesn't get carried away, chapter 16 He talks he talks about greeting the di he's greeting the different believers in the church in Rome. And he says, greet Achilla, greet Priscilla. and a host of other Christians in the Roman church, but then he gets to chapter 16, verse 17, and he says, There are some whom you should not greet. Those who quote quote, those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you've been taught. Avoid them, okay? And so we're to welcome one another, uh, but there are limits, right? And when they the when they're heretics When they violate the clear teaching of Scripture, then that's another that's another issue. And this call that Paul gives to be charitable cuts both ways, right? It's not only uh the stronger or the more informed, being patient and welcoming and tolerant of the weaker Uh but it's the weaker needs to be more tolerant of the stronger, right? So if you're a teetotaler and there's somebody else in the church and they'll drink beer or wine or whatever, uh You can't say, whoa, that person's not a Christian and all this stuff. You need to you need to be a little patient because these are Christians too. who have studied the scripture on these issues and they land in a different place. And so Paul's saying, don't condemn fellow believers on disputable matters. Okay? So that's the first per questi or principle. We're asking the question, how do we deal with Christians with tender, uninformed consciences? The first thing he says is don't condemn them over these disputable matters. The second thing he says is B don't exercise your liberty in ways that cause weaker Christians to stumble. In other words, he's saying, try even though you have every right to do this or that, he says Try to avoid those things that a weaker Christian may regard as sin. So look at chapter uh or verses thirteen to fifteen. Thirteen to fifteen Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it is unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you're no longer walking in love. Okay? So he says, in other words, There are things that are perfectly legitimate to do, but we should try to avoid doing those things. In the presence of a Christian who may regard such a practice as sinful. Why is that? Well, because if they think That's wrong, and we're sort of egging them on to go along with us. If they're not fully convinced that that's wrong, and they go ahead and do it anyway, Then their conscience says to them, I'm sinning against God. That's the issue that Paul's concerned about. So it's very interesting. Paul's not just concerned with right or wrong, but he's concerned with how we help each other along in the Christian life. Okay? Here's a commentator on Romans, uh Charles Cranfield. Let me read what he wrote. A Christian with a tender conscience may sometimes do something because everybody else is doing it. He may do it because he does not wish to stand in the minority of one He may do it because he does not wish to court ridicule or unpopularity. Paul's answer is that if for any of these reasons a man defies his conscience, He's guilty of sin. If a man in his heart of hearts believes something to be wrong, if he cannot rid himself of the ineradicable feeling that it is forbidden, then if he does it, for him it is sin, right? If if you If you say, let's go to this movie to your friend, and he said, Well, I don't feel right about that. Oh, come on. Well, if there's nothing wrong with going to see, you know, Mary Poppins at the theater, but he has a scruple about it. Then for him to go, just to go along with the gang, he's all right, I'll do it. But in his heart he thinks he's sinning against God And so that's why Paul says our our dealing with our weaker brother, weaker sister should be constrained by love. Verse 15 is a good little good statement there If your brother is grieved by what you eat, you're no longer walking in love. Same thing, verses 20 and 21. So he says Don't exercise your liberty in ways that cause a fellow believer to stumble, even though you have every right. Don't do it. You don't want to cause them to stumble. Here's the third thing C, don't focus on hobby horses, but focus on the things that matter to God. Look at verses 17 and 18. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. Okay? So what is he saying here? He's saying, have a sense of proportion about the issues that animate you. I'm going to give you an example. So years ago, there was a family in our church, and they they got on to a hobby horse. They said, if you're Christian, you should not celebrate Christmas at home. Okay? You shouldn't have a Christmas tree, you shouldn't give presents, and so on. And um they said they pointed out, hey, where'd Christmas come from? It came from a pagan festival in Rome. And Christians, they took that holiday and they redeemed it, and they made it a Christian holiday. Okay? And I say, well yeah, that's you're right there, but I would say that's a matter of indifference. And they would say, no way, Jose. And they left the church. Like a year later, I bumped into them somewhere, forget where it was, we're chit-chatting. Where are you going to church? We're not going anywhere. It's like, oh, I didn't say it. I maybe I should have. I should have said I usually say too much, but um I could have said maybe it would have been helpful, maybe it would not have. I could I should have said perhaps Well, wait a minute here. You have all these commands in the Bible. We call them the one another commands. Love one another, care for one another, encourage one another, rebuke one another, pray for one another. uh bear with one another. So all those commands weren't just given out like in the stratosphere. They were given to the local church. And so, how exactly are you carrying out those commands? They're really big commands. Or Hebrews 10, 25, or Paul, the writer of Hebrews says Let us not give up meeting together. When do we meet together? We meet on a Sabbath. Sunday morning worship is the v set appointment for fulfilling that command in our church, okay? How are you fulfilling that command? Well we're not But at least we're not celebrating Christmas like all you people do, opening your presents on Christmas morning. And so, well what's Paul saying here He's saying, listen, you have to have a sense of this is what verses 17 and 18. You have to have a sense of proportion. We'll see things clearly like you do when we're in heaven But right now, you should maybe bear with us. Maybe you can help us along in the Christian life. Sure, it's great that you can sit at home and listen to some podcast from a pure preacher who's not missing anything. uh but how are you fulfilling uh these other commands. So it looks like you're straining in a NAT, but there's a log in your eye. So I'm thinking about what issues get your blood up? You know, what what are your hobby horses? And Paul's saying, let's have a sense of proportion about these things. Well, briefly, quickly, number three, reasons the strong should accept the weak, and vice versa. First thing Since God has welcomed both the strong and the weak, so should you. You see that in the end of verse 3. For God has welcomed him. Hey If that if they're hanging on to that issue isn't a barrier to God accepting them, uh do you think you should be more discriminating? Another thing he says, B uh verse four, you're not their master, God is. And verse four Paul's still talking about the weak passing judgment on the strong. Look at the end of verse 3. We'll start there. Let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. For God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. And then C, uh, we should appreciate Those who do things, even unnecessary things, if it's out of a desire to serve the Lord. Look at verse 6. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord. Since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord, and gives thanks to God So that we have many former Catholics in our church. How about this? How about if there's a new Christian who starts coming to Good News Presbyterian Church, they're out of Catholicism? And every time we say a prayer, they cross themselves. And on Fridays, they only eat fish. You've got to eat. And they'll say, I'll have the fish. And they say, Well, we only have pork chops and uh chicken They'll say, Well I'll just have a salad then. What are you gonna do there when you eat lunch with them? Wait a minute here. You you gonna you gonna make a big fuss out of that? Or if I see them pro Wait, this isn't a Catholic church. Protestant, knock it off, okay? No, Paul's saying it doesn't it's it's not a big it's not a big thing They're doing it to honor the Lord. And then in verses 10 to 12, another reason, he says, only God has a right to judge. Only God has a right to judge. Verses ten to twelve. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you? Why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written. Then there's a quote from Isaiah 45. As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God, so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Okay, so there you have it. Now this is Romans chapter fourteen. And as I read this and went through it this week, I'm thinking This isn't an issue in our congregation. I guess I'll just skip it. No, I would never do that, right? Because everything written in the Bible is for our instruction. I think there is a bigger theme here that we should take note of, okay? The bigger theme, or the bigger lesson is the Apostle Paul, who is more orthodox than anybody in this church. And we're really orthodox, right? But is anybody here more orthodox than the Apostle Paul? Well, maybe not. Okay? So nonetheless, we see the Apostle Paul. Is greatly concerned about unity in the church. He was committed to the truth. But he did not allow his commitment to the truth to overshadow uh his commitment To unity in the congregation. His commitment to the truth did not lead him to trample uh younger, less informed Christians about this or that. He was patient with them. But you have to have a sense of perspective. You have to approach these things with wisdom. His commitment to the truth did not overshadow his concern that there be harmony in the church. Okay? And that's interesting. You see this in Romans 14, his concern for harmony. You read the book of Philippians. That's a huge theme. Paul wants the believers to be one to quit fighting with each other. Same thing in uh First Corinthians. And so you, Mr. Valiant for Truth, you, uh Miss Valiant for Truth. Are you as zealous that there continue to be harmony in the church as you are? For orthodoxy. That's the big lesson I think we should take from this. That's a warning. We're thankful, Lord, for many years you preserved harmony in this church. It's amazing. Lord, continue to preserve it. Help us to hear the lesson of Romans 14, that we must be gracious, we must be patient with one another. Not everybody sees things as clearly as you do. They will one day, okay? And you'll say, yeah, I told you I was right. But until then, we want to be patient. So let's bow our heads. Okay? Father in heaven, we pray that you'd help us to be patient, to be humble with one another. To not make requirements for friendship and fellowship in our church. Help us certainly, of course, to be zealous for your word. but also to have an equal zeal and love for others and concern to preserve the peace and the unity in our congregation. And we're thankful that we're accepted because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. And certainly if there's anybody here who has yet to recognize Jesus as the one Who's the Savior of sinners? We pray that you'd bring them to see and to believe. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, we're going to have the Lord's Supper, and it's a