We read Now when Jesus had finished these things he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? He answered, have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him, Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, Whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. The disciples said to him, If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to them, Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men And there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it. So this morning we're going to talk about divorce. And I mentioned last Sunday I think there's over two dozen people in our church who have been divorced. And so even to bring up or even to mention the word to divorce divorce uh is likely to reopen old wounds and yet it's right here in the Bible, and we do want to proclaim the whole counsel of God And it is for a good, and it is to help marriages, and it is to help people who are divorced to understand how this all fits into God's purp not God's purposes, but God's moral law, and at the same time to see His grace, and we want to equip our singles and young people for marriage. And so of course We need to cover this, even though it could be discouraging for some. I hope it's not. I hope in the end you'll find it to be a comfort. So last Sunday, we looked at the first six verses, and uh the Pharisees, and they were not Jesus' friends, right? The Pharisees came up to Jesus They were trying to put him into an awkward position. There was one group of rabbi one rabbinic school called the School of Rabbi Shemai, and they said there's only one legitimate ground for divorce and that's adultery. Then there was this other school, the school of Hillel, and they said, you know, just about anything works. Let me quote they said if there's if she puts too much salt on your dinner, if you dislike her mother-in-law. If she goes out without a veil, they roll grounds for divorce. And so the Pharisees were trying to put Jesus at odds with one of these groups. And so it says they asked him this question to test him. Then they asked him in verse 3: Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? And last week I pointed out that the way Jesus formulated his answer, he didn't answer it right away, but first he explained God's design for marriage and to understand or God's view of divorce, you have to first understand his view of marriage. And Jesus said two things about marriage, and it's interesting, he went back to Genesis 2. So when Jesus is explaining God's design for marriage, he appeals to Genesis chapter 2. So he did not see the Genesis, the creation narrative in Genesis as a myth But he saw it as a historical account. He took it as historical fact. He took it literally. And what Jesus points out from Genesis 2. Is that marriage is number one, an exclusive arrangement is between one man and one woman. So chapter 19, verse 4 Jesus said, he answered, have you not read, he's talking about Genesis, have you not read that he who created them From the beginning made them male and female, and said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. So he's saying it's an exclusive arrangement between one man and one woman And the second thing Jesus says, it's a permanent arrangement. Verse 6, so they're no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. So Jesus is saying this is an arrangement, a contract, a covenant. until death do you part. And we considered all that in uh some detail uh last Sunday. So we Talked about Jesus and his view of marriage. You get to verse 7, which brings us up to our discussion this morning, and now we get into his teaching on divorce. And um so after Jesus talks about the permanence and the exclusiveness of marriage, the Pharisees come back at him in verse 7. And I want you to look at verse seven carefully, and I want you to look at Deuteronomy twenty-four, verse carefully, because that's what they're referring to, okay? So in verse 7, the Pharisees, we read, they ask, why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away. So what did they say about Moses? What did he do? They said, Moses commanded you or commanded one to give a certificate of divorce. So Jesus says marriage is forever and it's just these two. And they said, well, wait a minute. Why did Moses command people to get divorced if they, you know, if the husband found something displeasing about his wife? So the referring back to Deuteronomy chapter 24, the first four verses And they misrepresented it. They twisted it. I recall this is not the first time the Pharisees has misrepresented or twisted something in the scriptures. So if you go back to Deuteronomy 24, well let's go, let me turn there. It says, when a man takes a wife and marries her, If then he finds no favor, sorry, if then she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found something di in some indecency in her And he writes her certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, and she departs out of his house. And if she goes and becomes another man's wife, and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, Then, so in verse 4, then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife. After she has been defiled. For that's an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. That's an earful, right? If it's the first time you've read it, it's probably a blur. Uh wha what what's going on? What what is uh what what what what is this saying Well, the Pharisees took it to say that Moses commanded you to divorce your wife if you find an indecency in her. It doesn't say that at all. Go back to verse 1. And you'll see this wasn't a command, but rather he's saying, if you divorce your wife, And she marries some other guy, and that guy divorces her for whatever reason, or if that guy dies, then you, her first husband, cannot remarry her. And so this was not a command for one to divorce his wife if he found something indecent about her, but it was just saying, if you divorce your wife because you found something indecent about her, Then she marries somebody else and that doesn't work out. She's no longer on the market, as far as you're concerned. You can't take her back. That's all it was saying. So what the the legislation in Deuteronomy twenty-four was doing, it was trying to regulate divorce It was not God's intention that people would divorce, Jesus said, but it was not this way from the beginning, right? And so it was trying to get men who are contemplating divorce to think twice. Hey, you know what? If you divorce her, she marries somebody else, and that guy dies or he divorces her. You can't have her back. So you better think before you divorce her. And then it may also have that regulation may also have put into place uh to preserve the second marriage. So once a guy wrote his wife a certificate of divorce, she married somebody else, He could not then say, hey, I was your first husband. I'm your real husband. You belong to me. You need to leave that guy. And so is trying to regulate a situation that was getting out of hand. And so Jesus, the point that Jesus makes Is that Moses did not command divorce? He permitted it. He permitted it to prevent greater evils from taking place such as serial adultery or the abuse of a woman. Because and so if a guy divorced his wife If he just kicked her out, she would be destitute if she did not have a paper that certified her divorce. She could not remarry And so he was to write her a certificate of divorce. You see that in Deuteronomy 24. And then she would be able to marry someone else And she would not be rendered destitute. And so w these certificates of divorce were intended to provide a woman who was dis discarded by her husband of some measure of protection. But Moses did not command a man to divorce his wife if he found some indecency about her But rather he allowed it. And Jesus said, it was a concession to your hardness of heart. Look at verse 8 of chapter 19 in Matthew. Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning, it was not so. So divorce was never part of God's original purpose. Now we come to the part where Jesus gives, here's the legitimate ground for divorce in verse 19, or verse 9. Jesus cites sexual immorality as ground for divorce. Verse 9, if you have the New International Version, that translation. It uses the phrase marital unfaithfulness. I have the ESV. It uses the word sexual immorality. Uh whichever uh way you say it, it's the translation of a Greek word porneia, which is a general term for sexual sin. It includes adultery, fornication. And various other forms of sexual immorality. Now, what I want to underline here is that in the case of sexual immorality Divorce was to recog a certificate of divorce was to recognize that the marriage had already been broken. It wasn't to initiate a uh a um a break in a marriage that was still intact. And so divorce in the case of adultery or other forms of sexual immorality certificate of divorce just acknowledged you know what the marriage covenant has been broken now Jesus is not saying you have to divorce your spouse uh if he or she commits adultery But it's certainly understandable because that render that brings such a breach into the marriage relationship. So Jesus says, yes, you have a right to divorce, and as we're going to talk about in a little bit, you have a right to remarry. Now if we want to talk about or broadness a little bit, so Jesus says in Matthew 19, 9 That sexual morality is grounds for divorce. There's another ground for divorce in the Bible. You find it in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And I'd ask you to turn there. 1 Corinthians chapter 7 We'll begin at verse ten. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, and First Corinthians chapter seven. In verse 10, Paul repeats Jesus' teaching on divorce about the uh sanctity of marriage. Uh Paul writes to the Corinthians. To the married I give this charge, not I but the Lord. So he's saying, I'm repeating something Jesus said. The wife should not separate from her husband, but if she does, she should remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband. And the husband should not divorce his wife. And now he adds uh he adds something to what Jesus said To the rest I say, I not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, He should not divorce her. Okay, so in Corinth you had people who became Christians, but their spouse didn't become a Christian. So they're wondering, well, I'm married to an unbeliever. Maybe I should divorce him. Paul's saying no, not at all. Stay married. If your spouse is willing to stay married to you, even though he's not a believer, she's not a believer So remain married. Where was I? Verse uh verse twelve, verse thirteen then. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever And he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. And verse 14 and 15 is interesting. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. Now, Paul, just as a side note, in that verse, Paul's not saying that your spouse is saved because you're Christian But the word holy there just means set apart. Your spouse is set apart. Your children are set apart in God's eyes. Nobody knows exactly what it's saying, but at the very least, it's saying that You enjoy some privilege. If you have a Christian parent in your home, or if you have a Christian spouse in your marriage, there's some benefit to that. Now you get to verse 15, and this is where we're what we're talking about, for the second ground for divorce. Paul says in verse 15 But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. And then it says, in such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace. So in such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved. I like how the NIV translates it. It says, is not bound. Uh the new American standard, the King James says, is not under bondage. And so we want to answer the question, uh When Paul says you're not enslaved or you're not bound uh to your spouse if he or she deserts you To what are you not bound? And I would say it's saying you're not bound to your marriage. You're not bound to the marriage covenant any longer, and I say that because if you want to look this up, in 1 Corinthians 15, 27 and then 39, Paul speaks about being bound to one's spouse, and he contrasts it with being free from that spouse. So 1 Corinthians 7. 15 is saying that if your spouse deserts you, you're not bound to the marriage You're released from the marriage bond, the marriage vow, and you're free to remarry with a clear conscience. So in other words, if your spouse abandons you, Becky Uh my wife was just telling me last night about uh one of her uh uh distant relatives, her husband, they lived in Tennessee and her husband got in the car one day And he drove out to a Wyoming and he didn't even tell her uh that he was he was leaving her, and that was the end to him. Now that would be abandonment, right? But there is that all that the Bible means when it talks about your spouse deserting you? And I think we can broaden it a little bit. We want to be careful here, because just about anything can be called abandonment. I'll mention that in a second. But I think there are some things that we would say constitutes abandonment And I feel like we're in a law class the way I'm going on about this. But we'll just um we'll see we'll see what we do move on then we'll move along. 1 Corinthians 7 verses 3 and 5, Paul speaks about the conjugal obligations that a husband and wife have to each other. And so not to fulfill those obligations. generally or is understood typically to constitute abandonment. In fact in Puritan New England there were occasions when men and women came under church discipline uh for fur failing to carry out the duty of the marriage debt. Hope you don't get any cases like that here. Um and then uh we can say there there are other forms of Abandonment, a man who refuses to support his wife. Years ago we had a guy, he would not work. His wife wanted him to work. He would not work. And that uh in our understanding constituted abandonment just because he was living there and he was getting free rent, his wife was taking care of him, but he was not being a husband uh to this woman Then here's a harder one, and I know this these some probably all of this is debated, and Bible-believing Christians have different views on what constitutes divor what are grounds for divorce, what constitutes abandonment. Here's another one that our sister denomination, the Presbyterian Church in America, wrote a paper on years ago. that I thought was helpful. When I say the Presbyterian Church in America, so I'm not saying the mainline Presbyterian Church, but I'm saying this is another Bible-believing Presbyterian denomination the PCA. And they wrote a paper and they said if a a spouse a spouse one spouse, typically the husband, right, threatens to harm his wife or is is beating his wife then he causes her to desert the he causes her to d desert the marriage, but he's the one who caused the desertion So they say that would be grounds for abandonment. So just things to think about, and I don't think we can make some list, you know, uh the Bible doesn't qualify or clarify exactly what abandonment is. But the Westminster Confession of Faith has a in its paragraph on or section on marriage and divorce has a cautionary statement. Because in our day, you can say anything that constitutes abandonment. I abandon my wife every day. You know, she you know, in some circles, she could say I'm divorcing him for emotional abandonment. He doesn't understand me. Well, fortunately, that's not grounds for divorce. And the Westminster Confession says, you know what? Although the corruption of man be such as is apt to study arguments unduly To put asunder those whom God has joined together in marriage, yet nothing but adultery or such willful desertion as can no be as as can no way be remedied by the church or the civil magistrate It's cause sufficient for dissolving the bond of marriage. And so, and this is what I was saying last week, right, to our singles and our young people It's a permanent arrangement. And yeah, there are grounds in Scripture for divorce, but there's only two, and even the one on abandonment, that should be treated very narrowly. Or else uh we're gonna have uh divorce because we're just not getting along and we're going through a hard season in our marriage. Now let's move along here, okay? And I'm sure everybody's saying, absolutely. What about remarriage after divorce? And let me put out put out a couple or two principles, okay? What about remarriage after divorce? And we would say uh if you were divorced on biblical grounds, right? Sexual immorality. Or desertion. If you're divorced on biblical grounds, you're free to remarry. That's what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 7. 15. Again, uh, but if the unbeliever, if the unbelieving partner separates Let it be so. In such cases, the brother or sister is not enslaved. And so you're free to remarry, and uh you're free to remarry with God's blessing and with the blessing of the church. Jay Adams is a theologian and a Christian counselor. He wrote what I think is the most, the clearest in a very compelling explanation of the biblical view of divorce and remarriage. And it has a title, Marriage, Divorce, and Remarriage by Jay Adams. Get it? It's about 100 pages. Wonderful book. But he said, you know what? About somebody who's divorced on biblical grounds, he said, if a marriage is right, it's right all the way, and the Church of Jesus Christ should say so. So if somebody's divorced and uh they're divorced on biblical grounds, then they should have a wedding in the church when they remarry. Because if it's right, it's right all the way. Now that raises another question. What about, and I'll put this in quotes, right? What about the guilty party in a divorce? What about them? May they remarry? They may not remarry until their repentance and sincere attempts to reconcile have failed. And so repentance You know, if you if I divorce my wife, right, I can't say, well I repent. I shouldn't have done that I'm going to go marry this person now. That's not repentance. For me to repent, fully repent, would be for me not only to confess my sin to God and seek his forgiveness. Not only to confess my sin to my former wife and seek her forgiveness, but then to follow through by saying We should not have been divorced. I was wrong. Well you have me back. And years ago there was a couple in our church. They were remarried. He had left her and he became a Christian. And he went back to her with true repentance. And they were remarried. And so that's what repentance is. It's saying, Will you have me back? So that is what it means to repent if you're the guilty party in a situation of divorce. Now what if this guy repents and his wife won't have him back? Can he remarry then? Or what if she's already married somebody else? I know there's all kinds of debates about these kind of questions. I think I agree with Jay Adams though where he says, you know what? If there's if it's genuine repentance, reconciliation is no longer possible because she's remarried Or because um uh she doesn't want to have you back. She's sick of you, and you you betrayed her uh then uh you're free to remarry. And so there's this balance. You have the law of God, right? God's holiness in the form of these precepts. Seeking to preserve marriages. But then also, Second Corinthians five seventeen, if anyone's in Christ, he's a new creation. The old is gone, the new has come. And so we have this balance between God's law and God's grace. And I that I think that's That's how I see it playing out in this kind of situation. How about the church then, okay? Um Let me dig the hole a little deeper. How should the church minister to divorced people? Let me say a couple things here. One thing I want to say is that we should care for the innocent party in a divorce. I understand it takes two to tango, but usually there's one who initiates this, there's one who committed adultery, there's one who deserted the marriage, okay? Many people have sought to be faithful to their marriage vows, and they did everything they could, and they went above and beyond what would be expected of them. in efforts to preserve their marriage, but their spouse was unwilling. So what should the church do? The church should stand behind this person. The church should support this person, right? Should encourage this person and wrap her arms around this person. Uh they need they need friends at that time and they feel bad already. I remember one lady telling me that her husband committed adultery. They were both in the church, her husband committed adultery. And the church shunned her because they didn't even get her side of the story. They didn't even know what's going on. Well, things like that can really turn people and their children against the church. And so we want to be a community where we support people. And then uh what about for the the so-called guilty individual as far as a divorce is concerned? What should our stance be there? And I'd say We need to proclaim God's righteousness and God's grace to the guilty party. So if he's unrepented or she's unrepented, We need to proclaim God's righteousness and God's God's God's commands, God's law, right? If you walk out, if you walk out uh on your husband or on your wife, the church this church will not look the other way. It's pleasant to, or it's easier to just to look the other way and That's how it is in many churches. They'll look the other way. We're not going to quietly take your name off the roll and just hope you just disappear so we don't have to talk about this awkward situation. But rather, uh we're gonna we're gonna go after you. We're gonna pursue you, and we're gonna stand by your spouse as an imperfect as your spouse may be And we're going to exhort you to seek reconciliation. We understand you just can't snap your fingers and things get better, right? But we're going to do what we can to support you and your spouse. And trying to bring about some kind of reconciliation. We're going to talk to you, we're going to counsel you We're going to be patient with you and your spouse. We understand marriage is very complicated and we get very tangled up in our marriage relationships. But we're going to say that divorce is not an option. Let's try to work this out. If you're both Christians, this should be something that you can muscle through this season. I'm not saying it's gonna be easy. We're not saying everybody's gonna come out rose in the end. But we're going to say, but I want to say, yeah, this this is the kind of commitment uh we need to have in our marriages And so we're gonna we're gonna pursue you in love and and uh and as as a shepherd pursues a a lost sheep. But if there's no repentance, if there's no desire for reconciliation, if you just say, forget it, don't talk to me. Then there's a process there, right? In Matthew chapter 18, verse 15 to 17 in 1 Corinthians 5, where you go through these painful and awkward steps of church discipline, but the even that is designed to awaken you and to restore your marriage. And this is almost like if you look at the American church landscape, this kind of talk or this kind of approach of a church, uh There are just a small minority of churches that do this. But you ask the question, why is the American church so scandalized? Why is it so impotent? Uh and I think it's just we're not dealing with this kind of stuff. And it's a dirty stuff, but we have to endeavor to deal with it and pray, Lord, have mercy on us, have mercy on our marriages, and help us. When we try to help one another, we're not saying we're we're without problems, but we we need to stand with each other and sort of push each other along. And so we want to proclaim God's righteousness to the unrepentant But we want to proclaim God's grace to those who are repentant. We will not stigmatize the so-called guilty party in a divorce who's now repentant. Because that would violate the very basis of the gospel of Christ, right? We're all sinners. We're all you know, and if all of our sins were put out for everybody else to see None of us would show up next Sunday morning. And so we want to protect one another. And when someone's recognizes their sin, they turn from it. And that's a done deal, right? God forgives and forgets, and so should the church. And the Bible says, you know, I've been talking about how serious God takes marriage. But I I should qualify it and say that adultery is not the unforgivable sin, as grievous as it is, as destructive and heinous as it is It is not an unforgivable sin. And you see that in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Look at 1 Corinthians 6 verses 9 to 11 Paul's talking to the people in the church in Corinth. Here's what they were, okay? Here's what they were. 1 Corinthians 6 verse 9. Paul writes, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers, will inherit the kingdom of God But then here's the kicker in verse 11. What's Paul saying? And such were some of you. So that's what the church in Corinth was made up of. These kind of people. And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by the Spirit of our God. So there you have it, right? Nobody needs to feel like they're walking around with some kind of stain or mark because of their past sin. Not if they're repentant. They need to be taking the communion when we open up the commun have the communion service because Christ died for sinners. But nonetheless, let's round it out, finish out the passage, go back to Matthew 19, verse 10 to 12. This was sort of a jolt to Jesus' disciples. They'd been with him for three years, but even they were sort of caught off guard by Jesus strict uh view of the um inviolability of the marriage bond And so look at verse 10. The disciple said to him, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. And Jesus says, ooh, maybe I better rephrase that. I didn't mean to be so harsh. What's he saying in verse 11? He says exactly. Um Not everybody not everybody can do this. And he said, you know what, if you're not willing to make an ironclad uh commitment to your fiancee, to you know, to this gal or this guy that you're crazy about If you're not willing to make an ironclad commitment, then you better not do it. You can't say, well, we're going to get married, and if it doesn't work out, we could always get divorced. That's not what Jesus says. He says, if you're not willing to make that kind of commitment, don't get married. Verse 11. But he said to them, Not everyone can receive this thing, but only those to whom it's given. Then we have this sort of bizarre statement in verse 12. He says, For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men. And there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it. So eunuch is the person who was able to uh who was unable to contract or to consummate a marriage. And he says there's three kind of eunuchs, just for extra credit, three kind. Those who are a unable To contract or consummate a marriage because of a physical defect. So they've been that way from birth. Some have been made eunuchs by men in the ancient world Uh some men underwent cons castration uh so they could serve in the royal household, and the king would know that the servants aren't going to mess uh with the missus. And then um then it says some are made eunuchs or some are single for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. God has called and gifted people to be single and to live Content as singles. So that's quite a bit there. Hope you're not too exhausted. But this is something we had to uh cover. But you look at this and you look at God's high calling for marriage, and you're reminded that you know marriage is one of God's greatest gifts, but boy, uh sin sure has made a mess of things, hasn't it? And things sure get complicated uh when there's marital troubles and when there's divorce and remarriage and all that stuff. But we live in a fallen world, so we try to navigate it. We want to use God's law though to guide us. We want to be in the church. We want to support one another. We certainly uh if you're married and you're not a Christian, you're really you're really in a hard situation there. It's hard enough, right? And so we do need the grace of God. We need God's Word to guide us. We need both spouses to be submissive. to God's word, Gross. I don't know how you how you make it, right? You can't what court do you have a to appeal to? uh what in our c in a conflict if you don't have God's word, if you're both not submissive to that word, and we need the Holy Spirit to change us and help us to see our hardness of heart and our sin and And to change us in our marriage. We also need a church in our marriages. You don't have to publicize every struggle you have to the whole church, but that's why we have smaller groups in the church That's why we have a Friday men's breakfast and a women's Bible study and in smaller uh home groups. You get to know a couple people, you share with them And as you get to know one another, you can trust them. You learn you can trust them. And you say, hey, you know what? Pray for us. Or uh there's uh there's couples in our church who've counseled others. through their struggles. And so that's what the church, that's what the body of Jesus Christ is for. And we do need to encourage one another and also to hold one another accountable. Well let's bow our heads and pray. We do pray, our Father in Heaven, for your grace in our marriages, with all of our struggles and All of our difficulties, we pray that we'll persevere in our marriages, we'll grow more and more harmonious, we'll grow more and more under the lordship of Christ, and we'll be submissive to Him. And that our marriages would display the glory of the relationship that Jesus Christ has with his people, his bride, the church. And so help other help our marriages to be a witness. uh to the glory of the gospel. Help that to attract uh unbelievers to the gospel. And we pray for our singles and our young people As many of them are interested in one day being married, we pray you'd grant them that great the desire of their heart there in that you'd equip them now to prepare themselves spiritually, mentally, socially, physically. uh vocationally for marriage that they could have a fruitful uh life with another serving you. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, let's come to the Lord's table. We're going to sing number 421. Soul, adorn yourself with gladness. Let's stand. We're going to sing 421. Leave the gloom behind some sadness. Come into the daylight's splendor, there with joy your praises render. Let's just grace the battery. This is the Even the high hands holy gangster human.