Let's turn to Romans chapter fifteen, so we're nearing the end of our journey through Paul's letter to the Romans So in Sunday school, Fowler was teaching on William Carey, the father of modern missions, and I wrote down something William Carey said This is a guy who brought Christ to India, and I think there's something like 28 million Christians in India now. How did that come about? William Carey said the Word of God properly exposited does everything So this is why every Sunday we open up the Bible, we see what it says, we think about ways it applies. Romans chapter 15, beginning in verse 14 Paul writes, I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers. that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able to instruct one another But on some points I have written to you very boldly, by way of reminder, because of the grace given me by God to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles. in the priestly service of the gospel of God, so that the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my work for God, for I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me To bring the Gentiles to obedience by word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God So that from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum, I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ. And thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel, not where Christ has already been named, lest I should build on someone else's foundation, but as it is written Those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand. And so what what happens when you go to seminary? Well I'll tell you what happened when I went to seminary. Four years of learning the Bible, how to handle the Bible, and the theological framework of the Bible. I didn't learn anything about being a pastor, about organizing a worship service, visiting people. N didn't they didn't teach her anything about how to do a funeral, how to do a wedding, how uh administrating a church. But after after my third year in seminary, I did a year long internship at a church in Savannah, Georgia. And it happens to be the church that I most highly esteem of anywhere in the country. So it was a blessing. And the pastor was wise and godly And I can say that everything that is good about our church, that you might consider good about our church, and things that I consider good about our church Everything I've learned, I learned from this one wise and godly pastor. Now I've been in other churches, going to seminary, I did I've did summer internships. but just about everything I learned that I esteem and I want to emulate as a pastor I learned from Terry Johnson, the pastor of Independent Presbyterian Church in Savannah, my approach to worship. uh my approach to preaching, uh church organization, administration, uh leadership, and so on It all goes back to one godly and wise example. And it is it is valuable to have a credible pattern For ministry. And that's what we have here in this passage. Paul, now this isn't exhaustive, but what we have in this passage is a pattern for our ministries as individuals and as a church that we would be wise to emulate. Paul wants us to do that. Here's a verse of Philippians 4. 9 Paul said to the Philippians, and this applies here, he wrote, What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. So that's what we're going to do. We're just going to look at Paul as he explains what he did in his ministry. And we're going to seek to follow his example. So it's going to be real uh simple, hopefully, and um real very applicable. And so the first thing we see about his example in verse 14 is we see that he was an example in how we should encourage believers. So let me just give a little background here for those who haven't been with us Paul had never never been to Rome. One reason he wrote this letter was to pave the way for a visit he hoped to make. He said that back in chapter 1, verse 13 He wrote to these people, I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, but thus far have been prevented. Then in chapter 15, verse 24, look there He said, I hope to see you in passing as I go to Spain. So Paul's plan was to go to Spain to take the gospel there, but he wanted to stop in Rome to visit these folks to become acquainted with them. He knew some of them. We'll see that in chapter 16. but also uh so that they could prepare him for his missionary trip into Spain. Now considering he had not met many of these believers He said some very pointed things to them in chapters 12 to 15, if you remember. I mean he he called them down on a couple issues. And it looks like in verse 14, I don't know if you ever did this when you wrote a letter or you're talking to somebody, it looks like he caught himself and he steps back a little bit And he's thinking, maybe I'm being too forward, maybe I'm being too brash, maybe I'm being too heavy-handed. So look what's he saying in verse 14. He says, I he says a word of encouragement. I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able to instruct one another. It's good he said that. And he says things like this throughout his letters. He tells people exactly what he thinks of them in a good sense. Usually when somebody says I told him exactly what I thought of him. It's not a compliment, right? And uh we do that, or sometimes we think that, and uh that's not good, but we see here a reminder, an example. That it is important to tell people exactly what you think of them in a good sense. And some people say, well, if I say that, I'll give her a big head or I'll give him a big head. Is anybody here head too big, you feel too good about yourself? No. Everybody needs to be encouraged, right? And some people don't get much encouragement at all, so we should be looking for these opportunities And so we should be we should be following Paul's example here. Think about young people, especially that you know, uh they need a word of encouragement. And so yeah, Scripture commands us to admonish one another, but at the same time, it commands us to encourage one another. And I want you to notice before we move on There's an interesting statement he makes in the very end of verse 14. So he writes these Christians are full of goodness Filled with all knowledge. And then he says, they're able to instruct one another. Here's what I said, what I'm what I want to say to you. If you're a seasoned Christian and you've been through your struggles, you've had your ups and downs struggling With various temptations, various hardships, struggles being single, struggles being married. But you know the gospel, you know. God's moral law, he know his commands. You're familiar with the book of Proverbs. You haven't memorized it. But you've taken in the wisdom of the Bible in the book of Proverbs and elsewhere. And you've learned a couple things. Paul's saying to you that you are able to instruct one another. And I would add You're much more equipped, you're going to be much more useful than a secular counselor that many Christians run off to because they see them as the experts. They're not the experts. They have a completely different understanding of the nature of man. And they have a completely different different understanding about how people change. And some people don't think they can change. Or some of these counselors, there's no hope. We'll just medicate you. But no, the Bible teaches that God changes people. And it's usually not in an esoteric way, but it's through these ordinary means of being in a church, being in fellowship. Being around uh some wise people, uh peers and older people. And so What Paul says to these folks, and these guys were way behind compared to you, you're able to instruct one another. The counsel that you offer to a fellow Christian or somebody who's not a Christian, but they're coming, they're part of the group, is wiser It's offered in the context of a relationship and not just a financial transaction. It's a whole lot cheaper and it's ongoing. Now, the reason Paul says that these people, these Christians, are able to instruct one another is that they've been growing spiritually. They've been growing in knowledge. Verse 14, you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge. Now they weren't perfect. We saw that in chapter 14. These people had struggles. But nonetheless, he acknowledges they're making some progress there. And so Paul sets us an example as to how Christians should encourage one another. Here's another example, he says. How we should remind one another. Oftentimes of what uh we already know. So in verse 14, he said he was satisfied with their progress in the Christian life. But then in verse 15 he says, But on some points I have written to you very boldly by way of reminder. Now it's interesting. Romans is Paul's longest letter. And he wrote his longest letter, not to a church that was all messed up. The church in the Galatian church was messed up. The Corinthian church was messed up. Paul wrote his longest letter to a church that was doing fairly well. But no matter how much progress you've made in the Christian life, it's still useful to be reminded of what you already know. That's a good one for kids to hear when your parents tell you something, they remind you of something, not just like pick up your socks, but something, a moral lesson or a spiritual lesson You don't have to roll your eyes and say, yeah, I know. Well, no. It's important to be reminded this is how we're shaped. This is how we shape one another. And uh so that's good. And maybe if you heeded what they had to say, they wouldn't be reminding you so much in the first place. But even if you are, it's good to be reminded. And think about you know what takes place on Sunday morning. When you come to church, come to Sunday school, day species, teaching 2 Samuel, we're doing Romans Sunday morning, we're doing Acts Sunday evening. You know, some people They they say, here's what makes a good sermon. If I learn some nifty insight into the Bible that I've never heard before. Then I feel like I got my money's worth. Or maybe if the pastors tell some just some compelling story like, whoa, that was good. That really hit me. Well, that's not the average sermon. That's not the the average Sunday school lesson. The average teaching of the Bible is something you already know. You've heard it a hundred times before And it's not because the minister is a bore, although some are, not myself of course, right? I mean some pastors they have one string on their guitar. I'm not, I understand that. But The reason you hear a lot of the same things over and over is not so much the pastor But the Bible says the same kind of things in different ways, right? You have Proverbs, you have Psalms, you have stories in the Old Testament about different people. you have exhortations in the epistles, and a lot of the same themes uh keep coming up. And so that's just the nature of the Bible. Why did why is the god why why did God put the Bible together like that? And I'd say the reason is because we're prone to wander, we're prone to forget, and we need to be reminded. And I would suggest that probably the main thing we need to be r reminded of is the gospel. We need to remind one another of the gospel. We need to be here. I need to proclaim the gospel in every sermon. I should have some reference to it. Because, and what do I mean by the gospel? I mean Christ's sacrificial death for our sin. by which our sins are removed when we trust in him and he clothes us in his righteousness. We need to be reminded of that, right? Every month when we have the Lord's Supper, that the Lord's Supper is a reminder for those who are resting on Christ, for those who are repentant of their sin. that all is well between you and the holy God of the universe. So we need to hear we need we see the gospel in the Lord's Supper And we hear the gospel in Scripture. Christ is your righteousness. You're okay before God. It's not because you're so holy, it's not because you're so religious, but it's because Christ makes you holy, and he makes you acceptable to God. And so relax, okay? And enjoy yourself a little more. So Paul says an example. We should encourage one another. We should remind one another. Number three. We should view gospel ministry as an act of worship So Paul uses this language of uh priestly language. See the the Old Testament and the Old Testament the priests they offered to God sacrifices, they they brought him offerings But there's no priest in the New Testament church, right? Because Jesus Christ, he's our final high priest, it says in the book of Hebrews, and the sacrifice that he offered was the sacrifice of himself. That said, Paul in verse sixteen refers to himself as a priest, at least in a metaphorical sense And he says, the Gentiles who I led to Jesus Christ, they're the offering that I make to God. So let's read verse 16. He speaks about to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles in the priestly service of the gospel of God. so that the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. And so they've been cleansed by the blood of Christ, these Gentiles, because they trusted in Christ. They've been sanctified, in other words, set apart, and they're being transformed by the Holy Spirit. And Paul offers up these Christians to God in a sort of a priestly manner. That's sort of an interesting take on our labors for the gospel, right? You might find it tedious. You might find it discouraging at times, your efforts But you should view those to whom you minister as offerings to God, even like Paul There's nothing wrong with deriving some measure of satisfaction from your efforts. Look at Paul in verse 17. He was a spiritual guy, but look what he said In Christ Jesus, then, I have reason to be proud of my work for God. He wasn't saying that he was puffed up. The guy was humble. But he was saying he was pleased. He was gratified to see some fruit for his labors. So we see this example and how we should encourage one another and how we should remind one another of how we should remember that our efforts for the gospel, whether it's setting up the chairs on Sunday morning, whether it's reaching out to a newcomer, whether it's uh Teaching the uh Bible club we have here on Wednesdays at the school. This is this is an offering. This this is an act of worship. Here's something else, number four, about Paul's example. Like Paul We can be confident of God's work through us. Paul was confident. Well, of course. He was Paul. Why wouldn't he be confident? Well, yeah, but we can still learn here. Verse 18. He said, For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience. And so, huh, he was an apostle, right? Of course God used him. God equipped Paul and the other apostles in a unique way. Look at the end of verse 18. He equipped God by word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God. And so they were unique, especially in that they had the ability to perform miracles. Remember in the book of Acts, they were healing people This is the signs and wonders. Acts 2. 43. Luke wrote that many signs and wonders were being done through the apostles. And these miracles serve to authenticate the apostles as God's messengers. And that's what 2 Corinthians 12, verse 12 says Paul spoke about the signs of a true apostle. So there was something unique about the apostles' ability abilities in ministry And there is something unique about their ability in preaching and teaching and so on And um he says in the end of verse 19, he went from Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricum and fulfilled his ministry. So there is a difference, right, between Paul and the Apostles. We don't have the ability to perform miracles. We don't preach with the power of the Apostles or teach with the power of the Apostles. However, We need to be careful not to draw a complete distinction between the average Christian and one of the apostles, because we still serve Christ, as Paul said in verse 19. By the power of the Spirit of God. And whenever somebody comes to know Jesus Christ, whenever a Christian makes progress in the Christian life As a result of your friendship, your exhortation, your guidance, and so on, this is a work of God. And um you have the power of the Holy Spirit. And so we should have A measure of confidence that in our frailties, in our tentativeness, uh serving Jesus Christ, God's still at work. And we live in a hard culture. There's a lot of unbelief. The soil's hard. But nonetheless. God is still bringing people from on belief to belief. And churches in Frederick, Bible teaching churches are are full of people. who have moved from unbelief to recognizing the truth of Christianity So we have this example in Paul. Be confident of God's word through us. Here's something else, okay? Number five, Paul sets an example of how we should recognize the value of pioneer ministry. And I think we do. But he says in verse 19, he said, From Jerusalem and all the way around to Illyricim, that's present-day like the area where Croatia is. From Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum He said, I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ. So in one sentence, he pretty much summarizes ten years of his life. He went on these three missionary journeys And I googled it. How far did Paul walk in his missionary journeys? Apparently Google was back there and um they said he walked ten thousand miles. So they didn't have to figure that out. I just wrote just look at the book of Acts. You add it up. He walked ten thousand miles taking the gospel. And his particular calling was to take the gospel where people had never heard of Jesus Christ. And so in verse 20, he said, and thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel. Not where Christ has already been named, lest I build on someone else's foundation, but as it is written, and then he quotes from Isaiah 52, verse 15. Those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand And that's why, if you look at verse 22, he says to the Romans, this is the reason I've often been hindered from coming to you. So he wanted to go to Rome, but he also wanted to take the gospel places where uh people had never heard. And um And that's true even in our day. There are places where people have never heard, or at least uh have less exposure. There are nations uh especially in the Muslim world, uh where millions and millions of people have no understanding of what biblical Christ-centered Christianity is, and then there's other areas of the world and certainly of our country where many people have heard. So I was down south for ten years in a church. I thought There's a Bible teaching church in every corner. And that's almost not an exaggeration. Felt a little bit redundant. Let's try something different. Okay, let's move up to Maryland Uh there are a lot of churches here, but still there's a more of a m more people have never heard. Um And um there are church plants, there are established churches. I think there's something to be said. Uh I shouldn't say that's that's putting it lightly. There's a lot to be said for church planning, right? So our presbytery, we want to plant churches. Pray it'll happen. Pray we the big hold up is we can't find church planters. So pray, Lord, raise up uh pioneers. Um and um even in our situation, we're not a church plant, we're an established church But we're still in this cafeteria after twenty-three years. Uh well, that's all right. There's something to be said for, you know what? W this church is sturdy, we're getting a building, Lord willing, and this is a this is a a good investment of our time. We're praying this church will have an influence. For generations. Or think about the after-school club, Wednesday afternoon. I hear that's a lot of work, and I hear that there are some frustrations involved. Nonetheless Some of those kids have never heard of Jesus Christ. That's a pioneer ministry. That's pretty useful. And um this is why we pray. This is why we're gonna have a prayer meeting this afternoon, our our missionaries, the the Van Dalen's in Lithuania And others working in the Muslim world. They're pioneer ministries, and so we want to stand with them in prayer. So here we have it's just a few verses and the end of the book of Romans. And Paul gives us an insight into his ministry, and he really is. Just five things. There are other things in here, of course, but there are five things in this passage I've pointed out. That we would be wise to emulate. So we want to encourage believers. We want to continue to remind one another of the truths we already know. Feel your ministry, what you're doing in this church, what you're doing outside this church for the gospel. Remember, this is an act of worship. that you're offering to God. You need to be confident of God's work through you and also don't Don't ignore uh the importance of engaging people with the gospel who've never heard. Don't ignore the importance of pioneer ministry. And so don't get discouraged, don't get weary. That's what we're saying. This is saying here. You want to press on. I say that to our young people especially. You want to have a sense of purpose in life, right? It's not just about getting things done or being entertained, but you want to have a sense of purpose. And that's what we have here in the scripture. Something bigger than yourself, something uh that's going to last for a long time. And so it's a it's a wonderful message we have. We have a message of forgiveness. We have a message that we're right with God when we b we we believe in Christ. But we also have a message that we can live lives, no matter how tedious they may be, that really when we're seeking to honor Jesus Christ We are accomplishing a great purpose that has eternal ramifications. So let's bow our heads Thank you, Lord, for the example that we do see in the Apostle Paul, and we do pray that you'd help us not to grow weary. in well doing, uh but to serve you uh with all our hearts, uh despite opposition, uh despite The indifference we often see in others help us to be faithful. And we do pray, Lord, that we'll see more fruit for our labors. Because we certainly need the encouragement that that brings. Pray for our young people. Many who are Sort of just wavering and going along with the crowd. I pray that they'll latch on to your bigger purpose for their lives. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.