Uh with me to Romans chapter ten years. So Romans 10. Romans 10, verse 14 to 21. Next week, we're not doing Romans 11. I need to get a running start or do something else, and I'll be away two days this week anyway. But I anyway, let what are we doing today, right? Romans ten, uh verse fourteen I'm just going to read it and then I'll bring you up to speed on the context if you haven't been with us. So Paul writes in Romans 10 verse 14 But how are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him in whom they have never heard And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth and their words to the ends of the world. But I ask, did not Israel understand? First Moses says I will make you envious of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held up my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. Here's the context. If you look at verses 11 to 13, and you'll remember this from last week, perhaps, uh there, Paul says the offer of salvation in Jesus Christ is available to everyone. So verse eleven The scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. The same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. So whether you're Jew, whether you're Gentile, salvation is available in Jesus Christ. Verse 13. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. But then he says There's a rub. And the rub is many have never heard. And so that's why in verse 17, Paul says Faith comes from hearing and hearing through the Word of Christ. Faith comes from hearing the gospel message And because of that, this puts responsibility on the shoulders of Christians, right, to proclaim the message, to make it known to unbelievers whom we know And it also puts responsibility on the shoulders of unbelievers to listen and to consider and to humbly examine the claims that that are set forth in Scripture about Jesus Christ. And so faith comes from hearing the Word of God. I lost my outline. Oh well. Um I have it here. But um so I want to make just three simple points. The first point is that it's because faith comes from hearing this message that evangelism is so important. And so this will correct any of those who've gotten the wrong impression. I don't think you have. But in chapter 9, Paul spoke about God's sovereignty in saving people, right? God elects, God has his elect. God chooses whom He will save. It's not up to us. If it were, no one would be saved because we're spiritually dead. And dead people don't resuscitate themselves. We're spiritually blind, and blind people can't see God's glory in the face of Jesus Christ. But it's God who chooses us and then enables us to see and to repent and to believe. And you have a good little summary of that in chapter 9, verse 16. Where Paul said, so then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. So salvation is of the Lord. Now, some of you are very logical people, and you might say, well, let's draw this then to its logical conclusion. If salvation is from soup to nuts a work of the Lord, then we don't need to do evangelism, because he has chosen those whom he will save. And those he has not chosen are lost, and there's nothing we can do. So pass the donuts, right? And let's get on with our day. But the Bible does not allow us to draw that conclusion because while it affirms God's sovereignty and saving simultaneously It says people are responsible to turn to Christ. How can that be? And as I said a couple weeks ago We have no idea because Scripture does not connect the dots on this issue William Carey was one of the first missionaries. He was called the father of modern missions. And in the 1700s, he spoke of his desire to go to England, to go to go to India. To be a missionary, to take the gospel to the continent uh of India, yeah, or the nation of India And one of the leaders in his denomination, John Rylins Rylins, said to him, Sit down, young man. When God is pleased to convert the heathen, he will do it without your aid or mine And so John Rylance drew this conclusion. God's sovereign, God saves, and so there's no need to share the gospel. William Carey New Scripture better than John Ryland's. He understood that God is sovereign in his grace But he also understood God uses means to bring people from unbelief to belief and Jesus Christ, right? He uses evangelists, he uses preachers, he uses Christians talking to their neighbors and to their coworkers to make the truth of the gospel known so that people, so that the elect may indeed turn and believe on Jesus Christ. And that's what Paul is emphasizing now in verses 14 and 15. So he strings together four questions to make this very point. So let's go through verses 14 and 15. First thing he says in verse 14, but how are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard, right? And there are millions it's hard to imagine this. But there are millions of people in the world who have never heard the gospel of salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. Then he goes on the end of verse 14. And how are they to hear without someone preaching Now think about this is the first century. This was before the advent of the printing press. This was before the advent of mass communication The only way that anyone would ever be exposed to the gospel in that day would be if they heard someone declare it, right? That somebody came and preached in the at the town at the town gate Or maybe one of the apostles went into a synagogue and opened up the scriptures, or maybe some of a friend who was a Christian invited you to the church that met in their house. But there's no other way that people would have heard apart from someone preaching. And let me just add as an aside It can't be any kind of preaching, right? Just because you go to church, it doesn't guarantee that you're hearing the gospel message that's found in Scripture. And Becky Becky uh last Monday Becky and I were talking to a man and as soon as he found out I was a pastor He told me about his in his religious inclinations and he told me about this church he goes to up in Walkersville and um and then he told me about I do this and I do that and I try to treat others well, but here's the point. And then he said, and my pastor said, that's what's really important. And so his pastor did not understand the gospel if he told him that, because in Galatians two sixteen Paul says, by works of the law no one will be justified. And so that pastor should have been sued for malpractice. We don't do that, of course. But he had grounds to sue that pastor for malpractice. How shall they hear without someone preaching? The biblical gospel. That's why it's important, right? We have a church, all the teachers All the preachers preach the gospel. That's really important. That's why we examine our teachers That's why the Presbytery examines the pastors who preach in churches in our denomination, the Associate Reform Presbyterian Church. And so the pre we st uh I'm getting off the heck. The Presbytery owns the pulpit in this church. Do you know that? If I start preaching something that's heretical And the elders don't expel me, then the presbyteries are going to step in and they're going to expel me. But it's important that we preach the biblical boss gospel. Back at the ranch here, verse 15, he asked another question. And how shall they preach unless they're sent? Then he quotes from Isaiah fifty-two, seven How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. It's interesting. In Isaiah 52, Isaiah is talking about the feet who proclaimed to the Israelites that they're going to be released from exile in Babylon, Paul takes that verse and he says, hey, this also applies to those who declare the good news of salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. How beautiful are the feet of those who proclaim the good news And if you became a Christian outside the family you grew up in, you'd say, yeah, the the co-worker or the friend I went to school with or whoever I think about when I was in high school, this uh Some kids started inviting a bunch of kids in our high school to their youth group. I was one, and so I would say, this fellow Bob Childs, who was that youth pastor, he explained the good news of the gospel And then he became a track coach one of the assistant track coaches in our high school. He was making the gospel known. And I could think back now forty five years and I know I've heard about a what I've heard of what a lot of these young people w those former young people are doing today. A lot of them are still going on with the Lord. I mean a couple dozen people kids were converted to Jesus Christ and they're still going on. And I say that to our young people To you never know the effect that your witness will have on your friend. Invite your friends to youth groups, certainly. And I hear that's taking place. That's wonderful. I just heard I was over here in you this morning, Jason Rendell, you said twenty-four kids are going on the youth group retreat next week. So yeah That's how it happens. Invite him to church, right? Tell him your pastor's a great guy. You never know what could happen. Invite him to Sunday school, invite him over to some social activity But yeah, this this is how it happens. And then he goes on, verse 15, how shall they preach unless they're sent, right? This is why we support missionaries. This is why we endeavor to plant churches or denomination. I'm on the church planning board. We're looking for a church planner For this area, for somewhere in Maryland, mid-Maryland. Keep your eyes open. You never know. And this is why we want to offer Bible studies in our church to people who aren't Christians Come ask questions. We'll study this little book, Basic Christianity. We'll go through the Gospel of John. This is how it happens. So we want to be on the offensive. That's what Paul's saying Faith comes from hearing. This is why evangelism is important. That's point one. Point number two Because faith comes from hearing, this is why unbelievers should listen to the gospel message. And verse 17 is one of my favorite verses because it says so much about our approach to ministry. Where am I? I'm going to read it again. Verse 17. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. Now, in the context here This phrase, the word of Christ, refers to the preaching of the gospel message. In other words, the message that Jesus is God that he lived a perfect life where we fell short, that he died on the cross to suffer the penalty for our sin. and that we're saved by God's grace, by God's unmerited favor, and not by our good works. So faith comes from hearing this gospel message That's the message that God uses to awaken a person of their uh perilous estate And bring them to lean on Jesus Christ as their Savior. Peter writes something very similar, if you want to look it up or just listen. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 23, Peter says to these people who are now Christians, You have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of the imperishable. And then he says Through the living and abiding Word of God. You've been born again how? Through the Word of God. And he gets even more specific in verse 25, where he says And this word is the good news that was preached to you. And so it's the gospel message that moves someone from spiritual blindness to spiritual sight. And let's just take that verse. Faith comes from hearing the Word of Christ. We can broaden it a little bit, and I don't think I'm abusing this verse to say that God uses his word in a broader sense to impart spiritual life, right? If you're not a Christian And you start reading this book, God uses this to bring you to faith. And if somebody's not Christian, I say, well, you just start reading the Gospel of John, or read the four Gospels, read them over and over, then read through the New Testament. Then go to Genesis. And so you can do it like that, because God's word is powerful, right? Hebrews 4. 12 The writer says the word of God is living and active. It has a dynamic power. There's something to this book. It's not a dead book. It's not a book of moral maxims. It's not a book of ancient history. But it's a living word. It is the living word of Jesus Christ. And people become believers. Years ago, Michael Labelle, a guy in our church, he said he became a Christian through reading Ecclesiastes. I'm like Ecclesiastes. And then Jim Lariman, who was an elder in the church, they both moved on, that moved away, he became a Christian through reading Ecclesiastes. I thought that was bizarre, but this word is living and active. One of my favorite stories. If you heard it before, well too bad, just close your ears. But I always remember this um pastor, Philip Jensen, telling me a similar story. He said he was leading a Bible study amongst college students. And this one guy was coming, and he was a skeptic. He didn't believe this stuff. But then after weeks and weeks and weeks, he said, he went up to Philip Jensen. He said, You know what? I started reading the Bible for myself. And after doing this for a long time, I asked myself, do I believe this is from God or not? And he said, Yeah, I believe this is from God. And then Philip Jensen asked him, Well, what what book were you reading that finally uh tipped you over the edge? Leviticus. So it's like, what is going on here? And we'd say, this, the word of God is living and active. Young people, if you'll indulge me, put down your goofy little video game and read the Bible each day. Because God is going to use this to help you to see clearly about life and to prepare you for life. And to help you see through the lies of the world. And so faith comes from hearing the word of Christ. This is why We preach the books of the Bible. We teach the books of the Bible typically in our classes, right? We have Thursday night Bible study. We'll do topical things here and there, but You know, uh and topical things are nice because it's easier to follow, scratches where you itch, help me with my marriage, help me raise my kids, help me feel better about myself. uh help me with my financial financial things. All things are are you know have ha are are important and all the things the Bible teaches about. But there is value also, though, through learning what the Bible says about everything. And so that's why we march through. That's what we have to concentrate. What is the context What's the intent of this passage? How does it fit together to with the rest of the Bible? So faith comes from hearing the Word of God And so that's why we do evangelism. That's why we want unbelievers to examine the Bible. However, this is point three Why don't all believe who hear the gospel message? And the answer Paul gives in this text Is that some do not believe, or those who do not believe having heard the message, do not believe on account of their hard hearts. And here Paul is speaking about the hard hearts of many of his fellow Jews, but it certainly applies to anybody, Jew or Gentile who is exposed to a clear presentation of Scripture and still rejects Jesus Christ. And so if you look in verse 16, he makes a reference to his fellow Jews. He said, but they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And then he caps it off in verse 21. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held up my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. How does Paul account for the unbelief of his fellow Israelites who are exposed to this to the same message that he was exposed to. And he well I just gave you the answer, but let's walk through it now. He um he rejects two possible explanations for their unbelief. And then we just read verse 21 where he provided the true reason. So it says, first of all, in verse eighteen, you cannot attribute Israel's unbelief to the fact That they'd never heard the gospel because they did. Verse 18. But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have. Their voice has gone out to all the earth and their words to the ends of the world Now that's a quotation from Psalm nineteen, verse four, where the psalmist uh in Psalm nineteen is speaking about uh God's works of nature, the voice of God's works of nature, declaring God's glory throughout the entire earth, Paul takes that verse And he uses it to speak of the gospel, which likewise he said has gone out into all the world. It's been you know, not like Hawaii or something. This is the first century, all the known world Every area of the world where there was a Jewish community, Paul's saying the gospel has gone out in this general sense. And yet Uh they didn't believe. And so Paul's saying you can't attribute Jewish unbelief to the fact that they'd never heard And it's the same with many unbelievers of whatever background, right? They've heard. Some have grew up in homes where these were genuine Christian homes where the gospel was taught, where Christianity was displayed They've heard it from friends, they've heard it from co-workers. Some grew up in the church, churches that taught the Bible, but still they don't believe. But Paul says, no, you can't attribute the fact that they didn't never heard it. Secondly, you can't attribute to Israel's unbelief to the fact That they didn't understand. Look at verse 19. He says, Did Israel not understand? And Paul says, No, that's not the problem. They understood. In fact, even many of the Gentiles who heard the message, they were not God's people They understood how much more should the people of Israel who had all this background in the scriptures Understood and turned to Jesus Christ. So then just briefly, I'm just gonna skim over verses nineteen and twenty He supports this claim that the Israelites did not understand, though they heard, by quoting in verse 19 and 20 two Old Testament passages. 19. But asked, did Israel not understand? First Moses said, and then he quotes from Deuteronomy, I'll make you jealous of those who are not of nation. With a foolish nation, I'll make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, and then he quotes him Isaiah 65: I've been found by those who did not seek me, I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. And so here in verse twenty, that's interesting, um God speaks about being found by those who did not seek him. That makes a lot of sense because if you remember back in chapter 3, verse 11, it says, nobody seeks God. And yet churches have these services they call them seeker sensitive services. They have really cool music and really cool lighting because I think people are seeking God. No, they might seek the benefits God brings uh peace or a sense of tranquility or uh whatever, but they're not we don't seek God. He seeks us, right? Where was where was Paul Um when he became a Christian, was he out seeking God? Was he searching for God? Was he searching the scriptures? Did he climb some mountain? What was he doing? Paul was walking down the road, and he was seeking to kill Christians. But Christ saw him, right? Christ went after him. And that's how Paul became a believer. But Paul wasn't seeking God. And that's how it is with anybody who becomes a Christian. And um Well, how is it then that people become Christians and they they're awakened and they're interested in this stuff and they and they do in fact seek. Well It's a consequence of the fact that God first reached out to them and inclined them and called them and by his spirit regenerated them. That's why we seek God. It's not because we're we're we have this great interest in things or we have this great spiritual uh some kind of spiritual light within us. No Uh it's because God seeks us. But getting back to the back on the main road here, uh why didn't why didn't many of Paul's j fellow Jews believe It's not because they didn't understand. It was because, again, of their hard, stubborn hearts. And it's the same in our day, right? Many have heard, and it's just abrasive. This message is abrasive to them. Because they do not want to submit. They don't want to bow before Jesus Christ. They don't want to humble themselves. They don't want to give up certain practices. They don't want to reorient the way they live their lives. And so this is a warning for those who aren't Christians. So, hey, don't let that be the case for you, but rather stay in this word Just keep coming to church, keep listening, ask questions, good, good honest, skeptical questions. They're really good uh because we think this bible is sufficient to answer all those questions. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do thank you that you've given us this book and it is powerful, it's effective. It opens our eyes, it pierces our hearts, and for young people and perhaps any others who are not yet Christians, I pray that they will search out this book and that you will help them to see and to believe, help those of us who are Christians to live more credible lives. And Help us not to be ashamed in this culture which is so indifferent and oftentimes hostile to Christianity. Help us not to be ashamed of the truth of this message. Convince us, strengthen our confidence in the truth of the message. And in the power of your Spirit to bring people from unbelief to saving faith in Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen