To Matthew chapter seventeen, verse forty I'm sorry, verse uh fourteen, verse fourteen. So last week we were up on the mountaintop, uh it was the Transfiguration in the beginning of Chapter 17, but now uh we're back amongst the needy and uh hurting masses. And it says in verse 14, and when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him, to Jesus. And kneeling before him, said, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic, and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire and often into the water. And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him. And Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation How long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me. And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed You will say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. And they were greatly distressed. So, Raphael, 16th-century Italian artist, has this famous painting called The Transfiguration. So you know what it's about, right? This is why you have to know the Bible to appreciate art history. But in the trinting of the transfiguration It's uh it has like two panels to it, and the upper portion of the painting is full of light And it reveals Jesus Christ undergoing this transfiguration, his glory being disclosed, there's Moses, and there's Elijah. And then almost in fear are the three disciples who witnessed this event. But interestingly enough, in the lower panel, so it's the same canvas, the upper panel is full of light, the transfiguration. The lower panel is dark and gloomy, and it portrays the passage we've just read. This desperate father bringing his demon-possessed son to Jesus' disciples. And the disciples were unable to help This boy. And that's the perfect picture. Raphael got it, right? Here we were last week. Jesus is on the mountain. But now he comes down from the mountain and he encounters and has to deal with the pain and despair of life. in this fallen world. And yes, Jesus Christ now reigns. He's ascended on high. He reigns in glory. And yet still he has not yet returned. And so there are battles. to be fought in this fallen world. And so what I want to show you from this passage, and we're going to focus on verses 14 to verse uh twenty-one, so just this account of the demon-possessed boy, we're going to be reminded here that indeed there are battles to be fought And what we're going to see is that the battles which we encounter in life have ultimately a spiritual origin And because of that, the second point will be we must fight such battles with spiritual weapons And then also we're going to see the importance of faith in fighting these spiritual or these battles that we encounter. And so first of all I want to use this heading. The battles we face in life are spiritual in origin, right? Go back. Let's look at verses 14 and 16. A little more closely, it says, when they came to the crowd, they refers to the three disciples who had been with Jesus on the mountain. They came down the mountain and they encountered the crowd A man came up to him, kneeling before him, and said, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and suffers terribly, for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water. And I brought him to your disciples. And they could not heal him. Now, if you've ever had a sick child, and I know some here have had desperately sick children, you know what a wrenching, uh grievous, uh desperate uh feeling that is And that's what this man has on his hands. He has a son who it says in the some version, I think there's a revision in the NIV and the ESV translations because I think They originally said, as mine say, he's an epileptic, the father says. They've been revised apparently to say he has um uh he he has seizures. And I think that's a better translation. And then there's other translations of the Bible, the New American Standard of the King James, that translate it, he's a lunatic. Well, which is it's a word that they're not quite sure about, but I don't think to say that he was a lunatic or that he has epilepsy uh is doing it justice Because it goes on in verse um verse eighteen uh to point out he had a demon. And so it's likely to me it's saying It's because he had a demon and he had these seizures, and so that's what was taking place. It's not just merely epilepsy or mental illness. This boy was possessed by a demon And you'll notice at the end of verse fifteen, the father said, He often falls into the fire and often into the water. There's a parallel in Mark and Luke, and the parallel in Mark, Mark 9, 22, is a more explicit. It says the demon often threw the boy into fire and into the water, it says, to destroy him. And so we see throughout Scripture, Satan is a destroyer, and we have before us an example of his destructive work. Now before we go on, I do want to ask a question. Why do we read of demon possession so often in the Gospels? But hear so little of it today. How is that? And in fact, it's not just we hear little of it today. It's virtually unheard of in the Old Testament. There's one incident that maybe it has been attributed to demon possession, and even that's questionable. But once you leave the Gospels, well, and you see it twice in the book of Acts, but after that, Uh you find no discussion of demon possession in the Bible. How do we explain that, as Ricky Ricardo would say? And um Here's my the best I understand, maybe there's a better explanation. But it seems that there was a there was an intensification of demonic activity during Jesus' ministry on the earth. Why is that? Well perhaps because Satan, his dominions, rallied When the Son of God broke into this world, they rallied, legions, Satan's legions rallied against the Son of God. And this was all under God's providence, I believe, so that when Jesus came and, for example, cast out demons He was providing an object lesson of what he came to do. And the object lesson or the principle that he was displaying is spoken in 1 John 3. 8. John writes, the reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. And so that's my, the best I understand, why there was this intensification of demonic activity during Jesus' public ministry. And so, I don't think, and I know you see this in some circles emphasized, I don't think we should give great emphasis or recognize uh the various events in life as being like people possessed by Satan or demonic activity uh in particular, but I think there is a broader principle And um and that is uh life in this world is a spiritual bottle is spiritual bottle is a spiritual battle. Life in this world is a spiritual battle. That's what was being illustrated in the gospel. And that's just not my insight or my speculation. But that's what Ephesians 6 verse 12 says. Here's how we should understand what's going on in this world. Here's how we should understand the unbelief that's all around us. Here's how we should understand the breathtaking evil that we see man uh doing against fellow man. Ephesians 6. 12, Paul says We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. And really that's what the book of Revelation is about. It's as if the veil is pulled back on all the miseries, all the uh aggression, uh all the hostility, all the wars in this life. It pulls back the veil and it reminds us there's a spiritual battle taking place and it's being played out on Earth's stage. And a couple more verses that underline the spiritual nature of the battle in which we are engaged as Christians raising our families, seeking to walk with Jesus Christ, seeking to make Jesus Christ known, seeking to live in a nation uh where there's rule of law in a world uh where there's some kind of rule of law and decency amongst the nations. 1 Peter 5. 8, Peter says to these Christians, Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a lion, seeking someone to devour. First Timothy four, one. How is it that churches, churches that say they're Christian, have Teachers that teach things that are not in the Bible and things that contradict the Bible Are they just good-souled men and women who just have a different perspective on things? That's not what Paul says in 1 Timothy 4. 1. He writes that false teachers are under the influence of, quote, deceitful spirits and teachings of demons Why do not unbelievers turn to Jesus Christ? Is it merely the fact that they are not yet intellectually persuaded of Christianity? They just need a little more information. They just need a better argument. Is that the final reason that unbelievers are not running to Jesus Christ? Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4. 4, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Satan has actively blinded people. That's why they don't see. How does a person become a Christian? God removes the blinders they see. It clicks. The penny drops. Oh, I get it now. And I've seen that with people when they became Christians. It it made no sense and then all of a sudden the l it's like the switch was turned and now they believe and so we're in a spiritual battle. Abraham Kuyper was a prime minister of the Netherlands in the early 1900s. And he was a Christian, he was a theologian, he was a preacher, and he wrote, if once the curtain were pulled back and the spiritual world behind it came into view It would expose to our spiritual vision a struggle so intense, so convulsive, sweeping away everything within its range That the fiercest battle fought on earth by comparison would seem a mere game. And he says, not here, but up there That is where the real conflict is engaged. And then he said, our earthly struggle drones. in the backlash. So that's the first thing I want you to see. It's illustrating this passage, right? Jesus meets a boy who is possessed by a demon. There's an illustration of the larger spiritual battle in which God's people are engaged. They've been engaged in it down through history and will be engaged into it until Jesus Christ returns. Okay? So we're in this battle. How do we fight it? Well, how do you fight a fire? You don't use a rifle, right? Rifle rifles have their purpose, but if you try to fight a fire with a rifle, uh that's not gonna work. Uh you need you didn't you need the right weapon to fight to fight the battle in which you're engaged. And since we're in a spiritual battle Uh we cannot fight these battles with earthly weapons. We can't fight them uh with worldly weapons, but rather We need spiritual weapons to fight spiritual battles. And that's what Paul said in 2 Corinthians 10:4. The weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. So what I want to do, now what do I mean by that What are our spiritual weapons? Well, before I talk about that, I want you to notice how Jesus fought the spiritual battle that he had as he as he tried to help this boy possessed by a demon. How did he do it? And then I want you to notice there's a difference Between how Jesus fought spiritual battles and how the Bible instructs us to fight spiritual battles. Okay? And here's where people get their tail wrapped around the axle If they think everything Jesus did is how we should do it. Okay? So let's look at what Jesus did first of all, though. So it says in verse 18, this the demon's in this boy, and it says in verse 18, Jesus rebuked him. And the demon came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly. Jesus is God. He has all authority. He has all power. And that enabled him merely by speaking to cast out the demons. We see Jesus do this a number of times. You turn over to the book of Acts, and I believe there are two occasions in the book of Acts where the apostles and uh their associates uh would cast out demons in a like manner. Acts 16, verse 18 Paul spoke to a demon who possessed a slave girl. And he said, There, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of here. Okay? And there is the proof text for a million uh televangelists and other uh ministries. But that's not what we're teaching about how it should be done in our lives. Uh why were the apostles able to do this? It says in the Bible there's a reason that the apostles and their associates performed miracles while they were able to cast out demons. It was to confirm their apostolic credentials. Paul says this much in Hebrews, I'm sorry, well it says uh Hebrews 2, 4 says it, but also Paul states it in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 12. There he wrote, of the signs of a signs of a true apostle were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs, wonders, and mighty works. So Paul's saying, yes, I'm an apostle, and I displayed the signs of an apostle. I did signs and wonders and mighty works. And so we see Jesus Christ, the apostles, they were engaged in a spiritual battle, and they had the authority to speak And demons were cast out of people who suffered possession. Now, so the question then is how should Christians fight spiritual battles? How should we fight the battles in life? I mean, every battle we face ultimately is spiritual, whether it's uh trying to raise our kids sometimes, trying to uh get along with a spouse trying to uh live your life as a single person with all the temptations and all the messages you're receiving. trying to develop the ministry of the church to to to deepen the flock in Christ to help people with their struggles than conducting yourself out in the world These spouse are all spiritual in origin. So what do we do? What what is our approach? Now there are some Christians And particularly those in the Charismatic Church who see this text where Jesus casts this demon out of the boy, they see it as teaching a technique that we should employ for dealing with Satan's influence. And so they'll use language like they'll talk about casting out demons, they'll talk about rebuking Satan, you know, and the authority of Jesus Christ. uh they'll talk about speaking the truth to him. Okay? So we appreciate that, that they're trying to take their model from scripture. But I don't think they're recognizing a distinction between how Jesus and the apostles operated and how we're called to operate. In fact, I know some Christians who believe that any temptation, any compulsion that a person has is demonic in origin. And so what they'll do is they'll pray that this demon would come out so that you're no longer tempted in this area. Now what I want to say is that there are differences between our situation and that of Jesus and the apostles. Jesus and the apostles, well Jesus performed miracles to authenticate his deity and to show that the kingdom of God had come. Because in the Old Testament, I think it's in Isaiah, I wish I should have looked this verse up. It talks about, here's what's going to happen when the kingdom of God comes. The blind are going to see, the mute are going to speak, the lame are going to stand up and walk. And that's precisely what Jesus did. And so when John the Baptist's disciples said to Jesus, Are you the Messiah or is there somebody coming after you? Jesus said, go back to John and tell him what you've noticed, what you've witnessed. The blind see, the new speak, and the lame walk. And so he said, Of course I'm the Messiah, because I'm ushering in the kingdom with the signs of the coming of the kingdom that were foretold that would would authenticate that I truly am the Messiah. And so Jesus performed these miraculous signs to show The kingdom had come, and he is God. It authenticated his person and his message Now just because Jesus operated in a certain manner, it doesn't mean that's how we're to do it, right? Jesus and his apostles did a lot of things that we don't do. Give you a couple examples. When Jesus and his followers were hungry, Jesus multiplied the loaves and they had a nice meal. I don't find one verse where we're told to multiply loaves or do anything like that. What are we told? Matthew 6, in the Lord's Prayer. Pray, Lord, give us this day our daily bread, and then 1 Thessalonians, get a job, right? Work. It says there, if you don't work, you don't eat. So there's a difference there. Came time to pay taxes. This would be nice. Peter or Jesus said to Peter, go down to the lake. You're going to find a fish with a coin in his mouth. Take that coin out and give it to Caesar. Uh that's a pretty nice arrangement. What's he tell us? Romans thirteen. Uh we're to pay the government. We're uh we owe them something, right? Go out and get a job so you can pay your taxes. Jesus and his apostles miraculously healed the sick James 5, verses 14 and 16 says, When somebody's sick, pray for them and anoint them with oil. And um and the word anoint means rub them with oil. So it wasn't just some ceremonial anointing, but it was for medical purposes, rub them uh with oil. So there are some differences And likewise, even though we see Jesus and the apostles are actually casting out spirits, there's not one place in the New Testament where Christians are told That that's how we're to deal with Satan's influence. We're not told to cast out demons. We're not told to bind Satan. We're not told to rebuke Satan. But rather, now here's some here's where I'm leading. We're commanded to fight these spiritual battles, which are just as real, but we're commanded to fight them in less dramatic and less spectacular ways. And this is this is most basic. How do we fight these battles? Basically it's resist Satan Flee him. Stand firm in Jesus Christ. Ephesians 6, put on the full armor of God. Let me give you a couple verses, okay? 1 Peter 5, 8, and 9, Peter says to Christians who are being persecuted, be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. And then he says, resist him, stand firm in the faith. It's just hang in there. Hang on to Jesus Christ. James 4. 7 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he'll flee with you. He'll flee from you. Okay? So resist him. And then submit to God. In other words, put yourself under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. That's how we're to deal with Him Then of course the passage you we read early in the service was about uh putting on, Paul says put on the full armor of God This includes the truth of God's word, right? This is why we put such an emphasis, encouraging people, read the scriptures. We say to kids, Read the scriptures. Know this book. This is God's armor to prepare you and to protect you And then armor another piece of the armor is prayer, right? We're to pray in the spirit. Another piece of the armor uh is to have faith. In other words not just wishful thinking, but trusting the promises that God has given to us. And then he talks about the gospel. We're not only on the d the we're not only on the defensive, but we're to be on the offensive were to tell the gospel to others, right? It's still God is still God. He's still at work. You have friends who are unbelievers You know say, well, they're probably not going to believe. Why? This is this is one of our weapons, the gospel. And so we try to engage them in conversations about Christianity. And so The second point was we're to fight. First point, we're in a spiritual battle. Secondly, spiritual battles must be fought with spiritual weapons And then third and finally, we see in this text the importance of faith in fighting these spiritual battles. So let's go back into the text. I sort of I know I went off there. But um so what's going on here? I'm trying to find the verse here. Uh verse 16. The Father said to Jesus, I brought him, my son, to your disciples, and they could not heal him. They should have been able to heal him. They were Jesus' disciples. And back in chapter 10, verse 1 It says Jesus gave them authority over unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal every disease and every affliction. And for a time they were doing just that. It says in Luke 10:17, they were casting out demons. And they came back to Jesus and said, even the demons obey us. And they were amazed. But now they were unable to help the suffering boy. What happened? That's a good question That's a good question. The disciples asked this question, verse 19. The disciples came to Jesus privately, because they were embarrassed and said, Why could we not cast it out? I think the only thing we can conclude, and I don't this may not be the final answer, but this this is what the these guys, this commentators, the scholars this who who believe the scripture, they say, you know what? It must have been that they were no longer relying on Jesus Christ. They were relying on themselves. Jesus had given them authority to cast out demons, and it finally the time came. When they began to treat this power as something that they inherently possessed, they began to look at this ability to cast out demons as a technique. And so hey, this is this is a power that I had. And they had forgotten that they were completely dependent on Jesus Christ. to effect these miracles. And so Jesus says in the end of verse 20, he explains, says the reason Uh they couldn't cast the out the demon from this boy. He Jesus said, it's because of your little faith. It's because of your little faith. You're no longer depending on me. And when Jesus says, your little faith He can't be referring to the amount, to the qua to the quantity of their faith, because in verse 20 he goes on to say If you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you'll say from say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it'll move. So little refers not to the quantity of their faith but to the quality of their faith. It was deficient. D. A. Carson, who has a commentary, he said, little means shoddy It's just not genuine faith. What these guys needed is not necessarily a large amount of faith, but what they needed was true faith. At the end of verse 20, he says If you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you'll say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. What's going on there? Moving mountains, and that was just a proverbial expression to say the most improbable things you're going to be able to do if you have faith. Now we have to understand in context. It's not saying if you're 90 years old, if you have enough faith, you're going to become an Olympic pole bolter. But rather, it's in the context of the kingdom work. If you have true faith You're going to affect great things for the kingdom of God. You're going to be able to fight these spiritual battles. And what I want to point out is that I probably say this of all of us, we're a lot like the disciples. Let me ask a couple questions, and I'll tell you where I'm going. Think about what we want to accomplish in our lives, in our families, in the workplace, for Jesus Christ, or in our church. How does a church become more fruitful? What do we do? We need to work harder and we need a better strategy. We need more gifted people. We need a new technique. Well, God uses those things. But at the bottom It's God who brings the growth. It's God who makes things happen. That's what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 3:6. He said, I planted Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. How do churches grow? How does the gospel grow, I should say, right? How does the gospel expand? God gives the growth. You see that in a couple of parables. God gives the growth. Jesus said in John 15, 5, apart from me, you can do nothing. Apply that to your ambitions, young people, for your life too. Jesus said, apart from me, you can do nothing. We just read Psalm 127. Unless the Lord builds the house, our labors are in vain. Now the most telling, and you tell me if I'm wrong on this later on, but I think the most telling expression Of whether you believe that God is the one who brings the growth, God is the one who makes things happen. The most Telling evidence of this is that you will pray if you believe this. You will pray to God. You will take time in private. each day, maybe on several occasions even, and you're gonna call out to God in prayer. It might not be a long Prayer time, you know, your family, you have supper, you read a Bible passage, and you pray. Sometimes it might be short, but you pray because you have you recognize All my efforts, they're just gonna, it's gonna be a complete waste unless God is pleased to build the house. For our church, right? I mentioned we're having a prayer meeting the first Sunday. Get some guilty looks. Glad to see that. That's important. Used to be prayer church most churches have a prayer meeting every week. We do it once a month. Sunday afternoon once a month. It's tiring. Four o'clock Sunday afternoon, I'm ready to relax. Right? You're ready to relax. Um it's hard to sit for an hour. I'd rather dig a ditch. I would rather dig a ditch than try to concentrate for an hour on praying for things. But why why should we do it? Well because unless the Lord builds the house, we labor in vain. We have a Wednesday morning, 15 minutes. Sometimes you're people are available for that. Encourage you to come on that. We do it on a telephone. You can sit there in your pajamas. And um and you can pray that too. I know some people are driving to work, but um something something to think about. But what I want what I want to remind you of is that Biblical Christianity is not just a philosopher's club, where it's not just a group of people who like to learn the Bible, see how it fits together, and like to read some reformed theologians. It's more than that. It's a supernatural enterprise. And I wonder what would happen in our lives and in our church. If we just took that step and said and we realized, you know what, we try awful hard. We're not making as much progress as we should or would like to. Let's pray, let's bow before God and ask him to do something. What's the problem? We don't believe God's word. We don't believe his promises. So what do we do? My way my my way to think So Almer Fat, my faith is weak. My faith is weak. How do I strengthen my faith? How do I, I just can't be like a little train of could. I'm just gonna believe. I'm just gonna be determined to believe God's promises. No. The way that we strengthen our faith is not by looking inwardly, but by looking outwardly, right? That's why we want to stay in the Word. We want to see the promises of God. We want to see the self-authenticating character of the Bible. We want to see Jesus Christ and be reminded of all who, of all He is, and all that He's done for us. And so that, yeah This stuff is true. The whole world may dismiss it, but this stuff is true, and I'm going to be one of those weirdos who take time each day to pray. And we're going to see what happens. Let's bow our heads. With the man in the gospel, one of the gospels we say, Lord, we believe. Help or unbelief. Help us to remember that we are in a grave spiritual battle. Help us not to be so casual about our lives. And help us also, Lord, to put on all the armor that you've given us to fight the good fight. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.