And we will, I'll ask you all to turn to Malachi. So we're, this is our last sermon in Malachi. Malachi, last book of the Old Testament, Malachi chapter four. Verses 5 and 6, I'm going to move this back so I don't puncture your eardrums. Okay So anyway, it's interesting. You know the story of the transfiguration, Matthew chapter 17, Jesus is on the mountain. And he meets with two of the great figures of the Old Testament. Who was there on the mountain with Jesus? Well you had Moses. The representative of the law, right? Or the chief lawgiver in Israel, then also appearing on that mountain was Elijah representing the Old Testament prophets. So it's interesting. Last week we looked at Malachi chapter 4, verse 4, and it mentions Moses, where we read, Remember the law of my servant, Moses. Now we come to our passage this morning, verse 5, and it mentions Elijah. So I'm going to read verses 5 and 6. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. I want to start with a story, don't always do that. Sometimes it's cheesy, might be cheesy this time, but um I thought it's a good story. Guy named uh or a naval officer by the name of uh Frank Koch, he wrote this and I it's probably apocryphal. It just sounds a little far-fetched, but nonetheless. You know? Still makes my point. Uh uh two battleships, they were out uh in a trained uh squadron on maneuvers, the weather was heavy And uh Frank Koch himself was serving on the lead battleship. And uh he was on watch as night fell. And he r he wrote that the visibility was poor with patchy fog, so the captain remained on the bridge keeping an eye on all activities And then uh shortly after dark, the lookout reported to the captain, uh, light bearing on the starboard bow And the captain asked, is it steady or is it moving astern? And the uh lookout uh report it steady captain, which meant that they were on a collision course with this other ship. So the captain called to the signal men and he said, Signal that ship. We're on a collision course Advise you change course twenty degrees. And uh the signal came back flashing. Advisable for you to change course twenty degrees. And the captain said to the signalman, send on the captain, change course, 20 degrees That came the signal. I'm a steam in second class. You better change course. 20 degrees. Then the captain said, Send on a battleship, change course twenty degrees. Came back the flashing light. I'm a lighthouse. And so what's my point? They were like lighthouses. They were there to warn God's people when they were on a collision course with reality. So here we have Malachi, final prophet of the Old Testament. Remember it was around the year 450 BC. And uh all through Malachi have recited the numerous ways that the Jews had spurned God's commands and his rule over their lives The corrupt worship, their uh godless marriages, their oppression of the weak and of the needy. And so these four chapters of Malachi largely consist of a series of rebukes. And we've gone through those reviews. I won't review them, but all I want to say is that these final verses are God's final words of warning to the people of Judah. And they constitute the final words also, of course, of the Old Testament. And God says in a nutshell to his people, he says, you better wake up and watch out Because the day of the Lord is coming. Back in December, we looked at chapter 4, verse 1, and then we took a couple weeks off. So I'm going to go back to chapter 4, verse 1 And read God where he says, For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all the evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. And back in December, I said that the day of the Lord refers to this coming day of judgment upon God's enemies and salvation that will come for God's people. And I also said that what appears when you know you read of the day of the Lord in the Old Testament numerous places, in Isaiah and Zechariah and other places When you read the Old Testament, it sounds like the day of the Lord will be a single event But when you get to the New Testament, you discover that it, yeah, it's one event, but it unfolds in two phases. So the day the Lord came, when Jesus arrived, but it will only be consummated when he returns. And so that's why, for example, in 2 Timothy and Hebrews The writer says, we're living in the last days. The day of the Lord has come. And what I want you to notice in Malachi chapter 4, verse 5. Is that God tells Malachi, he's going to send an advanced man to announce the coming day of the Lord? So let's look at our outline. The first point on the outline is this reminds us to heed the warnings of God's messengers. And the final messenger that God is going to send to his people before the day of the Lord arrives, before the Messiah comes. is one who is described in verse 5 as Elijah the Prophet. Now it's pretty clear that this Elijah the prophet is a reference to John the Baptist who would show up 400 years after the uh giving of this final prophecy. So God says, I'm gonna send Elijah the prophet, and then there were four hundred years of silence And then after that, the silence was broken. In Luke chapter 1, verse 17, there was an old priest ministering in a temple. His name was Zechariah. He was married to Elizabeth. She was also old and barren, beyond her child childbearing years. And God, through this angel, said to Zechariah, this is Luke 1. 17, About a son that his wife would bear. He says of him, he, John, will go before him, the Messiah, in the spirit and power of Elijah To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children in the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And so that when the silence is broken. It picks up on this prophecy that another Elijah is coming. And then on Matthew 11, verse 13 and 14, which Greg read, Jesus himself confirmed that Malachi's prophecy was indeed talking about John the Baptist. So Matthew 11, 13, Jesus said, all the prophets in the law prophesied until John And if you're willing to accept it, he is the Elijah who is to come. Same thing in Matthew 17, verse 10 to 13. You look that up later. So why was it that John the Baptist was likened to Elijah. Nobody's entirely sure. I mean, you know, why did not uh uh Malachi or God through Malachi say that, you know, he's the second Moses, the second Abraham, the second uh David, but he said no, he's uh he's gonna be another Elijah and we can only speculate but we c we We could uh make some guesses. Uh both Elijah and John were fearless preachers, and uh Elijah lived in the ninth century uh BC and at that time most of the Israelites had turned away uh from God, but Elijah kept calling them to repent regardless. And then both Elijah and uh John were outside the power structures of their uh society and they spent much of their lives in the wilderness Both Elijah and John were lone voices for God. There were other Orthodox prophets in Israel in Elijah's time, but they kept a low profile. But Elijah uh kept on preaching. He was like a junkyard dog. He was tenacious. He was on yielding and proclaiming God's word. And that certainly uh was characteristic of John the Baptist. So I think that's probably why uh John is likened to a second Elijah. And they were prophets And the prophet's role wasn't merely to say, you know, here's what's coming in the future, but it was to say, here is God's law that was given in his covenant. And you've broken it, so to wisen them about their obligations to the moral law of God, but also to warn them When they're going astray. You need to repent. That was precisely John's message, right? Matthew 3:2, John said, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand In Acts 19, verse 4, the Apostle Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance. Telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him. That is Jesus. So what was John's message? Repent of your sin and then believe in Jesus Christ. Rest on Jesus Christ as your only hope for salvation. That was John the Baptist's message. That was Jesus' message. In Mark 1:15, Jesus said, repent and believe in the gospel. And that's our message. I mean that that's that's really the central message of the New Testament. Central message of the Old Testament, too, because the Old Testament pointed forward to it, but we haven't clarity in the New Testament It's so simple. It's all over the New Testament, right? What's the gospel? God makes sinners right. Not because they've earned it, not because they deserve it, not because they're spiritual, not because they're morally acceptable. God makes sinners right because of his unmerited favor, because of his grace That's the gospel. And our message, like John's message, like Jesus' message, is just that. Repent and believe the gospel. And so I said my first point is this heed the warning of God's messengers. And that's important. You're gonna die. I heard somebody say, you know, one day you're gonna die. They're gonna drop you in a hole in the ground and throw dirt on your face and go back to the church and eat potato salad And that's going to be the end of your time on this earth. But it's not going to be the end of you. You're going to continue, and you're going to spend eternity In heaven or in hell. And so we have this urgent message of repent. And believe the gospel because where you spend eternity hinges solely upon what you do with Jesus Christ. So have you repented? Have you rested upon him? Heed the warning of God's messengers. And also, if you're a Christian, like it or not, you're one of God's messengers, right? 2 Corinthians 5. 20, Paul said we're ambassadors for Christ. God is making his appeal through us. That's a good reminder because when you look at the cultural climate and the political divide in our country, it would be very easy to adopt a bunker a bunker mentality But God has nonetheless, even in these circumstances, he says, no, you are an ambassador in this, the age in which we live, is by God's providence. And he has put you in this age, and he has called you to be an ambassador. And who knows what God's going to do through the faithful witness of Christians? Who knows? And so press on, take some of those little John John's Gospel booklets in the back, keep one in your pocket Maybe putting an envelope in a bag so it doesn't get dog eared and then you might be chatting with somebody at the store at a restaurant or something and just say, Hey, I'd like to I'd like to give you this and ask you to consider reading It. You never know. You never know. But God is still at work. And so that's the first uh the first point, a little longer than the first point is as is typical. But that point was he the warning of God's messengers? And then we go on in verse 6. Malachi says that the fruit of heeding God's messengers is restored relationships. So here we are, verse 6. God says, and he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. When I started out as a pastor, I had to preach one Father's Day and I thought, alright, I'll preach on that. That'll preach right for Father's Day. Now I realized I didn't really uh quite get that text It's because it's not just speaking about fathers and their children, uh speaking about something uh broader speaking uh than just uh family relationship So when it says there that God's going to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, that's just a figure of speech. The technical term is a marism, M-E-R-I-S-M. Save that in your pocket, take it out next to the cocktail party, maybe you'll impress somebody, but you'll probably forget. So um But anyway, a mirrorism means a couple parts to refer to the whole. So I lost my car keys. And I say if I've searched high and low, when I say I've searched high and low, doesn't mean that I just went down to the basement and then I went up to the attic. But it's saying I I looked everywhere. You know, Genesis 1. 1. The Lord made the heavens and the earth. What is it saying? He made the entire universe. Psalm 139 God knows me when I sit down and when I rise up. Is that it? Well no, it's a mirrorism. It's saying God knows everything we do at all times, right? And so when when God says John the Baptist will turn the hearts of the fathers to children and the hearts of children to fathers He's saying that one of the effects of the Messiah's entrance is that he will restore relationships amongst God's people. And that's true, right? That's what that's what that's what happens. Uh John Andrew, one of our new members, was uh when he shared about uh his life uh In the Inquirer's class, uh he he shared that uh one of the things that caught his attention as a non-believer was that his adult daughter, Becky, and her husband Tom. uh became Christians and he saw this change in their relationship. Then they invited John to their uh church uh small group and John went and he saw Wow, these people are very kind and caring uh toward me and toward one another, and that's what really uh uh pushed John uh to examining uh the claims of Christ and he became a Christian and then that strengthened his relationship uh with his daughter and his son in law. I mean that's what happened second I can tell others. I I always ask permission to do these things. Okay, so I'm never gonna put you on the spot. But I called Dan Court on a Friday and said, hey, can I tell about uh your story? And he said, yeah, okay And um so I said so gate so Katie uh became a Christian like close to twenty years ago I'd say. And then um Dan will it help it helped their marriage, but both testify it helped their marriage a lot, so restore their relationship or strengthen their relationship And um but Dan, he wasn't he's like, this is good for you, Katie, but yeah, I just don't see it. I don't believe it. But he started coming to church with her like ten years And I'd say, How's it going? At the door I'd say, How's it going, Dan, you there yet? Not there yet. But, you know, God in his time and he and Dan also said that, you know, just seeing how Christians Related to one another in their care. That had an influence too. But that's what this verse in Malachi is saying. Is it restores relationships, it deepens relationships. It's certainly not saying, or the Bible never says, that everything, every relationship It's going to be uh strengthened because we're still struggling sinners and we're dealing with fellow sinners. And Paul recognized that in Romans 12, 19 when he said, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. But unfortunately, it doesn't depend only on you, right? It depends on the other person. And so in this fallen life, there are still struggles in our relationships. They don't just happen And if they did just happen, you would not have the numerous statements, sorry, the numerous commands in the New Testament Where the writers tell us to do things like love one another. Why would they command us to love one another if it just happened when you became a Christian? Well of course it doesn't happen is something that we have to uh die to sell and we have to exert ourselves to carry out these one another commands. Let me give you some examples. No, okay, the Messiah came to restore relationships. But it only happens as we exert ourselves. So in uh Romans 16, 16, Paul said, greet one another. Well, why do they have to have a Bible verse about greeting one another? It's because we're so dense. Right? You walk in or tend to say, I'm just going to go sit down or I'm going to go talk to my buddy. But he says, no. Greet one another. Same thing in um Romans fifteen, seven. Welcome one another. Open your eyes. You too. Kids also, open your eyes. Just see some of you don't know, welcome them. Bear one another's burdens, right? All the church members and people you know, neighbors or whatnot, housebound. So give them a call or see what you can do to help them Brenda Kendall keeps a list of those in the church who are willing to make a meal. For others who have a baby or who are bereaved or going through some kind of crisis So get on that list. That's the way to bear one another's burdens. Well they're all nice things, but then you have in Hebrews 3:13, the writer says, exhort one another Ooh, they might get mad at me. Yeah, but that's what the Bible says. Exhort one another. You do it in love, you do it in gentleness. And um, but but you should do it Here's a good one for me and uh perhaps for you. Ephesians 4. 2. Paul says, bear with one another in love. That's a good lesson for the family, for the church, right? Because the church should not be made up of people just like you, people that all the kind of people just love their personalities and everything about them No, the church is like a mixture. You know, it's uh it's like somebody said it's like a can of mixed nuts. It's not homogenous. Um and that's that's God God uses that to to grow us and to shape us So bear with one another in love. I pastored for ten years in the South. That's great. I love the church, but there's this thing about the South. And sometimes you see it up here And uh apologies to our southern brothers and sisters, but you could probably confirm this. I've seen people when sometimes someone gets mad at you down there, they say I'm not talking to him. I mean I can't tell you how many times there's been some I remember one girl, Mary Catherine, I won't give her last name, she got mad at me. I was doing something with the youth group. This was in Savannah was doing an internship. And she was telling the pastor, I'm not talking to him. I'm like, ooh, she got me. She's not talking to me. Then there's a guy in the church in North Carolina He didn't talk to me. He didn't talk to half the people in church. He got us, but he didn't see this command. Bear with one another in love. Yeah, go talk to him Drives you nuts, but that's what you're supposed to do. You know, some people are angular, but you still have to bear with them. First Peter 4 and I show hospitality to one another And so um getting off track here, but um the lesson there is that the fruit of heeding's heeding God's messengers, in other words Becoming a Christian is that it's gonna issue forth and restored relationships. It's not just a theory. It'll happen. It takes us to die requires us to die to self, it requires us to take a risk, it requires us to put up with some things, but no, that's what will happen And finally, and briefly, the third thing we see in this passage is that the consequence of ignoring God's messengers will be judgment. It will be destruction. So, how about that? The Old Testament ends with a threat of judgment. Now, I can tell you right now that the Old Testament was not um written or by some guy at the Penguin uh publishing company or whatever else publishing company Because they would say, well, you need to end your novel or your story on a positive note. But the Old Testament ends with a threat. At the end of verse 6, God says Lest I strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. This is astonishing, because if the Old Testament is about anything, It's about God promising his people their own land, right? You go back all the way back to Genesis chapter 3 Adam and Eve were expelled from the garden, right? And there was that angel with the sword barring entrance to the land, the garden, where God was present. But the Old Testament from Genesis 3 forward is the unfolding of God's program to bring his people back into the land. Not just so that they'll be on a piece of real estate, but so that they will be in his presence. And so uh it started in Genesis 12, 1, where God promised Abraham He's gonna give them a land, he and his descendants. And then what was the exodus of each from Egypt about? But from about God bringing his people out of captivity into the promised land of Canaan, where God would dwell in their midst, for when the Jews were liberated from captivity in Babylon In the 6th century BC. They were restored to the land of Judah. Well, they were all object lessons pointing forward to a greater reality But now in the final statement of the Old Testament, you know, that was God's program all through the Old Testament. But now you get to the end of the Old Testament, and God says, unless you heed the words of John the Baptist Who will announce my son's arrival? I'm gonna s I'm gonna destroy your land And so it seems like the whole program ends in failure because 70 AD, God allowed the Romans to destroy Jerusalem And to take down the temple and to kill many of the Jews. So from that point, the gospel went out to the Gentiles. And so the Old Testament ends with a curse, and that curse was fulfilled in part in seventy AD. But we know the rest of the story, right? Jesus came to take the curse that we deserved for our sin. And so we could never fulfill God's requirements. We always failed. And so God sent His Son To bear that curse. And that's why Galatians 3. 13 says that Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. So that's why he died on the cross, right? To suffer the curse that we deserved. And so then when you believe on Christ, when you do repent and believe were promised that we're going to inherit this land of which the Old Testament uh promised land of Canaan was really just an object lesson In Hebrews 11. 4 says even Abraham, Hebrews 11. 16 says even Abraham was looking for a better country, a heavenly one. And so God says, I'm going to destroy the land, but we we do not uh get worried because we know that our home is a heavenly home So while you have the Old Testament ending with this pronouncement of judgment and condemnation and curse, how does the New Testament end? Revelation 22 Verse 21, John says, or God says through John, the grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. And so the Old Testament ends with a threat of judgment. The New Testament ends with a promise of God's grace. To whom? To all who repent, to all who believe. on Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads. We thank you, Lord, for how tight uh the Old and New Testament is and how it confirms It's truth uh in in our reading it and by your spirit we're confirmed of it in our hearts. And so for any any for those here who aren't yet Christians They have not yet repented and believed upon you. We do pray again that you would grant them that repentance and that faith. And we also, Lord, see here that we're to be ambassadors for Christ. So help us not to be reticent about that. Help us to push ourselves a little bit. And we also do pray, Lord, you promise these restored relationships. We pray that our relationships in our homes and in our church with other Christians we know. uh might indeed uh reflect uh your design. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. There's a song in your bulletin about the word of the prophets. Grab your bulletin and let's stand and sing.