Uh Mrs. Becky and Mr. Colin. Let's turn to John chapter twenty-one. So we're almost to the end of John's Gospel. Here we are. It's after the resurrection. John chapter twenty-one. We'll read the first sixteen verses. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish. That disciple whom Jesus loved, that's John, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging in a net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off. When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place and fish laid out on it and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you might that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared to ask, who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to them, he said to him, Feed my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he had said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. So, this is Jesus' third appearance to his disciples after the resurrection, and on this occasion it's to seven of them. And this is a nice clean passage. I think there's I I would say there's two main lessons here. The first lesson From verses 1 to 14, and I'll show you why I'm saying this. The first lesson is Jesus tells his disciples to be fishers of men. And then in the second part, verses fifteen to seventeen, he tells them to be shepherds of God's sheep. And the future of Jesus' church uh would depend on his disciples carrying out uh this commission and uh history tells us that they in fact they carried it out uh just splendidly And this mandate to be fishers of men and shepherds of the sheep wasn't just for the disciples, but that mandate conveys to the church of Jesus Christ. And so, like I said, this I think this is a simple text, and I want to spend a lot of time on uh short time on explanation, uh much time on exhortation and application. And so first of all, and this is where we'll spend most of our time in the first fourteen verses. Where Jesus says in a nutshell or implies that they are to be fishers of men. Why am I going down that road? Let me explain. So, Jesus was crucified in Jerusalem, and when he rose, he appeared to his disciples in Jerusalem. Look at verse 1 for a passage. After this, so after his resurrection and his appearance to the disciples in Jerusalem, after this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples, and it says, by the Sea of Tiberias. Now, ye he it says here the Sea of Tiberius, you read through the Gospels. Whenever there's this sea or this lake I think on every occasion it's the Sea of Tiberius, but it's also known as the Sea of Galilee in Lake Genesaret. Yeah, so that's just something whenever you ha hear about a bo this big body of water is talking about the Sea of Tiberias Why do I bring this up? Well, that's eighty miles north of Jerusalem in the region of Galilee, okay? What are the disciples doing up in Galilee a week later? Well, before Jesus was crucified. He told his disciples in Mark 14, 28, After I'm raised up, I'll go before you to Galilee. And then after Jesus rose from the tomb, rose from the grave, the angel told the women at the tomb, this is Mark 16, 7. Go tell his disciples in Peter that he's going before you to Galilee. And so this change in location is important to our understanding the meaning of this passage. Most of Jesus' ministry had taken place up north in that region of Galilee. Eleven of the twelve disciples were From Galilee, it was at the Sea of Tiberias that Jesus called these three fishermen, Peter, James, and John, to follow him. And it was in Galilee that Jesus preached the Sermon on the Mount, that he fed the 5,000, that he walked on the water, right, on the Sea of Tiberias or the Sea of Galilee. It was in the Galilean towns that Jesus ministered, places like Capernaum and Cana and Nain. And so something this is this is important to us understanding what's going on here. Jesus is back up where he started his ministry. J. C. Ryle made this comment. Jesus knew well the influence which scenery and place exercise over the mind of man. And so by meeting his disciples up in Galilee, Jesus brought full circle his calling to them when he called them to follow him. And a key passage, you don't have to turn there, but you can look to it later, is Luke chapter 5, verses 1 to 11. Jesus first called uh several of his disciples in that passage and in Luke five There are many similarities to the passage before us. The disciples had been out on the sea of Tiberias all night fishing and didn't catch a thing. Jesus commanded them in both passages, throw your nets over there. And they did it. And in both occasions. The disciples, these fishermen, pulled in a great catch of fish. And then in Luke 5:10, so after they pulled in this catch, Jesus said to them, From now on, you'll be catching men. Whereas Mark puts it in Mark 1. 17, Jesus said, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. Well, here we are now, three years later, after the resurrection, and these disciples Follow Jesus' instruction. Cast your note over there. Okay. They cast it over there, and they pull in a great hole of fish. And I suspect at this point a light went on and they saw, hey, yeah, I remember what he told us three years earlier. He said, we would be fishers of men. We pulled in that great catch back then. And I think it clicked. Following Jesus Christ, he will make us to be fishers of men. Now, before I make an application, let me just let's read a couple more verses, verses 9 to 11. Just go back there because it's sort of interesting So then verse nine, when they got out on land they saw a charcoal fire in place with fish laid out on it and bread. So Jesus provided for them this meal. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore Full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them, and although there were so many, the net uh was not torn. That's interesting. Uh why did Jesus mention that there were a hundred and fifty three fish? Because John elsewhere rounds off numbers, right? We don't read about the feeding of the four thousand nine hundred and sixty-two. But we read about the feeding of the five thousand. So why is John such a stickler for numbers here? Well There's no shortage of far-fetched uh theories. Uh so there's one theory, uh fourth century, a Bible scholar Jerome He talked to the naturalist in his day, and the naturalist said, There are 153 species of fish. And Jerome said, Oh There's a symbolic meaning here. Jesus or this passage is telling us we need to go to all the peoples of the world. So that's what Jerome uh dragged out of that number. And then there are others. They they work with you know, you can make numbers say whatever you want to say. Here's an example. So there are those who say, well there's twelve disciples. And if you multiply 12 by 12, you get 144. If there's three members of the Trinity, you multiply that by three, uh you get a hundred you get uh you add it up, carry the one You get a hundred and fifty-three. Like Shazam. There it is. So it's representing the disciples in a tree. No. Here's my theory. John wrote that they caught 153 fish because that's the number of fish they just happened to catch that day. And they were fishermen, and uh they had to count the fish, right, so they could divide up the uh caps amongst them. But anyway This great catch reminded them, as I said, Jesus is making good on his promise. I will make you fishers of men. And so evangelism, as you read through the book of Acts, you discover it evangelism was central to the mission of the apostles. It was central to the mission of the early church and it should be central to our lives as Christians. We should have this sense of mission. That, yeah, God has put me on this earth to serve him in my job, in my family. God has put me on this earth to worship him, to gather with his people, to fellowship, but also God has put me on this earth to be a light in the darkness and to point on believers to Jesus Christ, right? Jesus Christ calls us to be his ambassadors, right? Ambassadors at work, to be his ambassadors at school. uh to be his ambassadors uh in our neighborhood and in other places. So this is important and this is what where I want to challenge you as I challenge myself to be ambassadors You have to talk to people, right? You have to meet strangers. We need to make an effort to meet people. And some churchgoers, they don't even want to meet people at church. That's the safest place you'd think So it's important that we we push ourselves and uh yeah, and I could start a church or just turn around. If you don't know somebody, just meet them. when they come in, if there's a new person, if there's you've been in a church a while and you don't know everybody. And so what you want to do is you want to walk up and meet somebody and just ask a couple acquainted, uh get acquainted questions And it's only when you know when you talk about uh engaging unbelievers in gospel conversations If there's not an initial conversation, there will never develop an opportunity to discuss spiritual matters. So you just have to think about that So uh this earlier this week I was down in South Carolina for our church planting board meeting and going home I got on a plane as I'm getting on a plane I'm thinking, you know, oftentimes on a plane People don't talk. Everybody has their headphones on and people are very private and those who travel know that. And it and here's a tip. If you don't want anybody to talk to you, tell them you're a pastor. As soon as the as soon as you do that, they don't know what to say. They'll pick up a magazine, especially if you get a blabber mouth. This guy's wearing me out. You know I'm a pastor? Oh, really? Okay. That's interesting. But anyway, so I got on this plane, I said, I want to I want to try to make the you never know who I'm going to meet. I want to make the most of every opportunity, right? So Lord, I pray that you'll give me somebody who might be open to a conversation. So I sat down and I was uh next to this girl, there's an empty seat between us, this girl, this young lady, she had one of these headscarves on, and so When you sit down next to somebody, you don't wait ten minutes before you open a conversation. That's really awkward, right? So I just said, hey. Uh you have a head scarf on, does that mean you're a Muslim? And she said, Yeah. And I said, Well I don't I don't know much about Islam and um but I I'm sort of curious. And she said, Well ask me any questions you have. And so I I she sort of teed it up for me and um and I said this and I think this is helpful You don't have to know a lot about other philosophy or other religions. All you have to know is this question. This is a key question. So I said, as far as I understand All religions are the same in that they teach you how to make yourself right with God or how to be right with God. Is that true of Islam? Then I said, doesn't Islam have like the seven pillars? And she said, no, it's five. And I go, oh yeah, okay. But anyway. So um we talked about the pillars of Islam, or she told me about it. And then I said, so this is another key question or key statement, I said, can you ever be sure that you've done enough? And she said, No. And then she said, How about Christianity? So I didn't mean you have to make it happen. And that's what happens, right? uh if you have a good conversation there's a little bit of rapport. She said, how about Christianity? And I said, well, with Christianity God is holy, and there's nothing we can do to earn his favor. We'll never get to heaven by things that we do. But I said, the Bible teaches that Jesus lived a perfect life where we fell short, and then he died in our place to pay the penalty for our sin. And so I said, I can know that I'm right with God and that I'll be with Him in heaven, not because I'm such a good person, but because Jesus did all that for me. And so now I could put my head down on my pillow at night and I could have peace. And then I just dropped it. Because this poor girl, she was caught, right? I mean she we're she was stuck with me for the next two hours. So I wasn't gonna push it But I was I just wanted to give her something and then pray that somebody else would c cross her path. And there may have been in the past people who have uh crossed their paths But I say that as to say that if if you've never had this kind of conversation Yeah, no, you I mean and usually it's you build a friendship. But sometimes opportunities come up in those kind of uh uh settings. You never know. But if you're friendly, if you don't take yourself too seriously People sometimes people are disarmed, of course other times they're not uh disarmed. It just depends on the person, but really the hard part is taking the big gulp and uh breaking the ice. And uh one good question, I'm going to give a couple questions, but one of the easiest questions to remember when you're talking to somebody, like if you're on Monday morning, somebody says, How is your weekend? And you say, well, um I went to church. Pastor's a really nice guy. No, no. Say, I went to church and uh we worship God. And then you say, um, you could just say this question, this is the question, do you have any kind of spiritual interest? And then if they uh they might say, well yeah, yes or no, but they might tell you something and just listen to what they have to say. Right? You don't need like an evangelism strategy. All you need to do is you want to learn about the person and their interest and their s um whatever the religion is or the religious belief. Or whatever, just listen to them. And you don't have to straighten them out like as soon as they get three sentences out of their mouth. Just show a genuine interest. And then usually if something if there's some rapport Uh you could say, well, my um you could say uh my um I'm a Christian and here's my understanding. May I share it with you? And if they say sure, then you're off to the races. If they say, well, I gotta go, that's fine. But you don't want to waste your time with somebody who's not interested. You don't want to make people you don't want to pressure people But anyway, I'm just there's this teaching where to be fishers of men, and we could do it. You don't have to be a theologian, you don't have to be an apologist, right? You don't have to be Billy Graham You just you just have a conversation with people. And we live in a very a culture that's largely hostile to Christianity And uh some Christians say, well, these uh this culture is not very conducive to sharing the gospel. But then you read about uh what Paul said in uh 2 Timothy chapter 3 He said, preach the word in season and out of season. And so that leads us to conclude that every season is fishing season. And remember this. God still has his people. God still has his elect out there. And so we don't have to force anything We just need to be sort of open with people and see who is open with us to having a conversation because Jesus said in John 10. 27, he said, My sheep hear my voice. And so God has his people out there who will be receptive. And so I just want to, and I said in the beginning, I'm less uh Less exposition, more application. So I want to give you just some uh just some thought some thoughts here about uh call it fishing tips. And the first fishing tip I would give is initiate a gospel conversation just by asking a question, right? You don't want to Tell people things you want to ask them questions like the one I used is uh do you have any kind of spiritual interest or who do you think Jesus was? Who do you think Jesus is Do you think you'll go to heaven with y when you die? I mean these aren't questions all these questions aren't suitable for strangers, but for people you know. Right? Somebody you work with, you're having lunch in the cafeteria or whatnot. Do you think you'll go to heaven when you die? And if if they say yes, then you can ask them, well, why do you think you will? And you discover whether they're leaning on their own works or they're resting on Jesus Christ Another good question. Do you know what the Bible means when it uses the word grace, when it talks about grace? That's very uh that's a very helpful way to just uh have uh explain what Jesus did Or do you ever read the Bible? A lot of people do read the Bible who don't go to church. And then um how would you summarize its message? And so a list of fishing tips, just ask an opening question And then there's other things you could do. We a couple years ago I bought a big box of Gospels of John. We had them out, and then I realized, hey, they're just sitting in my office. So I put some Gospels of John on the back table. Keep a couple in your car. Maybe you know there's an opportunity to hand it to somebody after you have a short conversation or uh share a book. My favorite book is Basic Christianity by John Scott. Then there's a little booklet, Ultimate Questions by John Blanchard. I think I still have some copies of that if you'd like like to have that. And then, you know, you don't always have to have a conversation explaining Christianity and it and sometimes the conversation is not suited for that But you can invite them to church. We have little business cards with the church address and website on it on the back table. Keep a couple of those in your wallet to hand to people Um yeah, and and the church has side doors and it has a front door, right? What are the side doors? The Tuesday night, the women's fellowship, that's the side door. The Thursday night Bible study, the youth group, these are all side doors into the church where people can come and they can hear and they can meet people and we're not we don't press them. But we just lay forth the claims of Jesus Christ. Church has a front door, right? Sunday morning service, invite them to that And I try to I try to be as clear as I can, not that somebody who has no acquaintance with the Bible is going to understand everything the first, you know, first round. But I try to be clear and I try to anticipate questions that unbelievers have. And so I think this is a good place to invite on believers. We have we do a seven-week Bible study called Christian Explorer for people who aren't Christians. Or you might have a close friend and say, hey, you know what Why don't we read through the Gospel of John or the Gospel of Matthew? And we'll get together once a week and we'll have coffee or we'll eat lunch. We'll just go over one chapter. Just read through it. You don't have to be a theologian to do that either. Just what's the basic message uh that basically? And so there you have it. trying to encourage you, trying to equip you to be fishers and men. Many here were converted as an adult, right? You're glad somebody uh reached out to you. I'm glad when I was in high school a friend Kathy Aronson invited me to her church. Her church and uh the pastor and Bob Childs explained the gospel. It's like whoa The light went on. I became a Christian. My brother became a Christian. Jason Roebling. When he was 28 years old, he was playing guitar. in a rock band and uh there was this musician who filled in and he was a Christian and Jason said he respected this fella, his talent as a musician and so he listened to him and those conversations uh set the wheels in motion for uh Jason to start exploring scripture. He became a Christian And he said, I was reached because somebody came into my world. Jason's in a band. I guess you've been in different bands. One was called Bacon Grease. What was the motto? Solid at room temperature. But um now he he's in a band called 1979. It's really good. We need to see where your next upcoming concerts are. But anyway. He says he one of the reasons he's in in these bands is because he wants to do the same. He wants to be a fisher of men. Yeah, so that's that's my encouragement. Next time you're at you know you're at one some awkward situation, you're at a wedding reception, you don't know many people And others don't may not know everybody, and you see somebody over there on the other side of the room just looking at their feet, what do you do? Well, you can have another glass of punch Or you just walk over and just initiate a conversation. Or the most painful experience, our kids are growing up, when you're at these kids' sports practices And all the parents are sitting around hiding behind their phones. Like you just walk uh walk over and try to break through that bubble and uh initiate the conversation Uh English missionary, C. T. Studd, asked the question. He said, are gamblers for gold so many and gamblers for God? So few. And so yeah, Jesus said, be fishers and men. That's exciting. It's scary, but it's also exciting, right? You do it a couple times and you get a little more courage. Let's go on. I do want to just briefly Don't worry, briefly. Verses uh fifteen to eighteen. So he goes on to talk about being shepherds of the sheep. And so it's interesting, Peter, on the eve of Jesus' crucifixion, denied Jesus three times Could Jesus ever forget his cowardly act of betrayal? Would Jesus forget that Peter turned away from him and uh denied him. And another question is Even if Jesus forgave Peter, would Peter be rendered unfit for future service because he failed at such an important juncture? And the answer is no. Jesus reinstates Peter in verses 15 to 17, right? He said, feed my lambs, tend my sheep Feed my sheep. What's he saying? Basically, he's saying, nurture them on my word. And this command Conveys to the elders and the pastors of Jesus Church. And so that's why Peter, in 1 Peter 5, 2, said, Not only as a As an apostle, but he says, as a fellow elder, he exhorted elders in the church, quote, shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Paul spoke similarly. Acts 20, 28, and he said, to the elders in Ephesus, pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock. in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the church of God. And so elders, and a pastor is just an elder. Are shepherds of the sheep in the primary task by which that shepherding is carried out, is by feeding the sheep every word that comes from the mouth of God. And so that's the pastor's job. He's not to be the uh motivator in chief. He's not to be the great administrator, the great entrepreneur, although there's aspects of that of course in pastoral ministry. But rather, uh, he's to feed the shop the the shop. He's the feed sound like I'm Scottish or something. He's to feed the sheep, uh the word of God. Speaking of Scottish, this great Scottish pastor William Still He wrote a little booklet for pastors titled The Work of the Pastor, so you know what that's about. But he sums it up like this. He said He said to pastors, we're not called to make a crowd of worldly folk happy, even worldly evangelistic folk happy, right? We're not just here to keep everybody happy. He said, but we're so to labor amongst them that through many tribulations, discouragements, and misunderstandings we form a faithful people of God. That's our ambition or my ambition. the ambition of our elders. And that's important. And I and I say to our young people, one day you're going to grow up. You're going to grow up, you might move away and go to college or start a job or you just get tired of living in Maryland. And you move to Tennessee, where half of our church has moved over the years. You're going to move away and uh you're going to look for a church. What should you look for? Well, a lot of Christians have this very consumeristic mentality, right? They they're looking for a church that fits their musical preferences. They're looking for a church that gives them a Sunday morning uh emotional uh pick me up. They're looking for a church that has a myriad of programs for their children, and they're looking for a church that has people just like them. Lots of people just like them so that they'll know they'll make a circle of friends. Hey, you know what? All those elements are notable and they're not necessarily bad However, the preeminent thing that you should look for in a church is, does this church believe the Bible's, the word of God? Does it open the Bible? Does it explain it with some measure of clarity? And does the church apply the Bible to our lives? And so these are the things that are key, right? The church needs to be healthy, needs to have biblically uh qualified leaders. There needs to be a commun sense of community, but preeminent is does this church stand on the Word of God and does it teach the Word of God or is it just a bunch of how-to sermons and how to adjust the life stresses? kind of sermons. So there you have it, the calling by Jesus Christ, not only to the apostles, but to his church, that Jesus has called us to be fishers of men. And so we have a mission, right? No matter what you do, no matter what your station in life, we have a mission. And that makes life exciting. And also we see that The pastor, the elders, our one of our key jobs is to feed the sheep. And that's what we're aiming to do. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we're thankful that you've given us a sense of purpose, you've given us a mandate, and you have your sheep out there. They will hear your voice. And so help us to be more daring. Help us to remember that you bring people to yourself uh but you use instruments. Make us useful as your instruments and help us, Lord, those of us in leadership to faithfully shepherd uh this this flock that you've put under our care. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.