They go back to worship training that way with Mr. and Mrs. Ludlum. And let's turn to Luke chapter one. So we're going to look at a Christmas text. My wife asked me, what are you preaching on today? Last night I said, uh, we're gonna preach on Obadiah. And now we're gonna the Sunday before Christmas We're going to look at a text concerning the birth of Jesus Christ. So we're in Luke. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Luke chapter 1, verse 39 to 45, before we read, so you're in Luke chapter 1. And in chapter 1, verse 26 to 38, which we'll go back to in a couple minutes, the angel Gabriel announced to Mary Uh, that she would give birth to the Messiah. And now the passage we're going to look at right now is chapter one, verse thirty-nine. And that reports on what Mary did after learning about this. She went to her cousin Elizabeth, who, as it turns out, was already expecting. So have your Bible open, keep it open. because we're going to look at some details. Chapter 1, verse 39, we read, In those days Mary arose and went with haste. into the hill country to a town in Judah, and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. So they were married, Zechariah and Elizabeth And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. And she exclaimed with a loud cry, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears The baby in my womb leaped for joy. And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord. So there's four characters in this passage. We're going to look at three. We're not going to look at Zechariah, but we're going to look at Mary, of course. We're going to look at her cousin Elizabeth. And then the fourth character we're going to look at is the baby who she who Elizabeth was carrying, John the Baptist. And what our goal is, is to understand how each of these three individuals Responded to the good news of the coming of Jesus Christ. Okay? Real simple. Looking at Mary. What did she do? She, when she learned that she was carrying the Messiah, she sought confirmation about this, okay? So, think about and it makes sense. She's uh an illiterate peasant girl. It says she was betrothed in one of the passages, so she was engaged to be married to typical age where somebody would be engaged back then was about twelve or thirteen years old. An angel comes to her And says, you are going to give birth to the Messiah. Go back to chapter 1, verse 30. Look at this. Verse 30. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He'll he will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. How do you like that? Do we have any 12 or 13-year-old girls here? An angel comes to you. You're not educated, right? You didn't go to school. You're out there in Bethlehem or where Nazareth. You're Jewish. An angel comes, hey, you know what? Hundreds of years of prophecies about the Messiah. You're going to carry the Messiah. That would probably be a little unsettling, and for Mary, it's almost too much to take in. This is a breathtaking announcement that is delivered to her. And uh, you know, maybe she's thinking, am I dreaming this? Or did an angel in fact come to me? And so Mary sought confirmation, okay? Look at verse 34. Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? Well, there's another conundrum, right? So she's really scratching her head. Verse 35. The angel answered her The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the Son of God. And behold, here it is, and your relative Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her, who was called Baron. And so Mary's a kid, they're going to have a baby. To confirm it, your cousin Elizabeth who's old and beyond uh well past her childbearing years, she's expecting and um You're going to learn this will be a confirmation, Mary, the angel says, of what I'm telling you. You're going to give birth to Messiah. So Mary lives in Nazareth. That's in the northern part of Israel. Elizabeth, it says somewhere that she was down in the hills of Judah, right? That's 100 miles south. Verse 39. She was in the hill country, the town of Judah. And so Mary sets off probably with someone, her parent maybe. Father, mother. She sets off on this long journey south to Judah to see her cousin Elizabeth. Mary knocks on Elizabeth's door And the confirmation is immediate because she sees that Elizabeth, who had been barren all her life, she's expecting, and so is confirmed, that what this angel said to Mary is true. And it says at the end of verse 41, Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. That's to tell you what Elizabeth's going to say here is from God. She was filled with the Holy Spirit. And so look at verse 42 now. She is filled with the Holy Spirit, verse 42. And she exclaimed with a loud cry: Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? And so right from their first encounter, Elizabeth uh Elizabeth confirms to Mary that, yeah, you're the mother of the Messiah. She confirms to Mary that what that angel spoke to you back in Nazareth Uh that's all true. Okay? So we're saying what lessons can we learn from this uh these encounters and from from Elizabeth, from Mary? She sought confirmation. That's the lesson that we can learn from Mary. Now what am I talking about? Here's what I'm saying. Here's one way To seek confirmation about the message of Jesus Christ, about the truth of the Scripture. Now here's how I bring this up. Young people, right? I guess you've all you've all grown up in Christian homes. You've grown up in a Christian home. You might be thinking All right, I've been going to church for years, and uh my parents, or at least my mom or my dad, uh they believe in Jesus Christ, they believe this stuff is true. But I'm not sure I've owned this for myself. You know, maybe I'm just going with the flow. Maybe this isn't true. Maybe it's just my culture and my family and this church I've been in. Maybe it's not true. Is Christianity really true, or is this just where I am? I've been going along. Or you're an unbeliever. And um but you're coming to church for some reason, right? And this is how it's been in our church for years, right? Unbelievers come and they ask questions and they Begin to learn the Bible and hear the message and see how it fits together. But you're not persuaded yet. You know, a lot of people out there like around they don't believe this stuff. So who's Jesus Christ? Was he God incarnate? Is he who he claimed to be Or was he just this great religious figure that has been revered down through the centuries and all this sort of trappings of religion grew up around him? And um so who is Christ? Is he God? Is he the Savior? Or was he just this great teacher and this great example? Well, we can learn from Mary about the importance of seeking to confirm your hunches. about the claims of Jesus Christ. And the main way, I could almost say the only valid way, the nah it's not good. The primary way to um confirm this is by examining the scriptures, examining the Bible. So it's interesting In the book of Acts, Paul's going throughout the Roman Empire and he's preaching. And he comes to Berea. And he is explaining the Old Testament scriptures and how Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And it says a ver makes a Luke makes a very interesting comment about the Jews in Berea who heard about Christ. Acts 17, verse eleven, it says that the Bereans they received the word with all eagerness. examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. So in other words, Paul's preaching The Christ is the Messiah promise in the Old Testament. What did they do? They had the scriptures. They had the Old Testament scriptures, right? The New Testament was still being formed. They had the Old Testament scriptures and they were examining the promises in the Old Testament And how that lined up with Jesus teaching in his works in his resurrection They were examining the scriptures. They just didn't believe Paul, right? And you come to church here, I'm a really nice guy. At least I think so, right? In my dreams Hey, but you don't just believe this stuff because the pastor is a nice guy or because he went to see your uncle when he's in the hospital. Why do you believe this stuff Because you examine the scriptures and it authent-the authenticates the message that you hear from the pulpit or in the Sunday school or in the Bible study. or might listen to a good uh Christian teacher on the radio or whatnot, okay? So examine the scriptures. That confirms your faith. And so, you know, remember the comment Charles Spurgeon made about the Bible? He said, the Bible's like a lion. You don't need to defend a lion. All you need to do is let it out of its cage. So that's what we want to do, right? We want to open the Bible, as Ricky Ricardo would say, we want to explain it clearly. And then it authenticates itself. I can't explain this book. Um, you know, G. K. Chesterton. He said the Bible has a self Christianity has a self-authenticating quality to it. He gave this analogy. He said If Christianity is right, it's elaborately right. He said a stick might fit a hole or a hollow by accident. But a key and a lock are both complex. And if the key fits the lock, you know it's the right key. And that's what I'm saying here. For example, you look at how the Old Testament is fulfilled in the New Testament, right? You have prophecies. Prophecies about Where the Messiah would be born, in Bethlehem, right? Micah chapter 5. What he would be like, Isaiah 52 and 53. He'd be a suffering servant. How he would die, even in Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22, describing crucifixion centuries before crucifixion was devised as a means of execution. So you look the prophecies, didn't you look at what they we can call the types or the shadows in the Old Testament and how they're fulfilled in Christ, right? You had the lambs. uh sacrifice for the Passover, pointing forward to Jesus, the final Lamb of God. You had the priests in the Old Testament, the kings, the prophets. All these detailed things in the Old Testament find their fulfillment in the New Testament. Then as you're reading the Bible, as you're studying, you realize. It's not just a book about like the history of the Jews. It's not just a book with like moral teaching and nice religious sentiments. But you discover that it's a tightly written book. It's an unfolding story that begins in Genesis And it unfolds like a flower. There's a bud in the Old Testament. It blossoms in the New Testament. And then you see these lines of uh that begin in the Old Testament. And you can follow these themes throughout the entire Bible. Major themes, then hundreds of minor themes. And though the Bible is written over a period of 1,500 years by 40 authors, and there's 66 books. Yet there's a consistency to the message. It all fits together. Even on these minor themes, there's a unity to how it fits together. And so you realize, and this is this is what why I'm a Christian. I mean, not the only reason I'm a Christian, or anybody's Christian, because the Spirit of God opened her eyes to believe that this stuff is true, right? But from our spiritual level, I'm persuaded, excuse me, I can't explain away what this book says. It's too tight. It explains itself. It fits together. Then it explains me too well. It explains the world too well. And so I think it's goofy when somebody says the Bible is full of contradictions. That's a superficial thing. Because there are really smart people who can explain, well, here's how this all fits together, okay? And so what I'm saying to those who aren't yet Christians, and to young people who aren't yet Christians, or you're not, you're you're wavering, right? You need to stay in the Bible Mary sought confirmation of what the angel said, and so we want to seek confirmation. And I spent a lot of time on this first point. We're going to pick it up in a minute. I want to, here's another aspect about seeking confirmation. So I said, Mary sought confirmation, one lesson. You can seek confirmation, should seek confirmation about the message of Christianity. Another way that we should seek confirmation, we see this in Mary. You should seek confirmation from other believers concerning God's leading in your life. Okay? Think about Mary. She was the recipient of direct revelation from God. An angel came to her. That I think that'd probably be pretty convincing, right? Nonetheless. She made this journey down south to her cousin Elizabeth. And um because she wanted confirmation that she wasn't just going crazy or something. Or that it was a dream. If Mary did that, the recipient of direct revelation from God, should we not seek Confirmation from others regarding what we believe to be God's leading in our lives And sometimes somebody will say, well, God's leading me to do uh such and such. Well if they say that and they don't seek some kind of confirmation from other people I think is a sign of immaturity or it's a a sign of a conceit. Because if God's leading you to do something, he's going to have some wise Christians around you say, yeah, I think that would be a reasonable uh course of action. Um you know, to the to the younger people. God, you know, I think God should go out with this guy or gal or get married to so and so or I should pursue this course of study or this vocation or uh military service or uh you're older and you're in the church, I think I should get involved in this kind of Christian service or ministry. Well that's all good. But your internal sense of calling should be confirmed externally as you talk to other uh Christians, right? If you're married, you talk to your spouse. If you're a young person, you'd certainly ask your parents about, I hope, about this person you want to date or uh become engaged to. You need some kind of confirmation and very foolish people have made terrible mistakes because they said, Oh no, I don't need anybody to tell me anything. God's told me I should do this and it's uh full speed ahead. And so there's nothing unspiritual about seeking confirmation. It wasn't beneath Mary's dignity, and it shouldn't be beneath ours. And so Mary's response shows the importance of uh seeking confirmation about God's leading in your life. Let's go see Elizabeth, okay? So Elizabeth, this is interesting. I'll be more succinct here, hopefully. What was Elizabeth's response to this news of the birth of Messiah? What can we learn from her? Elizabeth responded with genuine piety as opposed to pious sentimentality. Okay? I will explain this what I'm talking about. Look at verse 41 and 42 again. And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby, this is the baby Elizabeth carrying. point of my gut. Um Elizabeth heard of greeting of Mary, the the baby, her baby, leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. And she exclaimed with a loud cry, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. Now that's sort of interesting that comment there that Elizabeth made Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. Why do I think that's so interesting? Here's why I think that's so interesting. You turn to chapter 11, verse 27. And you you read this lady who heard Jesus teach and preach, she makes an almost identical uh Statement to Jesus, okay? So chapter 11, verse 27, but there's a complete difference in uh where these two ladies are coming from. So 11, chapter 11, verse 27, talking about Jesus, as he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Here it is. Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast which you nursed. What was Jesus' response? Thank you, dear one. Now, ah, look at verse 28. Chapter 1, verse 28. He rebuked her, says, but he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And so this lady smatters a compliment on Jesus. He rebuked her. You know, who You could talk all you want, but blessed are those who hear God's word and keep it, and don't just talk religious And what's going on here? Why do I contrast that with Mary, an Oxford scholar who uh wrote a commentary on Luke, uh G. B. Care. Here's what he said. Listen. It's a quote, I know it's hard to list the quotes He said the words of the woman in the crowd, chapter 11, the words of the woman in the crowd were a common form of extravagant compliment. But Jesus dismissed them as sheer sentimentality for the danger of pious effusions is that they're readily enjoyed for their own sake and become a substitute for the one proper response to God's word. In other words, he's pointing out, religious sentimentality can be just a form of unbelief. If you don't act on God's word, it's a complete waste of time. It's just a bunch of schmalls. And this should alert us. to the peril of a purely sentimental faith, which is all around at Christmas time, right? Some people like to go to church. It's it's emotionally stirring. I love I love the building. Not here, but you know. I I love the building, the steeple and the um the the the pageantry. And um the music and all these things, and this is the church I grew up in, and I love going back and just All the nostalgia that washes over me at such an experience. Well, we're we're we're emotional people, that's fine, but that can't be the the the driving force uh behind your Christian faith. That that is just pious sentimentality. And if hearing God's word, if going to church, doesn't move you to bow before Jesus Christ and to seek to obey him and honor him. Then you're just a religious sentimental uh sentimentalist. And it's it's just it's just complete religious goofiness So that's why Jesus said in 1128, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Something to think about, huh? It's not enough to enjoy the trappings of church, but blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it. And so that's what we learned from Elizabeth And then more briefly, looking at John, what can we learn from John? John the Baptist. John was filled with joy. So you notice we're going back to verse 41 now. And uh just as an aside, the contents of Elizabeth's womb Elizabeth's womb are not referred to as a fetus. Or as tissue, or as a potential life. But what do we read in verse 41? When Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby, so it's called a baby. The baby leaped in her womb. Okay? And then go down to verse 44. Elizabeth said to Mary. When the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb did what? Leap for joy. Now That doesn't happen, right? But somebody, one of the commentators said, this was a prophetic leap, right? Elizabeth Elizabeth was carrying John the Baptist And John the Baptist leaped for joy because he had been set apart by God. He was the one who would announce Jesus as the Messiah some 30 years later, right? John grew up, Jesus grew up around age 30. Jesus began his public ministry. And It's interesting in John chapter 3, verse 29, when Jesus began his public ministry, John testified This joy of mine is now complete, right? This joy this joy that began, excuse me, when he was in his mother's womb Jesus announces, begins his public ministry, and John, the herald of the Messiah, says, here he is. This joy of mine is now complete. So John the Baptist leaped for joy. That's a appropriate response, right? The Messiah awaited for hundreds of years. He's finally come. And a big lesson here, what we learned from John, even while he's in the womb, he's instructing us. The kingdom that Jesus brings is a kingdom of joy. I think that's something we need to remind ourselves. That's something our young people need to remember. You know, what is the Christian life? Well, you know, it's not just you go to church, you hand out a couple bulletins, it's not a very exciting life, but it'll keep you out of hell, right? So that's why I'm a Christian. There's more to it than that. We're saying here, the kingdom that Jesus brings is a kingdom of joy. And you see this when Jesus began his public ministry Where did Jesus begin his public ministry? Do you remember? It wasn't in the temple. It wasn't at the city gates where all the elders gathered around. Where was it? John chapter 2. It was at a wedding Jesus inaugurated his public ministry at a wedding feast. Why would that be? I think it's the telegraph. The kingdom I bring is the kingdom of joy. It's like a wedding. Well, that makes sense because when you get to the very end of the Bible, Revelation 21, What's the kingdom of God compared to the wedding supper of the Lamb? Right? It's a kingdom of joy. We need to remind ourselves there's always so many caricatures of Christianity This is, oh, you know, it's dour and you're gonna miss out on life. No, this is this is the only place where real joy is found That's what C. S. Lewis found out, right? Many of you have read his books and read his his uh biography even autobiography. Uh so his story in a nutshell, he grew up in uh Belfast, Ireland, and he had a great childhood, uh playing with his brother and reading books, and he had a mom and dad in his home. Well, until he was nine years old. Then his mother died and his father couldn't handle it. And his father put C. S. Lewis and his brother into a boarding school. uh was not good. The the headmaster was a uh they found out later the headmaster of that boarding school uh was certified as insane So that's who his father handed his two little boys over to in his boarding school. And so uh C. S. Lewis, his life went from wonderful childhood to just Complete misery and fear. He later said, the great continent of my life had sunk like Atlantis. There were now only islands of joy in the midst of an unsettled sea, in one of Lewis's biographers, Art Lindsley. uh said that uh said about Lewis's childhood. In his imagination he loved to read about truth, goodness, and beauty, but in his reason he held a rather dark view of life And uh he was a non-believer. At 17, he wrote a letter to a Christian. He said, I believe in no religion. There is absolutely no proof for any of them. And from a philosophical standpoint, uh Christianity is not even the best. But when he was 33, through his reading and uh through the witness of a friend and through the work of God uh in him, he became a believer. He believed in Christianity But he wasn't happy about it. He said I was the most ejected and reluctant convert in all England. And he said I was dragged into the kingdom, uh, kicking and screaming. But he was persuaded the stuff is true. So he said, All right, I trust in Jesus Christ, all right, and that's just the way it is. But it was after he bowed before Christ that he discovered that this is this is this is the life that he longed for he to to know God and And so he ends up writing his the story his autobiography. Remember the title? Surprise by Joy, right? It's snuck up from behind. He wasn't expecting it. But that's what John's telling us. That was John's reaction to the news of Jesus' birth And John teaches that the kingdom Jesus brings is a kingdom of joy, not to minimize the fact that we live in a fallen world and there is loss and disappointment In pain, but nonetheless, this gives us some perspective on what on the joy that we can have in knowing that God is for us, despite whatever happens to us. in our lives. So there you have it. Three fitting responses to this good news. The Messiah was born. Why? He was born That he might live a perfect life where we fell short, and that he might die on the cross to suffer the punishment, the penalty that we deserve for our sin. That if we trust that he is who he says he is and he's done what he did, then that we could be forgiven and we can be in a right standing with the God of the universe. We'll have his spirit to grow us, to shape us, to guide us, and one day we're going to see him face to face. So Mary sought confirmation. That's what we want to do, right? If you're not persuaded, hey, open up this book, read it, come to worship, come to Sunday school. uh saying it Romans 1017 Paul said faith comes from hearing the word of God right it's not something this faith isn't something you conjure up in yourself It comes from God. He grants it. And the ordinary means he uses to bring it about is through his word. So Mary sought confirmation. And then we see in Elizabeth her response of genuine piety stands in contrast to the sentimental piety of those who have no true allegiance to Jesus Christ. And then we see in John the Baptist that, you know what, no matter how bleak and discouraging things may be, uh there's still a foundation of joy that our lives can be built on because we know that God's for us. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Father in heaven, for these three witnesses to the kingdom that you're bringing. We certainly pray, Lord, for our young people and for adults who aren't yet Christians. We pray that they'll search out the scriptures, it'll come together, and you'll persuade them in their heart of hearts, and you'll grant them. a repentance for their sin, and also that they might trust in you as their master and as the savior of