And we are in John chapter twenty-one, the seventieth and last sermon in our series on the Gospel of John. So here we go. Chapter 21. Just a couple uh just a little bit of a review from the beginning. Well, with the Gospel of John. I I I don't like it when some Somebody does, let's review the last seventy weeks. No, we're not going to do that, but just a little bit of review from the chap from chapter 21 And so you'll remember, I hope, from last week, I made the comment that when Jesus first called his disciples, for example, in Luke chapter 5, they were out fishing. Some of them were out fishing. And they didn't catch anything all night, and Jesus said, hey, Jesus wasn't a fisherman, but he said, hey, cast your net over that way, and you'll catch some fish And they're like, okay. And they do it, and they haul in this great catch of fish. And it was at that point that Jesus said, I will make you become fishers of men. And so in chapter 21, this is after the resurrection, Jesus meets up with seven of those disciples. It says in verse 1 at the Sea of Tiberias, the same body of water at which he called them three years earlier, and he said the same thing. Cast your nuts on the right side of the boat They did it, and they caught 153 fish, and the lesson there was, yeah, Jesus is going to make us fishers of men, okay? And then after they pull in the catch, they have breakfast, Jesus talked to Peter, and he told Peter, this is in verse 15-18, he said, Feed my sheep. And so I pointed out last week that the in the calling to the to the apostles is really central to the church's calling. In that we're to be fishers of men, we're to reach out to unbelievers. That's part of our mission. And also We, especially those of us who are in leadership, elders, pastor in the church, we're to nourish the flock on the Word of God, right? We are to feed Jesus sheep. Here we are now, beginning at verse 18, and Jesus alerts Peter to the demands of discipleship. So Jesus says Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them. That's John. The one who had been reclining at table close to him and had said, Lord, Who is it that is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread among the brothers that this disciple was not to die, yet Jesus did not say to him, that he was not to die. But if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things and who has written these things. And we know that his testimony is true. Now there are also many other things that Jesus did. For every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. And so the theme of this text that goes through the text is Jesus' command to follow me. And we can divide it up into three sections. Jesus says, follow me no matter what. Follow me no matter where, and follow me to the end. And so the first point Verses 18 and 19, which will be the brunt of our discussion, Jesus says, follow me no matter what. And Jesus in verses 18 and 19 tells Peter You're gonna die a horrible death. Let me read those verses again, since we're gonna be here for a minute. Truly, truly, I this is verse 18, truly, I truly, truly, truly I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands. and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. And so Jesus is telling Peter right up front, you are going to die a martyr's death. And he may not be specifying the particular way that Peter would die, but this phrase, you'll stretch out your hands, was a euphemism for crucifixion. And um even in the early church there was a legend, and it's probably just a legend, uh church historian, late third, early fourth century uh by the name of Eusebius uh reported that Peter was crucified and the legend is that he was crucified upside down because he didn't feel worthy to be crucified in the same way, but that was in the fourth century. That that was probably uh some legend that developed. But nonetheless Uh Jesus is clear to Peter, you're gonna die a martyr's death. How do you like that? How would you like to be told? You're going to die one day and it's not going to be pleasant. You're going to be executed in some because you're a Christian. Well And Jesus nonetheless says, follow me, and Peter followed Jesus with that death sentence hanging over his head. He did faithfully follow Jesus for the next three decades. And that's interesting. And it's and I've I've said this, I've pointed this out many times, where I said eleven of the Twelve disciples of sorry, ten of the remaining eleven disciples died martyrs deaths And in the second century, so shortly after the age of the apostles, in the second century Many Christians looked at martyrdom as something to aspire to. They saw it as a glorious way to die. Not because they were masochists, not because they wanted to suffer, but they had this idea that martyrdom was a way to validate the the the veracity of their commitment to Jesus Christ. It was a way to confirm their allegiance to Jesus Christ. So for example In the second century, and this is like twenty years after uh Peter died. In the second cent early second century Ignatius was the bishop of Antioch in Syria, which in the early church was a center of Christian activity. And the Roman emperor Trajan began persecuting Christians. Ignatius was arrested eventually uh would be thrown to the lions in Rome, but when he was escorted uh from Syria to Rome by these Roman soldiers, he would stop along the way and write letters to the various Christian uh churches, and in several of these letters he spoke of his desire to be what he termed a genuine Christian. And so in the early church there was this this uh this uh saying that I want to be a genuine Christian, which was really just a euphemism for I want to die a martyr's death so that I can confirm to myself that I am a follower, a genuine follower of Jesus Christ. Now, that seems a little twisted to me, but um there's something there's something noble about it. compared to how many professing believers in our day view the Christian life So the early Christians, at least many of the early Christians, recognized that excuse me, recognized the all-encompassing demands of discipleship. Many churchgoers, many professing Christians in our day review uh view their Christianity as something of an accessory or an add-on to their lives, right? Some people join the rotary, some people are vegetarians Me, I'm a Christian, right? It adds this dimension to my life. It helps me with my struggles, it gives me comfort, whatnot. I know I'm going to heaven. And so they don't understand that biblical discipleship is an all-consuming proposition. Jesus said, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, follow me. and take up his cross. And so that covers everything. It covers how we spend our money. I'm in a Sunday school class with Andy Ludham talking about How we save, how we spend our money, how we view our sexuality, how we view the Sabbath day, right? This is the Lord's day. We've read it. It's the fourth commandment Not the Lord's morning. It's the Lord's day. The world's going about doing its own thing, but we're different. Um you're in a difficult marriage situation. What do you do? Well you don't jump ship. You you press on. Now there are biblical grounds for divorce, that's another discussion, but in general You press on, right? Because that is the call of Christian discipleship. You accept the fact. That all your aspirations in life will not come to fruition. But that's okay. We have aspirations for our kids. We have aspirations for ourselves It's okay, this isn't the last chapter, right? For the Christian, there's something more to come. We know God has his good purposes. And so we press on when there are losses, when there are disappointments. Uh Amy Carmichael, an Irish woman who was a missionary to India for 56 years, 56 years without a furlough. In her writings she talked about how she longed to marry and to have a family. But that never came uh to her and uh she was Irish and so I'm gonna quote I'm gonna paraphrase what she said because there's an idiom. But she said in a nutshell in this prayer to God, she said If thy dear home be fuller, Lord, because mine is a little emptier, what a rich reward! That will be. And so she said, Yep, I'm going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ no matter what. So I was at a Presbytery meeting Thursday and Friday, and there was discussion about the shortage of pastors, not only in our denomination, across all Christian denominations, including the evangelical and reformed churches. In fact, at the Friday breakfast we read an article about the the present shortage of pastors and the coming shortage of pastors. There are fewer men who are interested in the Christian ministry partly because of the fact that There are less Christian homes raising children. There are less conversions happening to young people in their teens, their college years, when many are converted. And I was talking to uh my su uh my son-in-law last night. saying that um when I was in college, I was an intervarsity Christian Fellowship at Wake Forest. There were a lot of new Christians there. And a lot of these folks, they went into their various vocations, but a lot went into pastoral ministry because they were confronted with the claims of the gospel uh in their young adult years. And that was certainly the case with me. But that's not so the case anymore. And also there are fewer people going men going into the ministry Because we live in a culture that is not only indifferent to Christianity, as was the case 30 or 40 years ago, but we live in a culture that is hostile uh in many ways to Christianity. And so why would you want to do this? Right? It's understandable. Why would you want to become a pastor in this culture And where there is little esteem uh for pastoral ministry? Well, the answer is, and I I bring this up 'Cause I I say this particularly to our young men. You never know what God has for your life, but one thing you sh should consider, I would think, or I would suggest Do I have the gift? Do I have the skill? Do I have the disposition? Do I have the interest? Do I have the heart to build up the church of Jesus Christ? in Austin's traveling this morning our intern, but one thing he said, one reason he wants to be a pastor is because there is a need for pastors. He's in a good job, he's making a good living, he's very successful But he sees there is this need for pastors. And I would say that is commendable. So Jesus said, follow me no matter what. And I'm not saying it's more spiritual to be a pastor or to be a missionary than to be an engineer or a computer programmer or whatever, but I'm saying if God has called you to that Then that's good. That's a good thing, and that's part of Jesus saying, whoever loves his life loses it. Whoever hates his life in this world will carry it on to eternal life. But he says, if anybody serves me, he must follow me. We're going to sing the hymn in a minute, a couple of minutes, well, ten minutes. Alright, fifteen. Um we're gonna sing the twenty-five. No. We're going to sing the hymn, Am I a Soldier of the Cross? And here's one of the stanzas. He says, Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease? while others fought to win the prize and sail through bloody seas. No. I'm willing to live a life of hardship and bring a Christian in the United States, right It's a piece of cake compared to other countries, but nonetheless, we must be willing to pay the little prices that come to following Jesus even in our culture. So Jesus said Follow me no matter what. Secondly, more briefly, follow me no matter where. So we're now in verses twenty to twenty-two Jesus and Peter are walking, and Jesus just told Peter, You're going to die a martyr's death. Peter turns around and notices. That the Apostle John is walking behind them. And so Peter says to Jesus, okay, I'm going to die in martyr's death. What about him? And on verse twenty-two where am I, verse twenty-two, just so you can see it Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me? He says, Don't worry about it. Or as we would say, that's none of your business. You follow me. I have my purposes, Jesus says, I have my purposes for John's life, but I want you to follow me wherever it leads you. Matthew Henry, the old English commentator, remarked that we are apt to be busy in other men's matters but negligent in the concerns of our own souls, right? We get exercised about other people. Even the latest Christian scandal that you read about in some internet email or whatnot. Well that's all tragic and whatnot, but if we get too focused on that stuff, we forget we need to be we need to be worrying about our souls and our allegiance to Jesus Christ. And Peter's pointing out, not Peter, Jesus is pointing out that Peter and John had different callings. Jesus called Peter to pastoral leadership in the church and to a martyr's death. Jesus called John to a long life to writing several of the letters and books of the New Testament. And then to die a natural death in his old age. They had different callings But they were both noble, and they were both part of Jesus' plan, Jesus' design for the expansion of his kingdom. And so that's a reminder when Jesus says, don't worry about him, right? You follow me. That's a reminder to us. Don't don't compare yourself, sorry, don't compare your law in life. To the lot of other Christians, right? Their jobs, uh, their privileges, their joys, their successes, uh, their gifts. But rather, uh, we need to be writing ourselves, you know what? God's God has a purpose for my life He's put me where I am. He made me the person I am with my gifts and my liabilities. And I need to be focused on following Jesus Christ. Not worried about if I had that job or if I had that situation, everything would be wonderful. But no, you know, whether it's changing diapers Whether it's um being in a in a bed of infirmity, what can you do? You can pray, you can commune with the Lord by looking at Scripture during that hard season of life. But whatever season you're in, uh we want to say, I want to be faithful to follow Jesus Christ no matter what. Francis Schaefer, a name many of you are familiar with, he had a little essay titled No Little People, and in the end of the essay he writes something like In God's eyes, there are no little people and no little places. Only one thing's important To be a consecrated person in God's place for you at each moment So that's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, follow me no matter where, no matter where discipleship leads you. And then finally, uh the third point, Jesus says in so many words, follow me to the end. And so in the in the situation in verse 22 is that we're to serve Jesus whether uh we we make it to uh whether we die or whether uh Jesus comes back. We need to follow Jesus Christ to the end. And so let me explain where I I get this. Verse 22. Jesus said to him, to Peter, If it is my will that he, John, remain until I come. What is that to you, you follow me? So let me just try to explain the background here. And so John wrote this gospel likely around the year A. D. 90. And there was some confusion in the early church. There was this rumor swirling around. That John would not die based on this conversation And John corrects this, okay? John, who wrote this gospel, corrects this misunderstanding that was going around in the early church at the time that John was still living. So look at now verse 23 So the saying spread among the brothers that this disciple was not to die. So John's addressing a rumor that was going around in this day. That John wasn't going to die, but Jesus was going to return before John died. But John clarifies The end second part of verse 23, yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but if it is my will that he remain until I come, What is that to you? And so Jesus is is explaining. Peter, you know what Whether one dies a natural death, or one dies a martyr's death, or one doesn't die because I return before they expire. However, it works out. You need to follow me to the end. That's what's going on. Which is sort of a good reminder, right? There's no such thing as retirement in the Christian life. You slow down, you you you can't do everything you used to do, right? Because your your body starts to break down. But we should all be active in one way or another, and if you're physically able, we should should certainly uh be serving. That's why it's sort of a head scratcher when Uh people when they're some people when their kids grow up they say, Well I'm not working in the nursery anymore. I paid my dues And then you let these parents who are just worn out with their young children uh do all the nursery work. No, come on. You need to step up, talk to Kelly Wheeler, get on the nursery rotation. That's that's a That's one way to serve, one way to follow to the end. One more one more comment from verse 23. Now go back, right? So verse 23. So the saying spread among the brothers that this disciple was not to die, yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die. Okay Some Christians idolize the early church, right? They say, I want to be in the New Testament church. Like, well, the New Testament church had its problems, and if if you ever read uh 1 Corinthians, uh you get a pretty good idea that Good News Presbyterian Church is a really nice place uh compared to uh the church in Corinth. Um so that the early church didn't always do things right and John, even during the apostles' lifetime John had to correct a rumor that was spreading amongst the early believers that the Apostle John wasn't to die. I bring this up because in our day Christians tend to some Christians tend to idolize not only the New Testament church. But the early church, and they had this mentality, if it's ancient, then it's good And so you have members of evangelical churches, right, with their rock bands and all the plastic aspects of their worship. And they're saying, this is shallow, so where do they go? Some of them go to the Eastern Orthodox Church, some of them go to the Roman Catholic Church, because there is There's centuries of tradition that informs their practice and their worship. And that even people are leaving reform churches for that because they say, well, it's old and they've been doing this for centuries. And the Bible answer to that is that traditions can be wrong and we see here a tradition that developed in the early church during the Age of the Apostles, this idea, this rumor that the Apostle John wasn't going to die. And so corrections had to be made. And so the lesson, of course, is that we must base our theology, our worldview, and our practices on scripture alone. And it can be confirmed by tradition. If we see, hey, look at the early church, what they did. They did what the Bible's saying. But we cannot develop our practices just based on tradition. And so in a nutshell then, there you have it, Jesus says, follow me. Follow me no matter what. Follow me no matter where. Follow me to the end. And so my challenge to you Is this? Is your allegiance to Jesus Christ just an accessory to your life Or is it the controlling principle of your life? Because Jesus throughout the Gospels demands That we die to ourselves and we follow him with all our heart and soul and mind and strength That's the challenge that these verse these final verses confront us with And we all waver, we're all compromised in one way or another, so it's good for us to examine ourselves and for young people too, right? This is a great challenge, but this is what it means to be a Christian. Well let's now just look at the final two verses of John's Gospel, verses 24 and 25. Where John writes, Now there are also many other things that Jesus did were every one of them to be written. I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Now that's a bit of hyperbole, right? The Bible does use hyperbole. For our kids, exaggeration. Uh the Bible but I like that word, it rolls off the tongue nicely. Um the Bible does use uh a bit of hyperbole, but um When you think about it, it's not an exaggeration by much, because if you're if we were to write books on the attributes of God, Right? And Jesus is God. Would we ever exhaust the subject if we were to write books on the works of God? Right? We have a NASA scientist here. Do you think we could exhaust the subject and the works of God, right? The cosmos? No. So maybe it's not even an exaggeration. But anyway. John says A whole lot more could have been written. However, this is sufficient, okay? This is sufficient. And the Bible doesn't give us exhaustive knowledge about life. It doesn't give us exhaustive knowledge about God, right? But what we claim, or what the Bible claims, is it gives us true knowledge and sufficient knowledge And this is sufficient for us. And we add wisdom, of course, but this is sufficient, but especially This is all we need to know in regards to the way of salvation. And um Here's a question, my final question. If John could have written so much more in his gospel. What was the principle that led him to determine, I'm going to write about these things? And not about anything else. What was the principle that guided John in his choice of the material that he put down in this gospel? And if you've been attentive for the past 70 sermons, if you've been attentive to John's Gospel, you should be able to answer that question easily. The answer is found in chapter 20, verse 30 and 31, right? Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples. Which are not written in this book. Here's the answer. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. The Son of God, and that by believing, you may have wife in his name. So John says Here's why I put down what I put down. To persuade you that Jesus is God, that he's the Savior. So that you will trust in Him for your salvation and bow before Him as your Lord. And so if you're still not a Christian, here's what I suggest you do. You stay in John's Gospel. Right? Stay in it. Keep reading it. Read the other gospels. Read the whole Bible, of course. But stay in it because this is how God Opens your eyes to see, yeah, this stuff is true. I'm a sinner. I need a savior. Jesus is that Savior. So stay in the book. Let's have a conversation. That'd be great. And pray that God will open your eyes and move you from unbelief to belief. Let's bow our heads.