Any four to five year olds who would like to go to worship training may go out with Miss Becky. And I'll ask you to turn in your Bible to the book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter six verse twenty to the end of chapter seven. It's a long passage. So it's interesting. Ah, it's really interesting. It's on sex. Um because uh it it's interesting though that chapter five was on the same subject. And then the beginning of chapter 6, we saw some practical warnings last week in three different areas. And now we're back in chapter 6, verse 20, where the father continues his speech to his son about sexual intimacy. And so this is a long uh swath of material. We're going to read it and cover it And then we're going to take a little bit of time off from Proverbs. We will, next Sunday is Palm Sunday, and then there's Easter Sunday. And we'll have sermons on those themes. And then we're going to enter into the book of Romans for a few months. Take a little break from Romans, come back to Proverbs, where we'll get into more of the themes. cover the themes in Proverbs, just gather the verses together. But I'm in Proverbs chapter six, and this is uh a section on warnings against adultery And so you'll notice the first few verses in this section and the first few verses in chapter 7, he exhorts his son to to uh listen to his father's teaching as his father teaches God's word. My son, keep your father's commandment and do not forsake your mother's teaching. Excuse me. Find them on your heart always. Tie them around your neck. When you walk, they will lead you. When you lie down, they will watch over you. And when you awake, they will talk with you For the commandment is a lamp and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life. To preserve you from the evil woman, from the smooth tongue of the adulteress. Do not desire her beauty in your heart. Do not let her capture you with her eyelashes. For the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious life. Can a man carry fire next to his chest, and his clothes not be burned? Or can he walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. None who touches her will go unpunished. People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry. But if he is caught, he will pay sevenfold. He will give all the goods of his house. He who commits adultery lacks sense. He who does it destroys himself Wounds and dishonor he will get, and his disgrace will not be wiped away, for jealousy makes a man furious. and he will not spare when he takes revenge. He will accept no compensation. He will refuse, though you multiply gifts. My son, keep my words and treasure up my commandments with you. Keep my commandments and live. Keep my teaching as the apple of your eye. Bind them on your fingers. Write them on the tablet of your heart. Say to wisdom, You're my sister, and call insight your intimate friend. to keep you from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress, with all her smooth words. For at the window of my house I have looked out through my lattice, and I have seen among the simple, I have perceived among the youths, a young man lacking sense Passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house, in the in the twilight, in the evening, in the time of night and darkness And behold, the woman meets him, dressed as a prostitute, wildly apart. She is loud and wayward, her feet do not stay at home. Now in a street, now in a market, and at every corner she lies in wait. She seizes him and kisses him. And with bold face she said to him, I had to offer sacrifices, and today I paid my vows. So now I have come out to meet you, to seek you eagerly and I have found you. I have spread my couch with coverings, covered linens, from Egyptian linen. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. Come Let us take her fill of love till morning. Let us delight ourselves with love. For my husband is not at home. He has gone on a long journey. He took a bag of money with him. A full moon, he will come home. With much seductive speech, she persuades him. With her smooth talk, she compels him. All at once he follows her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, or as a stag is caught fast. till an arrow pierces its liver, as a bird rushes into a snare, he does not know that it will cost him his life. And now, O sons, listen to me, and be attentive to the words of my mouth. Let not your heart turn aside to her ways. Do not stray into her paths. For many a victim she has laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng. Her house is the way to Sheol. Going down to the chambers of death. Okay. So in Proverbs five He talked more generally about sexual immorality and now he focuses on the sin of adultery. And you'll remember from chapter 5, I imagine, that he was very positive. He said sex is a gift from God. And he told his son, chapter 5, verse 18, and following, he said, Rejoice in the wife of your youth. And so it's a gift, but the problem is that Our sinful nature is inclined to take God's good gifts and to use them in ways for which they were not designed. And when we do that, as we know in our own hearts, our own experience perhaps, and also in our society, the results are catastrophic And that's certainly the case, or especially the case, I should say that's certainly the case when sexual intimacy is entered into outside the bonds of marriage. So as I said a couple weeks back, and I say this especially to our young people, fire is good, right? Sexual intimacy is a gift from God But woe to you if the fire gets outside the fireplace. It'll cause all kind of destruction. I don't have to give examples there to prove the point because we've seen it in many ways in our culture, in the people we know, and perhaps in our own experience. And so uh so now in chapter six verse twenty and following, the father again warns his son about sexual immorality, and if there's a theme verse That would best sum up this section. I I would suggest chapter six, verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, where he asks the rhetorical questions. Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned? Or can one walk on hot clothes, on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched? And so he's saying, you know what, sexual morality is not only wrong, but it's stupid. And it always ends in misery. It always ends up complicating your life. And so the father in this section says, here are steps that you can take to fortify yourself against sexual immorality in general. And against adultery in particular. So you might say, here are some things you can do to protect your marriage. I think there's a book out called How to Affair Proof Your Marriage. Well this isn't a guarantee that if you take this to heart, it'll guarantee there will never be an affair. But I'll tell you what. It's a pretty it's a you can have a lot of confidence if you do these things, uh that you will be protected. And so it's a father exhorting his son. It could as well be a mother exhorting her daughter. In fact, in chapter 6, verse 20 What does he say? He says, keep your father's commandment, forsake not your mother's teaching. And so let's let's let's make a list of things that he tells us that we can do to protect ourselves from making some tragic errors in this area. The first thing he says is positive. He says, nurture yourself on God's word. And that in itself will protect you. Right? It says it will preserve you from the evil woman. You see that in chapter 6, verse 20 to 24. He talks about hearing His father's commands hearing God's word. Verse 24, what will it do? It will preserve you from the evil woman. Same thing, chapter 7, uh first four verses, he talks about keeping God's commands. Why? Verse 5, to keep you from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words. So, Solomon's not just saying, you know what? When you get up in the morning, read a chapter of the Bible, look for a little blessed thought, and that'll preserve you. He's not saying take one of those little daily devotional magazines and read the page for the day, you know, maybe it's like a two-minute read. You do that and you're good But rather, he's saying, look at chapter 6 verse 21, bind God's word on your heart always, tie his commands around your neck. And so he's saying, you must really take the scripture seriously, you must read it closely, reflect on it. You don't have to be a theologian to get something out of it, but make this book your meat and your drink. You might write down on an index card a thought or a Bible verse, something to memorize. When you memorize verses of the Bible, it's amazing how those verses will come back to you decades later when you need it. You think you forgot it, but it's still there oftentimes Set under the preaching and the teaching of God's Word. And don't just sit through it, but concentrate on it, right? Say, Lord, this is your word. I want you to speak to me. And then examine yourself in the light of God's word And it will fortify you against temptation. Why? Because it reminds you there's a God And it it will elevate your conception of what God is like. He's a holy God, and He's a good God. And all his statutes are good. He has our best interest in mind. It will speak about his goodness, and it speaks of his goodness and his graciousness in Jesus Christ. Do I want to spurn my Savior for just this season of pleasure? And so it will restrain us. Well, not always, but it should restrain us And as we grow in our love for Jesus Christ, our love for misappropriate pleasures will recede. Because, number one, we'll see the end of going down that road. But number two, we'll recognize that God has our best interests at heart. Nineteenth century Scottish uh pastor Thomas Chalmers spoke about the expulsive power of a new affection. And what he was saying is that as one grows in his or her love for Jesus Christ That has the effect of reorienting what we really love, and some of the world's pleasures fade in comparison. And so fortify yourself against adultery, number one, by nurturing yourself on God's Word. Number two By recognizing the unique heinousness of the sin of adultery. Now You often hear Christians say, some of you probably say this. You often hear Christians say, all sins are the same. And I would say in response, not exactly. Now, all sins are the same In this one way. Anyone's sin is sufficient to separate you from a holy God. Right? That's why James chapter two verse ten, James says, whoever breaks the uh whoever keeps the whole law And yet breaks this one commandment is guilty of breaking all God's commands. Because anyone's sin is sufficient to separate you from God, okay? However, some sins are more heinous than others. Let me give you a couple examples, okay? John chapter 19, verse 11. Excuse me. Jesus, when he was being tried, said to Pontius Pilate, this is Matthew, or John 19, 11. He who delivered me over to you has greater sin. Now, as a Jewish high priest Caiaphist who handed Jesus over to Pilate. And Jesus said, listen, Pilate, what you're doing is bad, but what this Jewish high priest who had greater knowledge has done is worse. Some sins are worse than others. Luke chapter 10, verse 14. Jesus said to his disciples, On the day of judgment, it will be more bearable for Sodom than for the towns of Judah who rejected the message of the gospel. Why is that Well, because the towns in Israel had greater light. They had greater revelation. And so their sin is greater in God's eyes. Let me add to it now. Some sins are more heinous than others, and the Bible goes on to say that sexual immorality is in a class by itself. First Corinthians chapter six, verse eighteen, Paul writes to these Christians, flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body And so he's saying a Christian who is united by faith to Jesus Christ, when he Engages in fornication, he is uniting his body, which is a temple of the Holy Spirit, to another person. And that's odious in God's eyes. Alright, we're going down happy road here. Let me add one more thought here. And this will really make the point where I'm driving at. Proverbs takes it another step, and it goes on to say that some forms of fornication Are more heinous than others. What Proverbs 7 teaches is that sleeping uh with another person's spouse Is one of the most heinous forms of fornication. He says, listen, there are two types of immoral women out there. He says this to his son. And you should avoid them both. In fact, in chapter five he spoke more about the promiscuous woman, the promiscuous unmarried woman In chapter seven, the focus is on the promiscuous married woman. And he says, listen Don't do any of it. But if push comes a shove, it's even worse to sleep with a buried person. And so look at verses chapter 6, verse 26. And you'll never see this on one of those little uh kneel point uh pictures in somebody's kitchen, in fact. Verse 26, the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious wife. So he's saying, listen, if push comes to shove, not that you should do this, but if you're going to commit adultery, Uh or if you're going to commit fornication, it's better to do it with a single person than with someone who's married. Although that's certainly not being recommended. It's just saying, if you are contemplating adultery, you better recognize how odious this is in the eyes of God. And that's a bracing thing, right? When you're tempted? Hey, I need to read Proverbs 5. I should read Proverbs 6. I should read Proverbs 7. You know, you need to, sometimes you need to have your head slapped. To remind yourself what's going on, you need to clear your thinking. And so fortify yourself against adultery, number one, by being a man or a woman, a boy or a girl of this book. And secondly, by recognizing that adultery is a grave sin in the eyes of God And connected to that is consider the consequences of adultery. And so Look at what the what the writer says, what the father says, consider the consequences. Okay? So let's get let's go down let's go down the list here. First of all He says to his son, Before you commit adultery, consider the hornet's nest that you're going to stir up. You're going to store up the wrath. of your paramour spouse. Adultery is an affront to this woman's husband, to his marriage, to his honor, to his merit, to his manhood. And if you mess with another man's wife, or if you're a woman, you mess uh with another woman's husband. Uh y you have crossed the line. And uh the one thing you desire, every married person wants Is absolute sexual loyalty of their spouse. And to violate someone else's spouse is to call down their wrath upon yourself. Look at verse chapter 6, verse 27 to 35. Can a man carry fire? Whoops, I messed this thing up. Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned? Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. None who touches her will go unpunished. People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry. But if he is caught, he will pay sevenfold. He will give all the goods of his house. He who commits adultery lacks sense. He who does it destroys himself. Well, you'd have sympathy on a thief. But nobody's going to have sympathy for an adulterer. Verse 32, verse 33, wounds of dishonor he will get, and his disgrace will not be wiped away For jealousy makes a man furious, and he will not spare when he takes revenge. He will accept no compensation He refuse, though you multiply gifts. And so consider the consequences. Consider the consequence Of the offended spouse's wrath, consider the effect that it'll have on your children, right? And several of you know this, right? You had a parent who was unfaithful to your mother or your father, and what happened? They they drove a stake. Through your heart. And so you know what I'm talking about. And this is so common. It's so grievous. And you see children when the the their parents' marriage breaks up and you just see this loss, pain, hopeless Expression. Do you want to do that to your kids? Right? You're not getting along with your spouse right now, but do you want to do that to your children? I remember years ago I w I was eating lunch with a friend and um this is in North Carolina and my friend if there was ever a successful man it was this fella his name is Charlie And uh he he had been a football player and he was he ran a mill, a textile mill in North Carolina. He lived in a beautiful house, he had a beautiful family, everything was going for him And we're just talking in the subject of his father's leaving his mother for another woman, you know. A decade or two decades ago came up. And this big old guy started tearing up like a baby. I could not believe it. But that's what happened. That is how deep the heartache goes in a child. So consider the effects. Consider the effect. It'll have on you. Consider the effect it'll have on your children. Consider the effect it will have on your spouse. Some of you know that, right? You've been you were done dirty By an unfaithful spouse. You entrusted yourself to this person, you staked your life on this person, and they betrayed you. Malachi two fourteen God says to these faithless people, you've been faithless, faithless men. God says, you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant, right? You entered into a sacred covenant before God before these witnesses and before your spouse, and you have been faithless to that covenant. So consider the effect that it will have on your spouse who staked his or her life on you. And then consider the harm that extramarital sex will have on you. That's my cold. That's not my uh puberty. Sucks? It is an awkward word to say in church. Consider the consider the effect it'll have on you. So Grove City College, that's a college north of Pittsburgh. I was reading an article by one of the psychology professors, a guy named Warren Throckmorton. I had to practice that one. Warren Throckmorton. But he wrote an article Uh or he cited a study in this article that said that teenage girls who fornicate are three times more likely to be depressed. And then the article said that married women who commit adultery are even have even a higher rate of depression. Something else, two physicians, a doctor by the name of Joe McElhaney, and another by the name of Freda McKissick Bush. So they have written about how casual sex affects young people. So this is important for our young people to hear. Because our culture says you can just hook up, you can just have these casual relations, these casual physical relationships with other people, and it's not going to affect you Because it's just fun for the moment, and then when it's over, it's over, and you just get on with your life. That's not how it works. So here's what they found. MRIs, PET scans, and other imaging technology reveal that repeated sexual experience with multiple partners over time. Permanently changes the wiring of the brain and damages the way it was designed to function. When a person has sex with multiple partners outside of marriage, a person's brain chemistry changes. His or her, this is the important part, his or her bonding mechanism is interfered with And he or she loses the ability to connect in the same way. A man or woman who sleeps around when they're single Will often have a weaker bond with a person they marry and they liken it to a band-aid. They said the first time you put a band-aid on your arm or on your knee, it sticks firmly. But each time you pull it off and put it back on, the stickiness gets weaker. Those who have had sex with numerous people actually have a seriously weakened ability to bond permanently in marriage. That's what the father is saying to his son. Chapter 6, verse 27. Can a man carry fire next to his chest? And his clothes not be burned. And so to fortify ourselves against the temptations to sexual immorality. Don't think about the object of your temptation, but rather review, reflect on the bitter long-term consequences of succumbing. And I say to young people, I think I said this a couple weeks ago, listen, do you want two years of being in bed with this girl or with this guy? Or do you want fifty years of a solid, faithful marriage where you waited and you entered into it rightly And you'll have 50 years, you'll have a better foundation built for physical intimacy for the rest of your life. And so The writer of Proverbs is telling us these very blunt truths because the writer of Proverbs is inspired by God. He is speaking God's word to us. And he's saying, God invented sex, but it must be entered into in the proper context. Otherwise, it will bring great pain and great misery. Let's go on here. Verses chapter seven verse seven and chapter seven verse six to twenty-three. He then warns his son And this is for the girls, young ladies too, or ladies too. He says, beware of the tactics of the seducer. And so he says to his son, he says, let me tell you about something I saw the other day. Now some kids are like, listen, I don't want to hear it, I need to learn this stuff myself. But the writer of Proverbs says, no, listen to your dad. He saw something the other day, okay? Just listen because you might learn something from this. He recounts to his son how he saw a naive young man fall for the ploys of a temptress. Chapter 7, verse 6. For at the window of my house I have looked out through my lattice, and I have seen among the simple, I have perceived among the youths a young man lacking sense Passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house, in the twilight in the evening, at the time of night and darkness And then he goes on to recount what happened. So th Derek Kidner, great writer or commentator in the book of Proverbs. He labeled this section the Simpleton and the Seductress. And it's about a dim-witted young man who walks right into the clutches of temptation. Yeah, it could be a young guy just out of curiosity turns on a pornographic movie or clicks a pornographic website or gets involved with uh with the wrong kind of people And all kind of misery that unfolds. Or it could be just a good-hearted young lady, and there's a smooth talking fellow who comes into her life He has an agenda. She doesn't quite realize it. She's naive about the ways of some of these guys. And she gets trapped by him. And so the father recounts Here are several of the tactics of the seductress. First of all, she's dressed very provocatively. Verse 10. Behold, the woman meets him, dressed as a prostitute, wily of heart. She's brazen. Verse 11. She's loud and wayward. Her feet do not stay at home. Now in the street, now in the market, and at every corner she lies in wait. She seizes him and kisses him. And with bold face, she says to him, she's flattering. Look at verse 15. I've come out to meet you. to seek you eagerly, and I have found you. She said like, she said, you're the one for me. You're the only one for me. There was never another man like you. You understand me like no man has ever understood me. You're wise or you're handsome or you're strong like no man I've ever met. So she's she's flattering It says in chapter 5, verse 3, the lips of the forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil. So again, the Father is warning us, be careful about the speech of someone who's trying to seduce you. And she's persistent. Look at verse 21. With much seductive speech, she persuades him. With her smooth talk, she compels him. So she won't take no for an answer. That's very challenging. For a fellow to resist. And so, but nonetheless, the Father warns us: beware of the tactics Of the seducer. And then he says, listen, remember the first point? You need to steep yourself in God's word. That's important. But that's not all. You do have to exercise moral exertion, right? You have to resist. Well, better we would say avoid those situations. But when you can't avoid them, you have to resist. Flee if you can, right? So guard yourself, guard your thought life. Don't fantasize about this individual. Look at chapter 6, verse 25. Do not desire her in your heart. So don't dwell on the object of your temptation. Rather, go home and read Proverbs 5 and Proverbs 7. Dwell on the consequences. Avoid those situations where you'll be tempted. Chapter seven, verse twenty-five. Let not your heart turn aside to her ways. Do not stray into her paths. You know that person's going to be there that day in the office or wherever. Just figure out a way to avoid that individual. Don't go down that path. Don't go into that office. Don't or where wherever it is. Just try to avoid that person. Don't click on that website. Don't turn on that show. Don't hang around with those people Because there are some magnetic fields, the force is so strong that once you're in that field, you will not be able to resist the attracting power. And then he says, look at verse 26 and 27. He says, basically, look past her to the long list of casualties. that she has destroyed. 26 and 27. For many a victim has she laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng. Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death. And so, yeah, can a man can a man carry a fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned? Can you walk on hot coals and your feet not be scorched? And so again, he says, listen, sexual immorality is not only wrong. It's stupid, and the consequences are bitter. Well, there we have our last sermon on sex for about the next 15 years. Probably not. It comes up, right? It comes up here and there. Um pretty it's it's pretty blunt subject. Um a little bit awkward and I feel bad for young children with tender ears. Maybe I said too much But um there is there's a lot of hurt and heartache and misery uh that's come about uh because of this particular this particular sin. And also know that many have great grief and heartache and and guilt even. And so we do need to always put it in the light Of the gospel. Right? Because when Jesus Christ came, He came to remove all of our sins. And yeah, not all sins are the same. But Jesus Christ and his sacrificial death and his perfect life is sufficient to cover all of our sins, no matter what they are. And so when you're trusting in Jesus Christ, if you have guilt for past things you've done, you really do need to preach the gospel to yourself. And recognize the greatness and the sufficiency of Jesus' work, that He really does cleanse us of our sin. And sometimes when people people have guilt over something in this area or perhaps another area, and they feel like they're second-class Christians and they're very cautious about being known by others in the church and reaching out to others in the church because they're thinking in the back of their head, if people knew what my record was, uh then they wouldn't really have an interest in me. But You'd be surprised at the people in our church, right? We come from all kinds of backgrounds. Many were converted in their adult lives after having been married. And so this is a wonderful church where there's grace. And you know, I say sometimes, we're the company of the redeemed. And so if you're trusting in Christ Uh you should be a part of the church. You should be fully invested in the church, and you should know, as I know people in this church No one would look down on you and they would share their story, but also they would point out how God's grace covers all of our sins. And so if you have guilt, you can know. As Paul said in 1 Corinthians 6 11, you know, such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. And so that's how God sees you. And that is how other Christians see you. You are forgiven. And I say this because I think some Christians have this great secret burden. But you can let it go because you are cleansed. Let's let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do thank you that you've given us very clear uh commands that we could walk in a way that honors you. And so I pray, Lord, you'd help us to avoid temptation, to flee it To resist it. Help us, Lord, in our marriages and our struggles in our marriages, to make progress Help us to be patient with our spouse, help us to honor our spouse, even when we feel like they're not reciprocating I pray for our young people that they would take the truths of this passage to heart and that they would be spared of great miseries. And I also pray, Lord, for those who feel guilt because of sin in this area. Help them to see the sufficiency of Christ's atoning work on the cross. Jesus Christ cleanses us and he renews us and he makes us righteous. And so may that truth Be imprinted on each of our hearts. For those who are Christians, I pray, Lord, that they would see that Jesus Christ is the Savior of sinners and that they might trust in Him In His name we pray, Amen. Amen. So take your