Thank you, Rundells, for taking the kids. Turn in Flippians, we're marching through Flippians. So yeah, it's funny speaking about this uh zoom camera. We had a guy in our church, uh Jonathan Perfader. He now has a job, I think, at a big church as the audio visual guy. That's his job. I offered him a job here for four bucks a week as our A V guy, but he took this other church. I don't understand. Philippians chapter 2, verse 19. So Paul writes, I hope in the Lord to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you. For I have no one like him who will be generally concerned for your welfare. They all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. But you know Timothy's proven worth How as a son with a father he has served with me in the gospel. I hope therefore to send him, just as soon as I see how it will go with me And I trust to the Lord that short shortly I myself will come also. I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and fellow worker, and fellow soldier. and your messenger and minister to my need, for he has been longing for you all, and has been distressed, because you heard that he was ill Indeed he was ill, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men. For he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. So it's pretty interesting if you've been with us through um Philippians, at least through chapter two Because in the middle of chapter two, Paul scaled the theological heights, right? He talked about the incarnation of Christ His Jesus humiliating himself, humbling himself to come down to serve us and to redeem us. And then it speaks about his glorification. The Father exalted him to the highest place. And he did this to point to Jesus as an example that the Philippians should follow in their relationships with one another But now in verse 19 to 30, Paul comes back to Earth to attend to some housekeeping matters, right? Talking about the travel plans of Timothy and of Epaphroditus, right? 19. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon. 25. I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus. And so this is pretty pretty mundane stuff. You get back to the theological meat in chapter 3. So maybe we should just skip ahead to chapter 3. Well, no, that wouldn't be right. 2 Timothy 3. 16, Paul said, all scripture is profitable, and indeed it is. And not only that. What Paul says in this section really is not just here's the travel itinerary for Timothy and Epaphroditus. But he's also, while he's giving their travel plans, he's using them to buttress the case he's been making throughout chapter 2. Now, what's the case that Paul's making throughout chapter 2? We're just going to stop here. We're going to talk about how to read the Bible. Here's a tip, okay? Here's a tip for reading the Bible. When you read through a book of the Bible, you want to look for the main theme. You could call it the melodic line, right? What is the tune that goes through this whole book? You can also do that when you read through a section of Scripture, and that's certainly the case in chapter 2. So you read through chapter two, read through it right now. Right, you got it? Okay. What is the theme that runs through this scripture? Well you'd have to really sit down, you'd have to read it several times, maybe over several days, and then some things start to come together. You see how this is really This isn't just a stream of consciousness. This is a, like all books in the Bible, really, it's a tightly constructed document. And the theme that runs through this chapter, you go home and read Philippians, and you tell me if I'm wrong. The theme that runs through the entire chapter is humility, right? Paul is Trying to persuade the Philippians to be humble toward each other so as to foster unity in the church, because there was conflict in the church. We went over this last week. Chapter 2, verse 2, what's Paul's saying? Be of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord with one mind. Chapter 2, verse 14. Quick grumbling. Chapter 4, verse 2. I plead with Eodiah and Syntache to agree in the Lord. And so all through chapter 2, Paul is trying to motivate the Philippians to humble themselves. And so he gives in this chapter several incentives for them to be humble. Look at verses 1 and 2. He says if there is any encouragement in Christ, if any comfort from his love, if any participation in the Spirit, if any affection and sympathy What is he saying? Do you enjoy any of the benefits of Jesus Christ? Well, verse 2, if so, complete my joy by being of one mind. Okay? That's an incentive toward humility. Then of course in verses 5 to 11, that's really the heart of the chapter, where Paul points to Jesus. He humbled himself. Why'd he talk about that? Again, is so that they would be of the same mind. Even verses 14 to 15, which we looked at last week. He said, Do all things without grumbling or questioning, so that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as light In the world. Why is he telling them to quit arguing, but to be kind and humble for the sake of their witness? So that again is another incentive that Paul's holding out for them Quit arguing, put others before yourself, so that you'll be a light to unbelievers. And then, this is the surprising one to me in verses 14 and 15. Paul encourages them to be humble. He says, so that I'll feel like I don't waste my time with you people. Look at verse 16. Paul said, holding fast to the word of life. Then he says, so that in a day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run or labor in vain. Imagine if I said that. Just do this so that I feel like I'm not wasting my time. You can, who's this guy, right? Paul puts out all these incentives, and now here's where we're leading to in verses 19 to 30 Paul is still beating the same drum, but this time, as he sets forth the travel plans of his of his lieutenants, He even holds them up as examples of gracious, humble servants. And so, how about that? The Apostle Paul puts out various kinds of incentives to encourage people. Now, some of you are spiritual people. Please raise your hand to spiritual ones Alright, alright, got a couple. Alright. So I know you people, you're gonna say, listen, uh we shouldn't need incentives. Um we should do the right thing because it's the right thing, because we love God, because we want to honor Jesus Christ We say, well, absolutely. However, when you say that, you're being more spiritual in the Bible itself, because the Bible, while it does appeal to our higher nature, right Our love for God, our desire for His glory. At the same time, and this chapter is a good example, there's all these carrots and sticks that are added on top of it. And so that's just the way we're wired, and God speaks to us according to our nature, I should say, our fallen nature. Okay? So that's just a little bit of background, a little, you know, hey, how do we approach the Bible? Well here's a good way to, a good thing to remember. Just read through it and see. Find a theme, and that becomes really the governing uh principle that helps you understand how the rest of the passage fits together. And so my proposition to you Is that Paul is holding up Timothy and Epaphroditus as examples for the Philippians and of course for us to follow. And so what I want to do then is just break it down to what I think are is prominent And that would be, we see here four marks of biblical servanthood that these men exhibit in that we should endeavor by the grace of God to emulate. And so this is good stuff. This is relevant to pastors, this is relevant to elders, deacons, leaders in the church But really, it's relevant to anyone. I should say it's relevant to all of us, right? Because we should all be seeking To serve. And so first of all, we're going to talk about Timothy. Timothy was Paul's Somewhere it says that he was his son in the faith, but Timothy had been with Paul uh for a long time. Timothy and Paul and Silas, they founded the church. And Philippi. Paul is now, he was taken to Rome, he's in prison. And um but he says to the Philippians, he says, look at verse 19. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon. Soon, he says, but not now. Paul was under house arrest. He needed Timothy's assistance. But Paul anticipates getting out of uh out of this situation And he says, when that happens, I'm going to send Timothy to Philippi, right? And so what I want to point out under Timothy, verses 19 to 24 are just two traits we see in Timothy that are marks of biblical servanthood. The first one is right there in the bulletin, right? Genuine, you see in Timothy, genuine affection for others. So let's read verses 19 to 21 again. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you. And then he says, For I have no one like him who will be generally concerned for your welfare. They all seek their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus. So he says, 21, they all seek their own interests. Does that sound familiar? Yeah, you go back to chapter 2, verse 4, right? Paul said to the Philippians, let each one of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. And so Paul's picking up on this and saying, hey, listen. Here's a guy, Timothy, who doesn't seek his own interest. Okay? Now, who's he referring to in verse, what's that, verse 21, when he says, they all seek their own interests? He's referring to the Christian leaders in the church in Rome. We talked about this back in chapter 1. So remember when Paul was arrested, he was sent to Rome for trial. Paul Comes to Rome, he's the big enchilada, right? He's the great apostle, he's the great missionary, evangelist, theologian He comes to Rome. You had the Roman Church, and the Roman church already had its leaders and pastors and elders and so on. Paul comes into town. What do you think all the Christians in the Roman Church are doing? They're looking at Paul, right? They're What wha how do you say it? They're not adoring him, but they're esteeming I should say they're esteeming him. Apparently The leaders in the Roman church didn't like this. You think they'd be glad. But you know what? We're self-serving. You think they'd be glad. They weren't. They're territorial and they resented Paul. So we saw that back in chapter 1, verse 15, right? Paul talking about these men said, some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. So there were those who envied Paul, who saw Paul as a rival. Look at verse 17. Remember, Paul's under house arrest. Verse 17. The former proclaimed Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. So you want to talk about total depravity. When you think about total depravity, don't think about the drunk and the gutter. Think about the minister who, even as he's preaching the word of God, is self-serving and he has this certain you know I'm gonna stick at the paw because um everybody's gonna follow me but that is total depravity But Paul says Timothy wasn't like that. Verse 20. Chapter 2, verse 20. He said, I have no one like him. Who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare? So Timothy was not using the church as a platform to get attention or to accrue power. He was in it for them. Pastors can be in it for themselves, right? Let me give an example. Not myself, of course, somebody else. My wife can give you examples about me. But we so one of our daughters was married in Montgomery, Alabama. And we thought we got to the church. We thought something I was tell we were telling the home group this a couple weeks ago. Not the home group, the marriage group. We got to the church. We walked in. And there's this big display case, like a trophy case, right, in the lobby. And it had pictures of the pastor meeting various dignitaries and accommodations and certificates he received. We thought that's a little creepy. And then the wedding ceremony was basically the bride and groom, they were the second banana. Really, it was about the pastor. Well, this is what happens. Church members do that? Ever do that? Yeah. Church, right? We can all be territorial. We've had church members they get mad. They get frustrated with other people. That person's new. Others are recognizing them. They're appreciating them. They don't say it like that, but that's basically what's going on. They're being recognized. I'm not being recognized. That's not right. They don't say it like that. They just get mad. There are innuendos, though. Timothy did not seek his own interest. This guy was genuinely concerned For the people of God. And so we're seeing here, this is a mark of biblical servanthood. A true servant cares for the sheep. What does that mean? Well Means it's not about you. It means you talk to people. It means you look them in the eye. It means you ask them questions about themselves. You don't just talk about yourself, right? You don't use this encounter as a launch pad To talk about you. Although there's back and forth, of course, we should be interested in each other. You're not selective about those to whom you show interest or kindness, right? You care for everybody because we're all members of God's of the family of God. And so that's what we're looking for in ourselves. We want to show Genuine concern for others. We don't want to be so turned in on ourselves, right? Lord, change me. Help me to turn out more and more. Help me to see how I am turned in on myself. So that's the first trait. There was this genuine concern. Here's the second trait we see in Timothy. He was eager to serve. He was eager to serve There's two things that I don't like to do as a pastor. Well, I'm there's other things, of course, but there's two things I want to point out. Go to church on Sunday morning, right? No. No. Asking, one thing I don't like is to ask a reluctant person to do something And the other thing I don't like is to prompt someone who said they're going to do something to follow through. That's always awkward. I don't like to be on the be the person who delivers that. But you know that's that's part of it. That's part of what you need to do, right? Paul says, I didn't have that problem with Timothy He was eager to serve. He was eager to serve me, and he was eager to serve the church. You see that in verse 22. But you know Timothy's proven worth, how as a son with a father, he has served with me in the gospel. So as a son with a father, in other words, he he works side by side. That's the main thrust. But also, how does a son work with his father? I'm not talking about a teenager, I'm talking about a younger little boy How's a son work? They're eager. And I I can think my son John I'm getting embarrassed him. I can't find him. Oh there is. All right. Alright, lower your head. He's a teenager now. He doesn't appreciate this stuff. But when he was a little kid, he was eager to serve. I'd be trying to fix something, and I couldn't get it. He'd be sticking his head in front of my head between me and whatever I was trying to work on, right? And then he'd have some advice, a kid, a little kid. What's he know? He'd say, why don't you turn it why don't you try turning it like this? And I'm like, that won't work. And then after about five more minutes I'd turn it like that. And I'd be like, oh. It was hilarious. Hey, you know what, technology? I don't even want to read the instructions anymore, right? We got John. But anyway, um Anyway, that's what Paul's saying. He was he was eager to serve. Now think about the church. Yeah, I'm you know, think about the church broadly, but also think about the local church, right? We have a mission, right? We're we're a people with a mission. There's a lot of strenuous jobs, right? This Bible club, I've heard it's a taxing job But it's a huge thing. It's a huge thing that you folks are doing that are involved with this Bible club here at this school. It's a wonderful thing. And so here's what we want to encourage it toward. If you don't have a job, a ministry, a way to serve, think about what am I good at, and where's there a need? And how can I serve? And if you don't have much time, what's a little thing I could do? And it might just be something informal, showing up earlier on Sunday morning. So that you can meet other people. Just encourage them and then send them people you meet, you send them a note or give them a call or something, just and let them know you're praying for them. And then there's the more structured ways of serving. But we all need to be serving in some manner, not reluctantly, but eagerly. Well let's go on talking about epaphroditus, okay? 25 to 30, so Paphroditus grows from the church in Philibbi He was the member of the church who took the collection that they from the church in Philippi and he traveled 800 miles to Rome to give it to Paul, because he needed support, right? He was under he was under house arrest. That's where we're where do you where'd we learn that? Chapter 4, verse 18. Paul said, I have received full payment and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent. So Epaphroditus was now with Paul in Rome. Paul sent, he was actually Paul sent Epaphroditus back to Philippi with this letter. So I'm sorry, he's back in Philippi now. He carried this letter back to Philippi. So two traits we see in Epaphroditus that are marks of biblical servanthood. Number one Epaphroditus had a genuine affection for Paul, for God's people. And so look at verse 25 and 26. I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and fellow worker, and fellow soldier, and your messenger. Right? He brought the money from Philippi. Your messenger and minister to my need. For he has been longing for you all, and has been distressed, because you heard that he was ill And so he loved the Philippians. My wife was saying last night, Epaphroditus was really unique. He was ill. What do we do when we're ill? I need a little attention, right? The paphroditis, he was near dying. And he's like, oh my goodness, the people back in Philippi are worried about me He was distressed about that. And so Epaphroditus loved the people back in the congregation, the Philippi. They were his people. They loved him. He loved them. And so there was this warm fellowship. Look at verse 27. Indeed he was ill and near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow And so Epaphroditus' affection also went to the Apostle Paul. So they had this warm friendship. And Paul, when he contemplated Epaphroditus dying, he wasn't going to say, well, let's have a celebration of life if he dies. Paul was willing to acknowledge this is grievous. If this man should die I'm going to be full of sorrow. I just say that as a side note, when you go to a funeral, even though it's a Christian who died and you're Christian and we know God's sovereign, there's still this great loss And so, yeah, of course, uh we should have sorrow. But what I but getting back to my point here Is that we see in Epaphroditus this tremendous affection he had for the church in Philippi. And so in verse 29, Paul says, So receive him in the Lord with all joy and honor such men, for he nearly died for the work of Christ, lift risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. So there is this tremendous affection between Epaphroditus and the church. How does that come about? What engenders it Well it's not going to happen. It just doesn't materialize out of thin air thin air. It just doesn't happen if you walk in ten minutes early on Sunday and you chit-chat with a couple people each week It happens over time, right? Through through getting to know people, you have them over for a meal, you sit across the table. You become acquainted, then there's other opportunities, you talk, you look them in the eye, you meet other people, you look them in the eye, you ask them about their lives and you find out about some of their struggles. Sometimes they come alongside you and they put their arm around you and they say, I'm praying for you. Sylvia Little, I'm calling on people, embarrassing them all over the place this morning. Sylvia Little of I often heard her say, The church is my family. Well, she's been in the church for a long time and she's gotten to know people. She's reached out to others, and so there's this been there's been this friend, these friendships that have formed And affectionate form develops, right, as we have a common mission, right? We do have a common mission And so as we serve together, advancing the gospel, the friendships deepen as a byproduct of moving ahead in this mission. And so what I want you to think about, I want you to answer the question, am I a giver or a taker? I know we all give and take at various times, but primarily, are you primarily a giver or a taker? And I ask that because some enjoy receiving the love and service of others, but there's no heart to return it. to give it to other people. You like others to call you, you like others to send you a note, you'd like others to pay you attention, you like others to find out what's going on with you. But then do you turn around and you ask other people about those kind of things? Um and so We want our church, and I say this to our young people too, right? Oh, I go to church with my mom and dad. No. No, you're part of the church. Get to know others. Reach out to others. Reach out to other young people. Talk chat with the adults, right? They're interested. Because we want our church to be a family. So there's a third mark, a biblical servanthood. There's affection that grows for God's people as you get to know them. Even the people who aren't just like you, right? uh different stations, different from different cultures. You get to know people and there's this this deep friendship these deep friendships that form. Here's something else, finally. Sacrifice. Sacrifice. And so we saw that in verse 30 if Papyritus was willing to lay down his life. For the Philippians. Paul said he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. Paul, back in verse 25, he called Epaphroditus a fellow soldier, right? What do soldiers do? They make great sacrifices. Whoa, this is so different from the consumer mindset in the American church. I'm looking for a church that meets my needs. Sometimes people leave the church The church wasn't meeting my needs. There was not a set of best girlfriends for me in this church. Or uh there were not there was not um you know somebody enough people were not uh taking time with me or whatever Hey, what about you? Have you been reaching out to other people? And so we see an Epaphrodite a sacrifice, right? And that's the Christian life. That's being part of a church. It takes time. There are frustrations. That's part of the sacrifice. Financial sacrifice. You come out to the prayer meeting. I want to relax. It's Sunday afternoon. Well no, that's an important thing, right? So and so we do it. But we say, you know This talk about sacrifice when you talk about serving Jesus Christ and his church, is that that much of a sacrifice? Martin Lloyd Jones, he said, I gave up nothing and I gained everything. That's how we should look at the Christian life. I gave up nothing. this little sacrifice. And I gained everything. I mean not only eternal life, not only salvation, not only knowing. the God of the universe knowing the truth, how to how to walk in a way that's not completely delusional But you're not wasting your life. You're going somewhere. That's what I said to young people. Your life has a purpose. You have a mission. And what you do will have eternal results. And so sacrifice, we need to keep it in perspective. And I'm going to close, but I would say to our young people, don't underestimate your value in this church. You're the future of the church. Whether you're in this church, wherever you end up, you are the future. And so take these, look at these traits of being a disciple, a follower of Christ, being a servant. Pray about them. Pray, Lord, work these in me more and more. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, thank you that you put us in a this fellowship. Certainly we have our flaws and our uh rough edges. But we thank you, Lord, for the many, many sincere servants you've brought here. Help us to show love for each other. Help us to be patient with each other. Help us to look out for one another and also to become better acquainted with those whom uh we're not acquainted at the moment. We pray for our young people. That they'll see the important role that they play in serving others and encouraging others. And I pray, Lord, for any here who's not a Christian, who do not know Jesus Christ. that they would see the tremendous blessing of knowing you, of knowing forgiveness, and also being part of a community where there is love and where there's affection. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing one of those old hymns, 359. Blessed be the tie that binds. Three fifty nine, let's stand and sing. So give spell five elements things, spirits, three, three, twenty.