And uh I feel bad for those on Zoom that didn't get to see Mayla Bell. And so Christina, after the service, will you bring up Mayla Bell and just show her face on this little Zoom camera? Okay? This is our audio visual uh department right here. Okay, Deuteronomy chapter six. Just as Moses speaking to the Israelites, now this is the commandment, the statutes and the rules that the Lord your God commanded me to teach you. That you may do them in the land to which you're going over to possess it, that you may fear the Lord your God, you and your son, and your son's son, by keeping all his statutes and his commandments which I command you all the days of your life, that all your days may be long. Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you And that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you, and a land flowing with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Ye shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. Verse 7 is where we're gonna park You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Our approach this morning is to be topical, and it's been years since I've done a topical sermon, and so I think you can uh forgive me this one time Because what I want to do is I want to, well I want to certainly uh instruct and encourage and exhort our parents, and I'm a parent, we still have kids in the home, believe it or not So I want to do that, but also for the newer folks in the church, and I'm picking up on themes that I've spoken on over the years But I realize it's probably been five years since I've got on this been on this hobby horse, and it's time to review it because I'm presenting here uh uh key uh four key elements of of a reformed approach to raising children And it's notable because these aren't really emphasized in the larger or the broader church in our day, but these are quite historic and I think these are elements uh we need to uh have before us. Krishna Christina just took a vow to strive by all the means of God's appointment to raise their children in the nurture and instruction of the Lord. And that vow is really just an extension of Deuteronomy six, verse six and seven, where God or Moses commanded All these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. And then he said, You shall teach them diligently to your children. Here's the context of the passage. Remember, Moses led the Israelites out of Egypt. They traveled 40 years through the wilderness. They're presently camped on the east bank of the Jordan River. Moses, he's not going to cross over the Jordan and take the Israelites into the promised land. He is going to die outside of the land of Canaan. Joshua would leave it will would lead the Israelites. into the promised land. So we have in Deuteronomy a series of farewell addresses That Moses gave to the Israelites as they prepared to cross the Jordan and go into the promised land. And in chapter 6, he instructs the parents about how they can pass down their faith to the next generation. This is a huge theme in Scripture. Let me give you a couple other examples. Psalm 78, verse 5 and 7. The psalmist said that God appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach their children. That the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children So that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. So the Psalmist is saying, we need to teach our kids about the things of God So that they can teach their kids and it will go forth to successive generations. That is how the faith is maintained. Same thing in Ephesians 6 verse 4, where Paul said, Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the instruction and the discipline of the Lord. And so our task this morning is to get a good sense of the emphasis we have in verses 6 and 7. about our responsibility as parents to endeavor to raise our kids in a godly manner And um I'd say that because the primary bearers of this responsibility for our kids is not the church But it's the parents. And so we're going to look at what I want to say are really four key emphasis of our ministry, uh, and really not just this ministry, but of uh reformed uh spirituality uh when it comes to the family. And these disciplines aren't new. It's not some new idea. You're not going to see some book out at the Christian bookstore. Here's a new key to carrying. These are not new, and that's why I titled this message for Overlooked Habits uh for raising your children in the Lord because they are largely overlooked by the American church and I also use the word uh in this in this uh message I used that excuse me for the title I called it habits, uh four habits for raising your children in the Lord, because these are not one-shot fixes The world or the Christian world will often say, you know, read this book or go to this seminar or have this experience. And you're gonna do better raising your kids. You're gonna they're uh you know, some churches are like the church and the next big thing, you know, uh the purpose-driven life or uh in the nineties it was the prayer of javez where it might be some new uh parenting of philosophy or whatnot. That is not what this is about. This is not the next big thing, but rather what we have here are four ordinary unglamorous practices that will over the years, little by little, um, bit by bit, by the grace of God, I must add influence our children for Christ, help our marriages along, and help us as individuals in our own spirituality. And so the first overlooked habit For raising your kids in a godly manner is public worship. Now you think, well, there's nothing uh revolutionary about that. And I would say indeed But it you can't grow a godly family without a priority uh to public worship. So our forefathers uh would talk about the family pew. That's not saying that, you know, this is my seat, get out of my pew, right? We're not saying that But we're saying the family it's this idea of the family worshiping together each Lord's Day, week in, week out, year in Year out. Now that makes sense because as Christians, as Reformed Christians, we believe in the centrality of the Word and of the sacraments And the prayer. We say these are the primary means that God uses to fortify us spiritually. And then you add to that the fellowship of God's people. And And in the Old Testament, we see that when God's word was spoken, the entire family was gathered together. To hear it. Let me give you two verses. I could give you a list of verses. I'll just give you two. Deuteronomy 31, verse 12. Moses said, Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojourner within your towns that they may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law. So not only the men, not only the women But the children were there, setting before the expos the reading and the exposition of God's Word. Joshua 8 verse 35. We read, there was not a word of all that Moses had commanded that Joshua did not read to all the assembly of Israel, and to the women, and to the little ones, and the sojourners who lived Among them. And so what I'm suggesting is that when the family worship together, there's a pattern that is built into the lives of the children from the be from the very beginning. Now, as an aside, uh when we're not in plague mode, uh we have a nursery and we have a worship training for four and five year olds. That's fine, use your discretion, you're the parent, but what I want to say is that something that you should consider striving for is to have your children in the service as soon as they're able uh to be able to set through it Not concentrate. We understand things are over their head. But um it's still worthwhile, and I know some people will say, well they don't understand what's going on. What's the value of having them in the worship service And I say two things in answer to that. Number one, I would say that children can participate in many parts of our worship service, right? That's the value of having some fixed Forums in the service, right? The Apostles Creed, the Lord's Prayer, the Doxology, things like that. So children can participate in many parts of the service. The second thing I would say is that it's okay If they don't understand everything. Because the important thing is that they see Sunday's a day for worship They see their parents humble themselves before God and worship. They see that this is a place Where they're loved and where others take an interest in them. I remember a friend of mine saying one of one of one of his fondest memories from childhood was sitting in church and having his father next to him put his big old hand around his hand. And so we should not underestimate the value that this weekly meeting will have on our children. So that's the first overlooked habit. Public worship. Second overlooked habit for raising your children in the Lord is Sabbath observance. So in Deuteronomy 6, Moses just said teach your kids the Lord's commands. If you go back to chapter five, verse twelve, you have a reiteration of the Ten Commandments, and we're going to look at the fourth commandment here, verse twelve. For Moses said, Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter or your male servant, or your female servant, or your rocks, or your donkey, or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who's within your gates That your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. Now he said, keep the Sabbath. The Hebrew word Sabbath means rest, doesn't mean an activity But the idea is resting from your ordinary labors so that you can take up uh labors connected with the spiritual worship of God. We understand As Jesus teaches in Mark 2 and 3 and in Matthew 12, that there are there are exceptions, right? Works of necessity, mercy, and worship. Right? Sam Reef has cows. They weren't going to wait till tomorrow. Some of you have babies with dirty diapers, and we understand that. You can't say it's a Sabbath. I'm taking it off We understand all that, and there's a fuller explanation we can give about how to set the part. But Moses said, or God says in um verse 12, keep it holy. Keep it holy. What does that mean? The word holy at a struggles means set it apart, set it aside from the other days. In the Old Testament, when forks and tables and bowls were called holy. You know, these were the forks and tables and bowls used in the service of the temple. They were called holy, it just meant that they were set apart from common use, and they were used exclusively For the service and the worship of the Lord. So that's what Moses is saying. Set the Sabbath day apart from the other days. And um we want it we want our kids to see Sundays different. It's it's a special day, it's a joyful day, it's a day to rest, uh it's a day for the family to be together And it's a day where we don't do it like everybody else does it, right? No little league, uh no dance lessons, uh no activities that pull the family apart So often quote the Puritans. They talk about the Sabbath as the market day for the soul, right? Six days you have to work and to take care of your needs and your physical needs and to engage in commerce But the s but the first day of the week, it's a holy day. It's set apart from those days And so we need to we need to take care, we need to nurture our souls to rest and to maybe read do a little devotional reading. and uh to visit other Christians, things like that. Visit something in the nursing home when the nursing homes are open again. Now Some of you might some of you might be saying, well, boy, how'd you get off on that hobby horse? I thought this was a sermon on parenting. And um Uh and those who around those who've been around me know this is one of my hobby horses. But um here's why, okay I bring it up in relation to parenting because, like public worship, the Sabbath day provides what you might call an organizing principle for our families. There's a weekly cycle of time, right? Every day is not the same in the Christian life, but there's a weekly cycle of time that culminates in the worship and the rest of the Sabbath day. And so tomorrow we start to cycle over. And we start building up toward the Sabbath day, right? We work hard, we do our homework, we study hard, we try to get everything in order. We're looking forward to the Sabbath day And when we can get more groups together on Sunday, when we can have church lunches, it'll be an even more glorious Sabbath day. But I would say In our country, to be a Christian, there are a few things that distinguish Christians from the world. in our day, and I'd say five for fast past four years, there are a few things that distinguish Christians from the world But this idea that the Sabbath gives you an opportunity, a tangible opportunity, to confirm in your own heart and to convey to your children Your allegiance to Jesus Christ. Even amongst the broader church. This isn't even on the radar, and yet it's one of the Ten Commandments. It's a way for you to say to yourself and to your family, we're not going to go the world's ways. We're not going to do it. You know, like Joshua said, you know, ask for me and my house. We're going to serve the Lord. And that's difficult. It's difficult with our kids to say, no, we don't want you to do that on Sunday, right? It's been the cause of all kinds of grief in our home. But you know, it's so easy to be a Christian, and this is one of God's commands. I say it's worth it. We need to say we're different from the world. And so four overlooked habits of Christian tyranny. Public worship, Sabbath observance, and then family worship. The Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 21, says that God is to be worshipped in private families daily. Now for some this may be completely new. What is this guy talking about? Here's what I'm talking about. And I think this is brilliant. And this is something that, again, has gone by the wayside. By family worship, I mean something along the lines of taking 10 minutes a day. Ten minutes a day, maybe longer. Depends where your kids are, where you are, right? To read the scripture, to pray, and to worship God as a family. You might do it at the dinner table, you might do it before your kids go to bed. What do you do? Well some families sing a song or or a hymn or a song. That's great. Never worked for us. May have something to do with my voice, I'm not sure. But um it's unfortunate. But uh hey we want our kids to learn the Psalms, we want 'em to learn the hymns. Then you read a short passage of scripture You know if you have older children you can read through a book of the Bible, I think like the Gospels, the Book of James, the Book of Proverbs, anything, you know, anything is good. If you have little children, oftentimes a little children's uh Bible storybook is good. You read the story, you read the passage of scripture And you just make a comment. You try to think, how does this apply? Now some of you, your response might be, well, I'm completely new to the to Christianity, to the Bible. I don't think I can do this. And I say, no, you can do this. You just read it. If you don't understand something, you say I don't know what this exactly means. But you keep at it, you're gonna learn the Bible. If your kids ask you a question, you can't answer it, you say, Well I don't know And uh but we'll just keep soldiering on. This is how God grows us into strong Christians, into strong Christian families And then at the end of the time, uh one person might pray or one person might say anything you want us to pray for, something like that. So real simple. Now you can you could um You can expand that of course. I think it's better to keep it simple because you're looking for the long haul. I remember years ago we had a a fellow in our church And he they were newly married, had a new child, and he wanted to do it right, so every night he'd prepare for his family devotions uh the next day at dinner And after a while he was worn out. And I said, well, Mark, you just have to you can't prepare. You just have to you just have to do it more on the roll. Because you you're doing this over the long run. And um, you know, we don't have Sunday school, right? We don't have the children's programs. So it's even more important, and I would say even when we do have Sunday school Still, the greater impact will be 10 minutes a day or 15 minutes a day, taking this time to read the scripture and to pray. 1847, an old Presbyterian pastor, James Alexander, said the right the daily, regular And solemn reading of God's holy word by a parent before his children is one of the most powerful agencies of the Christian life. He said, it is a constant dropping, but it wears its mark into the rock, right? If there is a drift over a rock over the years That little drop of water is going to wear a mark into that rock. And yeah, we want our kids to to learn something. And family devotions and um you know our kids that are grown, uh two of them know more about the Bible. In theology, then most guys go into seminary because of they had the privilege of just hearing this stuff. Every well not every day. Well many days I would say. We aim for five days a week if we get five in we're we're doing well But um it ha it has an effect on their on our kids, but um even more so uh they're gonna be affected in other ways. They're gonna be affected by we pray. by the impact of our example, right? They're going to see, hey, your relationship with Christ isn't just a Sunday morning affair. But you're trying, right? You're trying with all your flaws and faults, you're trying to bring your children to know Jesus Christ and to nurture them in Him. Now I remember um Douglas Kelly, and I've shared this before, he's a he was a professor of reform seminary in Charlotte He grew up in a Christian home. And he wrote, Those of us who were raised in Christian homes where there was daily worship can never get far from our minds. The sounds of our parents and grandparents' loved voices, lifting our very names in intercession, and calling on the Lord to bless us in large and small matters. The memory of the parents' voices present. Praying for the children. There is probably no more effective way to influence our teenage and adult children for God than to let them hear us praying for them by name and specificity. Specific need on a regular basis while they're young. This says to them, You're important to your parents, and you're important to God, and God is the one who will help you. If young parents will pray with and for their children out while they're small, it may pay rich dividends in preventing grief and alienation during the teenage and adult years. And so for those who This this is something new. I just say start small and uh if you miss a couple days, uh don't get discouraged. Uh don't be idealistic. Um we discovered that uh when we're trying to do this Our children are not like little birds waiting for me to drop the worm in their mouths, but rather they're distracted and oftentimes disinterested. But we plot on, but we plot on, and I'm curious. You too as well. And then getting back to Deuteronomy 6, verse 7, Moses says, you know what, you teach your children these things. But, yeah, you sit down after dinner, but as you're going along, as you're Driving in the car, uh as you're walking down the street. What'd he say? You shall teach them God's commands uh as you when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you arise. Just go along. They just understand, they see your worldview. Here's the fourth one. How are we doing for time here? I know there's for fun. Just trying to be sensitive to how much you could take But um of me. Alright. Work one, then we're done. Uh catechizing So catechism is a summary of the Bible in question-answer format. And we just did a couple catechism questions earlier in the service. I need to order some catechisms. We have one up there on the table. What what is this about catechizing? What about the Bible? I thought it was the Bible, right? We teach the Bible. Well yeah, we teach the Bible, but the catechism is just a tool for teaching. the Bible. 2 Timothy 1. 13. Paul exhorted Timothy to follow the pattern, the pattern of sound words that you heard from me. So there's a pattern of biblical truth. There are large categories, right, into which the smaller details fall. There is an unfolding progression. Christian truth comes in in by way of a system. It's a system of thought. And so we want our children to see the big picture, the big themes, the grand themes in scripture. Now this is something, this idea of catechizing goes back to the very earliest centuries of the church. Then it fell by the wayside. And then in the 16th century, the Protestant reformers re-established or re-invent uh revived this practice of catechizing. And it continued from the 16th century into the early 1900s. And then um in fact in 1928, I read, in 1928, 17,000 Presbyterian youth It's memorized the Westminster Shorter Catechism, and they had their names published in this magazine called The Christian Observer. And so it's something old, but it's a it's a good habit. And uh the most succinct, uh most uh uh comprehensive catechism is the Westminster Shorter Catechism. So it's interesting. You talk to some minister, you just ask some minister a question, what is God? Pastor, what is God? Nine times out of ten, you're going to get a vague, stammering answer. Well, God is this great power and He made the world and He sent His Son and on and on and on. Well that's the answer you're going to get from the minister If you talk to one of the kids in our church who learned the Westminster shorter catechism, go up to some six-year-old. What is God? The looking eye, or she'll looking the eye? And say, well, God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Any other questions? So right? So that's the value of the catechism. Now there's a there's a little one a booklet called First Catechism For the younger children. Real simple questions and answers. But this will help your kids learn a big picture of the Bible. It'll help them articulate. uh the themes of the Bible, it's going to sharpen their minds and develop their ability to memorize. So one writer by the name of J. A. Frond spoke about The Scottish peasant as the most remarkable man in Europe, and he traced the intellect and the character of the Scottish peasant to the memorization of the shorter catechism. And if you'll indulge me with one of my favorite antidotes about the shorter catechism B. B. Warfield, great Reformed Presbyterian theologian at Princeton Seminary, in 1909, he wrote an article asking the question: Is the shorter catechism worthwhile? And in this article he relates a story about a general in the American army in the late 1800s, and he wrote, that general Was in a great western city at a time of intense excitement and violent rioting. The streets were overrun daily by a dangerous crowd. One day he observed approaching him a man of singularly combined calmness and firmness of manner, whose very demeanor inspired confidence So impressed was he with his bearing amid the surrounding uproar, that when he had passed he turned back to look at him, only to find that the stranger had done the same. On observing his excuse me, on observing his turning, the stranger at once came back to him and touching his chest With his forefinger demanded without preface. What is the chief end of man And the general said, Man's chief end is to glorify God and to glorif is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And at that the man said I could tell by looking at you that you were a shorter catechism boy. And the general said, that's exactly what I was thinking of you. So Warfield's conclusion then, he writes, it's worthwhile to be a shorter catechism boy They grow to be men, and better than that, they're exceedingly they're exceedingly apt to grow to be men of God. So apt that we cannot afford to have them miss a chance of it. Train up a child in the way of the Lord, and he will not depart from it when he is old. And so there you have it, four disciplines of Christian uh Christian life, Christian parenting, Christian marriage. That in the past uh was considered essential, but in our day uh has been overlooked. And um for those of us who are trying to do these things, uh we say, man We're not we're not doing so hot, but we just pray, right, that God'll we wanna we wanna stay at it the Sabbath public worship, family worship, catechizing. And I would say to those, if this is completely new, or some of these elements are new, Here's the key, okay? The key is understanding the value of increment of incrementalism. Right? You start where you can, you do what you can, and you might not get it all straight. Uh the first year, you're trying these things, but you want to do it incrementally. Uh you don't want to give up. Because we know that God will honor your efforts. And we also know if anything is going to come of our parenting activities. God has to work in our children. He has to bring spiritual life into them. And so that should put us on our knees, right? We want to recognize Lord, unless you build a house, our labors are in vain.