To Romans chapter seven. So Romans seven, we're making our way through this book. We're going to read the first twelve verses. So Paul asked the question, or do you not know brothers For I'm speaking to those who know the law, that the law is binding on the person only as long as he lives. Thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive, but if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man, she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead in order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code, but in the new life of the Spirit. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would have not I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment Produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law But when the commandment came, sin came alive, and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me. So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous, and good. Well, it's pretty clear what this passage is about, even if this is your first time through. What's it about? It's about the law, and we have to figure out what is the law, but it's about the law. You find these terms law, commandment. Written code mentioned in every one of the verses I read, and in fact, they're mentioned thirty-five times in chapter seven up to chapter eight verse four. Excuse me So the question is, what is the law? Okay? That's a common word in the Bible. It's a prominent word. in the book of Romans. So what does Paul mean when he refers to the law? And the answer is the law, and I'm from New Jersey, so I used to say law, okay? So I'm trying to learn how to say it now. Law, right? Is that how you all say it? Uh law. Okay. The law is everything in the Bible That reveals what duty God requires of us. And so whatever God says, here's what you must do to live a life pleasing to me, that is the law. Now, when Paul speaks about the law, he's referring particularly to the law of Moses. And so that's the first five books of the Old Testament, right? Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, number, Deuteronomy. They're known as the law. And so the Jews refer to those books as the Torah were the law. And to make things a little confusing, but we're not going to get stuck in this, there are three categories of law in the Old Testament. And I think I'm going to write a newsletter in September, newsletter article in September just to clarify this part. So we're just going to put this on hold In the Old Testament, you find civil laws, which pertain to the nation of Israel, as a theocracy as directly under God's rule. You find ceremonial laws that dealt or pertained to the worship of Israel, like sacrifices and offerings and whatnot. But then there's also moral law, right? Commands how we're to conduct ourselves Amongst one another and before God. And God's moral law is summarized in the Ten Commandments And that's what Paul is referring to in this passage when he speaks about the law. He's speaking about God's moral law, and we can say it's summarized in the Ten Commandments. But that's not the only place you find law. You also find every time you see a command in the New Testament, that also was law. In fact, uh was it Matthew 5, 17 to 20 Jesus said, I haven't come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. He fulfilled it by his perfect obedience to it, by his dying on the cross for our sin, but he also fulfills it in his teaching. And so you read the Sermon on the Mount, and that's basically Jesus' exposition of several of the Ten Commandments. And that's why a preacher once said, May God save you on judgment day, not so much from the Ten Commandments, but from the Sermon on the Mount. Because in the Sermon on the Mount, we find the most exacting exposition of God's law in the Bible. What this passage answers is the question what is the place of God's moral law in the Christian life? And that's a legitimate question for Paul to deal with, because earlier, back in chapter 614 He said to these Christians, you are not under law, but under grace. Earlier, chapter 3, verse 28. Paul said, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. And so if we're saved by God's grace and not by our moral efforts, our efforts to become better people. Does that then relieve us of our duty to keep God's commandments? And there are professing Christians, and I met some of them, who would say, yeah, uh we don't we're saved by God's grace. And so W people Christians excuse their moral laxity by just saying, you know what? I'm not under law anymore. I'm under grace. Well In this passage, Paul teaches that the law is good if it is used appropriately. And so I just want to approach this passage by looking at it Step back a little bit, and we want to use it to answer two big questions, which I think are the two main questions this text deals with. And the first one is this What is the purpose of God's law? What is its place in the Christian life? Then the second question What does Paul mean in verse 6 when he says, we are free from the law, and we can now serve in the Spirit? So that if we get those two questions, we'll we'll have a good handle on this passage. Not all the details, or we can't go into all the details. But certainly, this is a thrust of this passage. So the first question we want to answer from our text is: what is the purpose of God's law? And Paul has established, and this is one of our things that we stand on, we know we can't get to heaven by our attempts to keep God's commands. That's impossible, right? God expects perfection. In James chapter 2, verse 10, James said, Whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. That's something we have to realize. Usually or many people think about, oh okay, I break a command. It's like taking a pebble off this huge pile of pebbles. Okay, I broke I broke this command, take another pebble off, I broke that command. That's not what James is saying. James is saying it's sort of like throwing a rock through a plate glass window. You hit that window at just one point. But the whole sheet of glass is shattered. Whoever keeps the law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. Paul says something similar in Galatians 3. 16. He said, by works of the law, no one will be justified. In other words, God's not going to say, you're good, you're righteous in my sight by your efforts to keep the commands, because none of us keep them perfectly. So, the law can't save you, but it does have a purpose. And from this text, I want to point out two purposes. And the first purpose of God's commands is that God gave us his commands to convict us of our sin And consequently to drive us to Jesus Christ. That's why the law is so important when we share the gospel with somebody We want people to see. You're not such a great guy. You're not just such a wonderful woman. But you've fallen short. We've all fallen short. And God doesn't grade on grade on the curve. And so you need a savior. And so the law convicts us of our sin. So that we might see that we indeed have a need for a Savior. And the way it does it is that it makes us conscious of our sin By revealing the holiness of God. So look at chapter 7, the second part of verse 7. Paul writes, if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not have known what it is to covet. If the law had not said, you shall not covet. Well, now it says back in chapter 2, verse 15, everybody knows right and wrong in their heart, because God gave us a conscience. But God's commands make it explicit. And so we recognize, you know what? I've fallen short. It's sort of like, you know, God's law is like a mirror. You think you're doing fine. I was painting something last Monday and I thought I looked really good. And um but when I got home I saw I had some paint right here. It looked like uh Hayawatha or something. And um I would not have known it. I was at the store and nobody said anything to me. I thought I was just fine But no, I had some paint in the face and I didn't recognize it until I looked in that mirror. And so it is. Look at chapter 3, verse 20. Paul says the same thing. Through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Okay, so the law is helpful. God's commands are helpful. It helps us to recognize we fall short. But the problem is that God's law shows us our sin. But it doesn't take it away, right? So you don't and this is if you're not I don't know if anybody here is unacquainted with Christianity. But some you meet people and they think, I'm going to become a Christian, and by what they what they're saying is, I'm going to try to be a better person, and I'm going to try to live by the Ten Commandments. That's not going to work, right? The law shows us our sin, but it doesn't take it away. And this passage is fascinating because it says, in fact, God's commands, far from taking away our sin, stimulate our sinful nature. Look at verse five. Paul says, While we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions in the what's it say? Our sinful passions aroused by the law were at work in our members. So God's commands stimulate our sin. Same thing in verse 8. Paul says, but sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kind of covetousness. So it's like sin took God's command and used it to make Paul covetous. Apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin came alive. And I died. Now there's one of the strongest statements in the Bible about the power of sin. It uses even the very law of God to arouse it. You might say, sin uses God's law like a fulcrum to get more leverage on us. And I think we know that from our experience, right? You walk through a really uh nice museum and there's a little tag on uh some uh artifact that says do not touch I never thought about touching it previously, but I'm suddenly interested in touching that thing. I don't know why. What got into me? I read a story about a church lady We just recited the Ten Commandments. So there was a church lady, she objected to the pastor. We should not recite this Ten Commandments. He said, Why? He said, because they put so many ideas in people's heads. And uh that's what Paul's saying here. There's some truth to her concern. Okay? So there's nothing wrong with God's commands, but sin takes it And uses it to bring us down. So then what do we do? How do we deal with the sin that resides within us And the answer is not try harder to keep God's commands. That just stirs it up. And John Bunyan's uh book, Pilgrim's Progress, right? One of the most classic, I think one of the most well-read books in history. Uh Bunyan says, uh or excuse me, he compares the sinful heart to a room that's full of dirt. And he said, if you try to get rid of the sin in your heart by using the law, it's like taking a broom and sweeping a dust uh a dusty room. Well the broom only stirs up the dust And so Bunyan says, what you need to do is you take the water of the Gospel of Grace, you sprinkle it on the dust And then it can be cleaned up with ease. And so the gospel, we need the gospel, we need the message that we're forgiven by God's grace, by what Jesus Christ did. That once God applies that to our heart, then we can make some progress in our pursuit of holiness And so we're asking the question, what is the purpose of God's commands? And I'm saying, God's commands show us our sin, but they can't take away our sin. Their purpose is to drive us to the gospel, right? So if you look at your look in the mirror and you see dirt on your face. You don't wash your face in the mirror. I mean the mirror has a purpose, but it's not to take take away the dirt. It's the same with God's law And so what we do, once we see our sin by looking at God's law, then we go to a different system, right? You go to soap and water if you want to clean your face. The system we would go to is the gospel. This message, this good news of the free salvation that God gives us in Jesus Christ. received by faith alone and not by human effort. Look at chapter three, verse twenty-one Paul wrote, the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. So then he goes on to talk about being justified by faith in Jesus Christ. That's the gospel. So let me summarize it. The law is everything that God commands, and the gospel is everything that God gives us. Or I might say, in the gospel, God gives us everything that He demands. Let me say it the long way, okay? uh sixteenth century reform uh theologians, uh Zacharias Ursinas. Listen to this, okay? It's a mouthful. The law is our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, showing us that righteousness which He now gives to us. The law prescribes what is to be for excuse me. The law prescribes what is to be done and forbids what ought to be avoided. While the gospel announces the free remission of sin through and for the sake of Christ alone. The law promises life on the condition of perfect obedience. The gospel on the condition of faith in Jesus Christ. And so the first purpose, God's commands are good. The first purpose is to convict us of our sin, not so we'll be miserable. But so that we'll look to Jesus Christ, right? He obeyed the law perfectly. He died on the cross. He bore the penalty for our sin. Here's the second purpose of the law, more briefly. God's law serves as a rule of life for the Christian. Okay? Once you are saved, okay, Lord, how can I please you? Well then we go back to his commands, and that's uh and God instructs us, here's how you can live a life pleasing to me And um so that's we're released from the law as a system of attaining our salvation, but we're to follow it as a guide for living. Look at verse 12. The law of bad, look at verse 12. No, the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. So there's nothing wrong with the law. And some people say, oh, I'm saved by grace. We don't need all these commands. That's legalistic. They're called antinomians. They're against the law. No, we are for the law, but we want to use it properly Uh 1 John chapter 2, verse 3, John said, By this we know that we've come to know him if we keep his commands. Okay? So you don't come to know God by by keeping his commands, but the fact that you are endeavoring To keep God's commands shows that you know Him. That's the fruit of salvation. One of the Puritans, a guy named Samuel Bolton, said this. The law sends us to the gospel for our justification. The gospel sends us Back to the law to frame our way of life. So you have to understand the purpose of God's commands. You're not going to get saved by it, but once God saves you by His grace, Then God says, here's my commands. Endeavor to walk in them. And we'll never do it perfectly, right? But we want to make some progress. And so point two then will be Christians are free from the law and now serve in the spirit. Now I want you to look at the first six verses, okay? And I'm gonna I'm gonna do this in short measure, but I want to cover these verses. And uh Paul really gets pretty deep here There's a principle, and the principle is we're free from the law. And he states that principle in the second part of verse 1. The law is binding on a person only as long as he lives. Okay? That's the principle. Then he illustrates the principle by using an analogy for marriage. And it's sort of a crude analogy, don't don't look at it with mathematical precision, but um he his point is Uh when a woman's husband dies, she is released from the marriage contract, and now she's free to remarry. Okay? So in the end of verse 1 he said he gave the principle the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives. Then in verses 2 and 3 he gives this illustration. Thus, the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law of marriage Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law And if she marries another man, she is not an adulteress. Okay? Now Paul in verse 4 applies it to the Christian. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ. So that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. So there's a couple things there I want you to notice in verse 4. So he says, you have died to the law through the body of Christ. So the body of Christ is a reference to Jesus' physical body, which was crucified. Remember chapter 6. Christians are united to Jesus Christ by faith. So what Paul is saying there is that if you're Christian, if you're united to Jesus Christ by faith, then There's a sense or a respect in that when Jesus died, you died. You died to the law. You're no longer bound to the law because Your death in union with Christ has severed that contract. So you're no longer, if you're a Christian, you're no longer condemned by the law. The law no longer has sway over you. Okay? And that's why he says in verse 6, we are now released from the law. Our acceptance before God doesn't depend on our efforts to keep his commands, because he accepts us by grace. And the verse 4, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead. So we we're we're now w we have new life. We've been raised with Jesus Christ. Pretty deep stuff. Here's a good summary by F. F. Bruce. He said, and if you follow this, you'll get it. He got it, I should say. He says, as death breaks the bond between a husband and wife, so death The believer's death with Christ breaks the bond which formerly yoked him to the law. And now he is free to enter into union with Christ. Okay? So our marriage, if you're a Christian, your marriage to the law ended When you believed on Jesus Christ, you're now united to Him. And the law has no claim on you with respect to your using it to earn God's favor. You with me? You get it? Okay. Very important. And if you don't get that, you'll think, oh, Christianity is about becoming a better person, and then you're a Christian. No. Okay. Now here's the here's the helpful part I think. In the end of verse 6, Paul says Now that we've been released from the law, we are free to serve in the Spirit. So there he says We're not under the old written code, but in the new life of the Spirit. So what Paul's saying Is that when you become a Christian, you receive the Holy Spirit? If you haven't received the Holy Spirit, you're not a Christian, okay? The Holy Spirit empowers us to make some progress in the school of holiness. Now I wish Paul went straight to chapter eight Well, I shouldn't say that. Paul knows what he's doing. He takes up another objection in verses fourteen to the end of chapter seven. But Paul in verse six talks about uh uh about living in the spirit, in the light the life of the spirit. He expands on that in chapter eight. But this is all a fulfillment of the promise that God gave in the Old Testament. Greg great Ezekiel, Ezekiel 36, Jeremiah 31. God promised that he would give us his spirit. And so Paul is saying, that's what happened on the day of Pentecost. God poured out his spirit, and now God has given us the Holy Spirit. And that's why we can make some progress in the Christian life. Just giving the law won't do it. I was thinking um so I have this little raised garden and it's never worked. I think because I probably put fill dirt in there. I didn't realize it. I'm not a I'm not a farmer But I uh figured it out this summer. So I put three tomatoes in my little raised garden. I put two over by our house. They did fine. But those three tomatoes, they're disaster, I was out there trying to water it and feed it, and I asking people questions It didn't work, so I transplanted them and they did alright but then they died. Some of them have little like tomatoes like golf balls. So I felt really good when Rusty Scheip showed me pictures of his tomato plants. He's standing next to his tomato trying to reach the top and he can't. So if you want some tomatoes, talk to Rusty. Uh not me But anyway, what's going on there? Um well they these tomatoes, the poor bless their hearts. They were planted in this soil that didn't really have any life in it. And so they were doomed from the beginning. Now what if Congress passed a law saying All tomatoes must grow, no bottom rotten, they must be nice like softballs. Well, you could pass all the laws you want. But if you're not connected to something that has life in it, you're not going to grow. And that's what the problem was under the law. We were told what God required of us, but we didn't have any spiritual life in us. And so what Paul says in this in verse 6. Is that now united to Jesus Christ? Yeah, we're still assaulted by temptation and we still struggle, we still stumble and sin regularly. But now we can make some progress in the school of holiness, right? I'm not saying it's not a fierce conflict I'm not saying that we don't fall and stumble. I'm not saying that. I'm not being unrealistic. Because the Bible is realistic about Christian growth. It recognizes that until we see Christ face to face, we'll always stumble. But what we do have now is the Holy Spirit And so we can bear fruit unto God. Look at the verse 4. He says, if I could summarize it, you've died to the law, In order that you might bear fruit for God. Jesus said the same thing, right? In John 15, verse 5. He said, I'm the vine, you're the branches, whoever abides in me. He it is that bears much fruit. And so this is an encouragement to us in our pursuit of holiness. Where you think, I've been a Christian all these years, I'm not making much progress. Well, we're not making much progress, perhaps, but we are making progress. And when we saw the some of the young folk or many of the young folks stand up here this morning evaluating their trip uh to Fairmont, West Virginia, Through the lens of how does God see that stuff? That's an evidence of spiritual growth in their life, their lives. And so Paul's point is just because we're released from the law, it doesn't give us license for immorality. Far from it He says, now that we're released from the law, we can make some progress in holiness. So there's a ditty. To run and work the law commands, yet gives me neither feet nor hands. But better news the gospel brings. It bids me fly and gives me wings. It gives me the ability now to make some progress. And so, if you're not a Christian, I hope you see, I hope this is clear. You don't become a Christian by trying to work your way to heaven by turning over a new leaf and saying, I'm going to keep God's commands better. It's not going to work. God requires perfection of you. You'll never attain that perfection. You need a savior. And that's what the gospel's about, right? Christ died for sinners. He removes our sin. He gives us his righteousness. And then He helps us by his spirit to make progress. And if you are a Christian, this passage reminds us, listen. We are united to Christ. I don't feel it. What does that have to do with anything? It's a promise of God. He says, you have received the Holy Spirit. If you look back ten years ago, if you're a Christian You're making progress. If you're not, you need to examine yourself what's going on here. Am I a Christian? But all of us are making some progress. So that's an encouragement. So let's bow our heads Father in heaven, we thank you that you have given us your spirit. You've given us renewed hearts. You are working in us, and I pray your work would continue. Help us, Lord, to use all the means that you've provided for our growth and godliness, staying in the Word, avoiding tempting situations. Recognizing that apart from you we can do nothing, so we must call out to you in prayer, being in close fellowship with other Christians seeking to know others and to be known by them and to encourage one another and to exhort one another and also to receive the exhortations from others. And so, Lord, grow us more like Jesus Christ for those who are discouraged. I pray, Lord, you'll hearten them. For those who are not Christians, help them to recognize that they're going to stand before a holy God and they need a Savior. Help them to rest on Jesus Christ as their Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.