If you want to stay here, that's great. Good. I understand. Why would you want to go there when you can hear the Bible? Okay. So we're in John chapter 16. It's good to have some new faces with us We're marching through John's gospel, and we've made it up to chapter 16, verse 16. It's a long passage, and I have red letters and progressive lenses, so I'm gonna be going like this, but I'm gonna try my best. And um we're not going to cover every jot and tittle, but we're going to try to cover the the main mountaintops here. So John 16, this is the night before the crucifixion. And John writes in verse 16 Jesus saying, a little while, he says to his disciples, a little while, and you'll see me no longer, and again a little while, and you will see me. So some of the disciples said to one another, What is this that he says to us a little while and you will not see me? And again a little while, and you will see me, and Because I'm going to the Father. So they were saying, what does he mean by a little while? We do not know what he's talking about. Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, Is this what you're asking yourselves? What I meant by saying, A little while, and you'll not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me. Truly, truly I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. So when so also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name, ask and you will receive that your joy may be full I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech. but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say that I will ask the Father on your behalf For the Father Himself loves you because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from God I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His disciples said, Ah. Now you're speaking plainly and not using figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I'm not alone, for the Father is with me. I've said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world And so as I said, this is the eve of the crucifixion. Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples. He's preparing them for his death. He's going to be leaving them. He's sort of giving them uh he is giving them a speech of preparation. And part of his aim is stated back in chapter 16, verse 1 He's telling these things, he says, to keep you from falling away. When the when things go bad and they're about to go get difficult. He doesn't want them to go wobbly, to crumble, to abandon everything that Jesus has taught them. thus far. And so that's why he's been exhorting them in chapter 15, verse 4, he said, You must stay close to me. He said, Abide in me And then in chapter fifteen, the end of chapter fifteen, he warns them, you're going to face persecution by the world Just I'm giving you a heads up because it will come. It doesn't mean that I'm I I'm a false Messiah. You just must be prepared for this. And then in the passage we just read Jesus explains he's going to be leaving them, but they should not lose heart. He will be gone, but for a while. He will return. And in fact, their sorrow will turn to joy. And that really is what I would say is the theme of this passage. We see something of a pattern of the Christian life here. The Christian life is a life of sorrow that moves to joy. And we all know, I don't have to spend a lot of time explaining this. There are many griefs and many sorrows in this fallen world. And that's what Jesus said, right, in verse 33, in this world you will have tribulation. But Jesus reminds us that the day is coming when the sorrow will give way to joy. And the reason is that Jesus has overcome the world. And so, like I said, this is a long passage. I'm taking a couple uh big swipes at it. We're not going to cover all the details. But the first thing I want to say on the outline is just to reiterate what Jesus says, in this world you will have trouble. And trouble is setting in for the disciples. Jesus had uh Judas. Judas had just left the group, right? He went off. He was going to betray Jesus. And now in verse 16, Jesus tells the disciples that he will be leaving them. A little while, and you'll see me no longer. This is disturbing to the disciples on two levels. It was perplexing and it was uh cause for sadness. So first of all They were perplexed. They didn't understand what Jesus was talking about. And It's a little surprising because he had been with them for three years. He had spoken of and certainly alluded to the cross, but it did not register. And so now when he tells them yet again that he he will be leaving them, but now he says really soon he'll be leaving them. This leaves them baffled, verse verse 17. So some of the disciples said to one another, What is this that he says to us, a little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while And you will see me because I'm going to the Father. So they were saying, what does he mean by a little while? We don't know what he's talking about. What is this little while? Well you can read the commentaries and there's different Is he talking about he's returning one day by the second coming? That's not a little while. Is he talking about coming to them at Pentecost? That's not a little while. He's saying at the resurrection, he's going to see them again when he rises from the grave. That's a little while. Uh that is uh just three days off. But nonetheless, uh they are perplexed and yeah. Remember uh last week we looked at verse twelve, he said, there's a lot Jesus said, there's a lot of things I want to tell you guys, but you're not ready to hear it yet. There's just there's just It's just too confusing. I haven't died. I haven't risen. So it's not going to register. Things will not register until after Jesus rises from the grave. But the only thing uh the only comment I want to make thus far is that yeah the disciples were perplexed, and that's not uncommon, right? The Christian life in the Christian life There are many perplexing things. There are many things that are beyond us, right? God acknowledges that. Isaiah 55, 8. God said, My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways. We're perplexed by many things. We're perplexed by the providence of God. How why does God allow or uh so order things? Becky was at a funeral of our uh a neighbor we had uh some years ago yesterday, he a man who died before his time left a wife and two kids and You know, that's perplexing. We don't understand uh God's ways. He was a Christian man. How how could why did that happen? Uh we have those kind of questions all the time. Uh why does God allow Christian people to be persecuted in other nations? Why doesn't He step in? Why isn't there rule of law? Why is there not some justice immediately? Why does God not strike down those who commit heinous acts of evil? We don't understand all this, right? And then there's questions about God's providence, and then we're also oftentimes perplexed about teachings in the Bible. You go through scripture, right? The opening chapters of Genesis, the creation account, it says some things very clearly, but there are aspects of it that we don't understand. It's a mystery. How did this work out? Where you read the we were studying the book of Joshua uh last uh last fall on Thursday nights. And God sent the people of Israel into Canaan to completely exterminate Entire nations. How does that square with God's character, right? These well, I think there are some answers to those kind of questions, but still there's a little bit of uh uh wonder about it. We have many conversations in this church about the seeming tension, I said seeming apparent tension between God's sovereignty and human responsibility. How does that fit together? The Bible doesn't give an exhaustive explanation. Right? In fact, Deuteronomy 29, verse 29, Moses said that secret things belong to the Lord our God. God has given us sufficient information that we can stake our life on the Bible and on Jesus Christ. But he hasn't given us exhaustive information. Then there's questions about like the book of Revelation, end times, eschatology How how how is this all going to work out? Well, there are many stakes that we could put in the ground, but again, uh some things we don't understand. And the nice thing to know is that the Bible recognizes that not all things are clear. Here's a good verse to look up later, 2 Peter 3. 16. Peter, referring to the writings of Paul, says, there are some things in his letters that are hard to understand. Okay? But like I said, there's enough in this book that's super clear that you can stake your life on what God has given us in the Bible So in this world you'll have trouble, there are perplexities, questions we cannot answer, and of course there are sorrows. And the disciples were shattered. When Jesus told them, I'm going to be leaving you in just a little while. Verse 20 says, You're going to weep and lament. You will be sorrowful. And we can certainly relate to that. We live in a fallen world, right? And we can say, or I can say, all the conflicts all the wars, all the violence, all the family dysfunction, all the injustice, all the self-destructive Behaviors, all the loneliness, all the poverty, all the disease, all the illness, and all the natural disasters go back to the fall of man The Bible explains why there is sin, why there is such misery in this world. It goes back to Adam's rebellion And now we are living in the consequences of that. It's not the last chapter, but nonetheless, there is much about life in this fallen world. That is not pleasant. In Paul and Barnabas and Acts 14, they said, It's through many tribulations that we must enter the kingdom of God. So Some of you I know you we sang Psalm three It was a dark psalm. David's talking about suffering and his hardships. Why do we do that? Because, well, we sing the Psalms because The Psalms are the hymn book from the Bible God's given us. And also, in the Psalms, many of the Psalms, one-third of the Psalms are laments. They acknowledge the hardness of life in this world. And so we're saying the normal Christian life is not like a never-ending street party But the normal Christian life includes heartache, loneliness, and sadness. But I say to the people But it but it's the true life. It's the life that God made us to have. And so we present a realistic picture of what the nor what the Christian life is. That is why we sing the Psalms and another reason we sing the Psalms is because we want you to have something you can go to when you're distressed and when you're sorrowful, right? So read a psalm every day Sing the Psalms. We we sing a Psalm every Sunday, and as I said, many of these Psalms recognize the difficulty of life in this world. So in this world you'll have trouble And you're like, yeah, I know that. You don't have to s you don't have to convince me of that. True. Jesus says point two, take heart. He said, I have overcome the world. Right? The world rejoiced when they nailed Jesus to the cross. And Jesus says, this isn't the last chapter. Your sorrow will turn to joy. Verse 21 and 22 again. He gives this illustration. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but she has delivered but when she has delivered the baby She no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. So also you have sorrow now. But I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. And it was the joy that the disciples had when they saw the resurrected Christ. When they saw that he had conquered death that enabled, so there's eleven disciples left. It was this joy that Jesus was the conqueror that enabled them to then continue in their ministry, proclaiming the gospel, right, before Jesus was crucified, or when Jesus was crucified They were shivering cowards. They were in hiding. They saw the riser the resurrected Christ. They went out They proclaimed the gospel to hostile crowds. They faced stonings, imprisonment. What, ten of the remaining eleven? Died martyrs, deaths. What was going on there? They saw the reality of the resurrection And so that's why they could go on and never falter again in their allegiance to Jesus Christ. And so that's the thrust of what Jesus is saying. That's the application. Listen, there are seasons in our lives, and some of you are in one of those seasons right now where there's great distress. But we know how the story's gonna end, so we're okay. Uh my father was a big Army football fan. Forty years he had season tickets at West Point. As a kid, I went to Army football games. I was named after an Army football player. So they my father was a big Army football fan. I loved Army football. We come home, this is North Joisey, and um Saturday night they the local station would play a rerun of the game. Army stunk back in the late sixties and seventies. There, but once in a while they won. And um so if we're watching the rerun and um They fumbled or they threw an interception, but they won that game. I was like, yeah, not to worry. I know how it's gonna end. And that's pretty much how the Bible Orients us toward the Christian life. We know how it's going to end. We know that Jesus is the victor. And so all is well with the world. I say that to our young people. Many young people are distressed or heavy. Listen, you need to say in the Bible, all is well, all is going to be well. In this world, you will have trouble. Here's a good verse. 1 Peter Chapter 1, verses 2 to 4, and then verse 6, I'll read it but write it down. Go in to meditate on So Peter wrote to persecuted Christians in his day. He said to these persecuted Christians, God has caused us to be born again into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading Kept in heaven for you. Then he says, in this you rejoice, in the fact that you're going to have this inheritance, in the fact that you have received spiritual birth from God, you know God. In this you rejoice. So now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. Now before we go on, I want to say something that's like, this is really obvious, but sometimes we miss it, and I want our young people to listen to this one. Because I'm a brilliant guy, I have something to say here, okay? Jesus, we're reading this passage in 1 Peter, we're reading this passage in John 16. Like, hey, Jesus is concerned that you have joy. Jesus is concerned that you have joy. Chapter 15, verse 11, he said to his disciples, These things I've spoken to you, that my joy may be in you and your joy may be full. Jesus wants us to have a full joy. Verse 20 of chapter 16, he says to those who suffer trials, your sorrow will turn to joy. Jesus is more concerned about your joy than you're concerned about having joy. Something to think about, right? The world always prompts makes all these promises, but they're hollow promises. They promise joy, they promise happiness. In the long run, the world doesn't deliver It only brings delivers guilt, loneliness, disappointment, and longing. But Jesus has gone public record to say that if you know him and you follow him, you will have joy. How's that? Because no matter what you face You'll have joy because you're living as God designed you to live. And you have a purpose. You have a mission in life. You're not just living aimlessly. You have a goal in life, no matter what you do for a living, what you're doing in school. You have an aim in your life, and you know that God is ruling all all over all of history to accomplish his good purposes. And you can know the God of the universe. And also, of course, as a side note, and the blessings he gives us. These are all reasons for joy. Let's go on, and I want to just mention a couple things Jesus says in this passage about prayer. And in a nutshell, the idea is Jesus says Call out to God in prayer so that your joy may be full. So verse 23 and 24, let's read it again. In that day, you will ask nothing of me. This is after the resurrection. Truly, truly I say to you Whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive that your joy may be full So during Jesus' earthly ministry he had the the disciples had asked him about things, they had asked him for things, Jesus says, Listen. The day is coming after the resurrection when you're going to ask the Father and He will give you. He will give you that understanding. He will give you your request. And uh there's two things I want to point out in verse 23 that Jesus said about prayer. First of all, he said in verse 23, we should ask the Father, we should direct our requests to the Father. So that's sort of like a general statement, a general rule rule of thumb. When you pray, generally we pray to the Father. Doesn't mean if you pray to Jesus, you pray to the Holy Spirit, you're wrong. In fact, uh Acts 7. 59, Stephen Prayed to Jesus. Before they stoned him, Jesus Stephen called out to Jesus. But in general, yeah, we followed what Jesus taught us in the Lord's Prayer. Right? Matthew six, nine. When you pray, pray like this. What what does he then say? Our Father in Heaven Who can call God their father? Only the Christian, only the Christian can call the God of the universe his father. Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, says that by nature we're not children of God, we're children of darkness. And children of wrath. That's in the book of Ephesians. But Jesus comes along in John chapter 1, verse 12, and he said But to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God And so we're not born children of God, but we are adopted as God's children When we recognize that we're sinners, but Jesus died for our sin, He gives us His righteousness Because of that, we're given not only forgiveness, but we are adopted as God's children. And so this is a wonderful privilege and this is why we're t when we're talking about prayer, I'm saying uh and I I speak for myself too. We should be calling out to God in prayer because we have a Father who cares for us. Last Sunday night at the prayer meeting, we sang one of John Newton's hymns. And one of the lines is, uh, Thou art coming to a king, large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power are such that none can ever ask too much. And so Jesus directs us in verse 23 to direct our prayers to the Father. And then he says that we're to pray in his name three times. Look at verse 23, 24, 26. 23, end of the verse he says, Whatever you ask of the of the Father in my name. Verse 24, you've asked nothing in my name. 26, in that day you will ask in my name. What does it mean to pray in Jesus' name? We always say in Jesus' name, what are we talking about? Is this some kind of incantation or what what what's going on And we say, no. Uh when we s pray in Jesus' name, we're just acknowledging uh that Jesus is our mediator, right? We're sinners, God's holy, how can we come before a holy God Well, because we come by Jesus Christ. As I said, He gives us His righteousness when we believe in Him. And so he's our mediator, he's our go-between by which we can come into the presence of our Father in heaven. And so it's by his righteous life and atoning death that we can pray. That's what we say in Jesus' name. And it's interesting And we're almost done, okay? R coming around the final corner here. Um he tells us to pray For the sake of your joy. So there's this joy thing again. Verse 24. Ask and you will receive that your joy may be full How does prayer lead to joy? Well, it deepens our communion with God, but also God answers our prayers, right? End of verse 23. Whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. That's not a Jesus isn't saying, he isn't giving us a blank check, but you know, as our requests are consistent with the character of God and with the will of God Jesus says, God will give that to you. But I don't want to minimize the promise that Jesus makes here. He is saying to his children, he is saying to Christians, God hears your prayers and he will meet your needs. And so why pray? Why say, well, we pray because it's an expression of our communion with God. But we also pray, verse 24, because God answers prayer. You see the same thing in the book of James, James 4, verse 2. James said this great deep theological statement about prayer. You don't have because you don't ask. So maybe we need to pray more. James 5. 16. James said, the prayer of a righteous person is effective. How's it going? The prayer of a righteous person has great power. And so this is why we want to hear this exhortation from Jesus that we should pray. Pray for your children, right? Pray for loved ones who are not believers, those who are loved ones with their various trials and distresses. Pray for the advance of the gospel. Right? We're we're we want to see a church planted in Eldersburg. We want to see our young people uh develop a community, a fellowship. and to reach their friends and to invite them. So these are things that I encourage you to pray for regularly. Be a part of course of the church prayer meetings. And so we pray. It's an expression of our communion with God. Prayer changes things, and prayer changes us, right? And so we pray, Lord, shape me. I'm so stubborn, I'm so blind. Shape me. So, verse 31, Jesus asked the disciples, Do you now believe? And that's the question all of this hinges on. Do you believe that the words I read are the words of God? That's a revolutionary claim that this book makes Do you believe that these are indeed the words of God? And I say if you do Then this promise is good. You can have joy. In this world, yeah, in this world you'll have trouble, but take heart, because Jesus Christ has indeed overcome the world. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you have spoken to us uh with such clear statements. Thank you that we don't have to speculate about how to navigate the difficulties of life in this world. And we're thankful that in the end of the day You will reign. Everyone will recognize your Lordship. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to press on, especially those who are who carry great sorrows, griefs, and burdens, those who are lonely, those who are anxious. Help us to look to you I pray for those who aren't Christians yet, those who are seeking these things out. I pray they'll continue to read the scripture. I pray that you would move them from unbelief to belief. that they would see that there's the God He has spoken, He has made Himself known in Jesus Christ. Give them repentance and faith I pray this in Jesus' name, Amen