Heavenly Father, now as we come to the ministry of your word and to the reading and preaching of it, the explanation and application of it, we pray that your spirit Would be merciful to us. Our eyes, our ears, our hearts need to be worked on by you to be receptive. And also wise in the reception of what is said and heard. We pray that your spirit would work to that end for Jesus' sake. Amen. We look there as you can tell at again at Romans chapter 11 verses 33 to 36. I'll ask you to hear now what God says through the Apostle Paul. Over the depth of the riches and the wisdom, the knowledge of our God, how unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. Our theme this morning, as we've heard, but as you see printed there in your bulletin and the outline is Glory to God alone. We're looking this morning at the ultimate rallying cry of the historic Christian Church, glory to God alone. It's a rallying cry that runs through all four slogans that you see behind me on those banners. But you may be curious as to why glory to God alone is in the center. Did they ever strike you as unusual or at least needing an explanation? Well let me make some suggestions regarding that centrality of that theme in the by way of introduction. We give glory to God alone when we confess that the Old and New Testaments Excluding the Apocrypha are the final authority and supreme judge of truth and error, good and evil, right and wrong. As we've heard from John's gospel, we hear God's voice now in no other source than in Scripture alone, the written word of God. We likewise Give glory to God alone when we declare that by His grace alone we move from the state of sin to the state of salvation. Since we're born dead Defiant and doomed sinners, no works of ours added to his grace, even added to his grace, can move us from sin to salvation. Salvation must come to us sinners by his grace alone, as God acts for us and then in us. We also give glory to God alone when we affirm that we are saved, not through faith plus works, not through faith plus hope and love, but through faith alone, to be sure. The faith through which God saves us sinners is never alone. It bears fruit in Christ's likeness, still, as Scripture declares Through the apostle, this same apostle who wrote Romans 11 that we read from earlier, Scripture says through him, God Justifies the ungodly who do not work but believe in Christ So once again, we give glory to God alone when we confess that the benefits of Christ's saving work don't get to us sinners through Christ plus the church or Christ plus the sacraments, or Christ plus any priests, it is through Christ alone that the benefits of his work yet from him to us. You see, glory to God alone saturates what the historic Christian church teaches and confesses. It is the central watchword of God's church and of Scripture. It's vital that you and I get a grip. And keep a grip on this important rallying cry. To do this, we need to answer two questions this morning, at least These are two questions that if you wish to answer this question, you will focus on. What does Scripture mean by the glory of God? And secondly, how has God made his glory known? So we want to answer these questions first, and then we'll focus on the application of those answers to ourselves. So, first of all, this morning, let's Try to answer the question, what does Scripture mean by the glory of God? The bottom line is this, to cut to the chase. Scripture talks about God's glory when it means and it means First and foremost, the majesty and beauty of God in all his perfections. How did we reach that conclusion? Well, let me give you some idea. That Old Testament Hebrew word translated by our English word glory refers to a person's weightiness, not in pounds, but in character in reputation is in in importance. The New Testament Greek word carries the same implications of a person's reputation. So in the Bible Glory basically refers to the weightiness, the reputation of a person. A weighty person in the ancient world was someone who was honorable Worthy of respect, people of high social position and wealth were people of weight, honor, and glory in society. So scripture describes the wealth of Jacob and Job, for example, as their glory. Joseph and his exhausted position in Egypt is his glory. Even the rich and prominent men in Israel are described as the nation's glory. And yes, people of glory were expected to merit their glory. The book of Proverbs gets pointed about it. Outward glory without the character to match it is an offense, not only to humans, but to God. Applied to God Himself, glory then refers to the supreme grandeur and splendor of God in all his perfections. In fact, he is so majestic and spectacular that when he is present, his glory is often visible and active. For example Scripture says that his glory fills the entire creation, that his glory is seen by all the nations, in particular when God is present among His covenant people Israel. The brilliance of his glory is so overwhelming, the radiance of his glory is so unbearable that his glory has to be covered in a cloud. Remember that? Shekinah glory we hear about, especially in Exodus. In fact, without protection, his glory destroys creatures. But with protection, that glory brings life and fellowship with God. God's glory Moves those who witness it then, either to sheer fear and trembling or to deep adoration and devotion. Which is it for you and for me? Such glory you see belongs only to God Himself And through his prophet Isaiah, God declares, I will not give my glory to another. You see, others can reflect God's glory. Or he may give a glory to some among his creatures. But, but there is no other under heaven and earth To whom divine glory belongs. So let's put all this together and go back to our opening question there. What does Scripture mean by the glory of God? It means his majesty and beauty, the all-surpassing supremacy of his perfections A phrase such as the full weight of the godness of God. Transcendent in his holiness and righteousness, our God, you see, is the God of glory. He's the King of glory. He does all things to the praise of his glory because from all eternity his chief end has been to glorify himself. So that is our answer, working answer this morning to the question of what does Scripture mean by the glory of God? Well, with that answer then let's turn to the question, how does God Make his glory known. How has he made his glory known? If the chief end of God is to see himself glorified, how does he glorify himself? Well, we've heard about it already in passing, but let's focus on it for the moment in the phrase that he glorifies himself in creation. Perhaps you can see your lifted, listed in scripture, there are some scripture passages like Psalm 104 Bless the Lord, O my soul, O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty. He then goes on, does the poet to recite the wonders of God's creation, and he ends up with the expression, May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works. That's from Psalm 104. What about Revelation chapter 4 Worthy are you, O Lord, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power for you created all things and by your will they existed and were created. Again, God glorifies himself. In creation, Psalm 19 also bears witness to the same idea. This one's very familiar to us, isn't it? The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork But we also hear about it in Psalm 8, where God's name is celebrated as majestic in all the earth, especially because he created male men, male and female. With glory and honor. The glory of God, the Creator, from the beginning has been to see the earth full of people and other creatures who reflect his glory. In fact, he declares, everyone who's called by my name, I created for my glory. Are you called by his name this morning? He created you for his glory. But how else might we say that God has manifested his glory, made his glory known. He's glorified himself before Christ came in his justice and in his grace toward sinners And I give you in the outline there several examples of this because we need to appreciate that this captures what God has done for us. uh to uh to make his glory known before chrame. In justice, for example. In justice, he judged our first parents, but in grace he saved them Let's remember a little bit about this so that we appreciate the point. God the Creator gave his our first parents his commandments to obey to his glory, but they preferred their own glory to his, didn't they? So they disobeyed and fell short of his glory. In response, what did God do? Why, he displayed his glory in his judgment as he exposed their failure to glorify him. But he also glorified himself in his grace Received through faith alone as he covered their nakedness and promised them a savior to come That's how God glorified himself with our first parents. What about with the world before the flood? In justice, he judged the world before the flood. But in grace he delivered Noah. Despite God's mandate to fill the earth to his glory, sinners filled the earth with what? With unrighteousness and violence, the scripture says. So God glorified himself in the floodwaters of his wrath, didn't he? His wrath against the world that was, but also in his grace, given through faith, he made Noah and his family heirs of righteousness by faith. There's another way, another example that God has glorified himself in an event connected with Sodom. You know this story. In justice, he judged Sodom. But in grace he delivered lot. You know that Sodom was a city utterly corrupt, shameless. Lawless, godless, and apostate. So God glorified himself in the fire, not the water this time, the fire of his wrath against Sodom, but he displayed his glory in grace. To Lot, to whom God credited righteousness through faith, though he was a weak man. Another example, we need to keep going because there's a lot in the Old Testament to cover before Christ. In justice, he judged Egypt And in grace he rescued Israel. He declared that the exodus from pagan Egypt would bring glory to himself. He said of Pharaoh, I will get glory over Pharaoh. Egypt saw God's glory in his wrath, however, didn't he? Didn't it? In the plagues, in their defeat at the Red Sea. Israel, however, saw his glory and his grace to them in the Passover and in their passage through the Red Sea Another example, in justice God judged Canaan, but in his grace he converted Rahab. He glorified himself when Israel applied that sword of his holy justice to the wicked Canaanites. He also glorified himself when he did what with Rahab. You remember? He made her a model of his saving grace as she by faith alone in the God of Abraham. She shared the faith. of Abraham and found safety with her family from that same sword. In justice, God also judged Israel. Israel in its unbelief and in but in grace he sustained his chosen remnant. Remember that he glorified himself in his wrath against unbelieving Israel when Assyria and Babylon attacked them. Those empires came against God's covenant people, and in unbelief, God judged them in his wrath But also in his grace, when he sustained the believing remnant through his promise to bring them salvation from sin through the sinless son of Abraham and David to come. God glorified himself before Christ came in multiple examples of his justice and his grace. But now we come to the pinnacle of God's revelation of his glory in history so far, because now we come to how God glorifies himself above all in Christ Jesus. As you reflect on what we've heard in the Gospel of John, you know that glory saturates Every aspect of Christ's person and work in Scripture and particularly in the Gospel of John From his eternal presence in glory as God with God before creation, through his incarnation and transfiguration To his resurrection and ascension, Christ is revealed to us as the eternal Lord of glory. Remember how we got here, however, to Christ Himself and the revelation of God's glory in Christ. We remember That though we sinners always fall short of God's glory, his chief end has remained the same. He will see himself glorified. We remember too that before Christ came, God glorified himself in multiple examples that we just rehearsed. Because he's just. He had to punish sin. And he has to now punish sin, yet thankfully, because he's also gracious He determined to save sinners. God himself is our only hope, you see, as sinners, isn't he? We cannot be or do what he requires of us. We cannot qualify to save ourselves from sin and death and the punishment that we deserve. So God himself must save us sinners, and to do that, he's resolved to glorify himself not only in justice but also in grace. And here we come to some very important statements out of Scripture. How exactly Did God glorify himself? He chose to send his eternal son into the world. Remember that faithful saying that Paul cites in 1 Timothy chapter 2? That is a faithful saying that Christ Jesus came into the world to do what? to save sinners. And his son, though fully and truly God, humbled himself, didn't he? He humbled himself to become fully and truly man, so that God might be glorified as both just and gracious, as the one who justifies those who believe. In Christ, God glorified his justice. How do I say that? Well, think about this passage from 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and Romans chapter 8. He made his son who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. And by doing that, Romans chapter 8 tells us he condemned sin in the flesh. God glorified his grace, you see. As sinless man, Christ fulfilled all that God required of man. In his life, Christ was entirely faithful where we sinners are entirely unfaithful But as God most holy, Christ paid the debt that only God could pay. In his debt he bore the punishment, we sinners justly deserve. Because Christ glorified his Father in his life and death, God raised him from the dead in glory, didn't he? He raised him from the dead and took him up in glory to heaven. And from his glorious throne in heaven, Christ now commands sinners everywhere to repent. To believe in him as their only hope of salvation from the wrath to come. Yes, it's coming again In Christ, God has glorified his justice, you see. But in Christ He also glorifies his grace, doesn't he? We know this From the gospel. Let's get specific though. By his grace as a gift without any merit of our own, he freely freely credits to us sinners the perfect righteousness of Christ through faith alone. And he declares us righteous before him. Salvation that Christ secured for sinners, that he offers to sinners, becomes sinners By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So again, let's go back to our question How does what we've heard apply to us, but more specifically before that? How? Did God make his glory known? He's made his glory known in creation, he's made his glory known in history before Christ, and above all in Christ. So how does all this apply to us. We've been waiting for that. So let's get to the guts of how this applies to us We must come to terms, mustn't we? Must come to terms with what Scripture teaches about his glory. God's chief end, friends, is to glorify himself His chief end for us humans is no different. He created us in his image to give glory to him alone in all aspects of life. Scripture also teaches that we sinners always fall short of his glory, even as church members. We fall short of his glory. And we understand why, don't we? Because our goal sometimes, perhaps always conflicts in some degree with his glory for himself, his gold for himself and for us So you and I must examine ourselves in terms of especially what we believe and how we behave, mustn't we? For example, let me make some specific points here If I ponder the majesty and beauty of God's perfections and say, not for me, I prefer someone else. I prefer something else Does that properly glorify God? How about if I confuse worship with entertainment, with what I get from it, as opposed to what God gets from it? Do I properly, rightly, give glory to God alone? What about when I prefer a good story and socializing over faithful preaching and training in godliness? Does that properly glorify God? Can I rightly glorify God alone if I put self-help above God's gospel of grace and his law of love? Can I properly glorify God when I pursue influence and affluence over faithfulness and holiness? Overall, am I really living my life before his face, under his authority, to his glory alone? You see, perhaps today God has exposed your conscience to the truth that God has diagnosed about you and me. Like the rest of us, you're a sinner too, in his sight, justly deserving of his displeasure, without any hope except in his sovereign grace Then hear this appeal, be reconciled to God through faith alone and Christ alone. Flee to Christ alone, because, friends, we've heard it, he's transcendent in the glory of his perfections, and God has therefore appointed him the judge of the world in righteousness to that will come one day. It is none other than Christ who will judge the world on the day that God is set. And until that day another truth pertains. It is that Christ alone is the only source of salvation from sin and death for us sinners. So we urge you once again, be reconciled to God. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners. Rest upon Him alone for salvation. as he's offered in the gospel. If you're already a believer, keep believing in the Lord Christ alone. Keep resting in the Lord Christ alone for salvation. Then, then, together we will join the rest of God's people and all creation. in giving glory to God alone forever and ever. In response to this theme of Glory to God alone. Let's take our hymnals and turn to hymn number fifty-five. And let's stand and sing to God be the glory I think that is all right. And pray all three to Jesus. Don't tell you. Now look up. And hear the benediction from God. Whatever you do, do all to the glory of God, to whom be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations For ever and ever. Amen.