Well he gave all this soaring doctrine the first eleven verses, and now in chapter twelve, uh Paul turns a corner and he says Here are some of the ways that it applies. And so chapter 12, just verses 1 and 2, he writes, I appeal to you therefore, brothers. By the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God Which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. And so in the first eleven chapters, Paul took us on a guided tour of various facets of the gospel. Of God's grace. In the first three chapters, he reminded us of the depth of our sin that we have been corrupted. We are not. what we were intended to be when God made us. And we have no hope. We can't get to heaven by being nice people. We can't get to heaven by being religious. We need a savior. And then in chapters three, four, and five he introduced the doctrine of justification by faith. God Counts us as righteous, not because of any merit we have, but only because of his mercy, because of his grace. Then as these chapters unfold, he talked about election. He spoke of sanctification, in other words, God's work of renovating us once we're saved more into the likeness of Jesus Christ. He said, because you're a Christian and God's given you the Holy Spirit, you can have confidence, you can have assurance that you're right with God, and nothing will separate you from His love And you can be also assured, because you have the Holy Spirit, that you will persevere. You will not fall away, because God preserves you. He spoke about God's providential care of his children and of how the gospel is not only for the Jew, but also for the Gentile. Anyone who would look to Jesus Christ can be saved. And so you have we have all this doctrine in the first eleven ver uh chapters And then it's in chapter twelve, as I said, that Paul turns a corner and that's indicated by the use of the word therefore in verse 1, right? He says I appeal to you, therefore, brothers. And so now Paul moves from doctrine to duty. He moves from theology to application. And in chapters 12 to 15, Paul explains. How these great truths should play out in the life of the church, in our lives as individuals, and in our role as Christian citizens. And so he says, uh therefore I appeal to you, brothers. And he says, basically in the first uh two verses As Christians, God calls us to go against the flow. And I have three points there on the outline. He says, present your body as a living sacrifice. Don't conform to the ways of the world. And then thirdly, he says, Rather, be transformed by renewing your mind. So that's a nice clean outline there. We're going to follow that and pray that God will use it to change us, to prick our consciences. And to shape us more to the likeness of Jesus Christ. And so in verse 1, the first thing Paul commands us is Present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Now that's interesting. So Paul is calling us to make a sacrifice. Now this is where, this is a point that I think is important to understand. That On this call to be to make a sacrifice, Christianity is different from every other religion that exists. Because every other religion teaches that you serve God in order to win his favor You deny yourself. You make sacrifices in order to win the favor of God. And so it's always out of a sense of deficit that people are called to uh to do things and to be religious and to shape up in their behavior Christianity is unique in that we're called to serve God as a response. to the favor that He has shown us in Jesus Christ. And this is a huge distinction And if you don't understand this distinction, then you do not understand biblical uh Christianity. And so the Christian is commanded to serve God, it's not out of fear, but rather it's out of gratitude For all that God has done for us in Jesus Christ. And that's again what Paul spoke of in the first eleven chapters. So I remember hearing somebody once say If Christian doctrine is grace, then Christian ethics is gratitude And so that's why we serve God, because He's been gracious to us. He has shown us mercy. Right? Look at verse 1. He says, by the mercies of God, in other words, in light of the mercy that God has shown you. Present your body as a living sacrifice. And in the Old Testament, you had all these sacrifices that the Israelites would offer God, right? There were animals. They would Offer vegetables, they would bring grain offerings to God. You have none of that in the New Testament because Jesus Christ is the final sacrifice for sin. And so now the only sacrifice that's left is a is a sacrifice of gratitude. And so our service to God now is merely a way that we express to God our gratitude for what He has done for us in Jesus Christ. In that said, though, we don't want a downplay of the sacrifice of the God calls us to make because even though it's a sacrifice of grati uh uh motivated by gratitude, in the Christian life There is still a call to self-denial. And so we should see this as an opportunity To express our thanksgiving to God. Whenever we're pressed to deny ourselves, right, we can be misunderstood. We can be maligned by other people. It's like, yeah I'm not saying I think this all the time, but I should be thinking, you know what? This is an opportunity for me to express my gratitude and my worship of God by bearing with it happily, or to make financial sacrifices, or to sacrifice my time to serve other people inside and outside the church And it can be very frustrating. There are many people in our church who work behind the scenes, and sometimes they get a reluctant response from others And you could be they could be tempted to say, forget it. You know, I'm I'm not going to do this. I'm just a volunteer. But to press on is an expression of your worship to Jesus Christ because you understand that whatever sacrifice you make, it is worth it. And uh J. I. Packer, many of you are familiar with him, the Christian uh theologian, in his book Knowing God, he talked about it with one of his colleagues. He was a professor And um he was a very uh gifted professor. He was advancing in his career, but then he disclosed that he was a Christian. And all of a sudden, uh the uh the the pathway that he was on to advancement came to a halt. And Packer asked his friend, he said Do you regret uh making known uh to your colleagues that you were you're a Christian? And his friend answered uh without pausing, he said, you know what I've known Christ and they don't know him. So he's saying it doesn't matter. It's not that important. It was a small sacrifice I made, but I know Jesus Christ, and they don't. And so Paul says, Dedicate, uh, I'm sorry, verse one. Present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. Then it says Which is your spiritual worship? And there's some debate. Should that word be translated spiritual? Should it be translated reasonable? It could go either way. And it makes a lot of sense if Paul is just saying this is your this is a reasonable, uh this is a rational uh way uh to worship God, right? It's sensible It's appropriate that we dedicate our whole selves to Jesus Christ in response to what He's done for us. So that's the first thing that Paul says. In response to God's mercy, present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Here's the second thing, okay? He says to these Christians, he says to us, do not be conformed to the world. There's one of the one of the one of those who parap translated this as a paraphrase, paraphrase translation. He said, don't let the world squeeze you into its mold. And so here's a here's a here's a command That we find stated throughout the Bible in various ways. You go back to the book of Leviticus, chapter 18, verse 3. Moses commanded the Israelites You shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan to which I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes. He's saying, you need to be different. From the pagans around you. Psalm 1. The psalmist says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sets in the seat of scoffers. Christians don't act like that. God's people don't act like that. You have the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5-7. You can summarize the entire sermon in one verse. Matthew chapter 6. Verse 8, where Jesus tells his disciples, as he's been considering the way that the pagans live and the way that the Pharisees live. Jesus says in Matthew 6 8, do not be like them. And that's what Paul is telling us in Romans chapter 12. He says, Don't be like the world. Don't let the world squeeze you into its mold. And you go from the first two verses of chapter 12 through chapter 12 all the way to the end of chapter 15 Paul gives various examples of how we should not conform to the world. And so that's a nice that's a nice pleasant statement to make when we're surrounded by like minded people who were in church on Sunday morning. But it is a challenge. I think it's I would say it's especially a challenge for young people to not go with the world's ways, to not go along with your peers, but to be different. You want to be accepted and as you get older, adults are the same way, unless you're a sociopath. We all want other people to like us and to think that we're not completely backwards of that. We're not flaming idiots. And some people will look at you because you're Christian. And they're not so sure. And so sometimes we're te oftentimes we're tempted uh to sort of muffle our our position, uh to hide our behavior, our our our our moral commitments Because we don't want to invite uh the ridicule and even the disdain of other people But this is what, you know, we're saved by grace, we act out of gratitude, but still There is this sacrifice that we're called to make not to conform to the ways of the world. And I'm not advocating a separatism. It would it's very comfortable. There are streams within uh Bible uh believing Christianity. uh where the believers they just separate from the world, right? The churches, they're very uh uh separatistic, they don't want anything to do uh with the world And that's not our calling, right? In John 17, uh Jesus said, I don't want you guys to leave the world. I want you to be in the world. But don't drink the Kool-Aid. Don't go along with the world's ways. That's what we read back in Jeremiah chapter twenty-nine. God told the people of Israel, Yeah, you guys are exiles in Babylon, but just don't go into some religious enclave. Rather You know, plant your gardens and raise your families and seek for, as I think it said, seek for the welfare of the city. And that's what we want our stance to be. We want to have a stance where we're seeking for the benefit of the community. And I can look around here and I can see we have men in our church, they work with the Frederick Rescue Mission. Uh we have uh some who uh were or several work with the Bible club. We have a Tusquarrow Elementary School. I could point to some people right now. They're working with the public schools, seeking to get people elected to the school board, and they're on the boards of the classical charter school in Frederick. Why? They want to be salt. They want to be light in our culture. And so um We do want to bless uh our culture, the people in our community, and we want to be involved and yet We don't want to conform to the ways of the world. And I think it's going to get more and more difficult for the next generation, unfortunately I was just reading something this week on the somebody sent me an email. Some Christian school in Vermont. Uh that received public funding because it was a uh generally uh it was dispersed to all kinds of schools But now they're no longer going to receive funding because they have a stance on gender and sexuality that goes away, uh that goes against the grain of the government And we also of course see this in the workplace. Rod Dreyer wrote this. He said, as the LGBT agenda advances Broad interpretation of anti-discrimination laws are going to push traditional Christians increasingly out of the marketplace. in the corporate world will become hostile towards Christian bigots, considering them a danger to the working environment. Well that's a prophecy that has come true. And that was just written, I don't know, five or ten years ago, but that has come true. in our day. And uh many here understand uh that kind of pressure because of the the corporation or the group you're working with or because of the uh educational institution uh you're part of, or because you work for the government. And so there's this tremendous squeeze on Christians who hold to biblical ethics. And I would just say as an aside to our to our younger folks, I encourage you to study really hard. I encourage you to become really skilled. If it's a vocation or whatever you field you go into, become very good at it. So that you will be needed despite your convictions. And you might also consider, you know what? You may not be able to work for one of these little corporations. You may have to work for a smaller company. You might make less, maybe less opportunities for advancement. But you have to consider uh the world that we're in, in the hostility uh that our that many in our world have uh toward Christians who just hold basic biblical morality that has been embraced uh by civilization for the past 2,000 years And so um and I want you to notice also uh but Paul doesn't say it's not enough to be a separatist, right? It's not enough just to cluck your tongue, say, Well, we don't do that, or we don't watch that kind of stuff, or we don't dress like that, or whatever it is. That's not enough. But Paul says that, this is point three, he wants us to be transformed, he wants us to be sanctified. And how does God sanctify a Christian? And if you don't know what that word, if you're new to the Christian faith, sanctify just means the process by which God renovates us. And so my question before we look at the end of verse 2 is, how does God grow Christians? And I ask this question because there's not a uniform response across the Christian church in general. The charismatic movement teaches that the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit has the ability to bypass the mind to sanctify us. And to deepen our knowledge of God, deepen our communion with God. What am I talking about? Well, if you've ever been to a charismatic church, you might notice this. In the first part of the service, they call that the worship time when they sing a lot of many songs. During the worship time There's a mysticism that has entered the Christian church, and by that I mean there's this repetitive music. And people sort of get into the repetition, they close their eyes, they lift up their hands, and here's the important part. They try to let go of their thoughts, and they think that by entering some semi conscious state That they're entering into communion with God. They're entering this state of cosmic consciousness. It's like Eastern religion. Uh emotional and they think if I a if I attain this state of emotional euphoria That I'm going to come into a deeper relationship with God. And God will sanctify me. He will meet me. He will give me a stronger assurance. That is not Christian worship. And I'm not condemning charismatic Christians. These are honest, zealous Christians. But what they're being taught is not biblical worship. And what we see here in verse 2 Is that Christian growth does not take place when you enter some kind of state of cosmic consciousness, but rather, look at verse 2. Paul wrote, be transformed by the renewal of your mind. And so here's a very clear statement. God grows us, God changes us By changing our thinking. And this is why the Puritans would say: grace is mediated through the understanding Right? The Bible is a book full of verbal propositions. It explains things. When Paul went to the synagogue, for example, in the book of Acts. What did he do? He reasoned with people. And where's it in the Old Testament book? Isaiah, Jeremiah, God says to his people, let us reason together. And I'm not saying that Christianity, like being in a church is being in a philosopher's club. I'm not saying that I am the Holy Spirit does shape us and work in us and mold us. But the Holy Spirit Always works in conjunction with the Word of God. And so to grow as a Christian, you must think You must consider, you must reflect on the truth of God's word and how it applies to your life And as you do this, it's not like you get zapped and all of a sudden you just make this big step up spiritually, but as we do this. The Spirit of God applies the Word of God to our outlook, to our ambitions. to our values and to our affections. And this is what Jesus was talking about in John 17, verse 17, when he said to his disciples, I'm sorry, when he prayed to the Father, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. In other words, so sanctify them. Change them by your truth And where's the truth? The truth is the word of God. And so spiritual growth involves renewing the mind. And then we begin to see ourselves differently. We begin to see life differently, right? I mean I can make a list of You develop a new understanding of your identity, right? Your identity is not based on your looks, it's not based on your accomplishments, it's not based on your popularity. It's based on the fact that you're made in the image of God. That's the foundation of our identity. When you become a Christian, oftentimes you have it you get a new view of work. Oftentimes the world sees work as the necessary evil. Yeah, you work hard, you want to make money, you want to make it have a comfortable life Christianity views work as a calling by which we glorify God, by which we serve other people. And you can serve God in whatever you do. It doesn't matter. Some jobs are not more spiritual than others. What's Paul saying in Ephesians 6? He says, whatever you do. Right? Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart. And by that, you'll honor God, you'll bless other people. As Christians, we have a different view of pleasure. We look at the pleasures that God gives us in life: food, entertainment, marital love, the arts. In athletics, we look at these things as gifts of God. They're not bad. They're not to be despised. These are gifts of God. But we also recognize that we shouldn't make idols of these things. We need to have a sense of proportion. We need to have a sense of perspective. Uh Christianity uh changes our our understanding of what honesty and commitment is, right? I have to tell the truth. Even when it hurts, I need to keep my commitments in business and in marriage and in the life of the church. As Christians, we now have a new view of affliction. Uh we recognize it's not good. We live in a fallen world. These things are are not good, so we don't deny that But we also recognize we we also recognize God's sovereign hand. God has his purpose and God is using this to shape us and he to accomplish his larger purposes in history. And even as Christians we have a different view of death. We realize, you know what? Death is bad. It's a result of the fall. It's to be grieved. But we also know now it's not the final word. And for the Christian, death is just a door, right? There's something better to come. And that that helps shape our view when we lose a loved one who believed in the Lord. We recognize that there will be a reunion. And so I could go on and on, but you know, in hundreds of other areas Paul is saying, be transformed by the renewal of your mind. And so this is why we want to be uh men and women, uh boys and girls who stay in a word of God. We don't waste too much time on trivial activities, but you know, we want to learn we want to understand not only the scripture, we want to understand God's world We should want to sit under the preaching and teaching of the word, encourage you to come at the Sunday school. And then you take the what you've learned in Sunday school or in your daily Bible reading, and you converse with other believers about it. Because you want you want to drive it in there and you want to reflect on it and you want to encourage others with it. Paul said in Second Corinthians ten, five. We take every thought captive to obey Jesus Christ. And so that's what we want to do. Let's close it out, the end of verse 2. Uh Paul said then, be transformed by the renewal of your mind. Then here's the consequence that comes. As we begin to think in a Christian manner, as we grow in having the mind of Christ. Paul says, so be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may be able to discern what is the will of God. What is good and acceptable and perfect. So I don't think he's saying, once you grow in your understanding of Scripture and how it relates to yourself and all of life, He's not saying, I'm gonna know the will of God, you know, whether I should take this job or that job. That's not what what he's saying. He's saying That you'll be able to discern the best course of conduct in various situations. To put it simply, you'll just grow wise, right? You'll know what to do. You'll have skill for living your life. And so we're gonna make our way uh through the rest of Romans in uh the weeks to come. And uh but this is our this these are this is sort of a general statement. Uh we're to present our bodies as a living sacrifice, right? Not to gain God's favor, but because of His grace and His favor that we have in Jesus Christ. And we don't want the world to squeeze us into its mold. And we want to pray, Lord, change us. And we under we recognize that that change begins with the understanding. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you that you have spoken to us clearly. Thank you that you g have given us your spirit to change us. And you've given us your word, and so help us to be faithful students of the word, to search it out And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to apply it wisely to our lives. I pray for our young people who face and will face many pressures. To conform to the world's silly ways. We pray that they would have strong convictions And they would rise above the world's ways. I pray for each of us in that area, in that you would use us as witnesses for you. Help us, Lord, to show others that there's a better way, and it's based on your grace. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.