Bibles to Romans chapter eight. Probably one of the most familiar passages um in the Bible I'm at chapter 8, verse 31, where Paul wraps up his argument and says, What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Know in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us. For I am sure But neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth. Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God and Christ Jesus our Lord. Now, the book of Romans, and if you've been here, you recognize it's not a book full of good advice. It's a book full of good news, and that's an important distinction. It doesn't tell you, here's what you need to do to be a better person to please God. It tells you, here's the good news of what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. Right? The good news of the gospel. And what is that? That God saves us. We don't save ourselves. He saves us. He counts us as righteous, not because of things we do. But because Jesus lived a righteous life for us, and then he died to take the penalty for our sin. That's good news. It talks about the good news Of God giving His people the Holy Spirit to change us, to sanctify us To assure us, we saw this a few weeks ago in chapter 8, the middle of chapter 8, to assure us that He has taken us as His children. And the Holy Spirit also is the deposit guaranteeing the greater inheritance that we will receive when we see God face to face. And then also we looked at last week at chapter 8, verse 28-30. It told us the good news about God's benevolent providence. over all things, working all things for the good of his people. And so now we come to something of a closing argument for the first eight chapters. Because in these first eight chapters, He has set forth the various facets of what God has done for us in Christ. And now in chapter 8, verse 31, he begins his closing argument on this section. You get to chapter nine, he moves on to something else. But his closing argument he begins by asking verse thirty-one, What then shall we say to these things? So Paul, you know, Paul has made a bulletproof case for the believer security in Jesus Christ. And having seen that case, we should be rendered speechless. And at this point, you know, think about Paul in the courtroom. He could throw his brief on the table and he could walk out of the courtroom because he has made a watertight case for the believer's security in Jesus Christ. But instead he makes one final rhetorical flourish, one final coup de grap, right? He's gonna just Lay us out now. A final blow to convince us of God's good purposes for us. And he does this in this section by asking five questions. Verse 31. If God is for us, who can be against us? Verse 32. He who did not spare his own son. But gave him up for us all. How will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? 33 and 34. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Who is to condemn? And then 35 to 39 he asks he answers the question, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Well this is a great passage. Now if you're a Christian and you're in a dark valley, I'd say, take this home. Preach it to yourself. Ask yourself these questions, then answer them, because Paul is assuring us that our momentary afflictions are not the final word. Evil will not prevail. Your misery, your heartache will not go on. Forever. And if you're not a Christian, look at what the gospel offers you A God who is for you, a God who will hold you, a God who will always be serving Your best interest. And so let's go through this. I have four points. And the first point Paul makes in verse 31. Is that the God of the universe is greater than any adversary. So the end of verse thirty one If God is for us, who can be against us? Now on one level, we can answer that question by saying There are all kinds of forces that are against us, right? The world, the flesh, the devil, the sin that dwells within me, against which I struggle And sometimes makes oftentimes makes me stumble. People who stand opposed to me personally, people who stand opposed to me because I'm a Christian People in institutions that are opposed to the Christian message, and sometimes to Christians And then there's our physical weaknesses, right? Sickness and decline and death. So they're all kind of things. That stand against us, but what Paul's doing the end of verse 31 is he's saying you need to have a little bit of perspective on this, because if God is for us, you might translate it better, since God is for us. Who in comparison can be against us? And so he's saying to the Christian God is in your corner. And so, yeah, there's a lot of disappointment, there's a lot of misery, and there's a lot of heartache in the fallen world. But in the end of the day, you must understand that nothing will rob you of your salvation. Nothing will separate you from the security That you have in Jesus Christ. And I'm going to make a reference to Martin Luther in a little bit, but he wrote the hymn, we always sing a mighty fortress, and one of the stanzas he he says, you know. Though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God has willed His truth to triumph through us. Then he goes on, talks about the Prince of Darkness, Grim. We tremble not for him. Why? Because his doom is sure, and one little word shall fell him. And so the first thing Paul reminds these Christians of, after reciting these numerous benefits we have in Christ, Paul says, God is greater than any opposition will ever face. The second thing he says Is that this is in verse thirty-two, God will withhold nothing to take care of you. Well, how can we be sure of that? Well, because in verse 32, Paul argues from the greater to the lesser. Look at it. He said. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, with him, graciously give us all things? And so he you know, what's he saying? If God gave that which was most costly, his own son, Will he not care for things that cost him less? And the answer is, of course, I see it now. He gave Jesus Christ. I can trust him. And it's interesting, in verse 32, Paul doesn't merely say that the father acquiesced to the death of his son. But he says that he gave him up. He actively gave Jesus Christ over to death. You see the same thing in Acts 2. 23. Peter's preaching on the day of Pentecost. And he speaks about this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. This was God's purpose from all eternity: to deliver up his Son. So an old Christian divine, a guy named Octavius Winslow, he asked the question: Who delivered up Jesus to die? Who was it? Was it Judas for money? No. Was it Pilate for fear? Was it the Jews for envy? And on one level, yeah, it was all those things, all those people, but in the end of the day, who delivered Jesus up to die? It was the Father for love. And so something else you want to preach yourself, right? When you're lonely, when you're discouraged, when your heart is heavy, when there's grief. Romans 8. 32, the God of the universe is for you. He'll withhold nothing to take care of you. How do you know that? Well, look at the cross of Jesus Christ. Number three, God will allow nothing to condemn us. Verse thirty three, thirty-four Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Who is to condemn? Well, who condemns you? Well, on one level, we face all kinds of accusations, right? We we are we face accusations from our own consciences, right? Some Some Christians, they understand the gospel, but it hasn't sunk in. They still feel this great sense of shame. Uh they want to be invisible. You even see it sometimes in the church. They want to stay on the margins. I remember years ago there was a guy in our church and he um he could hardly lift his head. To look you in the eye because he had a terrible, horrible past, and he felt this great shame. But um It didn't sink in yet. So no. Our consciences condemn us, but they should not afford Christians. Sometimes the devil accuses us. In fact, the word Satan means accuser. In Revelation 12, verse 10, he's called the accuser of the brothers. And one of Satan's chief devices, or one of his chief strategies, is to tell Christians who have been clothed in the righteousness of Christ. That we don't measure up. And the great picture of this is in the Old Testament, in Zechariah chapter 3. This priest went through all these preliminaries to get ready to make a sacrifice And Satan's standing there and saying, This priest is dressed in filthy clothes. And that's what he says to Christians, right? We're forgiven, we're clothed in the righteousness of Christ But then as one of the old Puritans said, the old ashes of your sin become a new fire of sorrow to you. And you feel this shame and you feel this grief about your past life. Satan is the accuser. And so The Bible tells us we don't measure up, but it also says Jesus Christ measures up And so here again, what do you do? You preach the gospel to yourself. Jesus Christ, he took away all my sin in him I'm a new creation. The old is gone. The new is come. Remember Romans 8. 1? There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And so who will bring any charge against God's elect? Who is it to condemn? And the answer is nobody can condemn a Christian. Great story about Martin Luther, right? So he when he after the beginning of the Protestant Reformation, the Catholic authorities They wanted to cut off his head. They wanted to kill him. And so he went into hiding into some castle in the mountains of Ger of Germany And he's churning out all these writings and he's very prolific at this time, but he'd also fallen into a deep depression. And in a letter to one of his friends, Philip Melanchton, he wrote about a dream that he had. In this dream, Satan appeared to him, and he had this long scroll on which were listed Luther's many sins. And Satan was reading off the sins one by one. And he told Luther, you're unfit to serve God. And this is still a dream. He recoiled in shame. But then he stood up like he came out of his dream. He grabbed an ink bottle off his table and he threw it at Satan. The guy he was a very interesting character. He threw it at Satan. And to this day, there's an ink spot in that castle on that wall. But anyway, he cried out. It is all true, Satan, in many more sins which I have committed in my life, which are known to God only But write this at the bottom of your list, the blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanses us from all sin. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? And what's Paul saying that we're in verse 33 now? It is God who justifies. And so you don't justify yourself, right? You don't make yourself righteous before God. God makes you righteous. God acted by sending his son to die for our sins. And so we can say, I didn't contribute anything to my salvation. There's nothing I can do to lose it. It is God who justifies. Verse 33. Who is it that God justifies? God's elect, or those who have the NIV, it says, those whom God has chosen. So here again is this idea, the doctrine of election. God chooses whom he will save. Ephesians 1:4 says the same thing. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world. Why did God chose you if you're a Christian? Is it because you're virtuous? Is it because you have some kind of spiritual spark? Is it because you're inclined to religious things? And we say, no. God chose us. Only because of his grace, only because of his kindness. And um going on into verse 34. It tells us Jesus Christ not only died for our sins, Jesus Christ not only rose up to be show that the Father had vindicated him as our Savior. But it says Jesus is at the Father's right hand, and he's praying for us. Look at verse 34, the end of the verse. Speaks about Christ, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us Now there's a lady in our church who not too long ago, she said, I pray for you every day. I thought, wow, that's a great encouragement. And then she said, I'm praying for one of your family members too, and mentioned that family member. That was a great encouragement. When somebody says they're praying for you Well what's verse 34? It even ups it says, Jesus Christ, he's praying for us. One of the old Scottish pastors, Robert Murray McChane, said If I could hear Christ praying for me in the next room, I'd not fear a million enemies. Right? If you knew Christ was in that room right behind this room, the sanctuary, he's praying for you, you'd go, hey, this is good. Well, what does Romans 8, verse 34 say? It says, He indeed is interceding for us. And so McShane said, you know what? If I knew he was in the next room praying for me, I wouldn't fear a million enemies. Yet the distance makes no difference. He's praying for me. And so Christ, what's he doing right now? We talked about this a couple weeks ago. One of the things he's doing, he is praying for his people to the Father. Here's the final thing. Fourthly, briefly. We have in verses 35 to 39, God goes on public record, and he says to the Christian, nothing will separate you. From my love. So let's read verses 35 and following. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Then he gives this catalog. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword Then there's this quotation from Psalm 44, verse 22. As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Knowing all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now this is really helpful for the Romans to hear because within a few short years this great Persecution would break out against the Christians in Rome, right? Nero's persecution. Here's one description. Nero wrapped the Christians in pitch and set them alight and used them as living torches to light his gardens. He sowed them in the skins of wild animals and set his hunting dogs upon them to tear them to death. They were tortured on the rack, they were scraped with pincers, molten lead was poured hissing upon them Red-hot brass plates were affixed to the tenderest parts of their bodies. Eyes were torn out, parts of their bodies were cut off and roasted before their eyes. Their hands and feet were burned While cold water was poured over them to lengthen the agony. Now, this kind of persecution isn't a relic of history. Because even today, you know, more Christians and this is from a lady named Nina Shay, she's a human rights lawyer. She said, more Christians were persecuted in the 20th century than in the preceding 19th centuries And she points out, you know what, Christians in the West were largely oblivious to it. But it's going on today. Countries in Africa, Pakistan, the Middle East, China. But even so, Paul assures us that nothing, even horrific persecution, even if it should come our way. Nothing can separate you from the love of Jesus Christ. And I want to encourage our young people to really think on Romans 8 and To embrace this promise from God. Nothing, if you're a Christian, nothing can separate you from the love of Jesus Christ. You want to become persuaded of this now, because we don't know what the future holds for Christians. But we want you to continue to walk with Jesus Christ. Because in the end of the day, you will be triumphant in Jesus Christ. Verse 37. We excuse me, we are more than conquerors. And so this is a very realistic exposition of the normal Christian life. There we don't want to be overly optimistic in this world. There is hardship, there is disappointment, there is affliction, but nonetheless Paul affirms: if God is for us, who can be against us? I like the way Spurgeon put it. He said, God is for us with all the infinity of his being With all the omnipotence of his love, with all the infallibility of his wisdom, arrayed in all his divine attributes, he is for us, and because he's for us The voice of prayer will always ensure his help. Then he goes on, O believer, how happy art thou with the King of Kings on my side! How safe was such a protector? How sure thy cause pleaded by such an advocate, if God be for thee, who can be against thee? So you see his argument. And he's arguing he's arguing with himself too. He's reminding himself, and that's what we want to do. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for the this very clear statement of your kindness and of your protection. Help us, Lord, to remember it during dark times and seasons of affliction. And I pray, Lord, for folks here this morning who may be discouraged or fretful, suffering various afflictions. We pray, Lord, that you'll help them to soldier on, to persevere. And even during these dark seasons to meet you more closely And we pray, Lord, for those who aren't yet Christians, that they'll search out the scriptures, they'll become persuaded that you made them. You're here with them. You sent Jesus Christ to take away their sin. And to make them right with you, that they could see you face to face. We pray, Lord, they'll search these things out. And by your word and spirit, you'll persuade them and bring them from unbelief to a saving knowledge of you. And we remember the church around the world. Typically unreported the persecutions that they suffer. We pray, Lord, that you'll vindicate your people. And that you would come quickly. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.