Chapter 17, Genesis 17, so we're marching through uh the life of Abraham, verses chapters 12 to 25. And we come to chapter seventeen. Says excuse me When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly. Then Abram fell on his face, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan. for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which ye shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house, or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring, both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, You shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I'll bless her, and moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of people shall come from her. Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed to himself. Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old Shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you! God said, No, but Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and I will make him fruitful and multiply him greatly. He shall father twelve princes. And I will make him into a great nation. But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year. When he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham. Then Abraham took Ishmael his son and those born in his house or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house. And he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins every day, as God had said to him. Abraham was ninety nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, and Ishmael his son was thirteen years old. when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. That very day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised. And all the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him. Now There are a lot of promises in the Bible. And I read, and this wasn't on Wikipedia. I read that there was this fella, a school teacher in Ontario, Canada, and he did a study of the Bible. He went through the Bible like four times, not to make sure he didn't miss anything. He made a list of all the promises of God and of the promises that God made to his people He came up with 7,487 promises. Now you could check me on that when you go home, but that's what he came up with Now, what does that tell us about the Bible? The Bible is a book full of promises. But most of us, probably all of us, right, in our on in our impatience and unbelief Doubt regularly whether God will keep to some, or perhaps many, of his promises And that was the case here. We can understand this, right? That was the case with Abram and his wife Sarai. We saw this way back in chapter 12 that God made promises to them. He promised them a son. Well, at that time Abram was 75, and Sarai, who had been barren all her life, was 65. Promised them a son, promised them a land promised them that through, excuse me, through their heirs, all the peoples on the earth would be blessed. Well, they waited 11 years and there was no son. So last week we were looking at chapter 16. Sarai said to Abram, listen, this isn't working out. You need to take your take my servant Hagar and can have her conceive a son through you. That's what he did. And Sarai conceived, and she had a son, Ishmael. Now, it's interesting if you follow the timeline here. You look at the last verse in chapter 16. Says Abram was 86 years old when Sarah bore Ishmael to Abram. Okay, so at that point Abram was 86. The next thing we read, the first verse of chapter 17, says Abram was 99 years old. when the Lord appeared to him there. So that means after after Hagar gave birth to Ishmael. It appears that there was 13 additional years of silence. And I can speculate this this may have been a miserable 13 years because As far as Abram's marriage to Sarai was concerned, uh having Hagar uh cons become the the wife or the mother of his child, I mean that distressed their marriage. And Abram knew God's displeasure about this. And so apparently there was this 13 years of silence And I would add fading hope and increasing despair that Sarai would indeed have a daughter. And so it says in verse 1: when Abram was 99 years old, The Lord appeared to Abram. Okay? So now he's 99. And in this chapter, and I know there's a lot of redundancies in this chapter, but we're just going to focus on the main points. God reiterates his promises yet again. But this time he provides a visible sign to confirm his promises, a sign of circumcision, okay? And that's the precursor of New Testament baptism. Circumcision, and baptism like circumcision, is a sign, it's an outward sign That God will be faithful to his promises. And the interesting thing is, and I'm glad that um, not glad, but Like half of our church, I know you guys are still Baptists. I think this will this is interesting uh to our discussion. In fact, I told us years ago I was in Greenville, South Carolina, there was a Good News Baptist church So I got out of the car, I had my friend take my photo, and I was standing in front of Good News Baptist Church Design. I had my Bible out like a you know a Bible thumping Baptist pastor And I sent it to all the Baptists and they were like, Hey, this guy finally saw the light. They were all rejoicing. Haven't seen the light yet. But anyway, so we'll have our we'll continue our friendly discussion about uh baptism also. I hope it's friendly. Um but anyway, so God we see here at second so the first thing is God keeps his promises to his people, and we see here, I see here, that God's promises are not only for believers, but therefore uh his their children. Okay? So the first thing we see, I have an outline there, and it's helpful to have an outline here. Because I want you, I know there's a lot in this, but what are the what are the main things that are going on in this passage? Well the big one first thing we see is that God reiterates his covenant promises. Okay? So in chapter 15, just two weeks ago. We read about God making the covenant with Abraham. And as I said, the covenant is a huge theme in the Bible. You find that word 297 times in the Bible. You find the covenants God made with Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses. David, Jeremiah 31 speaks about a new covenant that God will make with Jesus Christ. We're going to have the Lord suffer this morning. And what do we call that? A covenant meal. Hebrews 9. 15 says Jesus Christ is the mediator. of the new covenant. Our theological system is called covenant theology. We call the children of believers covenant children. So, as I've said before, that's a huge theme in the Bible. And you can't understand the Bible as it's meant to be understood If you don't understand something of what the covenant is. In simple terms, we could say a covenant is God's promise confirmed by an oath of loyalty. by which he binds himself to his people. And just a review from chapter 15, in this covenant in Genesis, God promised many things to Abraham. He promised him heirs. You see that in chapter 17, verses 2 to 6, right? He says I make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly. And then verse 4, you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. So again, God reiterates his promise. He will have a son. There will be heirs. And then just to underline this God changes Abram's name from Abram, which means exalted father, to Abraham, which means the father of a multitude. Hey you, you hundred-year-old guy, you're all dried up, you're wrinkled. Uh you can I don't know what is His physical health was like, you're going to be the father of a multitude. And your wife Sarai, who's 90, is going to give birth to that son. In fact. God, uh chapter verses 15 and 16, God says the same thing to Sarai. And Sarai means princess, God changes her name to Sarah, that also means princess But what do princesses do? They give birth to kings. And so look at the end of verse 6. God said to Abraham, Kings shall come, or maybe that's sixteen somewhere. Yeah, sixteen. Kings shall come from you And it was through Sarah's line, right, the King David was born. And then the kings who were in the line of David. And then Jesus Christ, who was in the line of David, who is the King of Kings. And so Matthew's gospel, Matthew chapter 1 verse 1, introduces his gospel by saying the genealogy of Jesus Christ The son of David, the son of Abraham. Okay? So in the covenant, God promises, first of all, heirs. Then he promises a land. You see that, for example, in verse 8. I'll give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings. And when the covenant was stated and ratified in chapter 15, that was a huge scene. God was going to give his people a land. And I've said uh Abraham understood that this wasn't just talking about the promised land of Canaan, but rather the promised land of Canaan was an object lesson pointing forward to a greater land, the land of heaven, the true promised land. And that's why Hebrews 11 verse 10 says that Abraham was looking forward to the city that has foundations whose architect and builder is God. So here are some of the things that God promised. A people, a place. Then also verse 4, blessing to the nations. You shall be the father of a multitude of nations. Same thing back in chapter 12, verse 3. In you all the families of the earth. Will be blessed. So that was God's design for Abraham, the father of Israel. How did Israel do in carrying out that command? Not too well, right? They failed. But God's plan will never fail. And so in Jesus Christ, the offspring of Abraham, the blessing of salvation, did go forth to All peoples, and that's why when Jesus gave the Great Commission in Matthew 28, he said, what? Go make disciples of all nations And so Jesus is the true offspring of Abraham. And when we get to heaven, it says in Revelation, there's going to be a great multitude that no one can number. From every nation, tribe, people, and language. So a people, a place, and blessing to the nations, but the supreme promise that God gives in the covenant is the promise, the blessing of fellowship with himself. And if there was a key verse in chapter 17, I would say it's verse 7. For God says, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. To what? To be God to you and to your offspring after you. So God promises Abram and his people. we will have fellowship. Think about how this fits into the history of the Bible, right? Adam and Eve in the garden had perfect fellowship with God. And then there was a fall. They were banished from God's presence. But God set into motion in Genesis 3. 15 his plan to restore that fellowship in the rest of the Bible Is the unfolding of that planned. And we see that here. God says, I'm going to restore the fellowship. Get to the very end of the Bible, Revelation 21, verse 3. What do you read? The same kind of language. Here we are in heaven. Everything's been restored. Evil's been judged. And Revelation 21, verse 3 says that at the consummation of the covenant, It says, Behold, the dwelling of God is with man. He will dwell with them, they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. So do you see why we say the Bible is held together by the framework of the covenant? It's this one-unfolding story. And that is where we're headed. And so this is explaining that way back 4,000 years ago. And so what does this have to do with us, this old covenant from from thousands of years ago? Well, what it has to do with us is that the blessings, these promised blessings. belong not only to Abraham, but they belong to all who are trusting in Jesus Christ. Because as Paul wrote to Christians in Galatians 3. 29, if you are Christ Then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. So this isn't a history lesson. This is just, we're looking at the promises that God has given to his people, if you're a Christian, that God has given to you. And it says in, Paul says in 2 Corinthians 1 verse 20, all the promises of God find their yes. In Jesus Christ. The Bible's the book of promises. All these promises belong to you. All the Old Testament promises given to Israel. or belong to you in the New Testament church. Okay, so we have all these promises, but I struggle, I doubt. I live in a fallen world. I don't see much happening. Well, how do you think Abraham and Sarai felt? They had the same struggles, and so God confirmed his promises by giving them a sign. Why do you do that? I mean, when God says something, doesn't he mean it? Yeah. Well, I mean, isn't his word good enough? Well, of course it is. But God stoops. To help us in our doubts by giving us visible tokens of His promises In the Old Testament, uh the token was circumcision. Look at verse 11. It says, It is a sign of the covenant. Okay? So it was a way for God to confirm his promises. Abraham was a little dull. You think he'd take God's word, but he didn't. So God says, listen, I'm going to confirm it. I'm going to give you a sign. And that's what uh circumcision was. When a Hebrew man looked at that mark on his body, he could say, I am a man to whom God has made promises. You turn over to the New Testament, and you find out that circumcision is no longer seen or used as a religious rite Because Christ's blood has been shed once and for all. So we don't need a bloody sacrament anymore. And so now we have baptism. Oh, that's just your Presbyterianism coming out. No, that's just Colossians 2, verse 11 and 12 coming out. Look at Colossians 2, 11 and 12. Read it at home too because there's a middle clause that makes it a little confusing. Colossians 2. 11, Paul says to these Christians, in him, in Jesus Christ. Ye were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands by putting off the body of flesh. But then it says, when it talks about the circumcision made without hands, what is this? He goes on in verse 12, into verse 11, by the circumcision of Christ, then it says, having been buried with him in baptism. So what is the circumcision of Christ? It says there in Colossians 2. 12. It is baptism. That makes sense. There were two sacraments in the Old Testament, right? The Passover. In circumcision. The Passover is fulfilled by the Lord's Supper, right? Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper on the eve of the Passover. Christ in the first 1 Corinthians 5 is called our Passover Lamb. We all agree on that. What's the New Testament sacrament that fulfills circumcision? It is baptism. Okay? Both these New Testament sacraments now are bloodless, right? Because Jesus Christ shed his blood once and for all. Alrighty, let's move on to point three. Here's the rub. God calls us to apply the sign of the covenant to our children. Genesis seventeen verse seven God said to Abram, He not only be His God, but the God of His children, and to signify That the children of believers are heirs of the covenant. All the males were to be circumcised, right? Verse eleven You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. Then it says, He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Circumcision did not save a Hebrew child. It was merely a sign and a seal, but I mean like a confirmation. That they were inside the covenant community, even though they weren't believers, right? They didn't know the God of Israel. They were still inside the covenant community of the Old Testament church. It was also a sign that they were heirs of God's covenant promises. They'd have to come to embrace the God of Israel as their own God. Now I want you to know something here. I don't know what translation of the Bible you have, but I do not see in my translation Abraham saying, you know what? I think it'd be better if he were circumcised when he's old enough to make his own decision. If we circumcise him now, he's not going to know what's going on. So let's do it when he can he can his circumcision can be a sign of his decision. Hey, who cares what you think is better? We're looking at what God teaches in the Bible and He says, circumcise them when they're babies. Okay? And because there's a correspondence, at least I see a correspondence between circumcision and baptism as signs of the covenant, we baptize the children of believers. So to say that baptism doesn't save, but that our children are heirs of God's promises, okay? And so in due time, though, uh the children of Israel, or these babies, these baby boys, would have to embrace the God of Israel, or else they would be lost. And it's the same thing uh with our children, but they are heirs of God's covenant promises. And every time we do a baptism I read Acts 2, 28 and 29, Peter preaching on the day of Pentecost to Jews, right? People who were used to applying the sign of the covenant to their male babies. And Peter said Repent, be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Then he says, for the promise is for you and for your children. The promise of what? Forgiveness. the Holy Spirit. And he says to these people, this promise is for you and it's for your children. And so I always ask, listen. The promise is the substance. Baptism is just like a sign, a token. It's just a sign of the promise. So if they get the promise, it seems like they should receive the sign as well. And so when we baptize a baby, we don't baptize babies, we baptize the babies of Christians, okay? We baptize the baby of a Christian. We don't think it saves. We know it doesn't save, but it's just a sign of their engagement to be the Lord's. And we pray that as those parents seek to raise their child in a godly manner, that that child will come to know Christ. It doesn't always work out like that, but that's what we're praying. And so I just want to close now by drawing two implications of this for parents. The fact that God's covenant promises Go forth toward children. This is a great thing. This is a wonderful thing. This is encouragement. This says to you, Christian, God's only committed to you He's committed to your kids, right? Verse 7. You need to read verse 7 again. God says, I'll be God to you and to your offspring after you This reminds us, you know, you've read the Bible. God works in families. Even in the New Testament, right, 1 Corinthians 7. 15, Paul's explained to a believer who's married to a non-believer, listen. Stay married. And one of the reasons he gives, he says in 1 Corinthians 7. 14, your children are holy, or that means set apart. Your children are set apart. Now he's not saying that if you're Christian, your kids are automatically saved. That's not what it means. But it's saying something It's saying that the child of a Christian enjoys some measure of God's favor. That a child of an unbeliever doesn't enjoy. Now, God saves the children of unbelievers, but we're saying there is a privilege. That a child in a Christian home enjoys. Why? Because God's inclination is to work in families. And this is good news because Christian parents, we have this great sense of responsibility. To raise our kids to know Jesus Christ, right? We feel this burden. We hear the commands of the Bible that talk about our responsibility to raise our kids and a nurture and admonition of the Lord. But um Genesis 17 reminds us that even more committed to our children than we are is God. He has an even greater commitment. He's for them. He says, I'm going to be your God, and I'm going to be the God of your children. No guarantees, right? But these the promise is that if you're praying for them, you're striving to be an example, you read the scripture to them, you're part of the church. Your priorities are uh an a commendable example. Even with all your flaws, even with all your flaws, we can have some confidence that God's going to make God's going to make good on his promise. And if our kids follow or follow in the world, we pray, Lord. Now you said you're you're not only going to be my God, you're gonna be the God of my children. And so Lord God, open her eyes, open his eyes. uh bring bring them to see and to believe. So that's the first happy implication. God's for our kids. That's what this covenant says. Here's the second happy implication. God's promises to Christian parents reach forward to future generations. Right? Verse 17, he says, I'll establish my coven he says, I'll establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you. throughout their generations to be an everlasting covenant. You have these kind of language this kind of language throughout the Old Testament. One more, Deuteronomy 7. 9 God says he keeps his covenant to a thousand generations. So this is the way that God operates. He's gone on record here. He says, here's how I operate. I save people, and then I keep my promise for generations to come. And that's good news. Many people here, myself included. You grew up in a home, it wasn't a Christian home, and you heard the gospel at some point, and you became a believer. There are some people here I know That are from really messed up family backgrounds, no light of the gospel, and as they say, great dysfunction, right? But God saved you, and there's now this shift. In fact, I was just talking to a couple, I've been talking to a couple The one person's from a terrible background. But I said, listen, you guys can shift history in this family line. You put your You base your family on the promises of the gospel, and you can turn a corner. And there are people here. who've done that. And so now you can bank on God's promise to go forth for generations to come. That's how we change the world. That's how we change the country, right? That's how we pop that's how God chooses to use us to populate his kingdom. And so come to the prayer meeting today, right? Pray for these things. And continue to pray for your children, for others in the church. And so these we have these reminders in the New Testament. What are the tokens, reminders, baptism and the Lord's Supper? Here's a reminder, Christian, your sins have been forgiven. You have fellowship with the God of the universe. He is for you. And he's for your children. And all the promises, all the promises contained in this book, 7,487. They are yes in Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Father in heaven, that you're gracious and you're kind to us, and you've given us