Let's turn in our Bibles to Genesis. So we just finished Revelation. We'll start over, okay? We'll go to Genesis. Genesis chapter 1. Not Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 12. Sorry Genesis 12, as I mentioned. So chapters 12 to 25 is the life of Abraham. Okay? Today, chapter 12, we're gonna do a chapter a week. That's the plan. Uh so three months on Abraham. We read in chapter twelve, and this is his call. Okay, this is the first well, just about the first we hear of him, except for the end of chapter eleven Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you In him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan, Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem to the Ark of Moray. At that time the Canaanites were in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your offspring I will give this land. So he built there an altar to the Lord, who had appeared to him. From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent in Bethel on the west, excuse me, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to the Lord, and called upon the name of the Lord, and Abram journeyed on, still going toward Beneg. Now there was famine in the land, so Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, I know that you are a woman, beautiful in appearance, and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife Then they will kill me, but they will let you live. Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake. When Abram entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful, and when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh, and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. And for her sake he dealt well with Abram, and he had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels But the Lord afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abraham's wife. So Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she is my sister so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife, take her and go. And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. So back in 2014, you may not remember this, but I have a record. Back in 2014, I preached through Genesis chapters 1 to 11. So after this brief hiatus of eight years, we're going to pick up where we left off. Left off, we're going to cover chapters 12 to 25 The life of Abraham. Well, I call it the life of Abraham. That's what it is on the surface. But the real subject of these chapters is God. It's about God's plan that will unfold throughout history. From Genesis 12 to Revelation 22. It's about God's purpose to say for himself a people, a people, not only Israel, but we discover as we turn With the New Testament, a people that comes from many nations, and it's preeminently, I would say, it's about God's grace toward sinners. So you have the gospel in the Old Testament. The gospel is God does for us what we can't do for ourselves. God saves us in spite of ourselves. And so we're going to look at this chapter. We're going to ask four questions of it, real simple questions, but these questions get to the meaning of this text. Who is Abraham? Why did God call Abraham? What did God promise Abraham? That's really the heart of the chapter. And what was Abraham's response to God's call? And so who was Abraham? Most of us are familiar with this guy, but who was he? And I think we could say fairly that apart from Lord Jesus Christ uh there is no greater figure in scripture uh than abraham you have moses you had um david you had the apostle paul but they all look to abraham As their father in the faith. But in the beginning, and this is where we're starting, actually, the last couple verses of chapter 11. In the beginning, Abraham was a nobody who lived around the year 2000 BC. He was a pagan. He wasn't some kind of religious guy. He wasn't a holy man He was a pagan. He was a part of a pagan world. If we started on chapter 11, we would have read about the Tower of Babel, this coalition of nations Joining in league against God, to assert their independence from God, to rebel from God, and to make a name for themselves apart from God. Well God's response to that was to confuse their languages, and so they were scattered into many different language groups so that the nations of the world could never again join together. in rebellion against God. Well, Abraham was a part of that heathen culture. If you go back to chapter 11, verse 27 It says that Abram's father was a guy named Terah. He was a polytheist. Joshua 24, verse 2. says that Tara served other gods, okay? So he wasn't a wasn't a monotheist, but he serves worshipped Many gods. Chapter 11, verse 31 says that Abram lived in Ur, Ur of the Chaldeans. And this is Mesopotamia or modern-day Iraq. So I was reading about the archaeologist back in the 1920s and 1930s. They excavated this ancient city, Ur of the Chaldeans, and they discovered uh that it one of the traits of this civilization was that they practiced a lunar religion, they worshiped the moon, which included the offering of human sacrifices. So Abram And his wife Sarai, they lived in this land of spiritual darkness. So he was a pagan man who was uh part of a pagan family who lived in a pagan city. And that was his life up to the time he was 75 years old. He would he would become Or he becomes here the father of the nation of Israel. And so why is that? So God had a design here. God's design for history was to reveal himself through one man, Abram, and then through Abraham's or Abraham Abraham's descendants, the nation of Israel And then through Israel to the world. That was the plan. That was the design. That's why God called the nation of Israel as his own people. And their purpose or their calling was to hear God's word, to write it down, and to proclaim it to the nations. Well, they heard it and they wrote it down, but they did a lousy job of proclaiming it to the nations that God's purposes would not be forwarded. We're going to talk about that in a little bit. So that's the easy question. Who was Abraham? The difficult question, if you think about it, is why did God call Abraham? If you follow the the the uh uh storyline of Genesis from chapter one, it seems like God would be done with humanity by the year two thousand B C, right? Genesis Genesis 1-3, God created man, everything was wonderful, but man rebelled against God. God is gracious. He said, I will provide for you, I'll provide a way, Genesis 3. 15, there will come a Savior one day. And what happens? The man continues in his downward rebellion. So that in chapters uh chapter six, uh man's rebellion again reaches a tipping point. It says in Genesis six five The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. So as a consequence, God judged the world by sending the flood. But then he showed mercy again. He um he spared Noah and his family. He could have destroyed the entire world, but he spared Noah and his family, and Noah would become Adam 2. 0, right? God would, through Noah, God would uh bring a fresh start uh through Noah. So that seemed like all right. Do we need to switch mics here? Alright. We're gonna switch mics. Hold that thought and turn it. Alright, here we go. So um anyway, you think after Noah's um Starting over, man would get in line, but that wasn't the case at all. Far from seeking to know God after he destroyed the earth, far from walking in his ways, Genesis eleven, Genesis eleven records again this escalating rebellion against God. And so that's when they built this tower, this uh as I said this attempt to assert their independence from God. So God confused their languages. And so you have this trajectory of the fall and then the flood and then the tower, right? All acts of God's judgment. And what would you have done? You know, we just said, I'm done. I am done with humanity. But that wasn't the case. God called Abraham. So we're asking the question: why did God call Abraham? And the answer would be it's not because there was something that made Abraham worthy of being called It wasn't something about humanity that made us worthy of being redeemed, but God called Abraham And he chose to bless the nations only because of his grace. So that's a huge word in the Bible for those who are new. Grace is God's unmerited favor. That's what Christianity is about. God's unmerited favor towards sinners who deserve condemnation. But that's how you see it right here from the beginning. That's how God operates. He shows favor to those who don't deserve it. And we say that's the message of the gospel. was the gospel, the good news that Christ came, he lived a perfect life where we fell short, and then he turned around, he died on the cross to bear the penalty for our sin. And so the message of the gospel is God's grace toward sinners in Jesus Christ. And we could apply that on a talk about God's grace on a personal level, right? Why did God open your eyes to see and to believe? Why did He draw you toward Jesus Christ? It's not because you were more noble, or it's not because you had this spiritual light or whatever, but it's because God was gracious to you. God was gracious to me. Look at uh or just listen to Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. Paul writes, God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead. Then he says, by grace you've been saved. If you don't understand that, you don't understand the gospel, you don't understand Christianity. If you think there's something about you that made you worthy of salvation, you don't understand it. We need to have a talk. And so Why did God call Abraham? Why does God call sinners? The only answer is that it's his grace. And it's a mystery what would motivate God except for his love and his mercy. Toward the undeserving. Now we're going to look thirdly about at God's promise to Abraham. This is really the heart of the passage. This is verses 1 to 3. And this is one of the key passages in the Bible. It's the second most important statement in Genesis. The first statement, most important statement. statement is chapter 1 verse 1. In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. So there's a God and he made everything. And now the second most important statement is this verses 1 and 3, God's call to Abram. Okay? And um if you look at verses 1 and 3, he counted up, you'll find seven promises. But we're just going to take the the gr the prominent promises, okay? There are three prominent promises here, and these promises are types that will be fit fulfilled in Jesus Christ, that will enjoy a greater fulfillment in Jesus Christ. So you have the shadows here, you'll have the realities in the New Testament. And these three promises are a land, a people. And then blessing to all nations. So let's just survey these briefly. First of all, God promised Abram a land. The end of verse 1 Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And so, and this is a huge theme in the Old Testament and the New Testament. God is always concerned that there be a place for his people. And so the land to which Abe God was calling Abram was the land of Canaan. It's also referred to as The promised land. And finally, right after Moses, Joshua brought the people across the Jordan River into the promised land. But then when you get to that point in the book of Joshua, you discover that that was not Israel's true home. And even Abram understood that right from the get-go, because Hebrews chapter 11. It says about Hebrews 11 verse 10. It says that Abram was looking forward to the city that has foundations whose architect and builder is God. It's saying Abram was looking forward to heaven, to the true resting place for God's people. So God promises His people a land. He promises them, or promises Abram a people. Verse 2, he says, I will make you a great nation. Now this is quite remarkable, right? If you're thinking about the ages of Abram and his wife, so Abram at this point was 75. And his wife, Sarai, who had been barren all her life, was 65, but he still God promised them offspring. And not only a child, but from this child would come descendants who would compose a great nation, the nation of Israel. Turn over to chapter 15, verse 5. God reiterates this. He says to Abram. Look to heaven and number the stars, if you're able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. So God promises Abram a land, he promises him A people, a nation would come from him. And then in the end of verse three, he promises Abram blessing to the nations. Look at the end of verse three. And you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Then you skip ahead to chapter seventeen, verse four. God promised Abraham he'll be the father of a multitude of nations. To underscore the gravity and the permanence of this covenant with Abram, in chapter 17, verse 5, God changes the guy's name from Abram to Abraham. which means father of a multitude of nations. I said these are just types, right? These are just shadows that are fulfilled in the New Testament. And so the true fulfillment comes, for example, Matthew 28, when Jesus gave the Great Commission to his disciples, what do you say? Go, and these disciples were Jews, right? He said, go make disciples of all nations. We just went through the book of Revelation. Revelation 7. 9 describes heaven. John sees a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. And so God's design from the get-go, from Abraham, was that the gospel would go out not only to the Jews, but it would go to all the nations, that there would be this great company. Now, as it said, Israel failed, right? Israel failed largely to be a light to the Gentiles. But it was in Jesus Christ, he was the offspring of Abraham, that the blessing came to all the nations. Now, if you think I'm being imaginative, Turn to the Gospel of Luke. Turn to Luke chapter 1. Because what I want you to see is how tight a document the Bible is. And when you see how tight it is, you should say you need to say, where did if you're not a Christian, where does book come from? How does this all fit together like this tight puzzle? Luke chapter 1, verse 54. The angel announced to Mary that she would give birth to the Messiah. Mary sings a song. She sings about God. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham. And to his offspring forever. So Mary understood that the birth of the Messiah was the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham. And then you uh chapter 1, verse 72 of Luke, an old Jewish priest, Zechariah, he received a similar announcement about the coming birth of the Messiah. And he sings in Luke 172, God remembered his holy covenant, the oath that he swore. to our father Abraham. So this promise is ratified in chapter 15 of Genesis. That's the covenant. And after 2,000 years Zechariah gets it. God is making good on his promise to Abraham. And so the history of redemption, in other words, God's working in history from Genesis to Revelation is the working out of God's promise to Abraham So Abraham's not only the father of the Jews, he's a father of everybody who believes in Jesus Christ. That's the case that the Apostle Paul was making in the book of Galatians that we just read. Galatians 3. 29, Paul says to Christians, if you are Christ, then your Abraham's offspring errors according to the promise. So there's God's call. Okay? One more thing now. Number four. Uh what was God's sorry, what was Abraham's response to God's call? His response Was to leave everything. So God said, Go to land to Canaan. Where was that? Down the street around the corner? That was 800 miles away. And Abram, the guy's 75 years old, his wife 65. He left everything. He left his country. He left his family. He left his culture. And he responded in obedience. Look at verses four and five. He immediately obeyed So Abram went as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran, and Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son. And all their possessions that they had gathered, and he and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. Now So what was it that moved Abram to step out like this? What incited him to go to Canaan? And it the the answer is simple He recognized that this was God calling him to do that. He recognized this was the voice of God. It was so powerful That he was willing to uproot himself from everything he had ever known and to go forth to this hostile land of Canaan. That God said, this would be your land, and you would have a people. Martin Luther said, Abraham followed the naked voice of God. He left all and followed the Almighty. And here's the important part. Preferring the Word of God to everything else and loving it beyond all things. Now there's a connection here to us. What do we say about this document? What do we say about this? We say this isn't just a history book This isn't just a record of man's spiritual yearnings down through the ages. But we say that this book is God's word to humanity. And the Bible, when you think about it, the Bible makes a fantastic claim about itself. I want all the kids to look at me. I want all the kids to look at me Um the Bible says about itself that it's a book that tells the truth. No other book, I don't I mean there's quite crazy books that say that, but the Bible says this is a book that tells the truth. Here's the truth about life. Here's the truth about history. Here's the truth about God and who he is and what he's done. And this tells the truth about you. And so these are remarkable claims How is it that 4,000 years after Abraham, 2,000 years after Jesus Christ, A Middle Eastern religion, how is it that on Sunday morning in Frederick, Maryland, there are hundreds of people going out to churches to hear the Bible taught? Well, the answer is that just as God's word was powerful to persuade Abraham And to get him to follow God's call, it continues to be powerful today. Right? This is the book that tells the truth. And the only reason that there are people who listen to it, who submit their lives to the Christ of which it's of whom it speaks, The only reason is that God's call is powerful. So the Spirit of God works through the Word of God. And we believe what it says about us, right? We're sinners. We need a Savior. They believe what it says about God. He's holy, but he's also merciful. And they believe what it says about Jesus. He is God, fully God, fully man, and he's the Savior of sinners. That's what a Christian is. A Christian is someone who has, by the Holy Spirit, recognized the voice of God. In this book. 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. Paul writes to these Christians in Thessalonica. He says When you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men. but as what it really is, the Word of God. So that's what a Christian is, right? You recognize God's voice. just as Abram recognized God's voice. And he set off on this long 800-mile journey. He built an altar to the Lord And um look at the end of verse 7. It says in Canaan he built an altar to the Lord. You go down to verse 8. He built an altar to the Lord. I think he was in Bethel then. So he went throughout the land of Canaan. You'll see this As we go through these chapters, he builds these altars. And so what he was doing is like he was planting a flag in Canaan. He said, he recognized God called me to go to Canaan. God told me this land would be the land of my people. And I'm going to consecrate this land to the Lord, because he's going to keep his promise. And so he built these altars. And so what do we say about Abraham's response? Well, he responded in obedience to God, but also He responded in fear and disobedience. Chapter 12, verse 10 to 20. Far from trusting God, Abraham did with that which was expedient. So they went down to Egypt. Should they have gone? I don't know. I'm not sure. God told them to go to Canaan, but they went down to Egypt because there was a famine. They went down there, and then Abram told his wife Sarai Tell Pharaoh That you're my sister, not my wife, because I'm afraid he'll kill me if he finds out you're my wife, because you're a beautiful woman. And um so Abram did that which was expedient. He lied to Pharaoh. And then later on, you know, the years pass on, and his wife Sarai still doesn't have a son. So Sarah says, Why don't you go to bed with the servant the servant girl Hagar and have a a child by her, that way you'll have a son. So Abram did that and they had uh uh uh Hagar gave birth to Ishmael. So again Abram wasn't trusting uh God's promises uh on both these tests uh Abram failed So Abraham's our father in the faith, but he's still a sinner. We're still left longing for a greater, a greater one And that longing is fulfilled. You turn over the last page of the Old Testament. You turn over to Matthew chapter 1, verse 1, the first page of the New Testament. And what does it say about Jesus Christ? It says, Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abram, or Abraham. So Jesus would be faithful. to the Father's word and to his will, where Abraham fell short. And Jesus Christ, righteousness was given to Abraham, the man of faith who was saved by faith, chapter 15, verse 6. And that's the only way we're saved. Through faith in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ would fulfill God's plan for s for history in that in Christ, right, a multitude of nations would have people turning to the true God, the God of Israel. So that's why we've read in Galatians 3. 29, if you're Christ, Then your Abraham's offspring heirs according to the promise. So if you believe in Jesus Christ, you are a true Jew. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, uh, for how the Bible confirms that it's true. We see promise, we see fulfillment. We see you have a plan throughout history. You're sovereign over all these things. We look around the world. There's much that grieves us, but help us to take heart. Recognizing That all your good purposes will prevail in the end. And we pray, Lord, that we would trust all your good promises I pray, Lord, for those who aren't yet Christians, that they would see that you save people by your grace, not by what we do. We thank you, Lord, that you made good on your promise to send a Savior, Jesus Christ. And for those who aren't Christians, may they look to Him and trust in Him. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.