Somebody I think it was J. A. Packer said, The Book of Romans is the high point of the Bible and the pinnacle of the book of Romans is chapter eight. And I think chapter eight verses twenty-eight to thirty is a very tippy top. of Romans of this chapter, there Paul writes, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son In order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called And those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. Let's bow our heads. We do ask Father in heaven for the illumination of the Holy Spirit to open our eyes, to recognize the riches that we enjoy in Jesus Christ. Help us to be attentive, apply your word to our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I think it's fair to say that most Christians sooner or later encounter some manner of affliction. uh by which our faith is rattled, right? We start to question. Now, is this stuff true? Have I been taking myself out? Have I just been going along with the the the faith I grew up with or something I latched on to. Is this stuff really true? The doctor set you down, and as several people here have heard, they give you this news. Yeah, it's cancer. You get a phone call, you learn that a loved one has died, and it it rattles you of a friend. Who um apparently, I mean, he was a strong, solid Christian for years And it seems like he just abandoned the faith. What happened? He said, Well, for years I struggled in my marriage. I prayed. I try to be an upright, loving, caring husband. I we try to work through these things, but nothing ever changed. So he's like, I don't think this must not be true. And so at least or apparently he's abandoned the Christian faith. And so my question is will your faith withstand Allegiance, uh not allegiance, uh affliction, will your faith be able to withstand affliction and adversity? And this is important for our young people to consider. Hey, when everything's going swimmingly, sure. Yeah, I believe this stuff. But what about when there are setbacks and affliction comes and it will come? What do you do? I think this passage is vital because for our allegiance to Christ To be solid through adversity, we must be persuaded of God's sovereignty, that He rules over all things, and we must be persuaded of his good purposes. And in the passage before us, God goes has gone on public record to affirm his rule and to affirm his good purposes for his people Remember to whom he wrote this letter, right? Paul wrote this letter to Christians who lived in Rome. So they were in the belly of the beast, so to speak. They suffered not only the miseries common to all people, but they suffered persecution. So we'll look at verse 28. That's the first point. 2930 is the second point. But the first thing we see in verse 28 is that God orders all things for the good of his people. Let's read it again. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Okay? First of all, what's he not saying here? He's not saying that all things work out well for all people. Because if you're not a Christian, things will not work out well in the end. You're going to suffer eternal damnation. And that's why there's this huge strain in the book of Romans. Come to Christ, believe the gospel, rest on Jesus Christ as your Savior. So it's not just some uh you know, uh optimistic uh bromide. Yeah, everything's gonna work out for everybody. It's not. We live in a fallen world. Nor is the saying that for Christians everything's going to work out in this life. That's not the case. We know from experience. But he is saying that in the end of the day, all things will ultimately work out for the good of God's people. And so, here we have this book that claims to be revelation from God. The claim of the Bible is that it's a disclosure from God who He is and how He operates. And in this book God makes this brazen claim that despite the evil and the misery in this world He governs the course of history and he governs the course of your life so that in the end of the day you'll be able to look out and say, yeah God did work all things for my good. Now either this is true, or it's just a fairy tale. But if it's true, then it's true not only on the sunny days, but also during the seasons of despair. For those who love God, all things work together for good. And so David read the account in Genesis of Joseph. Right? He had what? How many brothers? I can't remember. Ten or nine or eleven. I don't know. Whatever. But he had a lot of brothers They sold him into slavery, right? He was taken off to Egypt. So he was robbed of his parents. He was robbed of his childhood. He was robbed of his homeland. And then even when he rose up in Pharaoh's house, then he was falsely accused of by r of rape. By Pontifer's wife, he was thrown in jail. And so he endured years of misery. And yet he had this sense of God's providence. And so that's why he said in Genesis 50, 20, when he met up with his brothers, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. to bring about to bring it about that many people should be kept alive. For you think about Israel's history, right? Their enslavement in Egypt and then In five eighty-seven uh BC, the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem, destroyed the temple. carted the surviving Jews off into captivity in Babylon. And yet God spoke through the prophet Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 11. He told his people I know the plans I have for you, plans for welfare, not for evil, to give you a future and a hope. And those plans came to fruition, at least the first installment, 539 B. C. , the the Persians conquered the Babylonians, allowed the Jews to return To rebuild the city of Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. But that was just sort of a type of the greater fulfillment in the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ to redeem his people. God kept his promise. Or you think about, you know, talking about the purposes of God in the face of evil I mean, I think it's fair to say the greatest evil ever done was the crucifixion of the only good man who ever lived. And yet in Acts chapter 2, verse 23, Peter's preaching in Jerusalem, and he said, even this, quote. Was according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. And so we have this statement in Romans 8 28. And then we have examples in Scripture of all things working for the good of those who love God. We know people who hold to this. One of my uh theological theologian heroes is Benjamin Warfield. He was a professor at Princeton back in um late 1800s, early 1900s When he was studying, he was studying in Germany. I guess he was getting his doctorate there. He was newly married. His wife Annie and he were out for a walk one day in the Harz Mountains in northern Germany. And out of nowhere this violent thunderstorm came upon them. And I guess it was such an ordeal that his young bride had a nervous breakdown And she was an invalid for the rest of her life, and who knows what was going on with her before that, but something broke in in his wife. And um B. B. Warfield, he what did he do for the next forty years of his marriage? He he cared for his wife. He loved her. He didn't complain. He didn't wallow in self-pity. He didn't say, I have needs too, and I need to have my needs met. But rather, he continued to serve her. Why is this? Because he was persuaded of the truth of God's promise. And he made a comment on Romans 8:28. He said, this verse affirms two truths. Number one It affirms the universal government of God. All that comes to you is under his controlling hand. He believed that. Secondly, he said This verse affirms the favor of God to those who love him. If he governs all, then nothing but good can befall those to whom he would do. Good. And so you think about your own experience, your own life, right? We all have our own griefs. We all have our own fears. We all have our own heartaches. The claim made in verse 28 is that if you're a Christian, despite all those things, you can put your head down on your pillow at night. And you can be assured that whatever happens, God will accomplish his good purposes. And the qualifier though, right, is for those who love God. And so you must know Jesus Christ, you must be resting. on Jesus Christ as your Savior and not on your own religion, not in your own moral efforts. If you're doing that, you're still an orphan. But once you come to Christ, you can call on the great God of the universe. What did Jesus tell us to call him? Our Father in heaven. And so that's the first thing we see here. God orders all things for the good of his people. The second point, this is verses 29 to 30. Which is quite a mouthful, but we're gonna go through it. Not exhaustively, thankfully, right? But we're gonna go through it. We're gonna we're gonna try to explain I'm gonna try to explain clearly what each thing is saying The second point is that God is carrying out his plan, which he purposed from the beginning of time. And what is that plan? To bring you from unbelief to glorification. Okay? And I'm going to explain what glorification means in a minute. But let's let's cut it up like this. In fact, there's a really good book, a little theological book. It's like 120 pages, but it's dense The title is Redemption Accomplished and Applied. And that's a good way to explain what happened or what God did through Jesus Christ. So on the cross, Jesus accomplished our redemption, right? Well that's great, but how do we take hold of it? How do we receive a share in the work of Christ And the answer is the Holy Spirit applies the work of Jesus Christ, and I'll explain that in a minute. But what I want to say here is that he doesn't do it in one fell swoop. It's not a single act, but rather it is a series of acts and processes. And so you'll notice in verse 30 Three of the aspects of the Holy Spirit applying Christ's redemption to us. In verse 30, Paul speaks about calling. justification and glorification. You go through the scriptures, you'll see other aspects. And when you piece them all together, you come up with this. Okay? I'm not going to quiz you on it, but I think it's sort of interesting So the the uh the elements in our salvation, this has been called the golden chain of salvation or the order of salvation Or if you want to throw out a little Latin, which I don't know, but I read this, the Ordo Salutis, okay? That's sort of a, I think that would impress people, the Orto Salutis, okay? For those of you in Rio Linde, the golden chain of salvation. Alright? And so, here's the chain. Calling, regeneration, faith, and repentance, right? So God regenerates you, He gives you spiritual life, and as a result, you're able to believe, you're able to repent. And as a consequence of that, you're justified, which I'm going to explain, and you're also adopted as God's child, and then God begins this renovation. You're sanctified, you're changed. And you go on in the Christian life to the day you die. You'll persevere in the faith if you're a true Christian. Philippians 1, 6. And then you'll see God face to face and you'll be glorified. So that's the golden chain of salvation. preceding those elements in the application of Christ's work is the eternal purpose of God. And that is seen in verse 29. It speaks about his foreknowledge and it speaks of predestination. So what we're going to do is we're going to go through verses 29 and 30. We're going to look at the elements In God saving his people. This isn't everything the Bible says about it, but we're just going to look at these words so that we'll have some understanding. And see, God has a purpose, and his purpose unfolds in a very distinct manner, and that's what's taught here, okay? So the first element It's foreknowledge, okay? God knows from the beginning of time whom he will save. You see that in verse 29? It says Those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. Now there's a debate here Some people, some Christians, some preachers say foreknowledge merely means that God looked down the corridors of time. And he knew those who would turn to Christ of their own volition. And so because he saw that, he predestined these people to be saved. Okay? I don't see that in the Bible. We're not saved because God foresees that we will believe. Rather, we're saved because God, in his grace, because of his unmerited favor, elects some unto salvation. There's nothing we do to deserve that. We don't merit it. It's merely of God's grace. Okay? And then, because God predestined us that he enables us in time to believe. And I want you to notice, and and I'm I'm sh I'm I imagine there are people say, well, there are people here saying, no, that's not the way it is I want you to notice in verse 29. Verse 29 does not speak of what God foreknew, as if it's saying God knew ahead. That you would believe. It speaks of whom God foreknew. It says those whom God foreknew. So it's as if to say those whom God for loved. So this for knowing is a relational term, those whom God for loved. And so all it's saying Is that from the beginning of time God set his love on a people whom he would save? And those whom he for loved, it says in verse 29, he predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his son. So there's foreknowledge from the beginning of the time, God knew his people. And then as a consequence He predestined them unto salvation. Here's another controversial term. Let me throw it out there though. So predestination means God predetermined your destination Heaven or hell, before you were born. God chose to save some, He chose to pass over others, allowing them to reap the consequences of their unbelief. Hey, wait a minute. That comes from John Calvin. No, it doesn't. It comes from the Bible. You find this word predestined in verse what 29? You find it in verse Ephesians 1 Verses 5 and 6, it says, In love, he predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ. According to the purpose of his will, you find these words elect and election 14 times in the New Testament. But more than that, you find the teaching of God's sovereignty in the salvation of sinners throughout the entire Bible. And now let's try to clear up a misunderstanding. We wanna want you to walk out here or we were gonna be friends. Even if you disagree. You know, the nice thing about being a pastor, you can say whatever you want. As long as you smile and shake your hand, I smile and shake your hand at the door, all is well. Well, maybe not with everybody Maybe this is one of those things. So people chafe against the teaching, this teaching of predestination Because they equate it equate it with fatalism, right? That's not we're saying that's not what I'm saying. That's not what we believe Predestination does not cancel out human responsibility. So here's the problem, like you're saying, it's either human responsibility or God's sovereignty. Well the Bible says both. It just doesn't reconcile it. You know, the Bible says there's one God and three persons in the Godhead. How can it be both? It doesn't explain it. It just asserts it. And it's the same when the scripture talks about God's sovereignty in saving people and our responsibility to turn to Jesus Christ. The Bible does extend a genuine offer of salvation to all people. It's not just some half half-hearted phony offer. It's a genuine offer of salvation to all people. And it puts the responsibility for trusting in Jesus Christ on the shoulders of the hearer. You want some verses? Yeah. Of course. Everybody believes this stuff, this part of it, right? Matthew 11, 28. Jesus said, Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. Who does Jesus Christ invite to himself? Who does he genuinely invite to himself? All people. And he says, Come to me. And if you would come, you can come. John 3. 16, God so loved the world that He gave His only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have eternal life. In Acts 17, verse 30, the Apostle Paul preached. That God commands all people everywhere to repent. Romans 10:13. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. So this is teaching. Everybody with an earshot of the gospel is responsible to repent and to turn to Christ. And if they will not, it's not because God's keeping them from believing, it's their own hard hearts. And they have no one but themselves to blame. So, be scratching your head? It's like, wait a minute, this guy's talking about talking out of both sides of his mouth. No. I'm just asserting what the Bible asserts, God's sovereignty and human responsibility. How they fit together, we don't know. The Bible doesn't explain everything. It doesn't sort everything out. One day we'll understand. Even Jesus made simultaneous declarations affirming human responsibility and God's sovereignty. So in John 6, 44 Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father draws him And yet, he also asserted our responsibility. John chapter 5, verse 40, he said to these unbelievers, You refuse to come to me that you may have life. He's saying you have no one but yourself to blame because of your stubborn hard heart. And so there you have it. Do you understand it? Well no, I don't understand it, but I just see it taught in Scripture. And it is necessary that God predestine his people unto salvation, otherwise nobody would be saved. On many occasions, I've referenced Ephesians 2. 1 Where Paul tells these Christians, you were dead in your transgressions and sin, right? Has anybody seen a dead man resuscitate himself? We say, no, that doesn't happen. They're dead. Well that's what we were. We were spiritually dead. No one would be saved apart from God breathing spiritual life into us. That's why, again, Paul in 1 Corinthians 2 14. He says, the man without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God. They're foolishness. He can't understand them because they're spiritually discerned. And everybody believes that. Even those who say they don't believe in predestination, you know how we know that? Because they pray for the salvation of loved ones. They wouldn't be praying. They'd be arguing. They'd be debating. They'd be convincing. But they wouldn't waste their time praying. if God wasn't the one who brought people to see and to believe. Well let's go on to the next term, okay? Calling. So it so in this golden chain in this process, okay, God predestines people, and then in time He calls the unbeliever to believe, to have faith. He opens their eyes. He woos them. He draws them. He awakens them. So calling If I can give us just a little definition, is the work of the Holy Spirit by which God convicts us of our sin He brings us to faith in Christ, and he persuades us and enables us to believe. So it's interesting in Sunday school. I wish you remembered what Lisa Ledwell said But she talked about she was an unbeliever. She had no spiritual inclinations. She's a very objective person. And I hope I'm conveying that I'll convey this correctly. She gave me the thumbs up. And um she said something to the effect that it was like this awakening and all of a sudden I saw this truth from Scripture, and I saw the truth about myself, and that's what happens. Sometimes it takes place over years. Sometimes you just just something awakens you. But you end up saying, this stuff is true. I'm persuaded. I believe this stuff. How do you do that? Well, God is called, that's the work of God calling you to Himself from unbelief. to believe. And the Bible says, you know, God uses means. If you're not a Christian You don't just sort of sit there on your little hill and look at your belly button and wait, Lord, if you're going to call me, call me, bring me to belief. But God uses means, right? Romans 10, 17 says, faith comes from hearing the word of God. So this is why he always encouraged those who aren't believers yet. Open up the Bible, you know, read the Gospels, read through the New Testament, just read through the whole thing. Ask questions. Come to church, come to Sunday school, come to Bible study. Ask questions And we trust the power of God's Word to move people from unbelief to belief. So if you consider yourself a skeptic or you're not there yet, I still say, come. And uh you don't have to pretend you're a believer, just we're we're fine. And um ask your questions. So there's calling. God uses the word. Here's a proof text for that. 1 Peter 1:23 and 25 Peter says to these people who are now Christians, you have been born again through the living and abiding Word of God. This word is the good news that was preached to you. That's how God brings people to faith in Jesus Christ. So there's calling. Then you have the word justification, which if you've been here through our march through Romans 1 through 8, you know Justification by faith is perhaps a preeminent theme taught in the book of Romans. And justification is merely God declaring you not guilty, but rather as righteous. Okay? This is the heart of Christianity. This is the heart of the gospel. Justification, in other words God pronouncing you righteous. In other words, God regarding you as free from sin Not because you're such a good person or anything, or not because you're so religious, but because he looks upon you as being clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So justification involves something God takes away from you, He takes away your sin, He removes your guilt, something God gives you, He clothes you in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So to say it again, it's not a moral quality, right? We still struggle with sin. God's still changing us by his Spirit. But rather, it's just a legal standing before God. And then the final link in the golden chain of salvation, you see in verse 30, it says, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. So that's the final state in our redemption by which we will be conformed. If you're a Christian, you will be conformed to the likeness of Jesus Christ. The moral likeness, right? You're not going to become a God or anything, but the you will be fully human. And you will be morally upright. In the meanwhile, God by His Spirit is changing us. He is sanctifying us. One day that work will be complete, but it won't be complete. until we stand before Jesus Christ. And as John wrote in 1 John 3:2, he said to these believers, Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. So I like this comment that C. S. Lewis made. He said, listen, the dullest, most uninteresting person You can talk to one you talk to right now, may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now You be tempted to bow down and worship this person. Right? You will see a perfect human being without sin. You will, if you're a Christian, you will be a perfect human being without sin And what's really notable, I think, and we're almost done here, is in verse 30, now our glorification is something that's going to happen in the future. And yet he puts it in the past tense, those whom he justified, he also glorified. What's he saying? It's as good as done if you believe in Jesus Christ. It's as good as done. Because remember this golden chain. From the beginning of time, God foreknew those whom he would save. And if God has elected you unto salvation, God has and you know you're elected, how? You believe in Jesus Christ and you're endeavoring to walk with him. It's not you just don't have this feeling. You see a change in your life, right? You love God, first John, book of first John. Well You can be confident that no matter what happens, you will one day be glorified. So this is a tremendous claim in these three verses, right? For those who love God, all things work together for good. If you don't know Jesus Christ, whoa, what an incentive we have here. God will be for you. All things will work in your favor. Even your illness, affliction, the loss of loved ones, marital strife. uh job insecurity, all these things Paul is saying, whatever befalls us in this life And so you uh you want to just pause And ask yourself, am I going to allow my outlook to be governed by my circumstances Or am I going to allow it to be governed by these very clear promises from God? Something to think about. Let's bow our heads. Lord God, thank you for your goodness and your power in our lives and in your church around the world. And down through history. Thank you for the promise that we will prevail, and one day we will find relief.