So for those who are new here or what's going on here, we've been going through Matthew. We come to Matthew 21, but we've taken breaks along the way. We did Ecclesiastes And then we did uh the book of Titus, and we're going to take another break in our march through Matthew. We're going to do the last book of the Old Testament, the book of Malachi. And so let's turn there. You'll need your scripture open. If you need a Bible, there's some a table with some on the in the back uh the back. But it's interesting. I like Malachi. It's just four chapters and it's It's pretty topical. A number of uh different topics come up. It's broken into six disputations or arguments or controversies between God and his people. So I encourage you to just read these four chapters. Keep reading them over and over, and you'll see how it fits together. You'll start to understand the uh the storyline, the arguments being made you'll see the repetition of certain words and so that'll uh uh uh remi help you understand the big themes that like you'll see the word covenant repeat it, uh the word the fear of the Lord repeat it, and talk about worship and uh perfunctory and lax being perfunctory and lax in worship. All this will come together and come we'll get here Sunday morning and we'll go through a section and we'll try to make some uh clarifying comments and some applications. So I was looking at a little comment one of the Puritans made, Jeremiah Burroughs, yesterday. He said, we should listen as much to the voice of God and the ministry of his word as if the Lord should speak. out of the clouds to us. And so there should be a reverence and a sobriety as God's word is read and preached. So on Malachi chapter 1, I'll read the first five verses. The oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. I have loved you, says the Lord, but you say, How have you loved us? Here's God's answer. Is not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord. Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to the jackals of the desert. If Edom says, We are we are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins The Lord of hosts says, They may build, but we will tear down, and they will be called the wicked country, and the people with whom the Lord is angry forever Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, Graise the Lord beyond the border of Israel. So a little bit of context is in order, right? We're we're just jumping into this little uh Old Testament prophecy. So Malachi was a prophet in Israel. It's somewhere around the year 450 B. C. It may be 420 B. C. Nobody knows for sure. But it's the 5th century B. C. What's important to recognize is this is about ninety or so years after the Jews returned to Jerusalem. having been in captivity in Babylon for around 70 years. And so in 587 BC, The uh Babylonians went in, they conquered Jerusalem, they destroyed the temple, they knocked down the walls, thousands of Jews were killed Most of those who survived, not all, but most of those who survived, were carted off to Babylon, and there they languished. in captivity in Babylon and everything was lost, so it seemed. But God promised that He would restore a remnant of His people. And that took place 539. So 587, that's uh, you know, if you want to know the most important date in the Old Testament to try to break it up, I'd say 587 BC is the most important date. Because that was the Babylonian uh when they conquered Jerusalem and they and the Jews went into captivity. So just write that somewhere, and that'll help you understand most of the Old Testament. But anyway, five thirty-nine, the Persians conquered the Babylonians, and the Persian king Cyrus Told Jews in Babylon, hey, if you want to go back to Jerusalem, rebuild the temple, rebuild the walls, rebuild the city, you're welcome to do that. And a group of Jews went back to Jerusalem and they did this reconstruction. And they're back there now, and they've been back some time. And they're a little bit disappointed because the earlier prophets, prophets that spoke during the time of the Babylonian captivity, Isaiah, Jeremiah. Um is um Ezekiel, Zechariah, they gave promises through God that God would restore his people not only to the land, but that the people would prosper, their their crops, excuse me, their land would yield abundant crops The Messiah would come, and nations would come to Jerusalem to worship. Those prophecies are in Scripture. And they were under the impression that there would be a those prophecies would soon be fulfilled in their lifetimes. But they'd been now back in Jerusalem for a number of years, and these promises given by the prophets had not yet come uh to pass. And so the people their group skeptical of God's love And they grew perfunctory and corrupt in their worship. They were indifferent to the truth. They were faithless in their marriages. And they were stingy in their offerings. So you might say a spiritual malaise had set in on these Jews who returned to Jerusalem. And if you've been a Christian for a while, uh you you know what I'm talking about here, right? You can become slack, you can become lax, there there there are things you hope for in your life and they they never materialized and so now uh you're in this sort of slump, uh a malaise you might say. You have a form of gobbiness, uh but in in some ways you're disillusioned and you're complacent and you might be carnal. And so what Malachi spoke to the Jews in the 5th century BC, he speaks to us as well. In fact the name Malachi means my messenger. Malachi was God's messenger. He had a message from God. to the people of Israel, but the scripture is not just given to us as some kind of historical document The New Testament says of the Old Testament that this is written to us. I could give you three or four verses. One I'll give you right off the bat, though, is Romans 15 verse 4 Paul, speaking of the Old Testament, wrote, Whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction. That through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. And so the book in Malachi is here not only to encourage the Jews in the fifth century. It's given to encourage us. Okay? So we're not looking at this ancient document and then drawing some lessons from it. Hey, you know what? We can learn a lesson there for us. But rather We are looking at this ancient document as God's word which is spoken to us today in our circumstances. Okay? So it is just as immediate, excuse me, God is speaking to us as immediately as he spoke to the original audience. And so that's something of the problem that was going on amongst the Jews. Now let's talk about Malachi. He was a man with a burden. Okay? So this is not gonna be a happy, happy book, right? Look at verse 1. He says it says the oracle of the word to Malachi. So I'm reading the ESV translation It translates this word oracle if you have the NIV. It's translated the prophecy of Malachi. If you have the King James, the translation is the burden of Malachi. Now all those translations are within the semantic range of the Hebrew word But I like that that translation burden because the word oracle, prophecy, burden, that particular Hebrew word, has as its root A Hebrew word which means to bear a burden. And so you can say The Old Testament prophets were men who bore great burdens, right? They were delivering God's word, and God's word is weighty, right? It's substantial. The Bible's not meringue, right? It's not meant to be written like, oh, here's a little blessed thought for today. You know, I think I'll text it to my friend. Although, yeah, you can do that. But it's not just a compendium of little happy, uh pleasant thoughts or comforting thoughts, but there's a weightiness to the Word of God. And so God's prophet Malachi had this burden because God had given him this oracle But also, he was burdened because he saw, he lived amongst the people who were indifferent to God's word and to his claim on their lives. And so, you know, Malachi, you know, I don't know how to put I shouldn't never mind. But uh he wasn't just like bouncing around. He wasn't Joe Cool Uh he wasn't uh one of those guys who was completely with it and uh fashionable, but he he I imagine he was angry at times. You see it in the book He was discouraged at times. He was grieved because he saw the indifference amongst God's people. And most Christians sense this, right? If you're trying to be a faithful Christian and you see the casualness in the American Church. He's like, what's going on here? I sense this as a pastor. Elders have this sense. Like, what's going on? Aren't we taking this seriously? Aren't we taking the the Christian life seriously? And Malachi knows he's burned because he has this weighty word from God, but he knows that everybody's not going to receive his message amongst the visible church in the Old Testament, the people of Israel. Some people though well he's quaint. He's so serious. He's so earnest. Isn't that quaint? He's such a religious man. That's not what he wants. He wants them to take God's word seriously And yet they continue to live their lives on their terms and to go the basically to go their own way, but with an outward form of religion. And um this this is I think this is not altogether different from the Christian life. Yes, we have joy in Christ. I'm not saying that, right? We're not this is not uh just a bunch of completely pessimistic people. Um we we we have joy in Jesus Christ, but we're not in heaven yet And we live in a fallen world. We have our own sin that we struggle with. And we see people's losses and their disappointments and their struggles. in their griefs. And we also see those who are Christians and and yet they go their own way. And so that we too have a burden. We understand that the normal Christian life It's not dire misery, but neither is it an unending street party, right? There's this balance what the uh what the normal Christian life is. And um That's probably a realistic way to look at the Christian life. And we're in good company. Matthew 23. Jesus wept over Jerusalem. Because his people, like the visible church, the Jews of the Old Testament, most of them ignored his claim on their life. You think about the Apostle Paul in Acts chapter 17 When he went into Athens, it says that his spirit was provoked within him. You read the newspaper. Becky and I, we get up, we read the newspaper. We saw the news the night before. Uh we're ready for the nut house. We're we're so discouraged and you'll hear some news on the radio. And um it's like, oh my goodness, how can it get any worse? And you find out, yeah. It's getting worse. I I can't believe it. So Malachi was a man uh with a burden And it was through this prophet that God called the people of Israel to reaffirm their commitment to the God of Israel and to their covenant responsibilities. But before he calls them to account for their spiritual lackness, he begins by Affirming, reassuring them of God's covenant commitment, of God's great love for his people. So that's what we'll look at a little more closely, and then we'll pray. This is verses 2 to 5, and this is a good way to do it, right? You want to lead with love You want to assure God's people that God is committed to them. And so Res, before we look at verses two to five, just a little bit of uh uh outline of how Malachi is arranged The book contains six dialogues that mimic a dispute between God and Israel. And so it's like here's God on one side of the table, here's here's Israel on the other side of the table. And the dialogue begins By God leveling a charge against Israel. And then it's almost like God hops over to the other side of the table and he mimics Israel answering that charge. And then, once uh he mimics Israel's answer, God elaborates on the nature of Israel's sin. Let me give you a couple examples, and you'll see this throughout the book if you read it. a little bit or read it this week. Look at uh chapter one in the second part of verse six. God says, O priests who despise my name, Then God jumps over to the other side of the table. But you say, How have we despised your name? And then God explains to them how they despise his name. Chapter 2, verse 17 You've wearied the Lord with your words. Then he mimics them. But you say, how have we wearied him? Then God explains to them, here's how you have wearied me by your words. So you see what I'm saying That's what we see here in verses 2 to 6 of chapter 1. This is the first of these arguments. They doubted God's love. Okay? So, um, verse one, God says, I have loved you, says the Lord. But you say, How have you loved us? And they're saying, you know, we we don't see any evidence of your love. We're still living under foreign domination, we're still under the Persians. The temple of Jerusalem, yeah, it was rebuilt. You promised it would be rebuilt and it's been rebuilt rebuilt. But it's just a quantit hut. compared to the original temple that the Babylonians destroyed, you know, it's it's it's almost an embarrassment. Uh where's this golden age that Zechariah and Isaiah and Ezekiel promised? It hasn't come To pass. And this is useful because I imagine each of us Can say, you know, that's I I've there have been seasons in my life where I've questioned God's love. I mean you might be in a season right now. You know, there there have been great disappointments. I thought you loved us, Lord. Uh some of the ladies in our church went over uh last Saturday to clean the house of one of Bethany Perfader's friends. a fine Christian lady dying of dying of cancer and she's in her last days. She has four kids still at home. She has a husband. How can that be? Such a faithful Christian family, great just such a loss that these children are are anticipating. They're gonna lose their mother. How have you loved us? And then the mom. My kids, you know, a mom's instinct is to watch out for her kids and her husband losing his wife and and not having her as his companion. How have you loved us? And so that's a that's a fair question. And um I imagine you've asked that question. I've asked that question. Lord, how do you love me? I might not use those words, but that's the sentiment behind it. How do you answer that question when you think it through? You know, things have not gone as I hoped they would. And yet I had this sense that they would, and I had the sense that you were going to clear it away. Lord? Alright, let me think this through. Well, one way to answer it, and this isn't the way Malachi answers it, or God answers it in Malachi. You could make a list of the various blessings that you enjoy and say, yeah, these are all evidences of God's love. However, what if you can't make a list? What if you have your life has been like Job? What can you point to as an evidence of God's love? And the people of Israel, they were probably more like Job, right, than like Joel Olstein. They could not probably make a list of all these blessings. And so what we find in verses two to five uh is something that every Christian can point to as bul a bulletproof evidence of God's love. And what we find in these verses is that the ultimate evidence of God's love is that God, in his free and sovereign grace, chose you to be a recipient of salvation. And that's what he told Israel. Let's look more closely. The second part of verse 2. We're going to have to explain some of this. So they said, Have you loved us? And notice God's answer Is not Esau Jacob's brother? declares the Lord. Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated Well, is not Esau Jacob's brother? Yeah, they're brothers, right? And so Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac was the father of Jacob and Esau. They were twins But even as twins, Esau was the firstborn. He was born first. Okay? And as the firstborn, he was considered the older, he as and custom would say, he would be the recipient. of all his father's blessings. However, God in his sovereign grace chose not Esau the firstborn But he chose Jacob and his descendants, the people of Israel. That's what Jacob was the father of Israel, okay? So Jacob and his descendants, the people of Israel, God chose them to be his covenant people. Esau and his descendants, the Edomites They did not enjoy God's favor. And what makes this ironic is that Jacob was not this great pillar of spirituality and integrity. He was a creep. He deceived his father. He stole his brother's birthright. So he was a rat. But God says to Israel, Jacob's descendants, he says, hey. When you say, How have you loved us? His answer is, I chose you to be my people. I have elected you unto salvation. And there was nothing about your forefather Jacob that merited my love. In fact, this is Genesis 23, 25, verse 23, Genesis 25, 23 says that God chose Jacob while Jacob and Esau were still in their mother's womb. So there was nothing that Jacob did to merit God's favor. And then you trace the history of Israel. And God's dealings with the Israelites, Jacob's descendants, was gracious. It was always gracious. They were in captivity in Egypt. God brought them out of Egypt. He sent the plagues on the Egyptians, and then the Egyptian army chased the Israelites when they were trying to get out of there. And God uh closed the Red Sea and destroyed the Egyptian army And um when the Israelites strayed, uh God wasn't done with them. He disciplined them. He sent the Babylonians uh to destroy Jerusalem and take them into captivity But even there, God brought out a remnant. He returned them to Jerusalem. What happened to the descendants of Esau, the Edomites? Well, they were destroyed. And they were buns too, just like the Israelites, but they suffered. They suffered the consequences. So when the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem in 587 The Edomites sided with the Babylonians. They were in fortune. This is in the book, little book of Obadiah in the Old Testament They acted as informants, they looted Jerusalem, and they cut off the escape routes from Jerusalem And then after Jerusalem was conquered and the Jews were carted off, the Edomites moved into Jerusalem, so this area that had been vacated by the Jews. in the book of Obadiah prophesied a future destruction of Edom because the Edomites went against their brother, so to speak, the Israelites. And look at the end of verse 3 here. Well, verse 3, but Esau, God says, I hated I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals in the desert. And history tells us in 312 BC, invaders from the desert, a group called the Nabataeans, ransacked the Edomite territory And force the Edomites to flee. But the Edomites were confident still, you know what, we're going to be able to rebuild. But God says in verse 4, not on my watch, verse 4, if Edom says We are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins. Lord of hosts says, They may build, but I will tear down. And they will be called the wicked country, and the people with whom the Lord is angry forever Now for those who are world travelers or who have friends who are world travelers, has anybody here ever gone on vacation to eat them? Do you know anybody who's visited Edom? It's like, well, uh actually not. I've been to some nice places, but uh not Edom. Well no, because there is no Edom, uh there are no Edomites today uh God made good on that promise. And so what we have here, and I a lot of history I understand But in it the bottom line is that God reminds his discouraged, disheartened people of his electing love. I chose Jacob. And so that really is our final comfort. You know, what's your only comfort in life and death? I belong to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. We don't know how our lives are going to unfold. We don't know what kind of loneliness or setbacks or disappointments we're going to face. But we can only say my only comfort in life is that I know Jesus Christ. I remember years ago, a lady in his church, she said, I grew up poor. I grew up in a non Christian home. My father abandoned our family. When I got married, my husband left me. I didn't enjoy a good education and the privileges that brings. But God brought me to know Jesus. And she said that makes up for all of it. It's like, whoa, that lady understands. That lady sees things clearly. As a Christian, should see things. And so we would say the final proof of God's love is not this or that blessing, although God does confer those blessings on his people. But we would say the final proof of God's love is that He has not dealt with us as our sins deserve, but He has had mercy on us through Jesus Christ. who atoned for our sin. Well, we're going to close just a verse with a couple more comments. Ephesians 1, verse 4 and 5. God says, or Paul writes, that God chose us in him, in Christ, before the foundation of the world, right? Think about Jacob and Esau before they were born while they're still in their mother's womb. God chose Jacob. Paul brings it back even further. He says, God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. It goes on. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. And so God chose you God destroyed the Edomites. God has destroyed our enemies. But how does the New Testament Explain who our enemies are. Our enemies are not people who are unbelievers. We're supposed to treat them as friends, right? And reach out to them. The New Testament says our enemies are sin, Satan, and death. You see that in Ephesians 6 You see in 1 Corinthians 15. 57, you see in Colossians 2. 15. The New Testament takes the Edomites and the enemies of God's people And it turns it and it says, you know what? They were just types of the greater enemy of God's people, sin and Satan and death. And so when you ask the question, Lord, how have you loved us? This is the answer. God has been merciful to you. One of the Puritans, John Owen. He said, the greatest sorrow and burden you can lay on the Father, the greatest unkindness you can do to him, is not to believe that he loves you. How can we question the love of God? He's made it clear on the cross of Christ, He's made it clear in Scripture. Well we're going to sing a hymn. It's number 469. Let's open there. I want to make a couple comments before we pray and then we'll sing. 469. A real simple tune. And the tune, the hymn's called How Sweet and Awesome Is the Place. And the place spoken of is this great banquet to God to which God invites us. It's a it's picking up on the the parable of the wedding feast in Matthew 22. That's what this hymn's a reflection on. In which the king invites all kinds of misfits to this lavish banquet. He's invited us. Look at verse 2. Uh we asked the question, while our law excuse me, while all our hearts and all our songs Join to admire the feast, each of us cry with thankful tongues, Lord, why was I a guest? Why would you invite me? And um the answer implied as well it's not because we have any virtue or because we're any any better than anybody else, but because God in his grace uh chose us. And if he'd not chosen us and uh changed our hearts and given us the ability to see and to believe, we would have had no interest in coming in to this feast. Look at verse 4. He says, it was the same love that spread the feast that sweetly drew us in, or else we would have refused to taste, and we too would have perished in our sin. But God was gracious to us. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, our Father in heaven, that you have been gracious to us and Help us to keep our sorrows and losses in perspective. Help us to be reminded that this life It's not the final chapter, there's something more to come. And even in this life, you tell us you're always with us You strengthen us. You'll never leave us nor forsake us. We pray for those who are not yet Christians, that they would come in and join the feast, that they would find forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And they would come to you and own you as their God. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, well let's sing this, number 469. So standards. How sweet and awesome is a place With Christ with him no lasting of his place The choice has thou pursuers my songs. Join you with my feet. Each of us cries with thankful tongue. I was I guess, why was I made to hear your voice? Answer while his room went thou and make a choice And brother started the same heart as friend of east. That sweet through our thing has we have to taste And Constrain me earth to come Send your victorious wrote. And bring the strangers home. We long to see your church as full That all the toes and grace may with one boys and heart and Soul singular being grace Amen. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance to you. Give you peace. Amen.