Forgot to turn recorder on so I'm gonna have to repeat everything uh I forgot to say. No. Just kidding. Um I want to remind you that though the government and the media, public education in our country is really thoroughly uh secularized and often antagonistic uh toward Christianity. And sadly, uh the masses of young people in our nation Most of them are raised in such a way that they're really not introduced to historic Christian belief, a clear presentation Of what biblical Christianity is about. And so it seems like things are going to be very difficult. And this isn't of late, this is really the past 30 or 40 years. Some would say, well, the past sixty years. Now we could cut we can make our marks on the calendar uh however we want, but nonetheless Our culture has become more and more secular and not merely post-Christian, but now uh it seems like it's entering an era where it's gonna be difficult To be a Christian. But what the doctrine of God's sovereignty and salvation reminds us is that God still has people out there who belong to them They're not yet Christians, but God has numbered them amongst his elect, and God has predestined them unto salvation. And so yeah, there is much opposition to the gospel, but God still has his people. This is that this is the way it's been From the beginning of time and in many parts of the world uh this has been the situation And our situation today is not unlike the Apostle Paul when he was in Corinth. Paul faced bitter opposition. In that Greek city. But listen to what God spoke to Paul in Acts chapter 18, verses 9 to 10. He said, I want you to stay in Corinth, even though you're facing persecution. We read, the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent. Now why Well God says, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you. And then he says, For I have many people in this city. Excuse me, for I have many in this city who are my people. And so God told Paul, I have people in the city of Corinth who are my elect. And so what I want to do this morning is make the case that the greatest incentive for evangelism in a post Christian culture Are the doctrines of election and predestination. And for those who have heard those words but never heard them explained, it sounds very theological. Sounds perhaps esoteric. Some people will say that's something that John Calvin came up with. And one of the things I'm going to show you this morning, it's not John Calvin's invention, although I gladly will take the label Calvinist because that's just shorthand for talking about somebody who understands what the Bible teaches. this subject. And so we're talking about election, and election means God chooses A people to save. Okay? You see that in Ephesians 1 verse 4. Paul wrote, God chose us in him, in Christ. Before the foundation of the world. So from the beginning of time, Paul tells these Christians, God chose you to be saved. And then you have the word predestination. That means merely God preordained those whom He would save. Where does that come from? Straight from the Bible, Ephesians 1, verse 5. Paul wrote, He predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ. And so, in other words, the reason that you're a Christian and your co-worker or your neighbor is not The reason is not that you're more spiritual. It's not that you had some kind of heart for God, and God recognized that. It's not that you're wiser, it's not that you have a more penetrating intellect, that you're able to look at life and all the philosophies and religions and and discover that Christianity is the truth. No. The reason you're Christian and not the next guy or the next gal Is that God had mercy on you? He opened your eyes to see and to believe Now if this if the talk about election predestination uh sets your teeth on edge, well we're just getting started. No. I was gonna say that. If it sets your teeth on edge, I wanna say two things. I don't think I know a Christian who starts I didn't, and I was a Christian for many years before I went ro went around with it and and and wrestled with it and had many discussions about it. And so and we know that there are honest Christians have differences on this But n but no I shouldn't say no one. Few people start the Christian life believing this. And the second thing I want to say to those who find this disturbing Is that those who accept the reformed understanding of predestination will acknowledge that they don't completely understand how it all works, they don't understand how it fits together, but they accept it because they see it plainly taught on the pages of Scripture. Okay? And so someone who believes in the reforms understanding of these words, election, and predestination Concerning these doctrines. But rather we see these are taught in the Bible, and so we affirm what the Bible says We understand. We don't know how it all fits together. And as I go on, you'll see what I'm talking about when I say we don't know how it all fits together And so here's my outline. Number one, the Bible teaches predestination. In other words, God is sovereign in granting salvation. Number two, I want to show that predestination is necessary because if God doesn't save a sinner, nobody's going to be saved. The third thing I want to do is spend a little time and talk about three ways that this doctrine is misunderstood. And then finally, I want to point out two practical benefits of the doctrine of predestination and particularly how it relates to Evangelism. Okay? So first of all, I just want to take a little bit of time, not a lot of time, because we could spend days on this Just to underline the fact that the doctrine of predestination is rooted in the Bible. So you find this word predestine. In places like Acts 4, 28, Romans 8, 29 and 30, Ephesians 1, 5 and 11. You find the words election and elect 14 times in the New Testament. For example, Matthew 24, 22, Mark 13, 27, Romans 11, 7. Second Timothy two ten. Titus one one. First Peter one verse one. Now I'm not expecting you to look all those verses up, but I'm saying I'm not pulling this stuff out of thin air, and this is not some kind of Presbyterian hobby horse, but rather this is something That is in the Bible. The fact that God saves sinners is a hallmark of biblical Christianity because biblical Christianity is always characterized by God-centeredness. Let me give you some examples. Acts 13, 48 Paul and Barnabas priests in Psydian Antioch, and then Luke writes, As many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Okay. Why do they believe? Because God had appointed them unto eternal life. How about Jesus? John 6. 44, Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. Well, there is a statement. God has to save a person. Same thing in John 6. 65. Jesus said, No one can come to me unless it is granted By the Father. Now, of course, Christians who believe the Bible and don't agree with this They don't deny that these words are in the Bible, but they redefine these words to make them more acceptable. And they'll say that, yeah, God chose us before the foundation of the world, but that was because of his foreknowledge. He was able to look down the quarters of time And see who would choose him. And so, because he saw that you had that spiritual inclination, he then chose you as his own. But that is to impose on these words something that the Bible does not teach. And then some will object, well, wait a minute, I chose God And I say, indeed you did. You freely chose him. But you chose God only because in his electing love He chose you. And because he chose you, he granted you repentance and faith. Look at this or think about this. Number one, the ability to repent. Is something that you don't do on your own. It's something that God enables you to do. Acts 11, verse 18. The Christians in Judea, when they realized that Gentiles were becoming Christians, they acknowledged, quote, They said to the Gentiles also, God has granted repentance. Why did they repent? Because God enabled them, God granted them repentance. That's a actual Acts 1118. So repentance is a fifth a gift from God, so is faith. And I can make a list of verses, just one, Ephesians 2 verse 8 Paul says, by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God. Now I've never met a Christian who said, no, even if someone says, I'm not a Calvinist, I'm an Arminian, right? There are two labels for the two schools. Some people don't like labels I think they're helpful as shorthand though, once we know what the what the terms are. Some people will or or no Christian will say, Yeah, you know what There was really nothing that God did, but really it was my doing. I'm the one who uh made my choice. When you press anybody, any Christian on this, they say, you know what? To God belongs the glory. He saved me. Right? He saved me And why do we pray for the salvation of others if it's not a work of God? And so everybody prays right Right? For the for the lost, we don't just say let's just devise some program or write some tracks or try to argue people into it But we realize God has to do it. Well that's all I'm saying here. That's all the Bible says. And so my first point, predestination is biblical. My second point, predestination is necessary. If God did not choose to save some, then none would be saved. Illustrations, I use them every time I talk about this. Forgive me, makes me feel better, but also I think they're great illustrations. Thomas Boston, he was an 18th-century uh Scottish theologist He had a great illustration of the condition of the unconverted person. He compared the unconverted person to a man down in a pit. And here's what you need to do for that man to be saved. You got this unbeliever, he's down in the pit. Well, we'll throw the rope of the gospel down to him. The rope of the gospel, right? Christ died for sinners. If you believe in him, repent, you'll be saved. So we throw down that rope to him, okay? All he really has to do to be saved is grab onto that rope, and then Christ will pull him out of the tent. Well Boston pointed out, well, there's a problem here though. The man in the pit is dead. He can't grab onto the rope. You can preach the gospel till the cows come home, but a dead person is not going to respond to it. And so um what I would point out then Is that those honest Christians who have it who have trouble with this teaching, your real problem is not with the doctrines of election or predestination Your real problem is with what the Bible says about the condition of man outside of Christ. And so your problem is with what we call the doctrine. doctrine of man. Because the Bible does not teach that the unbeliever has a free will. Now everybody every Christian says man has fallen We use the word total depravity, uh right, we're sinners, we're lost. But those who do not accept the reform teaching on the complete fallenness of man will say, well yeah, man is fallen, but there is a component in his heart by which he can choose Christ or reject Christ. And so he's not completely fallen. It's like that movie The Princess Bride where Billy Crystal said, Well he's dead, but he's not dead dead You know, there's still there's still this little element within him uh that that can can can gas for life. But the Bible the Bible's assessment Of be outside of Christ is that he is completely dead. Ephesians 2, verse 1. Here's what Paul says to these Christians. What were they before they became before God saved them? Paul writes, ye were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Now Has anybody ever seen a dead person resuscitate himself? Anybody? Let me check on Zoom. Nobody there either. Alright. We're dead. Think about the valley of dry bones in Ezekiel 37. I think that's a good illustration of what we are outside of Jesus Christ. There is no flesh, there is no breath within us. Or another way the Bible says it, in case the dead metaphor is not strong enough to seem sufficient, says the unregenerate man's spiritually blind. 1 Corinthians 2, verse 14. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him And he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. Why do some people see and others don't? It's because it's a spiritual matter. God has to open a person's eyes to see and to believe. Another one of my favorite stories, Benjamin Morgan Palmer was a pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Georgia. In the 1800s. And it was a period of revival in the city of Savannah. And a friend of his who wasn't a believer was visiting at the time And he was talking to Palmer, and he said, You know, you preachers are the most contrary of men On the one hand, you say to unbelievers, you need to repent and come to Christ. If you don't come, you're going to perish. But then on the other hand, you tell us We're unable to come to Christ on our own. Palmer said, Well, I don't think there's any value in us arguing about it. You can come to Christ on your own. Why don't you just come to Christ And at that point his friend cried out and said, Well that's just the problem. I've been trying to come to Christ for days and I can't. Said, well, why don't we pray that God will do for you what you can't do for yourself? And they prayed and they prayed And within a few days, the man was truly able to turn to Jesus Christ. And so What I'm saying is that the doctrine of predestination is necessary because outside of Jesus Christ We're spiritually dead, and we have no hope of turning to Jesus Christ. The only way that our will will freely reach for Jesus Is that God grants us the liberation of our will, of a will that was previously in bondage to sin and to Satan and to death. So that's That's my second point. Predestination is necessary. And let's talk about thirdly how predestination is oftentimes misunderstood. Here's the first misunderstanding. Predestination does not diminish the genuineness Of the offer of the gospel to all people. Okay? Yeah. God is sovereign in granting salvation But there's mystery involved because at the same time when Jesus and the apostles preached In the Gospels and in the book of Acts, we don't find them saying, if you're one of the elect, come to Christ. That's not how you preach the gospel. Rather, what do we find them saying? We find them genuinely issuing the offer of salvation to all people. John 3. 16, whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. John or Matthew 11, 28, Jesus said, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. So Jesus said If you see your sin, if you're burdened by it, then come to me. Now it wasn't a false invitation. It was a genuine invitation. If someone sees that about him or herself, then that person could come to Christ. John 6 35, Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not perish. Excuse me, whoever comes to me shall not perish Hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. There's that word whoever. It's wide open. It's the universal invitation. Acts 17, verse 30 We read God commands all people everywhere to repent. And then again, uh finally, Revelation 22, verse 17. So the very end of the Bible, we have this invitation. Let the one who is thirsty come. So the question is, he does the same, let the elect come, but he says, if If you see your thirst and your need of a Savior, then come to Jesus Christ. Now, I bet you there are some people Who are looking at me and they're saying, this guy is crazy. He's talking to, and not just my wife, but he's talking out of both sides of his mouth On the one hand, he's saying that God is sovereign and only God can save. And then on the other hand He's quoting these Bible verses that talk about our responsibility and our ability to come to Jesus Christ. Well, which is it? And I'll tell you, it's both. Why is that? Because that's what the Bible teaches. God's sovereignty and human responsibility are taught in Scripture, they go hand in hand And so, imagine if they were coming down, this is from a Dutch theologian named Arby Kuyper. He said, imagine two ropes coming down through the ceiling, okay? One rope that comes down right here is the rope of human responsibility. Then there's this other rope that's coming down, and it's the rope labeled God's sovereignty. So, which is it human responsibility or God's sovereignty? And Kuiper says, you know what? If you can look up through the ceiling where those ropes are from where those ropes are dropping down, you would discover on the other side of the ceiling there's a pulling. And it's really not two ropes that are coming down. But it's one rope looped over a pulley, and if you're gonna s and if you're gonna be able to support yourself scripturally, you're gonna have to hold on both to the The rope of God's sovereignty, he entered the rope that says human responsibility to support yourself because there's a tension. whole thing. You know what? I never try to reconcile the doctrines of human responsibility and divine sovereignty because I don't need to reconcile friends. When we get to heaven and we have all the information, we'll see how it all fits together. In the meantime, all we do is who recognize here's something that scripture teach teaches very clearly and so we're we're comfortable Uh with the apparent contradiction. We know that in God's mind there's no contradiction. And this isn't the first time that a Christian is comfortable with something that's seems to be contra contradictory, right? We we embrace the doctrine of the Trinity. We don't understand how God can be one person one one God and three persons in the Godhead. But the Bible clearly teaches that it's a while we don't understand So I'm talking about misunderstandings. The first misunderstanding is that election does not diminish the genuineness of the gospel. Here's something else. Election does not absolve man of his responsibility to come to Jesus Christ. Now this is a charge that is unfairly uh uh set against Calvinists, okay? They say, well, you Calvinists are fatalists. And in fact, they have a little ditty they use. Yeah, I know what you Calvinists teach. You can, but you can't. You will, but you won't. You're damned if you do, and damned if you don't So you're telling us that we can do something and we can't? No. We teach, because the Bible teaches, that if someone was to come to Jesus Christ, then he could come to Christ. And if someone goes to hell, that person has only himself to blame. Jesus himself in John 5. 40 said to these um believers. You refuse to come to me that you may have life. Why don't they come? Well Jesus says, it's because you refuse to come to me. You have chosen to reject me. And so the Bible does not teach, come to Christ if you're amongst the elect. The gospel offer is always, if you see you're a sinner, and you See that Jesus is the Savior of sinners, then come to Christ and He will have you. Right? He says, Whoever comes to me, I'll never drive away. And so To unbelievers, and there may be unbelievers here, right? If you're an unbeliever And you say, well, I can't believe, but I want to believe. What do you do? Here's what I say: acknowledge your natural disposition. Is toward unbelief. But once you acknowledge that your natural disposition, don't be passive, but rather But one of the one of the great uh old evangelists, Ebenezer Erskine, said, he said, attempt the impossible. Attempt the impossible. He gave this illustration. He said, think about Jesus. He told the lame man to stretch out his hand. Now, why would you tell a lame person to stretch out your hand I mean, he would be coming to Jesus for healing. If I could stretch out my hand, why am I talking to you? I've come to you for healing. But Jesus told this lame person Stretch out his hand. And in stretching out his hand, Jesus gave him the ability to do so. And so Erskine said, so sinners must attempt to believe in Jesus, trusting that God will give them the strength to do what is natively impossible For them to do. And so my second misunderstanding is this election does not absolve man of his responsibility to come to Jesus. Jesus Christ. Here's a third misunderstanding. Election or predestination does not exclude the use of means to Bring about spiritual birth. Right? And so there's a category or label used called hyper-Calvinists, and these are people Who would say, you know what? God has his elect, so we don't need to do evangelism. We don't have to worry about missions. We don't have to talk to our neighbor. All you need to do is go to church and hang around with your other Christian friends. And talk about theology, and uh you're offset. No. God saves people, but he uses means, right? He uses the preaching of the gospel. So in Acts 18, God commanded Paul, go on seeking. For I have many people in this city who are my people. So God had his elect in the city, but he told Paul to go on speaking because God uses means to collect his people unto himself. Same thing in Acts, I'm sorry, Romans 10, 14. Paul said, How shall they believe in him of whom they've never heard? And how shall they hear without someone preaching? The book of Romans is full of references to election and predestination, and yet Paul says the word has to be preached and people We have to go to those who haven't heard. C C Ryl Ryle said. Preaching is the hand of God by which he reaches out to claim for himself those whom he has chosen from all eternity. So that's why we share the gospel God uses means the proclamation of his word. Another means it's prayer, right? We pray because though God has his people God acts in response to our prayers. Our prayers are the means by which God brings his purposes to pass. And so prayer is necessary. That's why we want everybody to pray. That's why we have a Wednesday morning prayer time. And so we pray, and also, because God uses means, if you're not a Christian, if you're a young person, yeah, I go to church because my parents bring me to church. Church, I don't know if this stuff is all true. I've never really owned it for myself. Well, God uses means To persuade you and to help you to sing. That includes the study of the scripture. That includes studying under biblical preaching. And so continue to come, but also study the scripture on your own. Why? Because Romans Romans ten seventeen says Faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. And so the issue is never, am I one of the elect? But the issue is always Do I see my sin? Do I see my need of a savior? Do you recognize that Jesus Christ is indeed that Savior? And are you resting on him? For your salvation. And Jesus said, If you come to me, I'll never drive you away. My ears are clogged. Have I been screaming? Okay. Sorry. All right. Somebody will let me know later if it'll be too late. Here's oh, by the way, fourth point. Predestination is practical. Okay? How's that? Well I can I can make a list. Let me just give to. It humbles us and it gives God all the glory, right? When we get to heaven, nobody's going to say, you know, hey, what brings you here? I nobody's gonna say, well, you know what? I sort of figured it out spiritually and I examined the different movements and uh worldviews and religions out there and I just thought Christianity is the truth and hey, that's why I'm here. How about you? Nobody's gonna be like that. We're all gonna be like John Newton. I was lost. I was blind. I was a rebel. I was a spiritual corpse. But God had mercy on me. Everybody's gonna be like that And like I said earlier, that's the mark of God-centered religion. You always can tell what God-centered religion is. Is the focus on man or is it on God? Right? comes to public worship services, when it comes to our our theology of evangelism, it's all you can always tell the real thing because the focus is on God. Well that's one practical implication. It humbles us. And so Calvinists should be the humblest of all Christians because we know that we contributed nothing, not even the ability. to believe. But also, this guess is my title Being Persuaded of the Doctrines of Election And predestination should make us bold evangelists. Why is that? It's because Because the God who commands us to make disciples of all nations is the God who can change The heart is hard. And so we should take the gospel to all kinds of people indiscriminately by trusting if we scatter the seed God as he is pleased. He's going to bring fruit. Not everybody's going to believe, but he has his elect out there And that's why Paul said in 1 Corinthians 3 6, I planted the polished water, but God gave the growth. And that's why, you know, when people say, Well, if you believe in predestination, then you predestin You're not going to have an incentive to do evangelism. We would say no. That's it's completely it's completely the opposite. And historically, those who believe in God believed in God's sovereignty For the greatest evangelists, right? The Apostle Paul. I mean, he taught he wrote about election and predestination, but he wasn't just sitting there in his little room, you know, listening to his Christian podcast and uh uh studying his commentaries, but he was out there evangelizing the world. Or think about uh William Carey, the founder of modern the modern missionary movement Why did he go to the other end of the world with the gospel? Well, because he knew that God is sovereign And he could penetrate the hardest hearts. Think about the Puritan preachers or John Newton, who wrote Amazing Grace, John Bunyan. Who wrote Pilgrim's Progress? George Whitfield, right? Riding up and down the Eastern Seaboard in the mid-1700s. God's instrument. For this great awakening. Why did he do that? Because he knew that God is sovereign And changing hearts, Jonathan Edwards, Charles Virgin, they were all Calvinists. Bill Bright was the founder of Campus Crusade for Christ and D. James Kennedy, who wrote the evangelism explosion curriculum, all these evangelists believed in the sovereignty of God. in salvation. And so I brought this up, number one, to give you confidence. God is still at work. He still has his people out there. He will accomplish His saving purposes, and also to encourage you to continue to be a happy warrior and go out there and scatter the seed and build relationships. With unbelievers. And so we just bought a big box of little Gospel of John booklets. So it's just the Gospel of John and no frills And so here's what I want to suggest. There are some in the back. For those on the Zoom, send me an email or a text and I'll bring you some. Take a few of these or take carry one in your pocket, the Home Depot, some guy's helping you with your plumbing questions or you're at the restaurant. restaurant and somebody's real nice to you, a waiter, and you have a little chit-chat. When it comes time to to end the conversation, you can just say, you know, I appreciate your helping me and you're very kind I'm not sure if you can see it. scripture but this has changed my life I'm persuaded it's true and I want to share with you if you'd let me. And they could say no, drop dead. I think most people are like Yeah, sure, I'll take it. You never know. But we have to remember we're on the winning team. We have the truth of God's word And so take a take a couple of these and be daring. And also, I put a stamp inside, and it has our church name. phone number and um a website address. So you don't know what's gonna happen. But this is this'll be fun, right? We're gonna still go Out, we're going to fight the good fight. God's going to accomplish his purposes through his people. So let's bow our heads and pray. And also before we pray, remember what Paul or what God said to Paul in Acts 18 I had many in this city who are my people. That was true of Corinth. That is true of where you live. Let's bow our heads.