So we're in chapter nine, and in the verse first five verses, if you remember from two weeks ago, Paul uh spoke about his love for his fellow Jews who did not recognize Jesus to be the Messiah. And now, beginning at verse 6, he handles objections about and that related to the question Why do so few of Paul's fellow Jews not recognize Jesus to be the Messiah? Is there some deficiency in God's work? Is there some deficiency in God's Word. So we'll read it and then we'll go through it carefully. So beginning at verse six, Paul responds to a question that he anticipates, but it is not as though the Word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all who are children of Abraham, excuse me, and not all are children of Abraham, because they are his offspring. But Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise who are counted as offspring. For this is what the promise said. About this time next year I will return, and Sarah will have a son. And not only so, but also when Rebecca had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac Though they were not yet born and had not done either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue Not because of works, but because of his call, she was told, The older will serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. For he says to Moses I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. You will say to me then, Why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? But who are you, O man, to answer to answer back to God? Well, what is Molder say to us, Mulder? Why have you made me like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honored use, and another for dishonourable use. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory, even us whom he has called not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. As indeed he says in Hosea. Those who were not my people, I will call my people, and her who was not beloved, I will call beloved. And in the very place where it was said to them, you're not my people there they will be called sons of the living God. And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved For the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay. And as Isaiah predicted, if the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sab like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. We'll stop there. That's quite a bit. I just want to refresh your memory. Excuse me. So Romans 1 to 8, that was really had one theme. The theme was the gospel. You get to chapter nine, and it's almost like an abrupt, it is an abrupt change of subject. Paul is now addressing the question of the unbelief of so many of his fellow Jews. This question should not catch us really completely off guard because it's a question that should have uh crossed our minds back in chapter 1, verse 16. Where Paul, speaking of the gospel, said, the gospel is for the Jew first, and then for the Gentile, then for the Greek. And so the question should have come up, wait a minute, if the gospel is first for the Jews Then how is it that so few of them believe? That's the question that Paul is answering in Romans chapter 9 to 11. Because Jewish unbelief in Paul's day, as in our day, is a perplexing issue. Remember what I said a couple weeks ago? I said Christianity is Jewish, right? Abraham, the father of Israel He was Jewish. That's how the whole plan of redemption, well, goes back to Genesis, but it was really put into higher gear in Genesis 12 when God called Abraham. And God's saving purposes throughout the Old Testament are tied To the nation of Israel. Right? And Jesus was a Jew, and Paul was a Jew, and the apostles were Jews, and the early church in Jerusalem was composed of Jews. And so Obviously, Jew the Jewish people were central to God's redemptive purposes. So, how is it That so many of the people who are most familiar with the Old Testament promises of the coming Messiah did not recognize him when he came And this is sort of an interesting issue for us, thinking, how is that? Right? We sort of approach it in an academic manner, but it was no academic uh issue for Paul. These were his people, right? He was torn up over the unbelief of so many of his fellow Jews. That's why he said back in chapter 9, verses 1 and 2, I'm speaking the truth in Christ. I'm not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart over the unbelief of his kinsmen. In chapter 10, verse 1, brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. Well, here's the beginning of his answer in chapter 9. And this chapter contains some hard teaching. uh maybe a little bit hard to understand, but even harder to swallow, harder to accept. It speaks of election. And I'll tell you up front, we're not going to understand it fully. It doesn't answer all our questions. And so this is one of those chapters. It does say quite a bit though. So let's take that part in, but then we also pause and say, we're not going to understand all of God's ways, right? God's ways are above our ways. So in this chapter, Paul answers four questions. And so Paul is like a lawyer. He anticipates objections and he deals with them. Four questions. Verses six to thirteen. Have God's promises failed? Verses fourteen to eighteen. Is God then unjust? Verses nineteen to twenty-nine. Why does God blame us for unbelief, for our for our unbelief if we don't believe? And then verses thirty to thirty-three. What then shall we say in conclusion? So let's look at how Paul answers these questions. We're going to spend most of our time on the first point. And so don't worry about the clock. We'll get you out of here in time for whatever you have for lunch. Okay? Not that that's even crossing your mind now because you're you're you're in the moment, right? And so So many of my fellow countrymen don't believe. Have God's promises to the people of Israel failed And at first glance, it seems like they did fail because so many Jews rejected the Jewish Messiah, Jesus Christ. Paul says, no, his purposes for it for the people of Israel have not failed. And here's how. He says in verses six to seven, mere physical descent from Abraham. does not make one a true Israelite. And he says, this isn't just some new thing I'm coming up with This is the way it has always been going back to the time of Abraham himself. So let's look at some of the details, and then we'll draw some some implications And so verses 6 and 7 again, Paul says, but it is not as though the Word of God has failed, for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. And not all are children not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring. Okay? So Paul is saying here That true Israel is not Abraham's physical progeny. True Israel has always been Abraham's spiritual progeny. In other words, to be a child of Abraham, you must have the faith of Abraham. Paul said something similar back in chapter 2, verse 28. No one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical But a Jew is one inwardly, in circumcision is a matter of the heart. And so again, mere physical descent from Abraham Does not make one an heir of God's covenant promises, right, that he made to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and to the twelve tribes. But rather Abraham's sons are those who receive the promise by faith. So let's look at now verses 7 and 8. We'll flesh this out, and then we'll draw some implications. So verse 7 So he says, not all are children of Abraham because they are of his offspring, but through Isaac shall your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring. Okay? So, what's going on here? Paul is pointing out that um only one of Abraham's sons was an heir of God's promise to Abraham. So God made promises to Abraham in Genesis 12, Genesis 15, Genesis 17. He said, Through you I'll bless all the nations on earth You'll be a great nation, and so on. That's Genesis 12, 1 to 3 is a good little snippet for that. Okay? So God made these promises. Abraham had a son by his concubine, Hagar. That was Ishmael. That was Abraham's firstborn son. Remember when we did Genesis a couple years ago? His wife Sarah took her years, decades and decades before she finally had a son whom God had promised And God had promised Abraham that through Sarah's son, all the nations would be blessed. Okay? And so Abraham's firstborn son, Ishmael, did not inherit God's promises, even though he was a son of Abraham. It was Isaac who had who received the promises. Then he gives another example. Isaac grows up, he marries Rebekah. Okay? Ian Rebekah had twins, Jacob and Esau. They were twins, but God only chose one. He didn't they both didn't receive the promise. They were both grandsons of Abraham, but only one received the promise, Jacob, and not Esau. And to make it clear that God chose Jacob uh not because he was more deserving But only because that's whom God chose mere good pleasure. He points out in verses seven and eight three things about these guys. Did I read seven and eight yet? Uh second time? Let me see. I'm losing. Let's see. Seven and eight. Let's do that. Uh wait, where am I? Oh no. Skip seven and eight. I'm good. All right. I'll say what I'm going to say and then I'll read the passage, okay? To show that God didn't choose Jacob because he had some kind of virtue or merit Paul points out three things about these guys. First of all, Jacob and Esau were twins. Why would God choose one and not the other? And the reason is it was just by his good pleasure. He just chose Jacob. Jacob didn't deserve it anymore than Esau, but he just elected Jacob. And on top of that, even though they were twins, there was a firstborn twin, and that firstborn was Esau. And yet God chose Jacob the second son. Why was that? Well, merely God's good pleasure. In addition God did the choosing before they were born, before Jacob and Esau had an opportunity. To demonstrate any kind of merit, any kind of deserving God's blessing. And so let's go to verses 10 and 13. I'm back on track now. And so We read in verse 10, and not only so, but also when Rebekah, right, she was the mom of Jacob and Esau. Uh not only so, but also when Rebecca had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, though they were not yet born, and had done nothing either good or bad In order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of his call, she was told the older will serve the younger. And so God chose Jacob over Esau. There was nothing about Jacob that merited his being chosen, but it was just God's free grace. It was God's sovereign choice. And then in verse 13 we read, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. Now it's not saying that God had animosity toward Esau. It's just a Hebrew idiom. indicating preference. Sort of like in the in the Gospel of Luke chapter 14, where Jesus says, whoever doesn't hate their father and mother more than me cannot follow me. Okay, he's just saying you need to put me before your parents. Not that you should hate your parents, right? Because he said, love your father and mother. Okay? And so where's all this going? And I know there's a lot of details here, and I'm sorry if I didn't say it as clearly as I could have. But what we have here thus far is one of the clearest statements in the Bible on the doctrine of election. What is clear is that from the beginning of time, God chose whom he would save. And Paul says that very clearly in Ephesians chapter 1 verse 4. God chose us in him, in Christ, before the foundation of the world. Why is anyone saved? Because of God's sovereign choice. And I know and I I appreciate it. Some of you are like, that doesn't sound right. Uh that doesn't sound fair. Um And I'll just uh say a couple of comments here. And I want to say far from being something that's dreadful or unappealing uh we should see see the doctrine of election as something uh that's a blessing, something that's wonderful. Why would I say that? Well The most basic reason is that if God did not elect some unto salvation, no one would be saved. Nobody has an inclination to turn to Christ. Sin has blinded us. We are spiritually dead, it says in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. And so no one would be saved unless God chooses to save some, right? Romans 8. 7 says The mind that's set on the flesh is hostile to God. So it's not like there are people out there who are honest seekers searching for God. In fact, it says in Romans 3. 11, no one seeks God. So, if God did not elect someone to salvation, none would be saved. Well, if that's the case, the second implication then is that This should humble us if we're saved, right? It should humble us and give God all the glory. Because we don't have any ground to boast. If you're a Christian, you're not more virtuous or more deserving than your neighbor. You were just as blind, you were just as dead But God had mercy and gave you the ability to recognize that Jesus Christ is your Savior. And so it's all of grace, right? It's all we're saved only because of God's unmerited favor. You know, why did God choose Israel? He just chose them. That's what we read in Deuteronomy seven, verses seven and eight. God told the people of Israel It was not because you were more in number than in any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you. For you were the fewest of the peoples, but it was because the Lord loves you. And so it was just because of God's sovereign mercy. That he chose Israel. It's just because of God's sovereign mercy that he chose you to be saved. Here's another implication of election. If you're a Christian, you need not worry about whether or not you're going to make it to heaven. We can be assured of our salvation. Because from the beginning of time God elected you onto unto salvation. Excuse me. In Philippians 1:6, Paul says, He who began a good work in you will carry on to completion on the day of Jesus Christ. Here's another good implication of the doctrine of election, okay? Some people say, well, if people are elect, if they're predestined to be saved, then no need to do evangelism. You never see that logic in the Bible. The Bible logic is it's because God has his elect out there that we should be bold in Confident evangelism, evangelists, not confident in our ability, but confident that God will save people. God has his elect out there And the means that he uses to bring them to saving faith is the proclamation of the gospel. Look at chapter 10, verse 14. And so this balances it out. Paul wrote, How are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him? of whom they have never heard, and how are they to hear without someone preaching? And so we're commanded to proclaim and to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. And those who respond are the elect. They're the ones who have faith. You see this in Acts chapter 18. Paul's in Corinth He's preaching the gospel. He faced fierce opposition. And yet in chapter 18, verses 9 and 10, Paul uh God commands Paul to continue to speak. Here's why. Paul God says, for I have many people in this city. Or I should write, I should say, for I have many in this city who are my people. So why should Paul go on preaching in Corinth when there is such opposition? Well, because God has a had his elect in Corinth And they need to hear the gospel so that they'll come to faith. And so that that's how that's how God works. Uh God has many people. in our county, who are his people. We live in a we live in a very uh secular culture. Well that's true. But look at all the churches in Frederick County, all the Bible-teaching churches, I should say, that are full of people. There are a lot of Christians here. How is that? Well, because God has his elect, and there will be for generations to come people who come to know Jesus Christ. And so our job then is to proclaim the gospel indiscriminately, so that his elect will hear and they will come to faith. Acts 13, 48, Luke wrote, As many as were appointed to eternal life believed. That's the case here. There are people in our circles who are appointed to eternal life. And so let's make Christ known in our however we do it. Let's make Christ known. We use wisdom. And we trust that God will bring them from unbelief to belief. And so the first question that Paul deals with, the one the point that I'm I've spent the most time on Is the question, does the unbelief of the Jews mean that God's promise has failed? And Paul in verses 6 to 7 says, by no means, right? It's not as though the word of God has failed, for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are children of Abraham because they're of his offspring. No. It's the spiritual offspring. Okay? Let's move on to point two. We're halfway there. Maybe even beyond a halfway point. Okay. Well, if not everybody is saved, if not everybody is spiritual God's spiritual children, even though they're from a Jewish background Then the second question, verses fourteen, eighteen, is God unjust? And when you read God's teaching on election, It leads many to conclude that God is capricious and arbitrary and unfair. And Paul anticipates this objection. Verse 14. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? And he says, by no means. And it'll go on to say, don't ask for justice. Anyone here want justice? Just give me what I deserve. That would not be a good request, right? If we got what we deserve. We would be saying, would you please condemn me to hell for my sin and for my corruption? No, that's not how it works, so we don't want to ask for justice. And then Paul cites two Old Testament texts that teach that God is free. God is obligated to no one. He is free to choose whom he will save. and to allow others to continue in their sinful rebellion. Verse 15 is a quotation from Exodus 33, where Paul writes, for he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So there's a statement of God's freedom to choose whom He will. Verse 17 is a quotation from Exodus 9, which we read this morning, okay? Verse 17. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. And then verse 18 says then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. So God hardened Pharaoh's heart. We read that in Exodus chapter nine. God hardened Pharaoh's heart. But we have to qualify that a little bit. And say that God did not make Pharaoh evil, he rather merely allowed Pharaoh's evil desires to come to fruition. And so we don't see anywhere in the Bible God hardening anyone who had not first hardened himself. That's what it said in Exodus 932. Pharaoh hardened his heart, and then in 912, after that, God hardened Pharaoh's heart. But again, verse 14, the question, is there unjustice on God's part? Paul says, by no means, okay? Because what's remarkable is not that some are saved while God passes over others, but rather what's remarkable is that God saves anyone, even though we don't deserve his mercy. And then just look at verse 16 as a standalone. Here's one of the clearest statements in the Bible that we're not saved by our moral or religious efforts. So then it depends, did I say verse 16? So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. Do you think you contribute anything to your salvation? I hope you don't, because that that violates everything that we read in Scripture. No. We can't trust in our religion, our righteousness We can only trust in Jesus Christ, who lived a perfect life for us. Another question. I'm just going to skim over this because I know you can only take in so much. Why does God blame us for our for our unbelief, right? If salvation is entirely a work of God And we contribute nothing to it, then how is it that God would hold us on responsible for our unbelief? That's what he says in verse 19. You will say then, why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? And uh Paul says in verses twenty to twenty-one. God has a right to do with us however he will, as a potter has a right to do as he chooses, uh with the with with the clay, with the same lump of clay. Some for some for some of the clay he makes vessels for noble purposes, and for others he makes vessels for destruction. And it's God's prerogative to show mercy to some and to unleash his wrath on others. That's verses 23 to 20, I'm sorry, twenty-two to twenty-three. And so 22. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? in order to make the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory. Now these are probably some of the hardest words in the Bible I'd say the hardest words in chapter 9, okay? God says right here, or Paul says right here, God prepares some for salvation and others for destruction. What do you do with that? Well, the these are hard words. There's two ways to deal with it. One way is just to whitewash it and pretend they're not saying what they're saying And that's the popular way, because we become the judge of what God should be like And we're more merciful and we're more compassionate by God. And so we have to protect him from himself. And in fact, uh there are pastors who will preach to Romans They're going to skip chapter 9, they're going to skip chapter 11 because it's too offensive. But this is from God. We believe this is God's word. And so we don't do that, but rather We recognize and we acknowledge that this is hard teaching. In fact, in 2 Peter 3. 16 Peter, writing about Paul's letters, says explicitly, there are some things in Paul's letters that are hard to understand. And so when we come to a difficult statement like this, which speaks about God preparing some vessels for destruction, our response isn't I don't believe that. That's not true. The Bible can't be saying that. Our response should be, I see it right there. I don't understand it. I don't know how it fits with the fact that the Bible declares God to be just and righteous and good and merciful I don't see how it all fits together, but I see it here, and so I'm going to accept it with humility, and I'm going to reserve judgment And I'm going to remember the words of Deuteronomy 29, 29, where Moses wrote, the sacred things belong to the Lord our God. But the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever. So Moses is saying there, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Some things are not disclosed. They're secret. We don't understand how all this works. We don't understand how all this comports with the goodness and the love of God. But we know God is good and He's loving and we know that His word is reliable, and so we will accept it, but we will reserve judgment. We're not going to pontificate on it in ways that the bia that goes beyond what the Bible teaches, but we will accept it as from the Lord. And then Paul adds, God's purpose to save only a remnant of the Jews and then to engraft the Gentiles into the kingdom. Isn't some new teaching this was all foretold in the Jewish scriptures, our Old Testament And in verses twenty-five and twenty-six he quotes two texts from the book of Hosea that foretell the inclusion of the Gentiles into God's people. And then in verses 27 and 29, there are two quotes from the book of Isaiah that say that only a remnant of the Jewish people will be saved. Point four, you still out there? You still you still kicking? Alright. We're gonna bring it home, right? The last stanza, going straight for the coda. This will this will be good. Hang in there, okay? So what do we say in conclusion? Verses 30 to 33. What then shall we say in conclusion? And then he says, the Gentiles did not set out on a path to be saved or to become religious or to reform themselves. God just opened their eyes, those Gentiles who became Christians. God just opened their eyes to trust in Christ for salvation. Verse 30. What shall we say then? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness, right, they didn't become religious, they have attained it. That is a righteousness that is by faith So they recognize that you're saved by faith. God gives you the c righteousness of Jesus Christ when you trust in him. Okay? And at the same time, many Jews lived under the mistaken notion that you're saved by your own efforts. If you keep the try to keep the commands, you'll be saved. 31 and 32 But that Israel who pursued a law, right, they pursued the commands, who pursued a law that would would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as it is were, but as if it were based on works Then he goes on they stumbled on the stumbling stone, right? Jesus Christ. Thirty-three And then he combines a couple of Old Testament passages, 33. As it is written, Behold, I'm laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. And so they stumbled over Christ because his message is you're saved by faith. Through God's grace, you're not saved by your religion, you're not saved by reforming yourself morally. And so they stumbled over Jesus Christ. And um in a few uh you can trust in Christ or you can reject him But if you reject him, you go to weigh religion, you go to way of good works, then you're going to stumble and fall. Now here's just one more thing, okay? And this'll this is you'll you'll track this one. The intriguing part about this whole discussion in Romans nine about election is that We see this tension. In verses six to twenty-nine, Paul said, so many Jews do not believe because God only elected a remnant of Jews to be saved. But then you get to verses 30 to 33. He says there that the reason that so many Jews do not believe is because of their pride. Right? They think they can earn their own salvation. And so we see this tension. Human responsibility. We've talked about this before, right? Human responsibility. There's election, but We're also responsible to humble ourselves before God, to swallow our pride, and to recognize that our only righteousness is Jesus Christ. And so you get to thirty to thirty-three, after talking about election, Paul turns the corner and he says, Hey, but listen If anybody's lost, it's only because of his hard heart. And so we see this again, right? Sovereign election, human responsibility. How can it be both? We have no idea, but we see the Bible affirms both truths simultaneously. But the sunny side, speaking about the Jews, is that some Jews are saved, right? It was the case in the early church, it's been the case down through history. I think it's even more so the case today. Most of us know Jewish people who are Christians, and so they would say that they are completed Jews. How do they come to Christ? How is it Well they read their scriptures. A lot of Jewish people don't read their own scriptures, right? Psalm 22, Isaiah chapter uh 53. You read the entire Old Testament, it's about Christ. You could read the book of Hebrews in the New Testament and see how it fulfills all these Old Testament types and prophecies and sacrifices. And so, yeah, God brings Jewish people to know Jesus Christ through studying the scriptures that many Jewish people aren't acquainted with, their own scriptures that they're not acquainted with. And also, of course, through Christians having some kind of credible testimony, some kind of credible lifestyle in their friendship with them And so we pray for our Jewish friends, even as we pray for our Gentile friends, who are not believers. Okay Time to close. Here we go. Two questions, or one question is And this uh if you don't believe in election, it's fine. But if you don't, I do have to ask you a question. What do you do with Romans chapter 9? I mean it is right there in the Bible. Then you have Ephesians 1. Then you have Romans 8. I mean this book is from God. So we have to consider that, okay? When you come to a difficult doctrine in the Bible, don't deny it. Just accept it. And acknowledge. I don't understand how it all fits together, but I see it's there. And the second thing I'd say by way of conclusion is that there were many Jews, as I've said, who thought that they were God's people because they were numbered amongst the Israelites Similarly, in the visible church, in churches all over our land, there are people who think they're right with God Because of their Christian heritage, uh because they grew up in a Christian home, or even because of their church membership. Well, we should see here That's not how it works, right? You must believe in Jesus Christ to be a child of God. Are you there? Let's bow our heads Father in heaven, this is a hard passage. It's a long passage, but it's from you. And so we do pray, Lord, that uh we would have a heart. For our Jewish friends, we would be credible witnesses. We pray, Lord, people, Jews and Gentiles would come to faith. Help us, Lord, to accept all of your word and to trust you for those things that are mysterious to us. But also help us to have confidence that you have your elect out there, and so let us be bold in engaging them in gospel conversations. I pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.