Four to five year olds, if you're interested, you may go back to worship training with Miss Denise. Let us turn. We're in uh Matthew's Gospel at chapter twenty Verse uh seventeen to twenty-eight. Matthew chapter twenty, verses seventeen to twenty-eight And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside. And on the way he said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. And he will be raised on the third day. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him, she asked him for something. And he said to her, What do you want? She said to him, Say that these two sons of mine are to set, one at your right hand and one at your left in your kingdom. Jesus answered, You do not know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? They said to him, We are able. He said to them, You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand at my left hand is not mine to grant But it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my father. And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers But Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. It shall not be so among you But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave. Even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. So this passage is about greatness and I think most of us think about that quite a bit privately. If I could attain a certain position, or if I could accomplish this great work, or if I could accumulate or earn a great deal of income uh then I will have a s achieved uh a status of greatness and this is what I aspire to. We look around even uh some of us went down to the March for Life in Washington DC. on Friday and I l we were walking down the sidewalk and I looked into this fancy restaurant uh window And there was about six men. They looked like they were in their sixties. Uh they looked like they were really successful and uh dressed very well and they were having some important meeting And I just thought, you know what? These guys are big wheels, and there's a lot of big wheels in DC. And here we are, just some podunks from up here in Frederick, Maryland uh just sort of gazing at all the uh movers and shakers uh in our country. And uh you look around and maybe you don't uh envy something like that, but you look at others. And you look at yourself and at the progress you've made up to this point in life, either in high school or in your profession or in your home or whatever Then you look at others and you realize, you know what? I'm not I don't think I'm going to attain uh what I was hoping I would attain uh when I was younger. Or maybe you're young. But you compare yourself to your peers, and you're really not in the position that you had hoped that you would occupy at this time in life. And so this passage addresses an issue, I think, that sort of uh gnaws at us, uh, at least to some degree, and in some at some times. And it provides a corrective to what God regards as true greatness. Jesus says Those who are great in the kingdom are those who serve others. And really the key phrase in the entire text is in the end of verse 26 where Jesus says, But whoever would be great among you must be your servant. And so the world defines greatness in one way Jesus Christ defines greatness in another way. So I want to ask you as we look at this passage, whose definition are you going to believe? Whose definition of greatness are you going to aspire after? And if you look at verses 17 and 19, I'm just introducing the layout here. In verses 17 to 19, Where Jesus talks about his coming death, we see that there is a model of servant leadership, and that's really true greatness. And then in verses 20 to 28, he exhorts his disciples to likewise turn around and serve others. And when you do that In the eyes of your Maker and your King, you are regarded as a truly great person. So let's look first of all at verses 17 and 19. This is the third time that Jesus spoke to his disciples. about his uh his his coming death. Back in chapter 19, verse 1, it says they began their journey down to Jerusalem. They were up in the northern part of Israel in Galilee. And now they're headed down to Jerusalem down south. But it's interesting, you get to chapter 20, verse 17, which we just read, and it says Jesus was going up to Jerusalem. How can he be going up to Jerusalem if he's heading south? And that was just the customary way of speaking. Jerusalem was high up on a mountain. And so wherever, from whatever uh direction you approach Jerusalem, they would have this way of saying, well, we're going up to Jerusalem. And he knew why he was going there. He wasn't going there just to go to the market. He knew that he was going to die in Jerusalem. Strangely enough The disciples, even at this late point in the game, are still clueless as to why Jesus was going to Jerusalem. He had talked to them Matthew reports two earlier occasions when he spoke to them of his coming death. On both those occasions, they did not understand that he was going to die. They did not understand why he was going to die. I want you to look a little more closely At verses um 17 to 19. And I want to ask two questions of it that this that this passage answers. And the first question is this, who was it that delivered Jesus Christ up to die? Now if you look at verse 18, you can say, well, it was the Jews who delivered Jesus up to die, because in verse 18, Jesus says The Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priest, and they will condemn him to death. And he added on to that, chapter 27, verse 20. Where the crowds called out to uh Pilate and they said, We want you to destroy Jesus. We want you to let Barabbas, that criminal, go. So the Jews were responsible for Jesus' death That's pretty offensive to many people. In fact, um uh so uh every six weeks there's an article in the news post on the religion page that I write. And I got a letter from some retired United Church of Christ minister, and I forget what I said in that article, it wasn't anything incendiary, but um He said that could be taken as uh saying that the Jews are bad people or something. And I say, that's that wasn't my I reply, that wasn't my intent at all. But there is a caution, right? And we don't want to say as you know with the Holocaust, the Jews were responsible for Jesus' death. We're not saying that. But they had a part in it But then you go on in verse 19, and we see the Gentiles were also responsible. Jesus spoke about being delivered over to the Gentiles To be mocked and flogged and crucified. Then one of his own disciples, Judas, was responsible, right? He betrayed Jesus. But then there was Pontius Pilate. He handed Jesus over to be crucified. And so they're all responsible and then there's another from another angle, we're responsible for Jesus' death. And that's just not some religious uh slogan, but that's what the Bible says. Acts 4. 25. Peter said Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. So we're responsible. Think about Rembrandt, his painting, the erection of the cross, this uh picture where the men are uh Jesus has been nailed to the cross. And now there's a group of villainous men pushing the cross up so it would s so that it would stand vertical and that Jesus would hang on the cross. Rembrandt painted his own picture, his own face among those who were erecting the cross of Jesus Christ. so to say that he was responsible for the death of Christ. And even in our hymn book, there's a hymn The title is Ah Holy Jesus. And in this hymn, the writer asks the question Who was the guilty who brought this upon thee? Alas, my treason, Jesus, hath undone thee. It was I, Lord Jesus. It was I who denied thee. I crucified thee. And so we're irresponsible for the death of Christ. And yet if you tilt the if you tilt the lens just a little bit to another angle uh we could say, well no, it was the Father who was responsible for the death of Christ. And in Acts 2. 23, Peter told the Jews in Jerusalem that this Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. So it was the Father who delivered his son over for death. And so man's still responsible, and yet this was part of the Father's sovereign plan. How does that fit together? We have will we will not understand on this to this side of eternity. An old uh preacher, Octavius Winslow, asked the question, Who delivered Jesus up to die? Not Judas for money, not Pilate for fear, not the Jews for envy He said, but it was the Father for love. And so it was the Father who delivered the Son over that we might be redeemed. I think I've answered that question. Well not quite. I'd like to exhaust the subject, do I not? Because there's one more thing I should say, and that's what this text tells us. That We haven't fully answered this question until we recognize that Jesus Christ Himself gave Himself over to die for our sin. Isn't that what we read in verse 28? Where Jesus said, The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. Then what's he saying? And to give his life as a ransom for many. And so Jesus here, well he chose to go down to Jerusalem. He knew the prophecies, right? He knew the scriptures We read Isaiah 53. We sang Psalm 22, which spoke about the sufferings that the Messiah would undergo for his people. And yet He chose to go. He went to went to Jerusalem, why? To give his life as a ransom for many. This is what Paul says in Galatians 2. 20. He said, Christ loved me, and he gave himself for me. And so there's the gospel. Jesus Christ gave himself over for us. That's who sent them to die. Why did he die? Well, just briefly going down to verse 28, he came to give his life as a ransom for many. What does that presuppose about our standing before God outside of Jesus Christ? Well, it presupposes that we were slaves, right? We were in bondage to sin and to Satan. And we would incur death for our sin. But Jesus came to give his la to give his life to pay a ransom that we could be set free. And so here's this idea in the Bible of penal substitution. Why did Christ come? He came to suffer the penalty that we deserve for our sin, that we could be forgiven. He would in doing that he would satisfy divine justice and reconcile us to God. So Jesus Christ came to give his life as a ransom for whom? For well not for everyone But it says he says, for many, for his people. And so this is saying that Jesus did not die for everyone's sin. that he might uh give everyone the opportunity to be saved, but rather he died for a select group. He died for the many. On the other hand, it doesn't say that he died for the few, right? He died for many, as Revelation 7. 9 speaks about a great multitude who will stand before him one day. But what I want to do is as we we look, we've looked at verses 17 to 19 and then 27 to 28. I want to talk not so much about the substitutionary nature of Jesus' death But rather, as he speaks in verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, of his death as an example That should incline us to have a selfless disposition toward other people. Okay? So here's where we're going. We're looking at verses 20 And I'm just going to make a few comments about uh what it's saying, then we're gonna make some application. And so in verses 18 and 19, um Jesus tells his disciples about this horrific ordeal that's going to await him in Jerusalem. He says he's going to be mocked and flogged and crucified And uh what what reaction uh does he get uh when he discloses uh the horrific uh ordeal that awaits him in Jerusalem? Well, uh James and John And their mother. So this is James, one of the apostles, not to be confused with the guy who wrote the book of James. So the guy who wrote the book of James was Jesus' brother. And in Acts 15 we find out he was also the leader of the Jerusalem church. So this is another James, but then also the Apostle John. So they were brothers, I think it's back in 421, it says, they were the sons of Zebedee. So James, John, and their mother come before Jesus, and mom does the speaking. Who knows why? Maybe she was put up to it, or maybe she was just a take-charge kind of mom But she comes before Jesus and she asked Jesus, would you place my two boys, one at your right hand and one at your left hand, in the coming kingdom And it's interesting back in uh where were were we uh chapter 19 verse uh twenty-eight, Jesus told his disciples, You're gonna be rewarded, you're gonna you twelve are gonna sit on twelve thrones, and you you're gonna judge the tribes of Israel. And so with that knowledge, uh the mom of James and John She says, you know, will you put G will you put my voice at the thrones right next to you, on your right and on your left. Now it's interesting. Who was in Jesus' inner circle? There were three disciples, right? Peter, James, and John. Back in chapter 17, verse 1, I think it is, you had the transfiguration. And it was those three who were in the presence of Jesus when he was transfigured. And so they were the inner ring of disciples But it's interesting, and I don't know if you remember, but as we've been going through uh you know past four chapters or so, Peter does a lot of his speaking uh for the disciples. He is enjoying more prominence than any of the other disciples And it seems like James and John and her mom, they're concerned about this, and now they're saying, well let's let's try to get a a leg up on Peter. And let's get our reservation in uh for the position, or at least our request in for the position that we're going to occupy in the coming kingdom. But it was it was it was it was It was an exercise in craft and sensitivity because Jesus just told these guys, I'm going to be flog, I'm going to be uh flogged, I'm going to be mocked. I'm going to be nailed to a cross. And no sense of timing. And also, the request is completely self-serving And when you look at verse 22, Jesus answered, You do not know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? So he's saying to enjoy such a prominent position is going to require you to suffer horribly. And in the end of verse 22, James and John say, yeah, we can we can do that, but they don't really understand uh the kind of suffering uh that they would face in yet in another sense their uh their comments prescient because They both did suffer, right? They were faithful disciples. And Acts chapter 12, verse 2 says that James was killed with the sword And how about John, the writer of the Gospel of John, the letters of John and the Book of Revelation? Well, uh he lived during a Roman persecution and he was exiled out to the island of of Patmos, uh where he where he died. And so, yeah, they would suffer, but at that point they did not understand. But what I want to look now is verse uh 23 and following. Verse 23, he said to them, You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and my and at my left hand is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. So he says, you know what? It's the Father's prerogative. to assign the positions of provenance in the coming kingdom. But then we come back now to this revolutionary statement in verses 25 and 26. And where Jesus holds up his life and his death as an example that we should emulate. Verse twenty-five again Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them And their great ones exercise authority over them. It shall not be so among you, but whoever would be great among you must be your servant. So Jesus says greatness in his kingdom is not uh marked by uh being served, but rather You're great if you are a servant of others. Whoever would be great among you must be your servant. The Greek word diakinus, from which we get the word deacon, right? Deacon's our servant. And whoever would be first among you must be your slave, your do loss. And I was just scanning an article. Last week that was talking about the various types of servants in the ancient world, and some servants had a higher status than others But the lowest, most menial position of service would be to be called a doulos, to be called a slave. And Jesus says You can be great. You can be great. Not if you attain a position of prominence or power or recognition or privilege, although all those things are wonderful He says, but in God's eyes, he accounts you as great if you lower yourself and you follow my example. And so let's just think about this a little bit, and then we'll close, okay? So let's think about some implications, first of all, that this has for life in the Christian church. And one of the great uh disappointments, and I think many of us have have spoken of this, is that many Christians in our day uh when they're looking for a church The main question they're asking is what can this church offer me? Right? So there's this this this consumer this consumer mindset You're looking around, you're new in town, or you're deciding on another church. Okay. Can this church cater to my needs? Can it meet my needs? Will I meet people of a similar age and who have similar interests and perhaps a similar uh background? Does it offer the kind of programs that appeal to me? Does the message of the church sort of cater to my sense of well-being? and lift me up and so that when I go out I sort of feel a little bit better about myself and a little bit better about life. Well I'm not saying we we should be uh ignored those kind of issues. Well some of those questions are are crass questions and they shouldn't be asked, but you know, some are are fairly legitimate But it's a rare Christian who asks the question: number one, is this a biblical model of ministry for all its flaws? Is this a fundamentally biblical model of what the church should be? And then the other question, is this a place where I can serve? Where I can have a place to help others out, to build them up, to invite unbelievers to come in here and to be a part of the fellowship. Can I be activated here to serve God's kingdom? That's a very good question to ask. Here's another question. Are you, when it comes to your relationship to the Church of Christ, are you a giver or are you a taker? What is your stance? What is your orientation? And I'm not saying you have to take on 20 jobs, but I'm just saying your mindset. Do you have an interest Even on Sunday mornings? Are you gonna look for somebody you don't know? Are you gonna try to speak a word of encouragement? Are you gonna seek to become acquainted with newcomers? And just early kids, just pat them on the back and take an interest in them. This is what it means to serve. Then yeah, it's also helpful, I think. Now I I'm not saying everybody can do this, but I think a general rule of thumb is every person in the church should have a Place of service and some people they don't want to do that because you're gonna be locked in and there are times when it's not convenient to serve But how is a church going to make progress unless some people say, yeah, you know what? It's not always convenient, but I'm willing to help in the nursery, I'm willing to teach I'm willing to help with the setup or the takedown or to be on the security detail or to be the last man out who makes sure everything's put away and everybody's gone and the door's closed. Uh or um I'm going to make a commitment to visit elderly people who can't get out. Think about Charlotte Lee up in uh up at Homewood. I'm going to make a commitment to her. Or I'm going to talk to Brenda Kendall and I'm going to say, you can put me on the meals list when there's somebody who's sick or somebody bereaved. You can call on me. And if I'm around and nothing and I can do it, I'm going to make a commitment to make a meal and to deliver that meal Well, that's great in God's eyes. And so this is something we want to think about in our church. This also, secondly, has implications For how we identify leaders in the church, including elders and deacons, right? We're always praying for more elders and more deacons. We have a couple prospective deacons, and we can certainly use a couple more elders But we're certainly not looking for guys who don't fit the uh the profile doctrinally, but also in the area of service And you can read through the New Testament, and there are many terms that are used to describe leaders. You find the term shepherd. You find the term for elder in 1 Timothy 3. Overseer, right? So he's the one who has oversight of the flock. You find the term pastor. What is the most prominent term in the Bible for leaders? Well, let's say the New Testament Because I didn't read the Old Testament last night to verify this. But the New Testament is the term servant. So most of the epistles You have this kind of opening, though. Paul, a servant or a slave of Jesus Christ. Think about Paul in 1 Corinthians 3. 5. He says, what then is Apollos and what is Paul? Servants, through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each. I just said deacon means what? Servant. 1 Peter 5, verse 3, this instruction to elders in the church, where they're called shepherds of a flock, but what kind of shepherds? 1 Peter 5. 3, Peter exhorts elders not to be domineering over those in your charge. Why is that? Because the biblical model of elders is that elders are not the board of directors for the church That make decisions, we're going to do this and we're not going to do that, or we're gonna we approve that proposal and we uh decline that other proposal That is not the chief job of the elder, but rather the elders are preeminently servants of the church, and so biblical leadership is servant leadership And over the past nineteen years, there have been men in the church and they were great theologians. You know, you know, it's great that you can read you read Calvin's Institutes in the original Latin But if you can't turn around after the service and say hi to the guy who you bumped into on the way in, then you're That's not that would not be a good elder. You don't care for these people. Or you maybe you do, but you can't express it. And we need people who can express it And so this has implications for leadership in the church. And I'd say to our young our young people This is something to aspire to. Then finally, this has implications for our life together in our homes. And it's not uncommon to have a good, honest Christian uh and you you you're seeking to do the right thing But nonetheless, uh in your marriage, uh you're you're you're in something of a standoff. And it's been going on for a long time. and resentment has built over the years. But this speaks to that, right? This says that we must still endeavor to serve our spouses. And a little bit over a week ago, I was talking to a fellow outside our church And he was we were talking about uh difficulties uh that he and his wife were having. And he said, and he's a good, honest Christian, and as is his wife. But he said, every day I have to make a decision to love my wife. And At least they're they're staying in the battle, right? And we would say in the eyes of God, that's a great thing to endeavor uh to serve your wife It's a great thing for a husband to serve and love his wife. It's a great thing for a wife to respect and to love her husband. And then it's something for kids to think about. Jesus said, whoever would be great among you must be your servant. That is not the ethos, right, amongst your peers. They're not saying, hey, you're a really great servant, I really admire you, and I want you on my team. Um but, you know The world says uh looks, popularity, at athleticism or uh musical talent or whatever. That's what makes you great. But but Jesus is saying if you're a servant, you're looking at you you notice that kid, you know, in your class or in your your homeschool circle or whatever, that kid who's sort of an oddball and he or she doesn't have much to say and uh is awkward. You take an interest in that kid and and you try to encourage him and uh build him or her up That's a great thing in the eyes of God. And um, you know, and at home You know, g send your parents into shock. Just do something without being asked. You know, just uh just start doing it, cleaning up something. Uh that's a great thing in the eyes of God. Yeah, we want you to memorize the shorter catechism and uh learn the scripture and be able to quote uh the Roman the book of Romans of verbatim. That's all good and noble But it's also good just to take the trash out without uh being asked. And then for our young people and our other single people, you know, you think about a marriage partner, who you gonna marry? You most people you want to get married one day What are you gonna look for? You know? Well the you know guys that little princess, she might be real cute and have a lot of outward charm, but How does she deal with other people? Does she take an interest in other people? And I remember I was single for a long time and in college I there'd be some girl I thought, oh she's She she's a pretty interesting girl. I would watch her. We'd have a big table in the cafeteria with you know eight or ten people around it. I would watch how that young lady, if she would interact with that person sitting next to her who is beneath her who has absolutely nothing to offer her and those who took a kind interest in other people I say you know what I put a little star by her I kept this ledger in my mind until I met Becky. Um but I I keep a little star there. That's the kind. But the others who are just interested in those who could serve them, you know, build them up Forget it. And so I say that's what you want to look for. Guys, that's what we want to look for in gals, and then for our young ladies. You know, you might meet Mr. Funn who makes you feel really special, but if he won't lift a finger for somebody else unless he's under some kind of obligation, He's not going to wear well in the long run. I say you need to look around, broaden your perspective a little bit, look for those who are willing to serve others. And so my question is this, and this might be a good question for our home groups, what kind of greatness do you aspire to? What kind of greatness do you aspire to? Do you aspire to be great in the eyes of others? And there's something of that in all of us, right? We have to moderate it and we have to try to put it in perspective And we have to really look after this. Am I endeavoring to be great in the eyes of God, the God who loved me, the God who gave himself for me? So this it's a revolutionary thing in the Christian life, right? To retrain our thinking. What makes a person valuable? What makes us valuable? But that's what we want to do. Paul says, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. If you do that, or if we do that We're going to be a lot more content, but also we're going to be pleasing to God. So let's bow our heads and pray. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you lowered yourself on our behalf. You took the position of the servant, you gave up your rights, and you served us. Help us as beneficiaries of your redemption and recipients of your grace to now turn around And to take the big gulp and to endeavor to serve others, even when it goes against the grain. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hymn number five eighty five, take my life and let it be. Let's stand and sing. Five eighty-five. Take my life and let it be Conservation Take my moments and my days Let them flow in ceaseless praise, let them flow in ceaseless praise I am move at the impulse of the love. Save my be dumbi, swift ammunition for the Swift and beautiful for thee. Take my voice and let me see Always only for my key. Take my lips and let them be Filled with messages from thee, filled with messages from thee Take my silver and my gold, not a might word I will Take my intellect every shall choose. Every power thou shalt choose Take my will and make it thine, it shall be no longer mine. Take my heart in thy own, it shall be thy royal throne It shall be thy royal throne. Take my love, my Lord, I born Had thy treasure store, take myself, and I will be Ever only Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. Now bless it be Joe Bog Israel Only to work on this work single. Who only do it one just worth in glory that And bless it be his glorious name to all eternity The whole earth man is for we're so The whole earth than his glory fill am Oh my gosh. That's your rod and that's the staff. I don't wait till I come on. Slippery little devil.