And let's turn in our Bible to John chapter 14. So it's good to have some new folks with us. We're going through John's gospel. We are at chapter fourteen, verse seven Chapter 14, verse 7. So this is the night before Jesus was crucified. Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples. And we pick up in verse 7 with Jesus saying to his disciples, if you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak of my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I'm in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, in greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. So I was reading something I I I pulled it out when we came to this about when JFK was uh assassinated and uh Way over in England, Queen Elizabeth II made this comment, looking back on JFK's assassination, she spoke about A wave of grief mixed with despair that swept over the people of the world. Something that took place in America, swept across the world. It was such a traumatic event, or even just uh last month, right, when Charlie Kirk was assassinated. I didn't know much about Charlie Kirk, but after the assassination Many of our young people were saying, we really look to this guy. One of our guys said, I'm sure there were others that he he was broken He said, every day at lunch I listen to Charlie Kirk. And so there was this feeling amongst those who listened to him. We've lost our leader. We feel all alone in the world. It's devastating to lose your leader And in this passage, Jesus' disciples are experiencing a similar mixture of grief and fear. It's right before Jesus is crucified, and he's telling him, I'm going to leave you, Judas Will betray me, he has just left, and Peter, you're going to deny me And so here are the disciples thinking, hey, we're going to be left alone to face the hostility of the religious leaders, of the Roman rulers. And of the unhinged mob. And at that point, Jesus said in verse 1, chapter 14, verse 1, he said, Let not your hearts be troubled. And so in these first fourteen verses, Jesus speaks to his disciples words of assurance. And if you look at this, you can really frame it by seeing it as the answer to three basic questions. The first question is How can we know the way to God? How do we get to heaven? The second question is, how can we see the Father And then the third question, how can we be confident that our efforts will be fruitful? Well, we looked at the first six verses last week in which Jesus answered that question, how can we know the way to God? And Jesus says, here's how you can know the way to God. When you know me, I am the way to God. Right? He said in verse six, I'm the way, the truth, and the life No one comes to the Father except through me. If you're going to go to heaven, if you're going to be right with God, you must be resting on Jesus Christ and Him alone for your salvation. So that was the first question. Now we're at verses 7 to 14, where Jesus answers two other questions. How can we see the Father? And he tells them to know me or to see me is to know the Father. And then they don't ask this question, but I'm putting this on the text because this is the question text answers. How can we be confident Our labors will be fruitful. And in verses 12 to 14, Jesus assures these men that their labors will Bear fruit. And he says two basic things, and I'll get to in a minute. But he says in a nutshell, I promise you That your works will be greater than my works, and I promise you that I will grant whatever you ask in prayer. And these assurances are given not only to Jesus' apostles, but they belong to all Christians. Look at the end of verse 12. Jesus said, Whoever believes in me So let's look at verses 7 to 14, and we're going to answer these two questions. The first one is, how can I know God? How can I see the Father? And Jesus again said in verse 7, listen. If you if you know me, you can know what God the Father is like Whoops, I just lost my spot here. Yeah, here we go. Verse 7. He said, If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Now he's not blurring the distinction between him and the Father, right? They're two different persons of the Trinity But he's saying that Jesus the Son is so united to the Father that to know him is to know what God the Father is like. And that's a phenomenal claim that the Bible makes. We've heard it a hundred times, hundreds of times, but this is a phenomenal claim that Christianity makes. Chrische claims that in knowing Jesus Christ, you can know the God of the universe. It's not knowing God is not this unfathomable mystery, but rather Jesus has disclosed to us But God is like. And this is a huge theme in John's Gospel. Going back to chapter 1, verse 18, John wrote, No one has ever seen God God, the only Son, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. Jesus Christ is God incarnate. Jesus Christ. allows us to know what God is like. Hebrews 1 verse 3 speaks similarly. Similarly, it says Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Now, if you're a Christian, you're like, yeah, I know that If you're not a Christian, your attitude may be, ah, well, it's an interesting claim, but how can I know? And in the end of the day, we would say that this persuasion is something that God supernaturally grants And you think about the disciples, these guys are with Jesus for three years, and as highly as they thought of him. They it still hadn't clicked. They still hadn't come to a recognition of his full deity, and it would only be after the resurrection. That they would recognize that Jesus Christ is the the Messiah, that he is God. But It's God who has to open a person's eyes to see this, to recognize this, to believe it. 2 Corinthians 4 verse 6. Paul wrote The God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shown in our hearts to give us the light and the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. Why is it that you believe, right? It's not because you're so wise, it's not because you've examined all the different philosophies and religions and come to the awareness that Christianity is the truth, but rather it's because God opened your eyes, and you have this persuasion. It's a God-given persuasion. They didn't get it yet. And so of course they're full of doubts and they're full of fears. And in verse 8, Philip said Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us. And Jesus rebukes him. So go now to verse 9. He said, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? And then if you look closely at the text, Jesus reviews how Philip should have recognized Jesus' deity. And he says, basically You should recognize that I am from the Father because of the things I taught, because of my words, and because of the works, because of the miracles I performed. And so let's look at those two things. How do we know that Jesus is from the Father? Well, let's spend a little bit on the first point, he says. He says, through his teaching, through his words, the end of verse 10, Jesus said The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. And so the words of Jesus are the words of God. They have God's authority Right? Most of you know the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5-7. After Jesus preached that sermon, Matthew made a comment. This is Matthew 7. 28. He wrote that when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching. How's that? For he was teaching them as one who had authority. And not as their scribes. And so this is why we're believers, right? There's a power, there's an authority. There's an efficacy to Jesus' words. One of the uh Puritans, I don't know if you call him a Puritan, 1700s, Thomas Scott, an Englishman. about his conversion. He wrote he wrote a a story, the story of his conversion, and he gave it the title, The Force of Truth. It it was just he was confronted with the truth of God's word and he couldn't avoid it. There's this recognition that comes on a on a person because God's word is persuasive. It is perf is powerful. Hebrews 4, it's living and active. It's sharper uh than a double edged sword and it pierces us and so that's why I say and I say it ad nauseum, right, is that If you want to find out if Jesus is God, if you have your questions, if you have your your struggles and doubts and whatnot, then Read this book, right? Set under the teaching of the book. Come to Sunday school, ask questions. Ask questions after uh the sermon. Because God uses his word. It's not so much these w tr miraculous signs, but rather it's his word. And it's interesting in that passage I read, Elijah or uh 1 Kings Chapter 19, where Elijah was persecuted by the wicked King Ahab and Queen Jezebel. God, in this pit of discouragement, God came to Elijah and he reassured Elijah of his presence. But it wasn't in the dramatic sounds, right? The earthquake, the wind, the fire, but rather it was in this low whisper. And so, and some commentators say this low whisperer was God whispering his word. It was a quiet revelation of his word. And so If you want to discover if this book is from God, then go home, sit in your easy chair or whatever. And you start reading. You start reading through the Gospels, and I'm persuaded that the Spirit of God will take this word and move you to say, yeah, this has the ring of truth, this has the force of truth, this book is from God. I say that to our young people, right? If you're if you haven't if you don't have the habit of reading a scripture Start this habit when you're young and you's you know when you're starting out there's so much that's confusing But you stay at it every day, you read a chapter or two, you read a psalm, and all of a sudden it starts to come together. You see it's it speaks with one voice, it's one unfolding story And it's hard to get around it. Where you think about, you know, we're talking about how God reveals Himself, not through this high drama, not through all these signs, but rather through His Word. Another example Is the Apostle Peter? He saw Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration. But it's interesting He tells his readers, if you want to know about God, if you want to be persuaded of God, don't seek one of those experiences because he wrote in 2 Peter 1. 19 We have something more sure, something more convincing than seeing Jesus Christ transfigured on the mountain. What is it that we have? He goes on. The prophetic word which to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, right? We're groping around in the darkness How do we know what's what? How do we know what's true? There's so many options of belief in our culture. And Peter said This book is revelation from God and is like a lamp shining in a dark place. And so God's word makes God present to us. It convinces us. And so when you have doubts, all I can say is immerse yourself in this book And you discover it's not a book of moral rules, it's not a program how to have a better life, but it's a book that discloses to us Jesus Christ. And so to see Jesus is to see his is to see the Father. His teaching confirms this. Then he goes on, secondly, I'm still on the first point. His miracles confirm his deity. So verse 11 he said, Believe me that I'm in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else Believe on account of the works themselves, on account of the miracles. How does that confirm Jesus' deity? Well, let me give you one line to think about. Isaiah thirty-five, verses five and six, seven hundred years before Jesus was born. God foretold that when his Messiah shows up on the scene, here's how you're going to know that you're dealing with the right guy. He's going to perform map miraculous signs. So Isaiah I Isaiah. Sounds like I'm living the South. Isaiah. I'm from New Jersey. Isaiah foretold, the eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then shall the leap man leap like excuse me, then then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue and a mute sing for joy Why was Jesus performing all these miracles? It wasn't just to say, hey, I'm a wonderworker, but it was to confirm. I'm doing those things which identify the Messiah. Now, Philip had been with Jesus for three years. He heard his teaching. He witnessed his miracles, and still it didn't click, and it would not click until after the resurrection. And there are people, they grew up in the church, they've been sitting under the Bible all their lives, but it doesn't click. So what we need to do, or what you what I suggest, is that you pray, Lord, open my eyes to see, to recognize this, right? Jesus in John 3, verse 3 said, Nobody can see the kingdom of God. Unless he receives spiritual birth, unless God breathes life into him. And so pray that God will open your eyes. And so how can we see God? How can we see the Father? And the answer is that To know Jesus' teaching and to recognize his works is to know what God the Father is like. A little more briefly, here's our second question. How can we be confident that our labors will be fruitful? Now that's not a question that is asked in verses 12 to 14 But it's a question these verses answer. And there are two basic things that we read here. First of all, Jesus promises they'll be fruitful. He promises that they're going to do greater works. than he did. And so, look at verse twelve again. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. That should be sort of an interesting statement. He says we're going to do greater works than what he did. Now our charismatic and Pentecostal friends and uh self-proclaimed faith healers Will say that these greater works are more spectacular. And I'd say, well, let's think about this a little bit. Jesus walked on water He raised the dead. He fed the masses. He turned the water into wine. I'm not so sure that Jesus is saying we're going to do more spectacular works. But rather, well if you look at this I think this is helpful. In verse 12, Jesus said, Because I'm going to the Father. So Jesus died, he rose from the grave, he ascended to heaven, he's sitting at the Father's right hand. And from there, Jesus promised, and he did in Acts 2, he poured out the Holy Spirit on his people. And it's the Holy Spirit who empowers us for service. It's the Holy Spirit who makes our witness effective. It's the Holy Spirit who changes us and gives us a clearer knowledge of God. So Here's here's the here's the classic understanding of this when Jesus says his works are greater When Jesus was on earth, his ministry was confined to a patch of land in Palestine. Jesus ascended to heaven, he gave the Holy Spirit, and through By the Holy Spirit, Christ conquered the ancient world, right? I mean, think about the book of Acts. It starts in Jerusalem. And within a generation, uh, they reached uh the center of the Roman Empire. And Peter alone on the day of Pentecost he preached 3,000 people were converted. That was more conversions than during Jesus' entire ministry And then as the Book of Acts unfolds, you see the growth and you see the expansion of the church. And so my understanding is that, yeah, we will do greater works, not in the sense that they're more spectacular, but rather they'll be greater in influence and in the number of conversions in the in the in the ge in the territory uh that is covered. And in fact by the year 300, so the you know Christianity started out in the first century Within 300 years, uh, Christianity had closed nearly all the pagan temples in the Roman Empire. There are like three to six million Christians within three hundred years. And here we are two thousand years later. And we we read about and we hear about how the gospel has taken root, how it's flourishing in places like China, South America, Africa. And Frederick, right? Back there on Wednesday afternoons, they have this Bible club, about a hundred kids. Then Dave Speesia was saying a few weeks ago that At Brunswick High School, he's a faculty advisor to a Bible club there. 90 kids. Brunswick High School coming to a Bible club. How is that? How is it that people who have no church background, no acquaintance with Christianity are come to know Jesus Christ. And we say, well, because God made a promise that will do greater works, and we see that coming to pass. Here's one more thing. How can we be confident that our labors will be fruitful? Well, a second promise he gives Is that when you pray in his name, he says, I will answer your prayer. Again, look at verses 13 and 14, just to see it's right here Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. So when it says, you know, when you pray in Jesus' name, it's not just it's not it's not uh some incantation Uh it's not some kind of uh magical formula, but to pray in Jesus' name is to pray is to pray uh for all that Jesus stands for, to recognize he's God, to recognize that he's the only way for sinners to be made right with God is to recognize that he's worthy of our worship. And a parallel text would be John 1 John 5. 14, where John said, if you ask anything according to his will, He hears us. And so, yeah, to pray in Jesus' name is to pray according to all that Jesus stands for. And so we have a wonderful promise from God, and it should encourage us to pray. You have a spouse who's not a believer. You have children who are going astray. You have loved ones who are suffering. uh physical infirmities, uh marriage struggles, and you have a desire to bring people from darkness to the light. So we have this promise, call out to God. Or there are some older people and they're infirm and they can't do much. But they're zealous Christians and they're they're frustrated that what can I do? I see all these needs and I see our country going to To hell in a handbasket. What can I do? Well, we don't want to underestimate the efficacy of our prayers. James 5, 16. James wrote, the prayer of a righteous person has great power as it's working. And so here are these men, the night before the crucifixion, they're on the brink of despair. And we may not know that degree of despair, but there are certainly times in our lives when we can become bitterly are discouraged. But here we have these promises from Jesus Christ. When you serve Him, your efforts cannot but Be fruitful. He's conquered death. He's ascended on high. He has given the Holy Spirit. He hears our prayers, and he promises that he will use us in our weakness, our frailties, our struggles. He will still use us to advance his kingdom. So let's pray God would do that more and more.