When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast to my words, keep my commandments and live. Get wisdom, get insight, do not forget and do not turn away from the words of my mouth Do not forsake her, and she will keep you. Love her, and she will guard you. The beginning of wisdom is this Get wisdom. And whatever you get, get insight. Prize her highly, and she will exalt you She will honor you if you embrace her. She will place on your head a graceful garland. She will bestow on you a beautiful crown. Hear my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many. I have taught you the way of wisdom. I have led you in the paths of uprightness When you walk, your step will not be hampered, and when you run, you will not stumble. Keep hold of instruction. Do not let go. Guard her, for she is your life. Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it, do not go on it, turn away from it, and pass on. For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong. They are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence, but the path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day. The way of the wicked is like deep darkness. They do not know over what they stumble My son, be attentive to my words, incline your ear to my sayings. Let them not escape from your sight. Keep them within your heart, for they are life to those who find them and healing to all their flesh. Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. Put away from you crooked speech and put devious talk far from you. Let your eyes look directly forward and your gaze be straight before you Ponder the path of your feet, then all your ways will be sure. Do not swerve to the right or to the left. Turn your foot away from evil. Well, uh this passage, as I said, is directly or primarily uh directed to children. Uh there is a word in this passage for parents. Let's start with that And then we'll see the exhortations that the Father has for his children. And of course, these exhortations apply to all of us. But one thing that's notable. Is that uh the writer is seeking not just to address the his child's outward behavior, he's seeking to address his heart. And that's a good reminder for us who have children in the home. We're still trying to raise our kids. It's a reminder. We can be so concerned as I oftentimes am I was just trying to get them to do the proper thing that I forget to address their heart. But if you'll notice in this passage I see it three times. The writer says he's going for his kid's heart. Verse 4. He says, let your heart hold fast to my words. Verse 21. Keep them within your heart. Verse 23. Keep your heart with all vigilance. I want to mention a wonderful book on this uh this theme of addressing uh your child's heart, not just his outward his or her outward actions. The title is Shepherding Your Child's Heart. I imagine several here have read it. The author's name is Ted Tripp. He gives a good uh good illustration. in that book about addressing the heart. You have your your two little kids and they're fighting over a toy. What is the parent's initial reaction when we step in? Well, our initial reaction is to teach our children to deal with each other in a just manner. And so we'll say, who had it first? And then, you know, Johnny will say, well Susie had it first. And okay, well then let Susie play play with it. Alright, well that's that's pretty good, right? We want to teach our kids to to be fair and to maintain A sense of justice, but Ted Tripp says, you know what? You really haven't addressed the heart yet. Because the heart issue here is that These two children are preferring themselves over the other. And so he says, you know what? This is a good opportunity to point out to your kids. Listen. You're both putting yourself first. You're both looking out for your own interest, but Jesus Christ calls us to look out for the interest of others. And this is a reminder. You need Jesus to forgive you your sin, and I need Jesus to forgive me my sin, right? And so it's just an illustration or an opportunity. To show our kids that they need the cross of Jesus Christ. They need his forgiveness. And then they need His Holy Spirit to change them from within, because all of our instruction, all of our lectures will produce little fruit. unless God changes our hearts. And so, and this is a huge theme in Scripture. That's why Fowler read Mark chapter 7. Our behavior, our rotten behavior, issues forth from bad hearts, right? We're not fundamentally good. We are fundamentally flawed, and that's why Jesus Christ came. Mark 7, verse 21, Jesus said, it's from within. Out of the heart of man come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness. And so we're going through the book of Proverbs, right? Proverbs is full of instruction about how to conduct yourself with wisdom. And that's important. But the foundation of conducting yourself with wisdom Is this fundamental recognition that our hearts are flawed and we can't change our hearts, right? Jeremiah seventeen nine What's you know, you ever hear somebody say, follow your heart? Not good advice. What's Jeremiah 17, 9 say? The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked, who Can understand it. Right? We're blind to how deceitful our hearts are. And so that's why we need the gospel. That's why we call out to Jesus Christ. I'm corrupt. I'm spiritually bankrupt. I cannot earn my way to heaven. I cannot win your favor by all my good deeds. I need you, Lord, to change your heart. And that's what we want to teach our children, right? We want to pray for them. We want to be quick to acknowledge our sin and our failure to them. And also if you're married to your spouse, right, that's a good demonstration, what it means. to be a sinner, a forgiven sinner, to be quick to acknowledge your sin. And then of course we want to teach them the ways of the Lord Not because that's how they earn God's favor, but because once they're forgiven in Jesus Christ, uh that's how they can conduct themselves in the way that pleases God. So there's the first thing we see there before we really jump in. This is a reminder to parents as we train up our children, we want to address their hearts. And now he goes on, and he speaks to his son, but you know, Proverbs is more broadly written everyone. We saw that back in chapter one Verse 5. He says, let the wise hear and increase in understanding. Right? So it's not just for our children. It's not just this isn't a manual on parenting your kids But it's for all believers how we can grow in wisdom. Okay? Well, let's look at the structure of this passage. And this helps you. And um Proverbs is a little tricky because the structure is not uh readily apparent, but it has a very uh intricate structure. It's not just as I said in the first sermon, I think It's not just this collection of sayings, but it's a very tightly crafted document, okay? And so let me show you the structure, and by doing that, you'll see how this breaks up, and you'll know this is a legitimate interpretation and application. So when you're reading the passage of Scripture, one thing that would tip you off to the structure of something that's confusing is if you see something repeated. And that's what we see in Proverbs 4. And so three times the father begins his lecture to his son by exhorting him to listen to wisdom. And so you see the first lecture begins in verse 1. Whoops, I've got to turn the page here. He says, Hear, O sons of Father's instruction, and be attentive that you may gain insight The second lecture begins in verse 10. Hear my son and accept my words. And then the third lecture begins in verse 20, where again he says, My son Be attentive to my words. And what he what does he talk about? Well next week we'll get into more specifics. But what we have here is yet another exhortation to get wisdom. So verses one to nine, he said the dad says to the son Make wisdom your chief pursuit. Verses 10 to 19. He warns him: avoid the path of the wicked. Verses 20 to 27. Guard your heart. and exercise self-control. So first of all, verses one to nine The writer says, make wisdom your chief pursuit. So I was reading a story from an old Scottish pastor, a guy named William Arnott. He talked about in the 19th century there was a ship out at sea and it was attacked by a whale and the whale uh won that encounter and so the ship began to sink And all the sailors got off the boat, they they filled their lifeboats with provisions, and they began to float away from the uh sinking ship And then two of the sailors said, Hey, wait a minute. We forgot the most important thing And they paddle back to the sinking ship, they get on board, they claw their way up to the bridge of the ship, and they grab the compass. Then they get back into their lifos. And they realized, right? Without that compass, they would be lost. They were dead men. And it's with similar desperation that this father pleads with his son in verses 5 to 8. Let's read those verses again. Verse 5. Get wisdom. Get insight. Do not forget and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her, and she will keep you. Love her, and she will guard you. Then the next verse is inscribed on the ceiling of the Library of Congress. The beginning of wisdom is this. Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight. Prize her highly, and she will exalt you. She will honor you if you embrace her. Now, kids Do you hear the father pleading with his child? And I'm like a broken record in my house. But you know what? You'll have them been to my house all week, so I can say to the other kids here. My son can just close his ears. Um what does he say? First of all, hey, what happened at verse 1? O sons, hear O sons, a father's instruction and be attentive. That you may gain insight. Good reminder for our kids, right? I don't want to hear it, mom. I don't want to hear it, Dad. Hey, listen. Listen to your parents, right? They love you, they're looking out for you. And then And this is what I say too much. Don't fritter. I'm talking to the kids. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you kids. Don't fritter away your childhood on trivial pursuits, right? Have a sense of moderation. Gaming, social media, T, other things like that, have a sense of moderation Because there are other things you need to be working on, right? You need to be developing into a boy, a girl, and one day a man or woman of God. And so I'm not saying just sit in your room and read your Bible, but I am saying take time every day to open up the Bible. It's confusing in the beginning, right? You don't know how it all fits together. Parts are unfamiliar, but if you do it every day, by the time you're eighteen years old, you're gonna know the Bible better then most students who are entering theological seminary know it. We saw this in one of our girls. You will understand the Word of God and it'll shape you. Okay? It'll instruct you how to relate to other people. It will instruct you in how to deal with conflict. It will make you more perceptive about the character of people, and that's important, and choosing friends, and also in one day perhaps choosing somebody to marry And of course, preeminently, it's the Bible that will show you who God is and how you can come into a right relationship with Him. Through Jesus Christ, who is, as we said before, wisdom incarnate, right? Colossians 4 verse 3. Colossians 2 verse 3. Paul writes, of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Okay? And so this book will equip you for life in a very confused world. Yeah, and here's a bonus. As you grow in godliness, and part of growing in godliness is growing in wisdom, you will become a more attractive person. Look at verse 9, speaking about wisdom. The Father says, She, wisdom, will place on your head a graceful garland. She will bestow on you a beautiful crown. And so when someone grows in wisdom and godliness, they become more attractive. So that's that's a good correction, right? Because some Christians they think they're godly, but they're really very self-righteous, condescending know-it-alls, right? They're overly critical So I think about the child's prayer. The child prayed, Lord, make the bad people good and make the good people nice. Well If someone is truly being renovated in the image of Jesus Christ They can opt but be nice, right? Because they're humble. There's something attractive about genuine godliness. Wisdom, it says in verse 9, will bestow on you a beautiful crown. Alright, so that's the first exhortation, the father to the child. Wisdom should be your chief pursuit. And then there's a warning. Proverbs is full of warnings. So now we're in verses 10 to 18, which we will look at in a moment. But if you allow me to get back on my hobby horse, for those who are new here, I don't just have one string on my guitar. I have about maybe two. But um But this came up in this passage, and so you know what? If somebody waves red meat in front of you, it'd be silly uh just to ignore it So anyway, I was reading an article this week on the social media app, TikTok. I don't have TikTok, but I've seen plenty about TikTok, and in this article a a former employee for Google said that China, right, who produces TikTok, China has a spinach version of TikTok for their own country. But then they have what he called an opium version uh that TikTok uh exports to the rest of the world. And then he elaborated. He said in China, if you're under fourteen years old, TikTok will show you science experiments you could do at home, museum ex museum exhibits. Patriotism videos, educational biddy c videos, you know, video about how to do calligraphy or something like that And then it said, all the children in China are limited to 40 minutes a day on TikTok, then the app goes off. And I read they just they're do gonna do that in the United States now the sixty minutes, but only under duress and pressure did TikTok capitulate to that. But you know, right now it's like, you know, you could be on TikTok and these other apps uh for hours. And um and you're not and what is being fed to kids in the United States is not primarily these edifying themes. But rather uh foolish, silly things, uh even some things that are sort of innocuous, but still they're just big time wasters, uh pornographic videos And also just grooming children to question who they are, right? To to question their gender and these kind of things. And this isn't just a problem with TikTok, it's a problem with all social media. Now I want to I'm going to point this out from Proverbs in a minute, but I want I want our young people to understand something. There are evil people in the world. Right? Of course we have differences of opinion and perspectives and views on various matters. We understand that. But we must also understand that there are people who are fundamentally evil and they want to destroy you They want to pollute your thoughts. They want to corrupt your character. They want to undermine your self confidence. And that's a huge thing. Right, the anxiety amongst young people, and they want to reorient your ambitions. And it's interesting, so this article talked about how TikTok is being used to reorient it children's ambitions. So they asked the children in China, what is your number one aspiration? The answer that got the most votes by kids in China, I want to be an astronaut. The same survey among children in America, what's your number one aspiration? These children who've been um you know immersed in social media? And the number one answer was, I want to be a social media influencer. And so then the article concludes. Where will this lead to lead a nation to in 30 years if this is how children are being programmed? And so The book of Proverbs and the entire Bible says, you know what? Some people are fundamentally evil. They're seeking to harm you, they're seeking to destroy you, and they're so addicted to evil that it's their food and drink And they can't sleep at night unless they feel like they have done something to harm someone. So now take your Bible, look at verses 16 and 17. Here is what some people are like. They cannot sleep unless they've done wrong. They are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble, for they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. And so you have to make a decision, right? You have to make a decision about which path on which you're going to walk. And this is a huge theme in Proverbs, right? It's a huge theme in the New Testament, right? Matthew 7, how you could build your house on the stand. Or you build your house on the foundation of Jesus' words. But you have to make a decision. You don't want to waste your youth. You don't want to waste your adulthood going down the path of the fool. And so look at verses 14 and 15. These two paths set before us. The writer says, Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on. One of the old commentators on Proverbs, Charles Bridges, said It is far easier to shun the occasion of sin than to shun the sin when the occasion presents it. Do you hear that? And so it's saying it's better to avoid encountering whatever your temptations are. than to getting up close to those temptations. Because then typically it's too late. And so what does the writer Proverbs say in chapter 4? He says Wisdom will lead you down promising roads, but you must learn to govern yourself You must guard your heart. And that's point three, which we'll read in a minute, but the heading is It's a call in verses 20 to 27 to guard your heart and to exercise self-control. In the 1940s, you may have heard the name Peter Marshall. He was the chaplain of the Senate. I think he was also the pastor of Fourth Presbyterian Church in Bethesda, if I remember correctly. But anyway, He had a great story. He told a story about the keeper of the spring. Here's how it goes, an elderly, quiet forest dweller. lived high above an Austrian village among the eastern slope of the Alps. The old gentleman had been hired many years ago by a young town council to clear away the debris from the pools of water up in the mountain crevices that fed the lovely spring flowing down to the to their town. And so with faithful, silent regularity, he patrolled the hills and removed leaves and branches and wiped away the silt. that would otherwise choke and contaminate the fresh flow of water below in the village. By and by the village became a prop By and by the village became a popular attraction for vacationers. Graceful swans floated along the crystal clear spring, the mill wheels of the various businesses located near the water turned day and night. Farmlands were naturally irrigated, and the view from restaurants was picturesque beyond description. Years went by. One evening the town council met for its semi-annual meeting. And as they reviewed the budget, one man's eye caught the salary figure being paid to the obscure keeper of the spring. He said the keeper of the purse. Who is the old man? Why do we keep him on year after year? No one ever sees him. For all we know, the strange ranger of the hills is doing us no good. He isn't necessary any longer. So by unanimous vote they dispensed with the old man's services. Yeah, for several weeks nothing changed. But by early autumn, the trees began to shed their leaves, and small branches snapped off and fell into the pools, hindering the rushing flow of the sparkling water. One afternoon, someone noticed a slight yellowish-brown tint in the spring. A couple of days later, the water turned much darker. Within a week Slimy film covered sections of the water along the banks, and a foul odor was soon detected. The mill wheels moved more slowly, some finally ground to a halt Swans left, as did the tourist. Clammy fingers of disease and sickness reached deeply into the village. Quickly, and Bear's council called a special meeting. Realizing the gross error and judgment, they hired back the old keeper of the spring. And within a few weeks, the veritable water of life began to clear up. The wheels started to turn, and new life returned to the hamlet in the Alps once again. Well, your heart, the Bible says, is the spring of your life. So don't neglect to cultivate it. That's what he says in verse 23. Keep your heart With all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life And so here again we see, right, God isn't just concerned with our outward behavior, but he's concerned with our hearts. And so when anger Fear, self-centeredness, slothfulness, impurity, pride takes root in your heart We need to deal with it promptly, right? We don't want to rationalize it. We shouldn't make excuses. We should call it for what it is. I was rude. I was self-centered. I was wrong. So we should be saying that all the time, right? I was wrong. Will you forgive me? And so we don't want it these things to take up residence in our hearts. It'll corrode us. It'll corrupt our relationships. It'll lead us to act in unbecoming ways, and it'll dull us to the things of God, because we don't want to be exposed to the things of God. It just shows us our sin and our guilt. And so we want to be quick to acknowledge our sin. We want to examine our hearts in the light of Scripture We want to cul we should want to cultivate our relationship with Christ, right? Take time every day, even several times, to call out to God in prayer. You read the scripture You read it reflectively. You go home this afternoon, you go through Proverbs 4, you read it slowly, and you latch on to a couple thoughts there, and you pray, Lord, I pray that you would work this more and more into uh the fabric. of my heart and confess your sin as you're doing all that. And so the question then, and this is a good question just to take home and to think about. Is there is there an area where you need I should say is there an area? What area? would be most prominent where you need to guard your heart, where you need to be more vigilant. And so the final exhortation, verses twenty to twenty-seven, he starts out by saying, guard your heart, and then just to wrap it up, verses twenty-four to twenty-seven In a nutshell, he reminds his child, he reminds us, the importance of exercising self-control, right? And so we're saved by grace, but we do have to exert ourselves in the Christian life. And you see that in verses 24 to 27. Put away from your crooked speech and put devious talk far from you. Let your eyes look directly forward and your gaze be straight before you. Ponder the path of your feet, then all your ways will be sure. Do not swerve to the right or to the left. Turn your foot away from evil. And so he's calling us the self-control in our speech, and the things that we set our eyes upon, and in the places we go. Okay? So we all have the um great ambitions for self-control, right? Oscar Wilde, he said, um, what do you say? He said, I can resist anything. Except temptation. And um that's what we're like, right? And so again we recognize Jesus is our righteousness, right? He was tempted in every way we're tempted. Yet he was without sin. And so this is why we if you're a Christian, you're trusting in Christ You feel like a bum because after all these years you're still falling into the same falling for the same temptations. You're still invited. to have fellowship with him because he is your righteousness. And as we come to him We say, Lord, thank you for your forgiveness, but also I pray that by your Spirit you would shape me, you would change my desires. so that I will put aside these things that continually hinder me. And so if you're not a Christian, don't come to the Lord's table, right? You need to come first to Christ. Because you need a new heart. You can't do it on your own. You need God to forgive you, and you need God to change you. And those of us who are Christians, we still recognize, Lord, I am slow to make progress. Continue your work renovating me. And I want to use all the means, your word, your spirit, fellowship with your people, ongoing repentance, so that you will change me from the inside out. Let's bow our heads. We do pray, Father in heaven, that you would shape us. I pray for our young people that they would prefer knowing you and walking in your ways Over trivial ambitions and pursuits. We thank you, Lord, that we're saved by your grace and not by our own efforts But we're also thankful, Lord, that you're in the business of changing us more and more into your likeness. And we pray, Lord, that you'll continue that work. And we also ask, Lord, that we would make, that we would exert ourselves in the pursuit of holiness and that we would seek. the right path. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. As we come to the Lord's table, I'd ask you to take your song book. We're going to sing 252 When I survey the wondrous cross, let us stand and sing. Where they wonder On with the prince of glory I riches gain I count for And for content So bere should pos Save in the Christ my God. Oh the veything, se ha chan me most I sacrifice them to his blood Sweep from his head speech Sorrow and fling go down. Jesus Well the whole abdomen That were a present for small Rap so are messing so divine Demands my soul, my life my So one of the Americans, Thomas Watkin, he called the sacrament a discipline sermon. Here's what he said. The word is a prompt to proclaim Christ, the sacrament is at last to represent. In other words The sacrament is a picture of what Jesus Christ did for sinners. And so in this regard, he said the Lord condescends through our leaders. It should be sufficient that God goes on public record in the Bible and says, listen, if you trust the me for your salvation,