Jews may go back that way with Mrs. Wisner to worship training. And let us turn in our Bibles to um Philippians Chapter one, Philippians chapter one. So we began Philippians two weeks ago. And I'm going to read chapter one, beginning at verse twelve Have your Bible open, keep it open. Don't believe me, right? Check what I'm saying by the Bible. So Paul writes to the church in Philippi, but not just to them, because this is God's word is for people down through the ages. So it's to you. I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel So that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word of God without fear. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. The latter do it out of love Knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaimed Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. So how would you describe your circumstances if you were to somebody say, hey, how's it going? How are your circumstances? Some would say would you say disappointing or would you say delightful? Or would you say pleasant or would you say painful? This passage is about circumstances. Look at it. Look at verse 12. Paul, I'm using the ESV. Paul says, what has happened to me? The NAS uses the term my circumstances. And so uh this passage uh is about gods and gods It's about our circumstances, but more specifically it's about God's counterintuitive method of using our circumstances to advance the gospel. This isn't a new theme, right? Everything, just about everything in the Bible in the Christian life, is counterintuitive. And what we see in this passage is God oftentimes advances the gospel. Through the adverse situations in which Christians find themselves. And so I use the word the gospel, right? There's a word, only four chapters of Philippians. It's found nine times. in this short letter. So we must be clear on what the gospel is. I want the kids all to know. Here's what the gospel is. In fact, what's the name of our church? Gospel Presbyterian Church. That's what good news means, gospel. Okay? So the gospel is the good news That God does for you what you can't do for yourself. To be a little more clear, it's the good news that God makes sinners righteous. We don't make ourselves righteous. God makes sinners righteous. To be even more clear The gospel is the good news that we're made right with God by taking hold of Jesus Christ. How do we take hold of him? By repentance and faith. In other words, resting on him. We take hold of him because he lived a perfect life where we fell short. And then he died on the cross to pay for our sin. Okay? So Paul says what happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. And so the big lesson here is that God uses the miserable, adverse circumstances in which his people find themselves to advance the gospel. Now it's interesting. He's writing his letters. The first couple verses were his greetings. Then in verse 12, he talks about: here's what's going on. Verse 12, I want you to know So it sounds like he's giving them an update on his situation. But that's not all he's doing. He's providing the Christians in Philippi They were in the Roman Empire. They were suffering under the heavy hand of the emperor. They were being oppressed for their faith. Paul wrote about his situation in these verses so that they would have a paradigm for how they were to live. And this the adversity that they were under. In fact, in verse chapter 3, verse 17, Paul says to them, Brothers, join in imitating me. So what he says is for the Philippians, and it's for us, that we may join in imitating his outlook. When we face adversity. Okay? So here's the passage in a nutshell. Just listen to this and you can zone out. No. In a nutshell, the lesson of these just a little paragraph is recognize that your circumstances are God's appointed means For advancing the gospel. So this is how we should look at the li how we should look at life. We should look at look at it Through the lens, as Paul looked at his life, through the lens of advancing the gospel in opposition from the world. Is an opportunity from a sovereign God for us to indeed advance the gospel. Okay? So let's review Paul's situation. He was in Rome. He was under house arrest, and so he wasn't in some jail cell like he would be in other times. He was in a rented house. He had a Roman soldier, he was chained to a Roman soldier 24 hours a day. And I read they would have like four hour shifts, okay? And so I couldn't stand that. I I I had a roommate until I was twenty-nine. Um I wasn't chained to him, but that w that was enough. Okay? I was in s I slept in a bunk bed till I was twenty-nine when I was I got out of seminary. Can you imagine that? But anyway, um Paul was chained uh to a Roman soldier And we would think, as I'm sure the believers in Philippi thought, what a blow to the advance of Christianity Christianity star evangelist has been sidelined. But as it turned out The spread of the gospel wasn't hindered. And so look at verses 12 and 13, what Paul writes to these people. He says, I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. So that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. So the Imperial Guard, this was the elite unit of Roman soldiers that Paul was chained to all the time. So Paul had a captive audience. uh uh amongst uh Caesar's uh Caesar's imperial guard. And if you look at Acts at twenty eight sometime, in Acts twenty-eight You discover he was able to receive visitors and he was able to talk to them about the things of the gospel. And then the guard would be there and he'd have to listen to them. And the guard would notice something different about Paul, and of course, Paul would have conversations to these various guards who were connected to him. And so As it turned out, I can use that phrase a lot. As it turned out, God used Paul's imprisonment to bring the gospel to the epicenter of Roman power. This is remarkable when you think about the first generation of Christianity, it starts in Jerusalem, right? On the day of Pentecost. Within a generation You get to Acts 28, the gospel is now penetrating Caesar's household. And so in uh the Philippians 4, verse 22, Paul writes, all the saints, that's the Christians, right? All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. And so it's remarkable how God worked to bring the gospel to the center of the Roman Empire. A second unexpected consequence of Paul's imprisonment is that it emboldened the other Christians in Rome to evangelize in a threatening culture. So here we are now in verse 14. He writes, and most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Now you would think that they would take warning and they would become more cautious, right? Paul was thrown in jail But as it turned out, and maybe it was Paul's happy warrior attitude, but as it turned out, the Christians at Rome now were more bold to speak of Jesus Christ. So that's the simple lesson, right? God uses the sufferings of his people to advance the gospel. This is timely. And I think most are you read what's going on, the opposition that is growing against the church in America Uh it's even worse than can. I was reading an article and I'll send you this. The article's title was What is coming next? Excuse me, what is coming next for the Canadian churches? And it talks about the hostility, the overt hostility of the Canadian government. uh and culture uh toward Bible-believing Christians. It's okay if you just say you go to church somewhere that's wishy-washy But if you believe this stuff, and we have a lot of churches in our denomination in Canada, if you believe this stuff, you're going to face opposition. So the article, one one thing that says uh Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has consistently accused those of holding Christian views on issues like abortion and sexuality of being fundamentally un-Canadian. He has sought to deny government funding to summer jobs that will not overtly affirm his views on these issues And he has insisted that those who do not share his views are hateful and bigoted. But when sixty-eight Canadian churches were damaged or burned to the ground last year There is a collective shrug. Apathy towards and disbelief in a religion of Canada's founding has become overt hostility. Now, I'm sure there are articles that talk about what's going on in America. It's becoming increasingly difficult to be a Christian in America. Uh certainly you can't s be a speaker on a college campus, uh a guest speaker. In fact, uh Christian colleges that hold to historic Christianity, uh they're gonna sooner or later it looks like they're gonna lose their govern government funding. uh if they don't compromise on their convictions. Uh this has happened uh to Catholic adoption agencies that will not uh support the uh adopt children be adopt being adopted uh by homosexuals um Christian doctors who refuse to refer patients for assisted suicide, for sex reassignment surgery, for abortion will likely be unable to practice uh medicine before long. Uh Christians who work for large corporations uh who have um who support uh woke policies and the uh LGBT uh agenda uh will not uh will be required not merely to say I will tolerate this, which we should, but they'll be required to say, I affirm these things, and if they don't affirm these things, they're gonna lose their job. And churches that support, don't support these things are going to be labeled as bigots and they're going to lose their uh uh their tax exempt status. And it used to be, you know, you say we're going to build a church in town, the the city fathers and mothers would say, this is a wonderful thing. We'll help advance this. But churches don't bring any tax revenue. They don't uh they do not understand the benefit that a church brings to a community. And so we're gonna have to scratch and and and fight our way probably uh to move ahead. Or it used to be churches were something that is welcome. So what should we do? What should we do? And I think the answer the only answer is that We have to stay the course. We have to resolve not to settle for a stripped-down, emasculated version of Christianity. Somebody called it Christianity light. And that's very appealing to the masses, but it's useless and it's a f it's an offense to God. And so we need to hold the course for our children's sake, for their the next generation's sake so that there will be a gospel witness in this country. In this in what's happening in our country It's going to separate the true churches from the false churches. It's going to separate the true believers from the false believers. And so I suspect Christianity may not grow broader, but it will grow deeper, and it will be more attractive to unbelievers because they're going to see something about Christians. So we want to stay the course. We want to remember we're not in this fight alone. God, Christ will build his church, and we have to remember The lesson here, but not only here throughout Scripture, God uses difficult circumstances to advance the gospel And he's God still has his elect out there. So we don't have to worry about that. Sometimes we become discouraged. We look at what's going on in the culture, we look at what's going on in politics and so forth. But there will always be people who are receptive to the truth. But we want to preserve and we want to embody the truth and we want to proclaim it. with love and patience, but also without apology. And so We should view opposition from the world as an opportunity to advance the gospel. And then go on in this passage We should even view opposition from fellow Christians or from professing Christians as an opportunity to advance the gospel. So Paul arrives in Rome. This is wonderful. So you'd think, right? He passed from Asia Minor. Present-day Turkey. The man in Macedonia called Paul in a vision to go to Philippi. And now he's in Europe and he's made it to Rome. And um but not everybody was happy in the church in Rome. So verse um 15. Talking about other Christian leaders in Rome. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. And so one group of Christian leaders and evangelists, they were of one mind with Paul. But there was another group who envied Paul on account of I guess his renown as a po as an apostle uh apostolic leader And of they were jealous of his evangelistic success and he was very successful. He was a man of extraordinary gifts, a man of uh towering intellect and and breathtaking accomplishments. He went throughout Turkey, or what's now called Turkey, and now he's in Europe And despite all the opposition he's faced just about every step of the way, despite the stonings, the beatings, the imprisonment. uh the slander, the opposition of the the Judaizers. He prevailed. He and he ki he keeps marching on And so when Paul arrives in Rome, naturally the believers there look to Paul as a great man. But not everybody was happy about his arrival. Some resented uh the recognition that he was getting. And uh these rival preachers, they weren't heretics. If they were heretics, Paul would have said, as he said in Galatians 1. 8, about the uh heretics in Galatia. He said, if anybody preaches a gospel other than the one we preach, let him be accursed, right? Let him be damned. Paul doesn't say that about these people. They were Paul realized they were on the same team, they were preaching the same gospel, but they were territorial, they were petty, or they were jealous, and so they sought to stick it to Paul. And um and that's gotta hurt, right? I mean it's it's one thing it's one thing to be attacked by the world or to be misrepresented or maligned. Or to have your motives impugned impuned by the world. But when it happens in the church, it's just crushing, right? You think you're going along, you're you're doing what you think's right And somebody maligns you or misrepresents you. It's just crushing. And that's what happened to Paul. So, I mean, you get wolf bites, you get sheep bites, and it's the sheep bites uh that are much more painful. But remarkably, Paul was okay with these preachers in Rome who out of rivalry want to pour Saul in his wounds while he was confined. Look at verse um verse 12 and where am I? 17 and 18. 17 and 18 So about these uh rival preachers, the former preach Christ out of rivalry. not sincerely, but thinking t but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. You know, these are Christians Poor guy's in prison, and they still want them to be even more miserable. Eighteen? What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. That's a remarkable thing. Um and so what do we learn here? When you recognize that your circumstances are God's appointed means for advancing the gospel that will affect your outlook. Your outlook. And you think if ever there were a guy who should be bitter, it would be Paul. He he gave up everything, he lost everything. You think the guy uh would be embittered. But he wasn't. Look at verse 18. The end of the verse he says In that I rejoice. Like that's remarkable. There are Christians, I mean, there is one just one Christian author. I'm not going to say his name. Great theologian. But he ended his his final years just in bitterness with what was going on in the church. I think it was in England. He just said, I'm not going to church anymore. It's just so so compromised. But not Paul, he says, I rejoice. And we need to qualify that a little bit, because it doesn't seem realistic I mean pr um he wasn't whistling I'm looking over a four leaf clover as he changed his uh Roman guard. Because you look at his other writings, uh Second Timothy The end of chapter 4. 2 Timothy, for example, chapter 4, verse 14. Talking about, I can't remember if this is another imprisonment. But he's in prison. Yeah, this is he's in prison. He's about to be executed. And he's hurting. And he's frustrated. He wrote, Alexander the coppersmith did me a great deal of harm, and the Lord will repay him. Second Timothy four sixteen. At my first defense, no one, no sorry, sorry, at my first defense, all deserted me. So he wasn't, he didn't have this Pollyanna attitude. So we're not saying that. I'm not saying that if you're frustrated or grieved, you're not a good Christian But behind it, he had this perspective. I rejoice. And so before we quit, I just want to ask this question now, and this is really what we're leading up to. What makes this guy tick? And how can I have some of that for myself? That's the question we have to answer. And I think we can boil it down to two things. So I think we can say there are two pillars upon which Paul's joy was built. And the first pillar is this. This guy believed in the providence of God and the ultimate goodness of God in his providence. He believed it. We just read the Heidelberg Catechism on what's God's providence, the Westminster Shorter Catechism. defines God's providence as His most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all His creatures and all their actions. In other words, God rules over all things. Jesus said, wait, not a sparrow falls to the ground. Apart from the will of your heavenly Father. So the Bible asserts throughout, right? God's on his throne. He rules over all things. Ephesians 1:11. All things are according to the counsel of his will. And so this says, and this is the sticky part, this is teaching that whatever happens to your life, whatever happens in your life, God is behind it. God is using it to accomplish his greater purposes in history, even evil, the Bible says. God's not the author of evil. James 1, God's not the author of evil. But he permits it and he uses it to accomplish his greater purposes of judgment and salvation. And so we would, you know, Satan's to blame for the misery in the world. But whatever calamities he brings, you look at Job 1 and 2, Job 1 and 2. He does so with God's permission. Isaiah forty-five, verse seven, God says I form light and create darkness. I make well-being and create calamity. I am the Lord who does these things. God's taking credit even for the misery in your life. Lamentations 3, verse 37, Jeremiah says, or asks a question. Who has spoken and it came to pass unless the Lord has commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? So that's an assertion. Now we look at the horrible things that God's people suffer, or that people in general suffer. And that's troubling. What do we do? We can't explain these things. Deuteronomy 29, 29 says, the secret things belong to the Lord our God. Romans 11. 33, Paul says, how inscrutable are his ways. We can't understand this stuff. We can't try to piece it together or explain it. But the Bible teaches nonetheless, even though there's a mystery, this is a great mystery, our circumstances are not God's problems But rather they're God's instruments, they're God's servants for accomplishing what he wants to accomplish in history and in our lives. So John so uh Spurgeon said God rallies our circumstances. He numbers them as a commander does his soldiers and then sets them about his business. Remember Genesis 50 when Joseph, he had been, his brothers wanted to kill him. Let's not kill him, let's sell him into slavery. They sold him into slavery. And for years he was in Egypt. But then there was a famine and his brothers came to him. They didn't realize who he was till until they met him. They met. And they said, oh no. And Joseph said, Genesis 50, 20, he said, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. So Joseph had this conviction, he was persuaded of God's sovereignty. It's interesting in the church we always talk about God's love. But that's not very helpful unless we're also persuaded that God is sovereign even over the hard things. But Paul was persuaded of this, and so that's why he said in Romans 8. 28, for those who love God, all things work together for good. And so the pillars upon which Paul could have joy amidst adversity The first pillar was he was persuaded of the good and kind and the wise providence of God. The second pillar Was that his chief concern was for the glory of Jesus Christ? And so look at verse 18, okay? What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. So this is this is one of the distinguishing marks of a Christian. A Christian, not just somebody who says, yeah, I believe in Jesus, yada yada yada. A Christian As someone whose chief ambition is the glory of Jesus Christ. And that's why Paul, even though he was confined, he says, I rejoice. He has uh he was gonna be tried, and his concern was that Jesus be glorified, whether he lives or dies. So look at verse 19. We're getting into next week. Verse 19. For I know that through your prayers in the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope. That I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now, as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. So hey, whether I die or whether I'm released, the only thing that counts really is that Christ is honored. 21 for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. So, there's what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ, right? You're not just in it for yourself, but your passion. is that the one who saved you would become known to other people, and that he be rightly honored and worshipped. So here's the thing, I mean, you read these verses and you have to say, you know, do I believe this stuff or not? Well I do, but I struggle. But you got Read this, you know, just read this. Think about it. Apply it. Uh because I know some are in very difficult circumstances. And so Paul wrote about a circumstances. Remember what I said? When Paul says, let me tell you what's going on. It wasn't just a travel log. Uh but he was saying uh he wanted to give the Philippians a paradigm for how they should view their afflictions under an oppressive and not impressive oppressive Roman government. And he confirms this, this is why he wrote it. Look at the very end of chapter 4, verse 9. He says to them and to us, What ye have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So what you've learned and read about Paul, practice these things. And he says, God will give you peace amidst your circumstances. So, you know, you think of uh in the beginning I raised the question, what's weighing on you? Remember this, right? God is in heaven. He rules over all. He's using even these things for your sanctification and also for the glory of his name. So let's pray.