Which way are you going back? I guess this way? Okay, that away. Go data way. Okay? And I'll ask you to turn to the book of Revelation. So for those who have been away, or for those who are new or marching through the book of Revelation, And you'll find in the chapters 2 and 3, seven letters. Jesus spoke these letters to an angel who gave them to the Apostle John. And these churches were in Asia Minor or present-day Turkey. And we come to the sixth of the seven letters. So Revelation chapter 3 Beginning at verse 7, the church in Philadelphia. And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, right? The words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. I know your works. Behold, I set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie, behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world to try those who dwell on the earth. I'm coming soon Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown. The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar and the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes from God which comes from my God out of heaven in my own new name. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Now there are two terms that were coined, I imagine, in the past 40 years. The terms are megachurch and celebrity pastor. So mega church would be a church that has several thousand members, and in our country there are several uh megachurches. Did you ever hear the term celebrity pastor? I I think that just came up in the past ten years. So a celebrity pastor would be a pastor who is well known. And I'm not saying these are bad pastors, these are great Bible teachers, they have influential ministries. Some of you listen to them on the internet, right? You listen to their uh sermons on the internet And that's great. But the fact is most churches in our country aren't mega churches. They're just regular little churches. I read that the average church in America has about seventy people at in attendance on a Sunday morning. And uh that includes the kids. And the average pastor uh is not a celebrity. Uh most pastors are just very unremarkable men uh seeking to shepherd uh their flock And that's even more so the case in the Third World. One of our missionaries, David Galeta, he goes to Pakistan, he goes to African countries to train pastors. He just got back from Rwanda and in his letter he said about these pastors he trained, these are men who barely have a middle school education And yet they're pastoring churches. So I've talked about the average church, I've talked about the average pastor, and then we get to talk about the average Christian. The average Christian doesn't get out of bed in the morning and tell me if this is if the case is different for you But the average Christian doesn't get out of bed in the morning singing every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. That hymn is not in our hymn book. Because it's not a true hymn. It's not accurate. It's in some hymn books, but we recognize that's not the nature of the Christian life. And in fact, most of us would admit That we have a an overwhelming sense of of a of our lack of progress in the school of holiness. In a sense, that we're not so fruitful in our service or in our attempts at evangelism Well I bring these things up because it is two unremarkable churches, pastors And Christians that Jesus' letter to the church in Philadelphia speaks. And you'll notice in verse thirteen Jesus said, this isn't just for the church in Philadelphia 2,000 years ago. It's for all churches and all Christians down through time. 13 Jesus said, He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And so the church in Philadelphia was on sung It was unacclaimed, and you're going to see the people in this church were barely holding on. And so we're going to look, first of all, at a description of the church in Philadelphia, and there will likely be some things you can relate to. And then we're going to hear the words of encouragement that Jesus spoke to the church in Philadelphia and that he speaks to us today. So let him who has ears hear what the Holy Spirit says to the churches, including the church here. this morning. So let's look at the description of the church. And in a nutshell, the church in Philadelphia was a struggling but a faithful church. And I want you to notice a number of things here. So first of all, in the end of verse 8, Jesus says, I know that you have little power. So this this was a weak church, and it was probably small, and it's more than likely that its members occupy the the bottom rungs of society And that's typical of most churches in uh 1 Corinthians 126. Paul said to the Christians in Corinth, at another place, another time, He said to these believers, not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth. Now he didn't say not any because there are Christians of noble birth and Christians who are wise and Christians who are powerful But in general, Paul said, you know, not many in the church, certainly in the church in Philadelphia, occupied the upper echelons of society. So this was a weak church This was a persecuted church. You'll notice in the end of verse 8. Jesus commended them that they hadn't, he said, you have not denied my name. And so that implies that they were being pressured to deny Jesus' name, and particularly they are being pressured to worship the emperor to say that Jesus is Lord. And so Christians throughout these churches in Asia Minor, we saw this, they were being pressured to toward to emperor worship, which would event that they denied uh Jesus Christ. Now it's interesting That the Jews in this area uh did not suffer under this uh this threat. They were exempt from the requirement to say that Jesus is Lord. All they had all the Jews had to do was to pay a tax And they would be exempt. But not the Christians. And many of the Christians were from a Jewish background And so as it turned out, the Jews, we see this here in Philadelphia, the Jews in a synagogue were routing out the Christians to the Roman authorities. And that's one of the reasons, I believe, in verse 9, that Jesus called them a synagogue of Satan. So isn't it interesting we see this throughout the world, throughout the major religions of the world. That one of Satan's tactics is to establish his presence amongst religious groups that will hate and will persecute Christians. That was the case then, and that's often the case today. And so the church in Philadelphia was a persecuted church And over the past ten years, you know, just the past ten years in America, uh we've seen our culture, at least many respects in many respects, we've seen our culture become increasingly hostile uh toward uh Christianity. Uh the universities, the public schools the um even corporations now, you know, with with their promoting uh the homosexual agenda. Well, if you're a Christian You cannot say that that's a good thing, that that's a noble thing. You could say, I tolerate that, but I'm not going to condone it. I'm not going to say that it's right And so there's a lot of heat coming against the Christian church, the evangelical Christian church in our country, because of our commitment to biblical sexual ethics. And so the church in Philadelphia, like many churches today, it was weak, it was persecuted, but what's notable here is that the church in Philadelphia was faithful. It was faithful. Look at our beginning of verse 8. A number of things that Jesus says to these guys. He said in the beginning of verse 8, I know your works. He's commending them. The end of verse 8. Ye have kept my word and not denied my name. Same thing in verse 10. Ye have kept my word about patient endurance. And so these Christians were continuing in the faith, this even though they were suffering persecution, this even though they suffered uh discouragements And that's the mark. So we learn from this. That's the mark of a church that pleases Jesus Christ. Large churches certainly can please Jesus Christ. But what I'm saying is when you squeeze everything down. One of the most important traits of a church is that the church be faithful to Jesus and faithful to his word. And I think that's instructive to our young people. You grow up, you go off to college, or you move away and you're doing something else, and you're looking for a church. What should you look for? Well it's interesting. Jason Roebling was telling me uh some weeks ago about his daughter Lydia when she went up to uh college this past fall In um Johnstown, Pennsylvania, University of Pittsburgh in Johnstown, Lydia's looking for a church. And there's a lot of there's certainly a lot of big and uh very uh Uh Show we Churches in that area. Lydia ended up going to this little Presbyterian church in one of our sister denominations And they were surprised that she showed up at the door on a Sunday morning and they asked this college student, why'd you come here? Lydia said, Because I looked at your doctrine and it looks good, it looks right. And so yeah, that's that's an important thing. That is the important thing, right? What does this church believe not only in paper, but also how are they living it out in practice? And so Jesus, we're going to see here how Jesus deals with struggling, faithful churches and faithful Christians like we see in the church in Philadelphia. And one thing that's notable is that there are seven letters here In five of the seven letters, Jesus speaks words of correction, uh, words of rebuke. Not so when he spoke to the well first to the church in Smyrna, but now here to the church in Philadelphia. He doesn't correct them. They probably have problems, but he doesn't correct them in this letter. Why not? Well Because I think they're probably aware of their problems, and they were barely holding on, and they needed to be encouraged. And that we see this throughout Scripture. We see Jesus' disposition toward weary Christians. He's not harsh with them. And that's why we read that verse, that passage from Isaiah 42, where the Father speaking about the coming Messiah, foretold. A bruised reed, he will not break, and a faintly burning wick, he will not quench. I can see why Richard Sibbs wrote a whole book on the on the gentleness of Jesus Christ to his people. Jesus, you know, we're battered, right? Jesus' sheep are battered. And if you pull up uh if you pull up your pant leg, you'll notice you have some bites there, even from other sheep And so Jesus Christ, He's faithful, He's gentle with us. So what I want to do now, and this will be real clean because this is a very dense passage, But I just want to point out two of the themes now of how Jesus assures his weary and his weak people. He assures them, number one, of their salvation, and then he assures them he's going to preserve them in the faith. Okay? So first of all, Jesus assures discouraged, beleaguered Christians of their salvation, and that should put our trials in perspective. Now I want you to look closely with me at verse 7 And keep your eyes down there and listen carefully. So, this is the salutation, the greeting that Jesus gives to this church in Philadelphia. And he describes himself as the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David Who opens and no one will shut? Who shuts and no one opens? Where'd this come from? It came from the book of Isaiah. Remember I said it some weeks ago? All the prophets rendezvous in the book of Revelation And we see this here with this language in the book of Isaiah. The book of Isaiah, God is referred to as the Holy One twenty-nine times Jesus now speaking to the church says of himself, I'm the Holy One, I'm God, I'm speaking to you. But then we have, even more interestingly, a statement. Where he says of himself, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. This language is borrowed from Isaiah chapter 22, verse 22. And in that passage, it's in reference to a man named Eliakim. He was a steward over the house of King Hezekiah, the king of Judah, in the seventh century. And by a steward, I mean he wasn't the guy who brought dinner, but he had authority, administrative authority, over the king's uh rule over over uh Judah. And so Hezekiah, the king of Judah, was a descendant of David. And so He was king over, you might say, no, you would say, the house of King David. King Hezekiah had a steward, Eliakim. Eliakim was a faithful man. And so God gave Eliakim authority over the house of David. So here's Isaiah 22, verse 22 in context. God said to Eliakim I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David, he shall open, and none shall shut, he shall shut, and none shall open. Now the reason that this comes up in Revelation is that Eliakim in the Old Testament prefigured Jesus Christ. Because Jesus is the steward or the ruler over a greater household. And so in Hebrews 3 verse 6, the writer says of Christ Christ is faithful over God's house as a son, and we are his house. Okay? So Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of the ruler who would come and rule over God's people, just as David did in the Old Testament. And, and here's the point I want to make. That was a long runway. Here's my point. The Father has likewise given Jesus Christ a key. And the key that Jesus Christ has is the key of salvation. That's why back in chapter 1, verse 18, Jesus said, I have the keys of death and Hades. So do you see what it's saying there in uh going back to chapter 3 verse 7? When Jesus says he has the key of David who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. What Jesus is saying there is that no one can enter God's house, the church, and no one can enter heaven until Jesus opens the door. And that's what so that's what's going on. And so Jesus says to these beleaguered Christians in Philadelphia, I've set before you an open door. Which no one's able to shut. What is he saying to them? I've opened to you the door to heaven. This is confirmed to go up to chapter 4, verse 1. Where John says John John now says, after this I looked and behold, a door standing open in heaven. It says Jesus Christ opened the door in heaven. Well that's a very that's a very poetic or literary way of just making a simple point to these Christians in Philadelphia who had been kicked out of the synagogue, who were being persecuted by the larger culture, who were having their opportunities for employment. uh taken away because they were no longer in these trade guilds that worship different deities. Jesus is saying, take heart. No matter what happens Because I have opened the door to heaven to you, and no one is going to shut that on you. That's just a hard way of saying what Jesus said back in Matthew chapter 5, verse 11 Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you, and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad. Why? For great is your reward in heaven. And so we should look up a little bit, right? It's okay no matter what happens, your salvation is secure That's why the Puritans would say, when riding to your coronation, don't mind if it rains, right? Of course there's gonna be some rain on the on our ride to the coron to our coronation But this light and momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond comparison, so said the Apostle Paul. Here's something else. If you're new to Christianity, Jesus makes it really clear here, does he not? That he alone has the key to heaven. You're not going to unlock that door by trying to reform yourself and become a better person. You're not going to unlock that door by becoming a religious person. The only way that door is going to open is if Jesus Christ unlocks it for you. And He's done what's necessary to unlock it, right? He lived a perfect life where we failed He died on the cross to take the full penalty for our sin. And so if we just rest on him, repent of our sin, turn to him. He says the door for you will be unlocked. Well, let's move on now, okay? So I'm talking about the promises that Jesus gives to his beleaguered, weak people. And the first thing he assured them of is their salvation. The second thing he promises is that he's going to preserve them. They're going to make it to the end. So look at chapter 3, verse 10. He says to them, Because you have kept my word about patient endurance I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world to try those who dwell on the earth. So there's some trial that's coming, he calls it an hour of trial, so it sounds like it's a it's a it's a uh This this persecution uh will be brief. But who knows? I mean it could be referring to something yet to come, or it could be occurring to something that took place uh throughout Asia Minor But we think it's brief because Revelation uses these symbolic numbers. Here's called an hour, but other trials have longer periods, some three and a half years, 42 months, some a thousand years Up in an hour shorter. And Jesus says to these folks, San Tassie says, I'm going to keep you from the hour of trial. So what is he going to keep them from? I don't I don't think everybody's sure. He might be saying I can keep you from suffering. Maybe he protected them from some persecution that came. Maybe that was the case. But more likely, and I'm not sure, but more likely, he may just be saying, I'm going to preserve you, I'm going to keep you from abandoning the faith, from falling away. And that certainly would go with other statements we read in the Bible, John 17, verse 15. When Jesus prayed for his disciples, he prayed I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. So Jesus assures his people he's going to preserve them to the end. There's a there's a uh this is a doctrine. We call it the perseverance of the saints, right? The perseverance of the saints, in other words, of the Christians. But it would be better titled God's Preservation of the Saints. So we persevere. If you're a Christian, you're going to persevere to the end. But it's not because you have it within you. It's because God promises that He will preserve you to the end. And I could list a number of verses, I'll just give you a couple. John 10, 28, and 29. Jesus said about his sheep, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who's given them to me, is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So Jesus has his hand around you The Father has his hand around you. You're going to make it to the end. If you're a Christian, there's no way you're going to go to hell. There's no way you're going to fall away. Same thing. 1 Peter 1, verse 5 Peter said to these believers who are being persecuted, he speaks of you who by God's power are being guarded through faith For salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. God will guard you to the end. How about this? I bet you never thought about this. It's just something I read. In Luke 15, 10, Jesus said, There's more joy in heaven, excuse me. There's joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Now think about this. And I I didn't see this, somebody else saw it. There's joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. Here's the question. If Christians can lose their salvation, Wouldn't it be better for those angels to withhold their rejoicing until that Christian finally makes it to heaven? If you can fall away, uh maybe their rejoicing is premature. Um maybe they maybe they're uh shooting too early there. with their joy. But no, they're not. They're going to rejoice as soon as one sinner repents because they know that God's going to preserve that person to the very end. Alright, that's that's great news, right? God's gonna preserve us. But here's something else. And uh I'm not telling the whole story if I don't say this. Though Jesus promises he's going to preserve us, at the same time he commands us to strive. He commands us to exert ourselves. So you see that in verse 11. He says, I'm coming soon. But then he says, Hold fast to what you have, so that no one may seize your crown. Well he just said, you're gonna make it. At the same time he tells these believers, hold fast, right? Hold on to me. Hold on to my word. And this is the Bible speaks like this, uh you see this throughout the New Testament. Take the book of Philippians, Philippians 1, verse 6. Paul says, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. What's that saying? God's going to make sure you make it to the end. He who began a good work in you, he's going to bring it to his fullest fruition. But then you skip down to chapter 2 verse 12 in Philippians. Paul says to these Christians, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. But which is it? And we say it's both. God preserves us, but we have to hold on. And the only reason we can't hold on is because God preserves us. They say, now this guy's talking in circles. Well, yeah, I'm talking in circles because the Bible talks in circles. But that's so we we we we're confident we're gonna make it to the end no matter what happens And yet we need to do everything we can to exert ourselves morally and spiritually, guarding our steps, guarding our thoughts, and so on. So when um I'd say many of you have seen the movie Ben Hur, remember that, Charlton Heston, and many have not, I know, because that was a long time ago that movie. But the end of the movie, or I forget the end of the movie, there's this famous chariot race in the movie. Charlton Heston is you know is in the Roman Coliseum and he's in this chariot race. Well when they were filming this race, Charlton Hesson said to the director, Cecil B. DeMille, said, I don't think I'm going to be able to win this race. And the director said, hey, you just stay in a chariot, I'll make sure you win. And that's precisely what's going on here, right? Jesus says Sincerely, you gotta hold on. It sounds like these people were barely holding on. But yet He promises. Look at verses 11 and 12. When you hold on, he promises: I will make you a pillar and a temple of my God. Remember what we read in verse 8? These people had but little power. But Jesus says, you're going to be a pillar of strength in the heavenly temple. That's our great confidence. And when we come to the Lord's Supper, God is confirming to us all his promises. We're forgiven. Yeah, we're filthy, rotten sinners, but we've turned to Christ, we're trusting in him. We're forgiven, and this is but a foretaste of a great banquet that we're going to set down to one day, and we will see him face to face. Not only us, but all believers around the world and down through time. So let's pray.