Chapter 2 verse 12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamon write the words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, yet you hold fast to my name, and you did not deny my faith even in the days of My faithful witness who was killed among you where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold the teaching of Who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans. Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you Stone in war against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the children Churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone with a new name written on the stone that no one knows Except the one who receives it. Now the message here, as I said, is a message for us because we have this same temptation uh that these folks had and that is the temptation uh to take the path of least resistance. And I feel this constantly We're always trying to monitor our kids' time on the social media. And it's an unending source of conflict. I know other parents have the same struggle. It would be so much easier just to say do what you want. Um in the workplace at school there's always uh the temptation just to go along to get Get along, not to not to cause waves, uh not to invite the consternation of our peers. Or think about our Christian Christian singles and how difficult it is in our day uh to find an upright godly spouse. And for some I imagine there is a temptation just to say, Well, I think I'll come compromise some of my Christian convictions because I don't want to be alone. We're and this is a huge issue in the American church, the the the this um desire to go along to get along. Most churches don't practice discipline anymore because that can be seen as being hard-nosed and judgmental Uh so many churches uh adopt a more of a pop culture uh disposition or then there's others who have sort of a sentimental Disposition toward Christianity. And those versions or those, I wouldn't say perversions, but those misrepresentations of Christianity is so much more comfortable in our culture. Well this this uh pressure to conform is not unique to Christians in our day. Uh Christians have always suffered In this way, and that's what this letter is addressing. And Jesus in this letter commends the Christians in Pergamon for holding fast to the truth. truth of Jesus Christ. But they weren't perfect. And we'll see in these letters. You know, some of the I think two of the letters were commendations. But most of the letters, there's a commendation And then there's a correction. And the correction in this letter is that these believers tolerated within their ranks those who held And so there are four points on the outline, and we're answering the question what What does Jesus say to Christians who are tempted, as we constantly are? What does Jesus say to Christians who are tempted to go along With a pagan culture. And the first thing Jesus says in this letter is in verse 13. He says to these believers, I need Know where you live, where Satan's throne is. Now there's some comfort in that. Jesus knows where you live He knows that when you're home and you just want to sit down and turn on the TV with your kids and watch a decent show, you might have a decent show But then you're assaulted by commercials that violate uh your sense of decency. He knows About the indoctrination that's taking place in the public schools. He's aware, for our college students, how lonely it can be to be a believer on a college campus. And he knows for those in the workplace how how much pressure there is, even uh the pressure about holding on to your job uh to compromise your moral principles. Jesus the first thing Jesus says is, I know where you live. Remember how This works out the first chapter 1, chapter 2. It says, I think chapter 1, verse 13 or so, Jesus is walking amongst the lampstands. That means he's walking amongst amongst the churches. So as to say, Jesus Christ is in our midst. He knows everything about our church, and he says, He knows everything about our culture. I know where you live. And it's fitting that Jesus referred to this city, Pergamum, and I think it's about a city of about a hundred This city, he knows that it was a cauldron of idolatry and sexual morality. Pergamum, it's suspected, had more temples than any other city in the ancient world. It was also a great city of learning. There was this Library, I think I read it had 200,000 volumes in the library in Pergamum. In fact, the word parchment comes from Pergamum And so it was a very learned city, but it was also a very idolatrous city. It was the capital of the uh Roman, excuse me, it was a the Roman capital The province of Asia, and so there were temples to the various uh Caesars dedicated to emperor worship, and then you had an addition these other pagan temples to goddesses like Athena and Dionysus. There is a temple to the god of healing, escape escalate how do you say that? Escalation And the uh symbol of the god of healing was the coiled snake, still today a symbol of the uh the healing arts, the medical profession Then if you're in downtown Pergamon and you look up to the look up at the top of this big hill that overlooked the city, you would see an altar to Zeus overlooking The town. And so these temples were hotbeds of witchcraft and occultism, each specialized in its own form of sexual perversity, each temple staffed with prostitutes. And so when Jesus said this is where Satan's throne is, he was not over Stating the case. But Jesus said to these beleaguered Christians, and he says to you, I know exactly what it's like to live in that culture. He's not unaware of it. So that's the first thing. The second thing Jesus does, and this is in the verse end of verse 13, is he commends Christians He commends these believers for holding fast to the truth. He commended them particularly for holding exclusively to them, excuse me, to him, even though there were all these pagan temples all about these folks. And um it would have been much easier for these believers If they say, yeah, I believe in Jesus, but I want to stay in my trade guild, and so I'm going to go to this particular temple and make an offering. Or I'm a Christian and I want to keep my head on top of my shoulders, and so I'm going to go to the temple that worships Caesar. And I will say, I will make a tepid confession Caesar is Lord, and I will offer incense to Caesar, because then things are just going to go a lot more smoothly in my life But they didn't do that. So Jesus commends them. He said in the end of verse 13, yet you hold fast to my name, and you did not deny my faith Even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. And so Antipas was apparently a Christian Who was martyred? He was a witness. That's what the word martyr means. A witness. And so Jesus Christ commends those who hold Exclusively to him in a pluralistic culture. And that's a message for us, is that not? Because in our culture, If you say Jesus is the only way, you are regarded as primitive, you're regarded as narrow minded, and um and you're not Going to be invited. You're not going to be welcome. But this is what Jesus said, right? And I just want to say this to our kids. Jesus says He's the The only way to heaven. John fourteen verse six. Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father Except through me. The Apostle Peter said the same thing in Acts chapter 4, verse 12. He said, There is salvation and no one else, for there is salvation no under excuse me there's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now if you say that regardless of how gracious how graciously you say that people are gonna say you're narrow minded some might even say Oh you're crazy. I know. I mean that so for 12 years I wrote a column on the religion page of the Frederick News Post. It was like a rotation with other religious leaders. And um I got I got an email Thursday. Uh you're done. They didn't say it like that. And I did a couple emails back and forth in uh but it seems like I got canceled because I was too dogmatic. And uh that does that didn't fit sort of sort of the pluralistic uh approach uh to that newspaper. And um but what do you do? And I you know if I had a chance, in fact years ago I put an article in about this. Jesus is the only way. And I said, um I said, yeah, Christianity is a Christianity is exclusive, but it's also highly inclusive That is inclusive, right? Jesus said, Come to me all who are weary and burdened. And so the message of the gospel is that regardless Of your past sin or your present sin, Jesus offers immediate and complete forgiveness and acceptance in your You need to be in the church, right? Some people don't go to church because they feel ashamed. No. If you're forgiven, you're forgiven. And you need to be in the church. You need to be a church member Regardless of your station in life, Jesus offers anybody, it says in Galatians 3. 28, Jesus offers anybody and everybody complete salvation. And the promise of an inheritance in heaven. So, yeah, Christianity is exclusive. We're not exclusive, but the Bible is, and we hold To the Bible, because we know it's the Word of God. And we're thankful that Jesus provided one way of salvation, right? He didn't have to provide any means, but he provided a way And so yeah, Christianity is exclusive, but it's also inclusive. You know, it's sort of like you know if I if I said, Now everybody's welcome to come to our house. You know, we want you all to come. Not at the same time, but we want to come Anybody to come uh come at the right time will even have you for dinner. Um but we do have a we do have some stipulations. Don't come down the chimney Don't climb in the bathroom window. Don't go in the basement and try to break in through the basement. But just coming through the front door. There's one door to our house. We want you to come in through the door, and what you're in, you're in. Same way with Christianity, right? Jesus said, I am the gate John chapter 10 verse 9. So Jesus is saying, I am the door, whoever enters through me will be saved. So Jesus commends the believers in Pergamon. He commends believers down through time who will hold fast to The truth. You don't have to be mean about it. You don't have to be uppity. We want to be gracious. We want to be winsome. But we want to help people see. Yes, this is the truth And I'm holding to it, and I invite you to consider it with me. So that's the commendation. Then there's the correction. Jesus condemns Christians who tolerate false teachers. It's funny, this came up two weeks ago in the in the letter to the church to the Ephesians. Remember? Jesus Commended them for being intolerant. And the church in Pergamon wasn't doing so well in that category. They held fast But in other ways they were lax. They did tolerate in their midst false teachers. Look at verse 14 now, chapter 2, verse 14 Jesus said, But I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block with the Nikolaitins. And so as as Fowler said with the uh when he read from Numbers uh 22 to 25, uh Balak, the king of Moab, the enemy of Israel, went to this pagan prophet Balaam, and he said, I want you to curse Israel. I want you to curse my enemy, excuse me, I want you to get God to curse my Enemy. And so uh Balaam said, I'll try my best, but every time Balaam tried to curse Israel, God put in his mouth a blessing of Israel. And And uh King Balach was incensed about this, and he said, Well, I'm not gonna be able to beat these guys in battle unless they're blessed, unless they're cursed, but I know God's on their side. And Balaam said, Not to worry, not to worry Not to worry, chapter thirty-one verse sixteen said that Balaam suggested to the Moabites, the nation over which King Balat reigned He suggested that the Moabites send their prostitutes into Israel, and then they could be corrupted And that's exactly what they what happened. So the Moabite women went into Israel and they prostituted themselves with the Israelite men and done the Israelite Israelites began uh worshiping and uh these pagan gods of Moab. And so what is taking what the reason that reference made in in verses 14 and 15 is that what Balaam was to Old Testament Israel pushing for their corruption This group called the Nicolaitans were to the church in Pergama. And it's believed that the Nicolaitans. teaching uh that since you're saved by grace and you're saved by Christ and not by what you do and not by your moral efforts and that is true the gospel, right? We are saved by grace. But then they twisted it to say because of God's grace, we're not required to pursue an upward And so they were saying, Yeah, you Christians can engage in idolatry and sexual morality with these uh the temple prostitutes, and that's fine You know, as long as you still uh believe in Jesus. And um so what happened here is what happened in the Old Testament with uh the Israelites Israelites. The church was not destroyed by enemies without, but it was destroyed by corruption within And that really is the story, I think, of the church in America. Of the church in America, down through, you know, think about the thirties, nineteen thirties to the Even today, it was liberalism denying the authority of Scripture, the deity of Christ, the resurrection, the fundamentals of historic Christianity And then from the 90s to today, he had also more of this pop culture kind of therapeutic approach to Christianity, compromising the message of the church. And then of late, you know, the past few years, uh, it was this social uh justice movement and uh making that really the only string on the church's a guitar. And so the lesson here is that we must be vigilant to guard the teaching of the church because it doesn't take long for a church to go off the skids. In fact, it's funny, uh so Markham Rand and Jones were in this church in Burlington, North Carolina, when I was down there There was a kid in the youth group. He was a crazy kid, but he grew up, and now he has five kids, and he's a pastor in one of our Presbyterian sister denominations But he called me Friday. He just resigned from his church. He was an associate pastor because the church was going off the rails. And this is this is the a hist this is a evangelical presbyterian denomination denomination, but that church was going off the rails theologically and said I can't stay here. Call me. I'm looking for a job. What's out there? And so but this is what's going on in our church churches and so we want to pray. We should always pray for our church. God, Lord, give us God the elders who will guard the teaching of our church. This is why we always examine uh Teachers in the church, uh, because even somebody, I mean most teachers in the church are people of good intentions, but we want to make sure that what they're teaching is in line with scripture And so that we want to be careful about that. We want our elders or deacons or pastors, of course, to be uh examined in their doctrine and in their uh personal conduct uh before they are ordained. And so there's this concern about the church in Pergamon, uh false teaching. Before I go on, let me just That false teaching concerns not only what the church says, but what the church fails to say Because there are many topics that are controversial in our day, and it would be easier just to sort of uh breeze by these issues because You don't want to offend people, right? You don't want you don't want to cause conflict in the church or uh with those who are outside the church even. And so it is easy easy to say that, you know, welch on what the Bible says about creation or what the Bible says about gender The Bible's teaching about marriage being a covenant between a man and a woman. And one of our members was telling me this story. He said at a former church, he was on this committee It's called I think it was called the Marriage Committee or something, Marriage and Family Committee. And they were writing a statement about what the church believed about homosexual marriage. Called him up and said, Leave that stuff out. That's going to cause controversy. Well, this is one of the basic tenets of Christianity, right? Marriage is uh an arrangement, a covenant between a man and A woman we're we talk we had a class uh a couple months ago about hell. Now what does the Bible say about hell? It says an awful lot and not to speak on that, not to address that, is to ignore something that the Bible teaches. Now, in our culture, you might say say, how are we going to get people to come to Christ if we're hard-nosed? And we're not hard-nosed, are we? We're really nice people. Um at least I am Everybody's here. It's really nice, loving, gracious. We're not hard notes, but the Bible's uh the Bible's pretty definite But we should never be discouraged because gee remember John 10, 27, Jesus said, My Sheep hear my voice. There are a lot of Christians who want to hear the word of God, right? Stated clearly. Not glossed over but in addition this is our great hope in addition there are many unbelievers whom God is calling to himself. And when they hear the scripture, the word of truth, they recognize that is the voice of the shepherd Even the counterintuitive parts of it, they recognize this is the voice of Jesus Christ, the shepherd, because the voice of Scripture Is self-authenticating and they recognize it and they're drawn to the truth because God calls his sheep to himself So that's our great that's our great hope. And that's why we keep fighting the fight, right? Because this is the truth. We don't say that proudly, but we say it because God in his grace opened our eyes to see and to believe. So that was the third point. Jesus condemns churches that tolerate false Teachers, then uh number four, Jesus calls the church to repentance and promises to bless those who conquer these sins. You see in verse uh then Into verse twelve this call to repentance. Uh I'm sorry, in verse twelve he Jesus spoke about himself as the one who has a sharp two-edged sword. And then in verse sixteen we find out he speaks about the sword again and this is a statement about his authority to judge. So verse sixteen Jesus said therefore repent And so Jesus says he is going to judge those Those professing Christians, if they will not repent of their tolerance of false teaching, but it doesn't end with the word of warning, it ends With a word of promise. The end of verse 17. We have this great promise to those who persevere, to those who conquer. The end of verse 17 To the one who conquers, I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone with a new name written on it, with a new name written on the stone That's a little confusing, this white stone. There's a lot of commentary given on what that white stone is means. If you read all the commentaries, you'll come to the firm conclusion nobody knows what it means, although there are some good suggestions. It's sort of warm here, so I'm not I'm going to give you any of the suggestions. And instead it has a new name written on it. Chapter 3, verse 12 says that that name is the name of God But the clearer promise though is in verse 17 where Jesus speaks about giving those who are faithful this hidden manna. Now most of you know what that refers to, right? Remember the Israelites traveling through the wilderness. Just like the church today is traveling through the wilderness. We're not yet in the promised land. In Israel, they travel through the The wilderness on the way to the promised land, and God provided this hidden food, this manna, this bread from heaven to sustain his people And so it is that Jesus in John 6 says, you know what? That was really just an object lesson pointing to me. Jesus said in John 6, I am the bread of the of life and I will satisfy all your needs. And so when Jesus again now promises this hidden manna, he's saying, you know what? There's a lot of conflict, there's a lot of struggle in this world. But I will meet you, I will come to you, I will nourish you and sustain you and weigh That you did not anticipate. And I will one day invite you, remember Revelation 19, to this great banquet where you Will feast with me and you will have all your heart satisfied. And so, yeah, there's a lot of there's a lot of reason Just go along and get along. It makes things a lot easier in the short term. But Jesus says very clearly, does he not? He says don't waffle Don't waver. Don't compromise. Stay in the means of grace, right? Stay in the fellowship of the church. Stay in the word. Stay in prayer. Be quick to repent. And Jesus says there be many stumblings along the way, but he will sustain you. Let's bow our heads. Our Lord God, we thank you that you promise to uh strengthen us each day. I pray for our young people that they will not go the way of the world once they're out of the home, but they'll so love you and follow you and they'll be fully convinced of all the truths of your word. We pray Lord Lord for those in struggles right now with unbelieving family members in the workplace at school. We do pray that you would help them to hold fast And to stand strong. And for those here who are not yet Christians, I pray that you would so move in them that they would recognize that Jesus Christ is the truth, and that you would bring them to the place where they would repent of their sin and rest on Jesus alone for their salvation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand. We're going to sing the final song the bulletin. Oh Wake my soul scratch ever than Christ with me on a heavily race 'Tis not so an emiting voice that calls thee from I wise that price with fearless glory, we shall do not When it first reads an arch and dealt with us My race be done, and God will make me at my bearing my arm I'll lay my motors down. Good morning on this beautiful warm day. When the service is over, uh we invite you to maybe push all the chairs to the middle. Again and all the picnic tables and all the tables and all the corners just bring them out and then take the chairs to those tables if you would Okay, and while the ladies are gracious, we're getting food ready. Thank you. Look up, receive the benediction. Now with the grace of our Our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Let's um sing Thy children live thy daily Halley on the prayer be said, give us this day on his breath. Thy brother than see thy sunscreen for thy divine thou What provision thou hast made as much as it writes me Every day my day we live, we great more heart thy gifts receive and make thy help And be your front stain with our daily breath Yeah, let's go for a body. Yeah. All right. Excellent.