And Miss uh Mrs. Um Ludlum. I want to thank Jim Dent for playing piano this morning. Meet Jim and his wife Josette after the church. Treat 'em well. We really appreciate them. So let's turn to John chapter 15. John chapter 15, we're making our way through the Gospel of John. And we come to chapter 15, verses 1 to 11. I have one of these Bibles where the words of Jesus are in red. And I have progressive lenses. It's like, oh my goodness. But alright, here we go. I'll try to read it. So Jesus said, I am the true vine And my Father is the vine dresser. Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit, he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, ye can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers, and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. Well, if you boil down this passage, you squeeze it, you pack it together, it's basically answering a real simple question. How can I, as a Christian, live a spiritually fruitful life And the answer is said in several ways. I'll just read the end of verse five. Jesus said, Whoever abides in me and I in him He it is that bears much fruit. And so the picture here, the image is Jesus is the vine. And if you're a Christian, you're one of the branches. You're connected to him. If you're a Christian, you have the life of Jesus Christ in you. That's what it's Jesus who has given you this spiritual life, and you cannot but bear fruit. So before we get into the passage, we should answer the question, what is this fruit of which Jesus speaks? And I believe, and not just me alone, but um every most commentators would say, Jesus, when he speaks about this fruit He's talking primarily not so much about converts as about character, because that's how fruit typically is referred to. re uh re references in the scripture. Galatians five twenty-two. Paul spoke spoke about the fruit of the Spirit And then he gives a list of character traits. What's the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And then in our passage, there are other character traits that Jesus said, here's what's going to happen when you abide in me You're going to love me, or you're he's that's Jesus speaking. He says, you're gonna love me, and you're gonna keep my commandments. You see that in verse 10. If you keep my commandments, you abide in my love. If you abide in Jesus Christ, you're going to have an effective prayer life. You see that in verse 7 If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. You're going to become more loving toward other people. Look at verse 9 As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love and They're going to have joy. How about that? Verse 11. These things I've spoken to you that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. So that's interesting. I think that's interesting for our young people to note. Hey, you want to have a happy life? You want to have a joyful life? Then walk with Jesus Christ. And I think, you know, we would also say there maybe Jesus, when he speaks about this fruit, he is referencing the influence we will have on other people. We there he seems to be saying in verse sixteen that there will be the fruit of converts. Uh where is that? Verse sixteen. He said, You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. So he's talking about the mission he's given his people. What's our mission? To go forth and bear fruit. And so, yeah, it seems to be saying that there will be people who come to Christ through our influence. So back to our question, how then do I become a fruitful Christian? question. How do I become who's uh Elmer Flood is uh speaking through me this morning, right? Um how do I become a more fruitful Christian and This passage teaches that the foundation of Christian fruitfulness is union with Jesus Christ. So When you become a Christian, it's not just this legal transaction where God says, your sins are forgiven, your slate is clean, you're right with me, you're going to go to heaven. It's not just that, that's justification. But also when you become a Christian You come into a vital living relationship with Jesus Christ And so the theologians refer to this as union with Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit gives you a living relationship with Jesus. And we don't talk about it that much, but union with Christ is a theme that is found that that runs throughout the New Testament. And uh the New Testament uses various metaphors to describe the relationship between Jesus and his people. Ephesians 1, verses 22 and 23, likens our union with Christ to the relationship between a head and the body. Now, what could be closer than the relationship between your head and your body? Or then in Ephesians 5, 22 and 23 Paul likens it there to the relationship between a husband and a wife. They are one. And then in Paul's letters, some 200 times, he speaks about being in Christ or in Christ Jesus, in the Lord, in him. That's just a shorthand way of saying that the Christian is vitally connected to Jesus Christ. One of his most one of Paul's most striking statements is in Galatians 2. 20, where Paul said, I have been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And so this is all saying the same thing. When you're a Christian, you come into a living relationship by the Holy Spirit with Jesus Christ. So isn't it interesting that the Bible says the same thing in different ways. So it talks about this union with Christ, Jesus talks about the vine and the branches. Paul talks about the head and the body, about being in Kim. But I just want to say this to those who are newer Christians or new to the Bible or new to Christianity. The Bible is a pretty fat book, but there's a lot of redundancy built in. So it keeps saying Many of the same things in different ways. So we've been in the Gospel of John at least for a year now. It's like, hey, aren't there other parts of the Bible to learn? Of course there are. But it all comes together as you're saying it. So we'll mark through John's Gospel a few years ago. We were in Romans. It's interesting Some of the themes from Romans are repeated in John's Gospel, right? It talks about in John 6, election. John 3, God has to give us spiritual birth. God has to regenerate us. And then of course this idea about being united with Jesus Christ. So that's just a little side note But getting back getting back to our text, so Jesus uses this um this horticultural metaphor when he says, I am the vine and you are the branches. as a branch is completely dependent on the vine for its life, for its nourishment. So Jesus is saying You're completely dependent on me. Look at the end of verse five. He said, apart from me, you can do nothing Nothing of lasting value will come of your life if you are not connected to Jesus Christ. One of the great commentators, J. C. Ryle, said The whole secret of the branch, and if you're a Christian, you're the branch. The whole secret of the branch's life, strength, vigor, beauty, and fertility is the vine. And separate from the parent stem, the vine has no life of its own. And Jesus said in verse 1, not merely, I am the vine. He said, what does it say? Look down there. He said, I am the true vine. What's he doing? He's he's distinguishing s distinguishing himself from a false mind. Particularly, he is contrasting himself with the nation of Israel. In the Old Testament, the vine was the preeminent symbol of the nation of Israel. We read Isaiah 5. 7. Isaiah said, The vineyard of the Lord Almighty is the house of Israel. Or this afternoon, go home and read Psalm 80, Psalm 80 verse 8. The psalmist said to God. You brought your vine out of Egypt. Right? God brought Israel out of Egypt. And so what the shamrock is to Ireland Or what the maple leaf is to Canada, the vine was as an emblem of the people or the nation of Israel. And during the k during the Maccabean period, uh the coins minted had vines on them. The temple gates were decorated with gold Grapevines. And so Israel in the Old Testament was God's vine, but she failed to produce good fruit. And in fact, I think every time you read about Israel being God's fine in the Old Testament, there's there's no compliments attached to it. But rather the writers emphasize Israel's utter failure to produce good fruit. For example, Isaiah 5. 4, God said What more could have been done for my vineyard than I've done for it? When I look for good grapes, why did it yield only bad? And so that's the Old Testament background. Jesus shows up on the scene and in the seventh of his I am sayings in gossip in John's Gospel Jesus said, I am the true vine, so to say, I will bring forth good fruit, I will bring forth lasting fruit, I will bring forth lavish fruit. And so Jesus, as he does this in many ways, he says, I'm the fulfillment of all that Old Testament Israel was meant to be. He is the true Israel. And so the foundation of a Christian's fruitfulness is that we must be connected to Jesus Christ by faith. And that's how you become connected to the vine. I recognize I'm a sinner. I see Jesus Christ as God. He lived a perfect life where I failed. And I Rest on him as my Savior. I trust in Him. I put my faith in Him. And so it's an act of the mind, it's an act of the heart, it's an act of the will. I see who Jesus is. And I am owning him as my Savior and as the master of my life. And once you do that, you know, once you become a Christian Then to grow as a Christian, you must do what Jesus says here. You must abide in him. So how about that? I bet you didn't count, but I count it The word abide is found in this passage in these verses ten times. It's hard to miss the point of what the guy's saying, right? Look at verses four and five. Look at how many times the word occurs just in those two verses. Abide in me, and I in you, as a branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me I'm the vine, you are the branches, whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. So This guy's been talking about abide for like ten minutes now. What does that mean practically? What does that mean practically? It's sort of a spiritual sounding word. Well I'll tell you what it doesn't mean. I'll tell you what really spiritual people say. Okay. There is this real spiritual movement that arose in the 1800s, known as the Holiness Movement. And they equated abiding with Christ, they equated abiding in Christ with this passive, mystical, experiential Christianity. And they would say they wouldn't say this, but the idea was let go and let God just let go of things and let God work in you and through you And in some mysterious way, you're going to become a more fruitful Christian. And this was a huge movement. But Jesus isn't talking about mysticism, and by mysticism I mean letting go of your mind your intellect and just sort of emptying yourself and letting God sort of flow into you. That is not biblical Christianity One of the great commentators, D. A. Carson, said that we should not sentimentalize Jesus' meaning or fill his words with some insipid, pious jargon. So Jesus isn't advocating a Christianized form of mysticism. You see that in a lot of churches in our day, they wouldn't use that language But that's what they're talking. That's what's happening when they you know if you sing a song for ten minutes just repeating the same thing, it's almost like they're saying, if you get out of your mind a little bit, God will flow into you. The Bible doesn't teach that. To abide with Jesus Christ simply means that you continue to walk with Christ You remain in your relationship with Jesus Christ. You depend on Him. You cultivate your relationship with Him. And so far from uh being passive or letting go and letting God, the Bible teaches you need to apply yourself. You must exert yourself in your walk with Jesus Christ. And so let's get down to specifics now. This is point two Three activities Jesus mentions here that characterize those who abide in Him. First activity is in verse 7. If you're abiding in Jesus Christ, that means you fill your heart with God's Word. Look at verse 7. If you abide in me, then what's the say? And my words abide in you And so to stay in close fellowship with Jesus, you must stay in his word. You must stay in the Bible. Paul spoke similar. Remember I just said how the Bible repeats itself in different ways? Colossians 3. 16. There Paul said, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Let God's word fully inhabit your life. Let it sink into the different nooks and crannies and crevices in your heart. And let it transform you. So in other words, you know, try to read the scripture every day. Take a little time with it. Reflect on it. Maybe write down something, write down a Bible verse on the card. That's really helpful You write down a Bible verse and you carry it with you, and you just look at it when you have a have a minute or so. And what you're doing is you're putting God's word into your heart The psalmist in Psalm 11997 said, Oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. And so, yeah, marinate yourself in uh in the scripture. Set under the preaching of God's word. Don't let some social activity or sporting event take preeminence over being in the Lord's house, setting under the faithful teaching and preaching of God's Word And we live in a day where there's good preaching to be found outside of Sundays, right? Because there are all these uh very good preachers. Um We listen to uh something called RefNet, Reformation Network. It's just a little app on the phone. Really solid preaching, guys like R. C. Sprohl, Sinclair Ferguson. But you can, you know, you're in the car and you can just listen to this stuff. And if you're new to the Christian faith, if you're a new Christian, all of a sudden You'll see how this how the Christian faith comes together. It's a unit of thought and it applies to every aspect of our lives. And so what we want to do if we're going to abide in Christ, first thing we want to do is we want to fill ourselves with the scripture. And many young people have struggles with anxiety and depression and loneliness, and they look to the internet for guidance, for diagnostic tips. Oftentimes that's very dangerous. Oftentimes the information you get isn't just unhelpful. It's it's it's it's flat out harmful. But what Jesus says in his book, what he teaches here, will help you, will guide you, will change you. John 17, verse 17, Jesus said. Or you pray to God, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. So this is truth from God. And if you want to make progress in life you want to be in this book. And so three traits that should characterize, or three activities that should characterize those who abide in Christ. Number one You fill your heart with God's commands. Secondly, you endeavor by God's enabling to obey His commands. Right? And so when Jesus speaks about abiding in him, as I said, he's not talking about some mystical experience. Rather He equates abiding with him with keeping his commandments. Look at verse 10. It's right there. They should have read this back with that group I was talking about in the 1800s, right? It's right there in verse 10. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. There you have it. Then he adds, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. And so. Follow God's commands, right? We stumble, we fall, we ask forgiveness, we understand that. But you get up and you press on in the Christian life. And so when Jesus says, if you keep my commands, you'll abide in my love He's not talking about some some cold, uh, rigid obedience, but no, it's out of a relationship that we seek to obey God's commands. So the first activity that characterizes those who abide in Christ is that you fill your heart, your mind with God's word. Secondly, you endeavor to follow God's commands And then thirdly, you accept the father's pruning. That's C on the outline. You accept the father's pruning. And Jesus talks about that in the end of verse 2. Every branch that does not bear fruit he prunes that it may bear more fruit. What did it say? Did I read that right? Every branch that does bear fruit. Did I say that? Okay. Whatever I said. Um every branch that does bear fruit he prunes. That should be a little bit surprising. So this is saying, or Jesus is saying, that the branches that are doing well and are bearing fruit oftentimes get the knife. How's that? Well, it's precisely because you are making some spiritual progress that God prunes you back so that you'll be even more fruitful. And so this is important for us to note, right? So when that happens, when adversity comes Remind yourself God isn't punishing you. God doesn't get you. God doesn't get Christians because Jesus already died for your sin. God isn't punishing you, but rather he is perfecting you. Right? You see that in the book of Job in the Old Testament. It's because Job was so faithful that God tested him. And so God does prune his people. He does bring discipline into our lives. Here's another example, right? I said the Bible says the same thing here as it says there. Just use this different imagery. Hebrews 10 and Hebrews 12, verses 10 and 11, there the writer says, God disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit. The peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it And so, yeah, when difficult people inhabit your life or trials come at work or physical affliction comes The Christians should understand that this may well just be God shaping us, pruning us, and uh Bringing so that more fruit would come from our lives. So that's why the psalmist could say in some what Psalm 119, verse 71, It is good for me that I was afflicted. How so? That I might learn your statutes. And so there are three activities that we should accept, that we should engage in if we're going to become more fruitful in our walk with Jesus Christ. Now, this is a very encouraging passage, but there's also a very severe warning in it that we don't want to overlook, and that is in verse 2. The principle is, if you don't abide in Jesus Christ, you will be cast into the eternal fire. Verse 2. Every branch of mine that does not bear fruit, he takes away. That's precisely what God did to Israel. Israel was the vine. Israel was God's people. Israel was God received the covenant, received the promises. had the scriptures, had the sacrifices, the offerings, the priesthood, and so on. But Israel bore no fruit, and so in time God cut her off Isaiah 5, verse 5 again. Now, God says, Now I will tell you what I'll do with my vineyard. I'll remove its hedge, and it shall be devoured. I will break down its wall. And it shall be trampled down. And so God removed Israel. They're the people of God. Well Then there's Judas, right? He was in proximity to the vine. He was one of the twelve disciples. That wasn't enough. He wasn't united to Jesus Christ. This reminds us it's not enough just to be in proximity to Jesus Christ. It's not enough to have grown up in a Christian home. It's not enough to have uh to to be a part of the church. It's not enough to embrace uh a Christian ethic. But rather, you must be connected to Jesus. If you don't know Jesus Christ, if you're just a good churchy moral person, that's not enough. If you're not related to Jesus Christ by faith, Then Jesus Himself says, You're going to go to hell. Verse 6. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers And the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. So this is a very severe passage, as it turns out. And so you have to ask yourself. Am I connected to the vine? And do I see some measure of fruit? Do I see some change in my life after all these years? So there you have it. Jesus is divine. Have you been grafted into him? Now as I said, it's simple. You don't become grafted in the Him by becoming a better person or more religious person. You become connected to Him by resting on Jesus as the one who died for your sin, as the one who fulfilled all God's commands on your behalf. And he's the vine, we're the branches, and we want to abide in him, we should want to take advantage of every opportunity he gives us. to become more closely nurtured in him. And also we remember our Father in heaven is a gardener, but he's good, he's wise. And when he prunes us, it's for our good. So we want to learn to submit to adversity, to recognize that this is oftentimes God's pruning hand. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we're thankful that we don't have to muster up a spiritual life, but you give it to us. Help us to continue in our walk with you. Grow us in you. Help us to stay in the word. Help us to endeavor. uh to walk in your ways and always be quick to ask your forgiveness for the many times each day uh that we fail to do that. And I pray, Lord, for those who aren't yet Christians who are still figuring this out or seeking this stuff out, I pray that they would see. that life is found only in you, and that they would turn from going their own way, turn from their sin. And trust in you as their Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.