So let's turn to John chapter fifteen. We're making our way again, as I always say, through John's Gospel, paragraph by paragraph. And we're in John chapter 15, verse 12, Jesus is speaking to his disciples. And we're just looking at verses 12 to 17. So I hope you have your Bible open and you take all this in. Jesus says to his disciples, This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends. For all that I have heard from my father, I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you These things I command you, so that you will love one another. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we pray that you'll enable us to hear All the good things that you tell us in this text before us, I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen So you remember this is the night before Jesus was crucified. Chapters 14 to 16, he's giving his disciples some final instructions And in this particular paragraph, he tells them, these disciples, that if they're going to thrive And if the church that they will establish is to thrive, there are several things that they must know and that they must do. First thing they must do is maintain their relationship to Him. That was chapter 15, verses 1 to 11, where Jesus said, I'm the vine, you're the branches. Apart from me you can do nothing. And so if God's people are going to thrive, we certainly have to maintain our relationship with Jesus Christ. And then you get to verses 18 to the end of the chapter, which we'll look at in two weeks. They must understand uh that the world in which they serve uh is not going to be very receptive. It's in fact going to be in many ways hostile uh toward them And now we're in the middle of that section, verses uh 12 to 17, where he said to them, uh you must love one another and I want you to be confident of my favor towards you as you go out into this world. I want you to be confident of my favor uh towards you. Now he's speaking to the eleven disciples, right? Judas has uh skipped out. So it's the eleven remaining disciples, but what he says also applies to Christians down through the ages. And so our question that I believe this text answers is, what must we do as God's people? to thrive and to flourish for the glory of God. And the first thing we see in this passage, and this is familiar territory, right? You hear this all the time But it's right here. Jesus says you must love one another. And I'll pull out a couple verses in a minute where he says that. But it is very important. I remember years ago So a fellow came to our church. He was looking for a church. He was a brand new Christian. He came to our church. He came to our church by accident because he was given the he got the name mixed up. But actually he ended up joining and he was in the church for many years. And then his sister Katie came and she became a Christian And then Dan became a Christian and his parents, John and Brenda Kennel. So basically, our church wouldn't be here if uh this church and this fellow didn't come to our church by accident. But that has nothing to do with what I'm going to say. I just I get distracted. Um But he told me about his church search, and he said, yeah, and this guy's a brand new Christian. He said, um I went to one church downtown, but as soon as I walked in, I can sense a tension in the air. And I was acquainted with that church and what was going on, and I said, you know what? Your hunch was right. That church is in a in the thrall of a huge conflict. But that's true. When there is conflict amongst uh Christians, particularly in a church or even in a Christian organization, uh you can smell it And uh and it it's not a pleasant smell. And that's why uh you look in it you look at scripture It's so important in our homes and in our church that we love one another because for many reasons, of course, but one is that is what will commend the Christian faith to unbelievers. They'll see something different about these people, right? Chapter 13, verse 35. Jesus said to his disciples, By this all people will know that you're my disciples. If you have love for one another. And so the credibility of our message, the credibility of Scripture at least in some respects, uh hinges on the quality of our relationships. And he says, Jesus says in verse 12, this is my commandment That you love one another as I have loved you. How did Jesus love us? Well, the many things we can say, I'll just say two things. Number one He loved us, though we didn't deserve it, right? There's nothing that was attractive About us. We were rebels against God. Romans 5 verse 6. It doesn't say we were just good old Bob and good old Julie. No Romans 5. 6 says, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There was no virtue that we had that made us appealing that He should give His life for us. Uh Romans 510 says, we were enemies of God. We weren't some open-minded seekers, but rather Outside of Jesus Christ, the stance of our hearts toward a holy God is one of enmity. It's one of rebellion. We're shaking our fists at God And yet Romans 5. 10 says, while we were still enemies, Christ died for us. And so You think about how did Jesus Christ love us, how did he love me, while I was God's enemy, if that's the case Then when I turn around and I look at some other Christian or somebody in my family who doesn't give me the time of day That should temper my disposition toward them. Jesus Christ loved me, so I should seek to love them. How did Jesus loved us? He loved us though we didn't deserve it. He loved us also sacrificially. Look at verse 13. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends. So it was a sacrificial love, 1 John 3. 16. John speaks similarly there. By this we know love. How? That he laid down his life for us. And here's the upshot, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers, not because they're so lovable, but because Jesus laid down his life. for us. Okay, so that's a familiar command. And so what we what I want to do now is just take two lines of application, okay Try to make you a little bit uncomfortable. I get great pleasure out of that. Think about the first line of application, our relationships in the church. I would say This is a really loving congregation. It's a gracious congregation. I say to people uh outside the church. Though most of the people in the church are really reasonable. And it's a great church to pastor. I would not have been around so long because pastors, some churches are very difficult. It's a reasonable congregation. And it's loving But I read Paul's words in 1 Thessalonians 4, verses 9 and 10. It's interesting how Paul speaks to these people. He says, You're doing a great job, loving one another. But then he adds. But we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more. So that's that's we can always do it more, right? So that's what we're praying. That's what we want to do. We want to hear what Jesus says in this passage and we want to apply it right here and now. How good are you at loving other people in this congregation? Not just those who you you resonate to, but people who maybe you don't have a lot in common with or people who have gotten under your skin in the past, uh, how do you do with them? How do you do with loving other people in general? Do you greet people? Do you try to meet people? Do you are you concerned I want to make other people feel welcome. I want to make other people feel cared for. I don't want to just talk about me, but I want to talk about you. I want to hear what's going on and what I can pray for. These are just basic rudimentary uh aspects of what it means to have love within the congregation. Do you nurse resentments? Do you walk around with a chip on your shoulder? I remember when I passed her down south, it was great in many ways, but There is this thing about the South and sometimes you see in the North people say, I'm not talking to him. There were ladies in the church. I'm not talking to him. What did I do? I did something insensitive, of course. But um so they were gonna talk to me. They were gonna show me. Uh that's not loving Jesus said, we're to be different, we're to love others as he loved us. If you love those who love you, this is Luke 6. 32. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? In other words, anybody can do that, but Christians are supposed to be different. Then he goes on. For even sinners love those who love them. And so yeah. Just think about how can I be a little bit more gracious? How who can I just reach out to who needs to be cared for who needs a word of encouragement and then another second line of application is our relationships in the home So if you're married, you know, you have an argument with your spouse. Do you ever admit you're wrong? I was wrong. Will you forgive me? Do you ever do that? I mean there are some people they'll never do that. But it's easy. Well it's not easy, but once you get it out, it's like well that wasn't so hard. Do you ever ask for forgiveness? Can you receive correction without becoming defensive? Good one for parents. Do I ever ask my children for forgiveness? Teenagers. Are you unconcerned that your sullen, grumpy attitude throws a wet blanket over the entire family? Like everybody notices it, and you're just spoiling everything with your attitude. That is not loving. So Jesus commands us to love as he loved us. And you read through 1 Corinthians 13, what does he say? Love is patient. What if I were more patient with other shortcomings? What if you were more patient with my shortcomings? Um First Corinthians thirteen five. Love does not insist on its own way. It's not irritable or resentful. Think about that in the home. Another one for the home, First Peter four eight, Peter says, love covers over a multitude of sins What would happen if we didn't keep records of offenses in the church or in our families, in our marriages? We just let things go. That'd be nice, right? Of course there's some offenses that we just have to deal with and the Bible says it should be dealt with in Matthew eighteen. But there's others, you know, we're all we're all in process and we're not going to get everything straight right away. And so we're we want to be patient with each other. So what must we do to thrive? The first thing we see here is that we must love one another. And that's not like, oh, you don't s you don't say, oh okay, that's a good sermon. I'm gonna start loving everybody. But it's something we work at, right? We stumble and we get frustrated and we grumble. But that's something we want to pray. Lord, change my heart. Here's the second thing. And so there are many other uh statements Jesus makes in this passage, and so when you prepare a sermon What you do is you try to figure out what's the overarching theme, and the best I could do is that the things I'm going to say here are assurances of God's favor toward us And the first assurance of God's favor toward us is that Jesus, the holy sovereign of the universe. Deigns to call us his friends. That's a great assurance. The God of the universe regards you, if you're a Christian, as his friend. You see that in verses 14. fifteen you might want to look down there. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends. For all that I have heard from my father, I have made known to you. And so how about that? Now we are the Jesus' servants, and it's an honor to be a doorkeeper in the house of God, it says in the Psalm. So that's great. But we have an even greater privilege in that Jesus calls us his friends. And then in the end of verse 15, he says to the eleven, All that I have heard from my Father I have made known to you. And so Jesus confided in these disciples the deepest things that his father had communicated to him. Masters don't confide in their servants. They confide in their friends. And Jesus told them everything the Father told him. And then after Jesus rose from the grave, and we read about this earlier in John, he gave the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit brought to their mind and gave them understanding those things that Jesus taught them during their earthly ministry. That's chapter 14, verse 26. Let's just take a little side road here. 1426, Jesus said, The helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. And when we were on that passage, I said, Hey, here's why we know the Bible's reliable. Because After Jesus rose from the grave, ascended to heaven, and gave the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit opened the minds of the disciples, inspired them. so that they knew, understood what Jesus taught and the meaning of what he did and what they recorded uh was the very words that God wanted them to record on the pages of the New Testament. And so the Holy Spirit informed the disciples clearly of God's purposes, much more clearly than he gave even to the prophets in the Old Testament. And um if you want to look up a verse, I'm getting a little bit off track, don't lose your spot. Okay, First Peter. Uh 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 10 to 12. This verse or this section explains that Christians, not only the disciples, but Christians are in a better position as far as understanding the purposes of God. We're in a better position than the prophets in the Old Testament. 1 Peter 1 verse 10. Peter writes to Christians Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be ours searched and inquired carefully. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you in whom, excuse me, but you in the things That have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you from heaven by the Holy Spirit, things into which angels long to look. Where am I going with this? Well, Jesus called his eleven disciples friends. He said, I have confided everything that the Father told me in you. Jesus calls the ordinary Christian his friend. He has confided in us through the words of Scripture. And so this is why uh J. I. Packer, great Christian theologian, he described the gospel simply as God makes friends, right? We were God's enemies, we were alienated from God. But God made friends in that He sent Jesus Christ to live a perfect life where we failed and then to die on the cross to take the penalty for our sin. So the enmity, the hostility was removed. And now we can look at God, or God looks at us as his friend. And so What are we what um what am I talking about? Um I forgot. I said so much no no. Here's what I'm talking about. We're talking about these statements of God's favor toward the Christian. God counts you as his friend. Here's a second statement of God's favor. Jesus chose us for salvation. Look at verse 16. You did not choose me, but I chose you. Okay? And he's talking immediately to the twelve disciples. He chose them to become his followers, to be his disciples, he also chose them though for uh salvation, right? This talks about election. Uh why did God choose you? It was because you had some virtue, because you had some spiritual inclination uh because uh you had this native ability uh to choose god and so he chose you first. No, no God chose us to spite ourselves. It says in Romans 3. 12. We've turned aside. All have turned aside. So we were rebels. We were going our own way. Um first or sorry, Ephesians 2 verse 1 and 2 says, You were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked And so you didn't choose God there either, right? God chose you. Dead people don't choose. They just sort of lay there. And that's what we were. So no, God in his grace chose us. He took the initiative, Ephesians 1 4. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world. And then verse 13 So Jesus said he lays down his life not for all people indiscriminately, but for whom? For his people, uh for his friends And so, well, then this raises the conundrum. Does that mean then that there are people who would like to become Christians but they can't because God didn't choose them? And we say, no, we're not, we can't, we can't draw the logic that far because Jesus extends a genuine invitation, a genuine offer of salvation to whoever would come to him. You see this throughout the scripture. Just one verse, Matthew 11, 28. Jesus says sincerely, it's not a hollow promise. He says, Come to me, all who are weary and burdened. And I will give you rest. So that's a genuine offer of salvation. If you would come to Jesus Christ, then he will receive you. And so we're talking about Jesus' disposition toward the Christian. About we're talking about his favor toward us. He says, I count you as my friend. He says, look, I chose you for salvation. Yeah, despite yourself, I chose you. That's st that's the affirmation. of God's goodwill toward us. Third thing we see in our passage about God's favor, He promises that our service in His name will bear lasting Fruit. So verse 16 again. You did not chose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. in that your fruit should abide. Okay? Now last week if you remember I said and because Jesus talked about fruit in the first eleven verses, And I said, the fruit that Jesus talks about when he says, Abide in me, and I'll abide in you, and you'll bear much fruit. The fruit basically, or mainly, is Christian character, right? We're changed by God's Word and Spirit. God changes us. He transforms us slowly, but he transforms us. So it's primarily character, but it also includes converts. You see that in verse 16, right, when he says I appointed you that you should go. So this idea of going out on a mission, that you should go and bear fruit. And again, of course, Jesus is speaking to the eleven disciples, but it also applies to us. We're commanded in Matthew 28, for example, go and make uh disciples and um he he uh he he assures us that our the fruit that uh we bear will last of course it won't always but there will be uh lasting fruit. And um so what we want to do as a church is we want to have a ministry that bears lasting fruit. Our goal isn't just to isn't just to draw a crowd We don't do we're not going to do whatever we need to do to draw a crowd. We're not going to do cheesy things. We're not going to do worldly things. But we're going to try to do things that are scriptural because we know if we do God's work in God's way. We will see lasting fruit for our labors. And that basically means We use the ordinary instruments that God has given us for growing Christians, for bringing people into the kingdom and for helping people to grow They're not flashy, they're not glamorous, but it's basically what we're doing, right? We're teach we teach the Bible. We have community. We pray. That's certainly not flashy. We have a prayer meeting We try to interact with each other in a way that's kind and encouraging, but also at times we want to exhort each other and challenge each other. We have the centrality of the proclamation of God's Word and the sacraments. And this is what we believe, not just what we believe, we're persuaded. Scripture is very clear. This is how you conduct a ministry that will bear lasting fruit. And so Jesus gives this assurance, yeah. If you continue, I will bring fruit for your labors. He says that to the ordinary Christian with all her hang-ups and weaknesses. He says, yeah. You continue on and you will bear fruit. Here's the fourth and final thing. Jesus promises the Christian that he'll answer our prayers. Okay? The end of verse 16. He said to them, Whatever you ask the Father in my name, sorry, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. To pray in Jesus' name, that's just not some magical formula. It just means that we pray in agreement with all that name stands for, the character of Christ and his purposes. And so the Bible teaches, this is interesting. The Bible teaches, on the one hand, that we should pray so that we'll bear good fruit. But that's not what this test does that's not what verse uh sixteen's teaching. Verse sixteen flips it over. And it says, we should want to bear good fruit so that our prayers will be more effective. Look at that verse 16 if you look real close. I'll read the whole verse. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should ab and that your fruit should abide. Why? So that Whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. Okay. So if I'm seeking to walk with Jesus Christ, to grow in him, to serve him, faithfully, not flawlessly, then Jesus says, if you're doing that, or do that, so that Whatever you ask the Father by name, he may give it to you. James five sixteen says something along the same lines, and I think it helps us understand. There James said the prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Now we know we're all sinners, but I was just saying the Bible speaks about righteous people in a relative sense. And James is saying, you know what? If you're endeavoring to walk in an upright way, then that your prayers are going to have some power. And the more we abide in Jesus Christ, the more effective our prayers will be. Go back to chapter 15, verse 7. If you don't believe me, here's one more verse. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. And so the lesson here. If you want to pray more effectively, and I know it's not like a quid pro quo, it's not if you do this, you'll get that, but there is this general principle in the Bible uh that We want to continue in our walk with Jesus Christ, and God will our prayers will be more effective. I'm I don't know what else to say, and I know there's mystery involved, but That's what this is saying. It's right there. And so, uh, in this passage, in addition uh to his exhortation, that we could always do better at loving one another, Jesus assures us that he's for us. Right? And so you come to church, and that's sort of good. We don't want church, maybe once in a while, but we don't want church uh the worship service to be you come to church So you can get beat up and realize what uh you know, I need to be doing better. You need to be doing this, you be need to be doing that. That's not right. I mean we're not I mean we don't want to pour warm milk over you every week, right? But there's this idea that our rest is in Jesus Christ. We want to be reminded of God's favor toward us. When we have the Lord's Supper, that's what we're doing. Hey, look at this. I'm a filthy sinner, but Jesus has taken my sin. He invites me to come and have fellowship with him around his table. That's the statement again. of his friendship. And so and that's what we're seeing here. Jesus is for us. He calls us, if you're a Christian, his friend. He chose you out of his grace for salvation. He promises you that your service to him and your prayers to him will be effective because he cares for you. He's benevolent. He's gracious. And so we can say, you know what, no matter what difficulties I'm in right now, at least I know the God of the universe is for me. He's favorable toward me. And if you're not a Christian, look at all the privileges that are yours if you would but come to Jesus Christ. Saying, yeah, I'm a sinner, I'm a rebel, I've been going my own way, but I see who Jesus is, I'm persuaded He's God, He took my sin, I'm gonna rest on Him, and I'm gonna make Him my King. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we're thankful for your kindness, your grace, your favor. And that you're always with us. You'll never forsake us. Help us, Lord, in our difficulties. Help us, Lord, to bear more fruit. Help us to be more loving, more attentive, more outward looking toward others. Help us to resolve relationships where there are difficulties. And help us to have confidence, Lord, that you're for us. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.