18 verse 21. Good to have some new faces amongst us. We're marching through Matthew's gospel. We come to one of the parables. Matthew 18, verse 21. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven. Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents And since he could not pay, his master ordered him sold, with his wife, children, and all that he had, and payment to be made So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that saved servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred deneri, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, They were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place When his master summoned him and said, excuse me, then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger His master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you If you do not forgive your brother from the heart. So this is a challenging passage to forgive your brother from the heart. And I want to read something. And it may strike a chord because some here have experienced a betrayal of this magnitude. Here's what one guy wrote He wrote, I remember the night, it was the worst night of my life. I finally figured it out She had been unfaithful. She had been lying, and it all came out. She had been with another man. I wanted to die. I wanted to throw up She was crying, she was afraid, she was sorry. It was all too much. And her words were frantic. She said, I'm so sorry. Please forgive me. Please forgive me. I understand you hate me. I don't blame you. But please, please forgive me. Now I thought about that. I mean that topic, what would I do? What would you do? I'm not sure what I would do You turn, well, next week will be in chapter 19, and you get to verse 9, and um Jesus says that adultery is ground for divorce. And so A Christian is free to divorce other spouse if they commit adultery. We'll talk about that next week. But the question I have is whether you remain married or whether you believe that trust has been so broken that it can never be restored. Either way, If that person came to you, if your spouse came to you, could you forgive such an offense? That's a challenge, and it's easy to say, oh yeah, sure I'll do it. You know, we're Sunday morning at church. And um, you know, and and some here have suffered grievous injuries and uh cruel injustices And it's one thing to talk about forgiveness, but it's another thing to think about, you know what, I was betrayed, I was deceived, I was belittled for years, I was abandoned, I was harmed in unspeakable ways And here Jesus Christ is calling us as Christians to forgive that person. How does that work out? How can Our bitterness and justified resentment be shifted to a disposition of grace. That's the challenge we have. And remember, last week we looked at verses like 15 to 20, a little bit more. But in that section, Jesus said, if your brother sins against you, You don't ignore it. You don't write the person off. What you need to do is confront the person. That's a difficult thing to do. Now he goes on and he tells us or excuse me, he commands us to do something that is even more difficult. You go to your brother, you confront him or her, and if they confess it, acknowledge it, ask forgiveness, Jesus says in verse 15, you've won your brother over. Then he says in his parable, you need to forgive that person. You need to let it go. And so that's what we want to look at this morning. That's what we want to think about. We want to look at this parable as a mechanism that we can reflect on, that we pray God will use to bring about a shift in our disposition toward anyone who has grievously sinned against us. And this is one of those parables. You look at it, I want you to be equipped with it. But then you want to take it home, you want to read through it, you want to reflect on the truths that are taught in it. And there are three components to this parable, or three things that are useful to reflect on as you seek by the work of God's Spirit to have your disposition. towards someone who has wronged you, to change your disposition from one of bitterness to one of grace. And the first thing this parable underlines is our standing before God and the great debt that we owed to Him. And so in the parable it says in verse 24, this servant owed his master, who was the king, he owed his master 10,000 talents. Now if you read through the commentaries, you'll read a half page here or half page there, it'll explain how much 10,000 comment talents are. I could take 10 minutes and do that, but I think it'd be sort of tedious. So what I can say is it's just an astronomical amount of money. It's more, you know, and this is a parable, right? Jesus is saying, this is more than you could imagine ever repaying in your lifetime. And so the servant he was unable to pay the debt, says in the end of verse 25, because of that his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children, and all that he had in payment to be made. So this is a parable and it's picturing the debt that is is uh is on our account And that we owe to God. Right? We have all broken God's commandments in spades. Jesus said, love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul and mind and strength. Who's doing that? None of us? Jesus said, love your neighbor as yourself. Do we love others to the extent that we love ourselves? Paul said, look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others. How often do we do that? How many times do we violate that command? every single day. We could re we could think about the Ten Commandments and not just the outward acts that they prohibit and also consequently enjoying the positive uh flip side But also the attitudes of our hearts that fall short. We read Romans 12, right? We're full of pride, we're full of envy, righteousness, hypocrisy, covetousness. Jealousy, gluttony, and so on. And here we are at worship. Do we worship God with sincere and willing hearts as we should. We say no, our worship is tainted, it's stained by our sin, right? Our songs are feeble. Our prayers are they don't They don't even cut through the ceiling of the of this room. And so we fall short. And it's interest excuse me. It's interesting we were talking about this Friday morning with some men I was saying that oftentimes people think that's not me. I'm a good person And one of the fellows in our group, he said he just became a Christian a few years ago. He said, Yeah, before I was a Christian, I was saying the same thing. I'm a good person. But now he sees otherwise because he measures himself not against other people, but he measures himself against the holiness of God. But um, yeah, there's a lot of good people, and uh many unbelievers are really good people, and that's because we're all made in God's image, we reflect something of his holiness But still, even our best deeds do not issue forth from a pure heart, right? There's always some admixture of sin and a self-serving uh bent to what we're doing. And so what this uh what this parable does for us is it Teaches us to pause and to reflect on the holiness of God and how far short we fall. And even if there was somebody who was truly extraordinarily uh upright, they're still a sinner, right? And we there's in the uh evangelism, there's a uh evangelism program, evangelism explosion. And they say, you know what? If you're a saint, if you only sinned ten times a day, you would be the most remarkable person who's ever walked on the earth. But if you sinned only 10 times a day, by the time you're 70, you'll still have 250,000 sins to your account You're saying you're a good person when you stand before God and he says, Why should I let you into heaven? You're going to say, Well, I've only sinned 250,000 times. And God then is going to point you to James 1. 18. Now, James 2. 10 Which says, whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of breaking all of it. And so our sin, you know, if you sinned only once, it's not taking like taking a table off a pile of stones But rather it's like throwing a rock through a plate glass window. It hits that window at only one point, but the entire window is shattered. If we only sinned once. And so what do we do? And some people might say, well, I'll work off my debt. I'll do penance. The Bible doesn't teach penance, but that's what people think they can do. They can work off their debt, they can do better, and they can win God's favor. There's a hymn that we sing by Horatio Bonar And here's what he said about trying to work off your sin by engaging in religious exercises. He said, Not what my hands have done can save my guilty soul, not what my twirling flesh has borne can make my spirit whole. Not what I feel or do can give me peace with God. Not all my prayers and sighs and tears can bear my awful load. And so Ezekiel said, the soul who sins will die. And so we have this great debt to our account. What do we do? We can do nothing. We can only like that servant look to God for mercy. And that's what the servant did, right? And so we're talking about how do we shift our attitude toward those who've wronged us from an attitude of bitterness To an attitude of mercy, an attitude of charity, an attitude of grace. And so the servant begged for mercy Look at verse 26, the life depended on it. If you if your life depended on it, you would do anything. You would get down on your face. Verse 26, the servant fell on his knees imploring him, have patience with me, and I'll pay you everything. And the master, out of his own generosity, it says in verse 17, or 27 And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. That's what God has done, right? That's what we say after the confession. As far as the East is from the West, so far does God remove our sin from us. And so that's what happened to this on mer this uh this this debtor. And now here's the hinge in the parable. We see then, we're taught our corresponding responsibility then To show mercy to other people. And so you go down to verse 28. The man's free. He's a free man. He walks away from his master. And in verse 28, But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred deneri. So I read that a deneri is about one day's wage for a day laborer. So this guy owed him a hundred deneri. Nothing to sneeze at, but You do the math. I didn't do the math. I read somebody who did the math. What this guy owed, uh, what this servant owed this man was one six hundredth of what the first servant owed the king. And yet he wasn't merciful. Verses uh verse where was I verse twenty-eight. The man owed him a hundred to Nari, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, and we have an echo in verse 29 of the very words that this first servant used when he pleaded with the king. Have patience with me, and I will repay you. And so what we see is this is this huge incongruity, right? between the mercy uh that the first servant received and his ruthlessness uh toward his fellow servant. So I'm just going to read this again. I want I want to make sure everybody has the storyline I'm going to round it out verses 30 to 35, and then we'll make a couple comments. Verse 30 again. He refused. So the servant asked for mercy. He refused. and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, They were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you And in anger, his his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. And then verse 35, here's the clinch. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. So Jesus is saying, if you don't forgive others, God's not going to forgive you. And how does that work? Don't we say we're saved by God's grace and by not by what we do? Yeah, we're saved by God's grace and not by what we do But if we know God's grace, that's going to affect our disposition toward others, right? If we understand the great debt that we've been forgiven, if we understand how merciful uh God is Then that's going to affect our disposition toward other people. Now back in the nineteen nineties when I passed from North Carolina There's a little girl in the church. She was hit by a car. She was standing out at the school bus stop. She was hit by a car. She went to the hospital. She spent some time in the hospital, but None of her injuries were critical and she recovered. Years later, the lady who was driving that car joined the church. And the parents of this girl would never speak to this lady. They had nothing to do with her. But every single Sunday, as we do, As a congregation, we would recite the Lord's Prayer. And what do we pray in the Lord's Prayer? Forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven others. Charles Spurgeon said, unless you have forgiven others, you read your own death warrant when you pray the Lord's Prayer. If you're a Christian and you pray, Lord, forgive me my debts as I forgive others, if you're not doing that Do you understand it? We would say no. We're we're we're kindergartners at Harvard, right? We don't understand the the the the riches of God's grace. But this is what we want to do. We want to come to a greater understanding of the fact that God has been merciful to us. We're very self-righteous. We have to understand we're completely lost. Again, Matthew 6. 15, Jesus said, if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Okay? Now we we understand it's a struggle to forgive certain individuals for the things they've done. So we're not saying it's not a struggle, but this is clearly a rebuking of Christian who flat out refuses to forgive someone. When that person has come to them and has sought forgiveness. We understand there are grievous things that we do to one another, but this is saying the Christian life i it's a challenge in this area. And if we're going to learn to forgive others, we're going to have to learn We're going to have to get a better understanding of the great debt which God had forgiven us. And so in a in the beginning I read this letter from this man, his wife committed adultery. He goes on to express how understanding, how learning what God did for him Enable him to begin to forgive his wife. So here's what he writes. So he he's hearing from his wife about her betrayal. And he writes, and then it came to me. A revelation of truth gripped my heart. Trembling I said I've sinned more against God in one day than you've sinned against me. I forgive you as God in Christ has forgiven me. How could I do otherwise? But listen, he's honest here. He writes, it has not been easy. I've struggled a lot with the whole thing. Sometimes is more difficult than other times, but when my heart grows angry or I hurt all over again I preach Ephesians 4. 32 to myself. Ephesians 4. 32 says, Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. As God in Christ forgave you. So that's what I want you to think about. Is there someone whom you need to forgive? Let's flesh this out a little bit. There's some questions that come up. And so I'm gonna I want to ask four questions now, just some nuts and bolts questions about forgiveness. Here's the first one. What is the difference between apologizing and asking for forgiveness? This is just a practical thing for when we offend other people. Really helpful in marriage, really helpful with your kids, really helpful with your parents. I want to teach the kids something. When your parents say, what'd you learn in church today? You can say this. Never apologize. Okay? My pastor taught me never apologize. Okay? You should never apologize. Um why is that? Because the Bible says you shouldn't. Now you could say I'm sorry, like I forgot to bring your book back. I'm sorry. But what the Bible teaches for significant for an offense is not to say, I'm sorry, but to say, will you forgive me? So here's the difference, okay? When I say will you forgive me, I'm saying, will you no longer hold that offense against me? I'm asking you to do something. When I, you know, think about, you know, I'm standing here, I Say something rude and insensitive, uh just another day at our house. All right. And um I'm st I say something rude to my wife and then I she points it out. I'm standing here with this ball And I say, I'm sorry. Well that puts her in an awkward position. What do you do when somebody says I'm sorry? That's okay? Well, it's not okay. Uh I'm not she doesn't know what to do. But if I if I say, Will you forgive me, I'm throwing the ball to her And now the burden of response is on her shoulders, right? And she can either say, I forgive you, or she can say, no, I don't forgive you But then if she says, I don't forgive you, she's still holding the ball, and she has to answer to God, right, for her lack of grace toward me. And so uh we want to say, not for every little thing, I understand, but when there's an offense, right, you need to go to someone. Will you forgive me? And you're putting the ball on the recourt. And there are people who do not forgive, right? They will not forgive. Even though, you know, what do you do? You know, what do you want me to do? Hang myself? What what can I do here? Um I'm asking you to forgive me. I'm saying I was wrong. I'm saying I've sinned against you To bring this to another Christian, then they need to forgive. If they won't forgive, then they go back to Matthew 18, 15 to 18, we have to deal with it there. So that's that's one nut and bolt uh issue. Here's another one. So that's about we talked about asking for forgiveness, but let's talk about granting forgiveness. You're the one who was hurt. You're the one who was sinned against. What does it mean to grant forgiveness? Well, we're not saying that forgiveness is you're coming to the point where you're no longer sore or bad at that person for what they did. So I'm saying forgiveness is not firstly a feeling. We hope feelings follow, right? But forgiveness is not first a feeling. And sometimes with with Becky and me, I'm asking for permission for this, so I might be asking forgiveness later. But when we do so when we have arguments You know, one'll uh one will say, Will you forgive me? And the other says, no, I'm still mad. Well, you know, and that happened a couple weeks ago, and I I had to stew on it But forgiveness is not a feeling. It's a promise. Because when God forgives us, he makes a promise. Here's a verse: Jeremiah 31, 34. God says, I will remember their sins no more. Now God knows all things, right? He's not saying that he's not mindful of it. But he's saying, uh he's saying I'm not going to hold it against you. I'm not going to keep a record of it. And that's what we're saying when we make when we say I forgive you. I promise I'm not going to bring this up again. Yeah, but what about the day after Thanksgiving when you have a big argument uh with your spouse or your kid about something that happened? Well, if I'm really mad, I still can't bring it up. I can't say, well remember what you did last uh September. No, because I've forgiven you, I've said I I can I will no I'm no longer remembering that. I'm no longer going to hold that against you You know, I'm going to give up, you know, they say forgiveness is me saying, I give up my right to hurt you for hurting me So that's what forgiveness is. That's a tremendous thing. How can anybody forgive? Well, we say, well, only because we know that God's forgiven us, right? We give people what they don't deserve. when we forgive them because God has given us what we don't deserve. Here's another question. Peter asks this question. In verse 21, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times. And uh that was being magnanimous. Um we'd say that was magnanimous, right? And uh the rabbis would say that was magnanimous because they said you only had to forgive somebody for a repeated offense three times. But Jesus in verse 22 he says, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. And that's just a way of saying, you know what, there should be no cap on our forgiveness. If someone asks for our forgiveness. And that's something else for us to think about. Because here's what we tend to do, and maybe there's somebody here who doesn't do it, but I'd be surprised. Most of us When somebody does us wrong, we'll forgive them a couple times. But there comes a point where you say, I'm done. You know, you just write that person off. You have a little list and you just put a little check mark by their name. And you're you might be polite, but you're not really you don't really care for that person anymore. You don't really show a genuine interest in that individual. And you're not going to really, you're going to have some kind of outward kindness, but you're not going to really extend yourself to show kindness to that person. But Jesus is saying that's not forgiveness. So this is a remarkable thing. Jesus said, forgive him 77 times. Yeah. Are they really asking for forgiveness? If they are, then Jesus says, you must forgive them. You've been forgiven. You must Forgive them. So that's something to think about. You know, is there somebody you've just you've written them off? I don't trust them anymore. And to forgive somebody is not to say that you have to trust them, right? But as it say, I'm not going to hold that offense against that person. I'm not going to keep an account there about what they did. Here's one more and then we'll close. Should you forgive those who have not asked for forgiveness? And that's an interesting question. A lot of and we talked about this years ago. I remember people saying, I think you're wrong on this, but Many Christian writers say that you should still forgive those who refuse to admit their sin and seek forgiveness. I understand why people would say that. I don't see it in the Bible. And they'll say, well, what about when Jesus died on the cross? He said, Father, he prayed, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. But Jesus was not forgiving them. He was asking his Father in heaven to forgive them. And the Father did forgive thousands of them because on the day of Pentecost, many of them repented and they were saved, right? And so God made good on that promise. But as I look at Scripture, we see God only forgives those who confess their sin and repent. And I think to say I forgive so and so for what they did when they don't ask forgiveness is the chief in forgiveness. So what am I saying? Am I saying you have a right to hold a grudge? I'm not saying that either But what I would say is that we should have a disposition to forgive. And you see that Isaiah 55, verse 7, just to paraphrase it, it says, God's always ready for get to forgive. Uh, would man just repent? And so we should always be ready to forgive a person So that's something, you know, and there there are people here and you've been sinned against and it's not insignificant, and that person doesn't care, or that person's gone. Well, you pray, Lord, help me to put away my bitterness and my resentment toward that individual. And to have a have a a loving disposition to show that person grace. John Calvin said, I set aside any feeling of revenge. And do not cease to love him and even repay him with benefits instead of injuries That's a remarkable thing, right? We love those who wronged us, but they haven't come and asked for forgiveness But my disposition should be one of love and mercy and kindness. And that's a remarkable thing. that only someone who knows the forgiveness of God has a sufficient incentive to carry out. So there you have it. Real simple passage, but a certainly a a challenge Uh C. S. Lewis said everybody loves uh forgive uh everybody thinks forgiveness is a lovely idea until they have someone to forgive. And um yeah, it's nice to talk about, but this is something this is something uh we want to think about. Uh and if there's somebody who sought your forgiveness, We'd say, you know what? It's not easy to do. But this is what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I need to take the big gulp. I need to let that thing go, and I need I need to march on Because I want to honor the God who's forgiven me. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we pray that we would take this to heart. And we pray that we'd be quicker to forgive and to forget and to let offenses go. This is the fallen world we live in. Uh oftentimes uh we're unjustly dealt with, but we thank you, Lord, for the mercy that you've shown us. We thank you for your generosity to us. Help us to turn around toward others and see them as sinners, as lost, as blind. And is struggling also. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your songbook, please. We're going to sing its number 494 Some songs are songs of praise to songs of prayer. So let's let's sing it to God, number four ninety-four. Forgive our sins as we forgive. You taught us Lord to pray.