Now it's interesting that uh a lot of symbolic were there not a lot. I mean revelation makes every number in Revelation just about uh is symbolic. A lot of tens, a lot of threes, a lot of sevens, right? It was there were seven letters written to the seven churches, like chapters what, one, two, and three. Uh and then um the even the structure of Revelation is in the form of seven cycles of judgment. And so once you see that structure, uh you realize that a lot of this stuff is being repeated, but it's just a different nuance on it. There are seven angels, seven seals, seven trumpets, seven bowls of wrath, seven stars. And I bet you probably didn't know this, but at least you could learn something something this morning. It's probably not that useful, but at least you can say you learned something. There are seven Beatitudes in the book of Revelation. And if I I'll send you the text later on, but this morning we're going to look at the second of those Beatitudes, the second blessed saying. Chapter 14, verse 13, John writes, and I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. for their deeds will follow them. And so this is a passage about the death of Christians. And of course it's not a happy subject, and um even certainly contemplating death is uh fearful uh at times, even for the Christian, because Death means separation, right? Separation from your loved ones, separation from everything you know, everything you've done, all your hopes and all your aspirations. suddenly come to this hard uh stop. And if you read the Bible, it has nothing good to say about death. Right? Death came as a result of sin. It wasn't God's original intention. Whenever you're at a funeral and the pastor's says, well this is just part of life. This is this is God's plan. It's like, no, that wasn't God's original intention that we died. God's intention was that we live forever and that we be with our loved ones forever. But Romans 5 verse 12 says that death came as a consequence of Adam's sin. So the Bible says nothing there's nothing good about death. D. L. Moody said Jesus didn't like it. He said every time he went to a funeral, he ended up raising the person Well that that's how much that's how much he didn't like death. But for uh the Christian, the Bible adds an asterisk when it talks about death. It says, though death is cruel, the Christian need not fear death. And this verse goes so far as to say that for the Christian Death is a blessed state. Blessed are those, excuse me, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. Now, as I was saying to my son's food class, you know, when the writers of the Bible wrote something, they weren't just saying, well, let me say this and let me say that. They were addressing a particular uh situation. And as you you probably know from our earlier messages on Revelation The people whom this letter addresses were being persecuted uh viciously. They were losing, many were losing their ability to make a living because they were being ejected from their trade guilds because of their Christian convictions, some people in our church or may lose their job Right, because of their commitment to Christian liberty, Christian freedom. And this that's what's going on here And they were losing heart. Some were in fact were dying for uh their their testimony to Jesus Christ. And so in chapter 14, well really in the whole book, but just looking at chapter 14 God assures them in verses 6 to 11 that he's going to judge the unrepentant. And then in our verse, verse 13, he assures these Christians. Who faced the prospects of execution, uh, that their death, whenever they die, however they die Their death will be an occasion of rest and also of reward. And he he spoke these things to encourage them to press on in the faith and also to encourage us. Look at verse 12, the preceding verse John writes, here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Christ Jesus. So hold on to God's commands. Hold on by faith to Jesus Christ. Press on, okay? Because there will be for you A great reward. And this is pretty important stuff. You'll notice in the beginning of verse 13. John says he heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this Now whenever you see somebody in the Bible being told to write something down, that says, well, number one, it's a voice from heaven, right? That doesn't happen every day. But then he's told, write this down, right? Think about Moses going up on the mountain, and God told Moses to write down on the two tablets of stone. Yeah, so this is important. So we want to hear this. My goal this morning then is to reorient your view about death. Now I know you're not going to walk out of here and say, hey, you know what, everything's good now. But I'm saying this is the kind of thing You know, that we need to teach ourselves, remind ourselves of, especially when you see the the death of a loved one. There's this grief, but it also should be quality. John Wesley would say of the early method. And that's that'd be really good, right? Should you get older and I know when you're young, you're never gonna get old. That's what I thought Because time moves too slowly that you'll ever get old. And in fact I don't think I'm old, but then there'll be like some thirty year old who calls me sir, and then I look in the mirror and I go, Oh yeah. But um I'm a young person in a old body. But I look old. But it's all it's all just a ruse. Alright. Maybe not everybody agrees with me there. But anyway, so in this passage, three reasons Why, as Christians, we should not dread death. And I'm not saying, well, maybe that's saying it too strongly, but we should it should be qualified. We should see it as a blessed estate. Here's the first reason, okay? It's right there in the outline. The first reason that for the Christian, death is a blessed estate is because you're united to Jesus Christ, and nothing can break that bond. Uh he uses the phrase in the Lord, right? He speaks says, Blessed are those who die in the Lord And so the what does that mean that someone is in the Lord? And um some would say, well Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord refers to those who are martyrs who die because they're put to death because of their allegiance to Jesus. A lot of people think that's what it means. I don't think that's the case. I think the focus of this verse is not on the way that they died, but on the fact that when they died By whatever manner it was in the Lord. And to be in the Lord is just a way of saying, you're Christian. uh because a Christian is united to Jesus Christ. And so there's this category in theology or this theological term called union with Christ. And that's probably one of the broadest ways to describe what a Christian is. A Christian Is somebody who is united to Jesus Christ. That's the foundation of our relationship to God. That's the foundation of all the benefits or blessings that we receive from God as Christians, our justification, our sanctification. God giving us faith, God one day glorifying us. This is all a result of our union, our fellowship with Jesus Christ, Jesus in John 15. Remember, he commit compared the Christian's relationship to him as that of branches to a vine. He said, I'm the vine, you're the branches. And so there's this this intimate connection Connection, then he said, Abide in me and you'll bear much fruit. Or you read Paul's letters, he compares the relationship of the church to Christ as that of a body, the church, to Christ the head. That's an intimate union or the analogy of marriage. uh as reflecting the the relation of Christ uh to his church. Well the again the idea there is union with Jesus Christ, the Apostle Paul. In his letters, y you read his letters one hundred and forty three times He talks about being in Christ or in him. Well that's just not a throwaway phrase, but he's saying that You know, a Christian uh at the most essential level is someone who is in Jesus Christ and then in a parallel fashion He talks about Christ being in the believer. Galatians 2. 20. He says, I've been crucified with Christ, I no longer live. But then what's he say? But Christ lives in me. Galatians 2. 20, same thing, Romans 8. 10. Christ is in us. Now Colossians 1. 27 says that this union is a mystery. How is this? How can this be? We don't understand. It hasn't been fully disclosed to us. But what the Bible teaches is that it is an inseparable bond. And so, with all that said, my point is that for the Christian, death should not be dreaded. But rather should be seen as a blessed estate because we're united with Christ and nothing will ever separate us From Jesus Christ. Paul in Romans 8:38 and 39, he said, Nothing in creation, including death, he says, quote, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Jesus in John 5. 24. He said, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. And so if you're a Christian, you'll never die. Our bodies will die, but who we are, our person, our spirit, our soul, will always be united to Jesus Christ. John Calvin said. It is from this fear that Christ has released us by undergoing our curse and thus taking away what was fearful in death, right? He took the curse. On our behalf, so there's no curse for us. Then he goes on. Although we must still meet death, let us nevertheless be calm and serene in living and dying when we have Christ going before us. Alright. Let's take a little side road here. Then we'll get back on the highway. I want to ask the question. So I said you'll always be united to Jesus Christ. What is our condition between the time that you die And the time that Jesus returns, raises the dead, gives them new bodies, the resurrection body. So this is called the intermediate state And one of the great Dutch theologians, Burkeuer, said, what the Bible says about the intermediate state is nothing more than a whisper. But let's say a couple things Uh the Seventh day Adventists and Jehovah's Witnesses would say that when you die your soul sleeps, you're dormant, you're not conscious until Jesus Jesus returns. But the Bible teaches otherwise. It says, No, you're going to be conscious and you're going to be united to Jesus Christ. You will not have your body yet, but you will be in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Christ, right? A lot of people would say, Yeah. I said, where's that taught? Well, what did Jesus say to the thief on the cross, right? He s he said to the thief, not tomorrow, but he said, Today, you're going to be with me in paradise, or the Apostle Paul. uh Philippians 1 23, he's contemplating death. He says, you know what? I really need to stay here to serve, uh build up your church and to serve Serve you. But he says, My desire is to be with Christ, which is far better. So he knows that when he dies, he's going to immediately be in the presence of God. Or even in Revelation, look at go back to chapter six, verse nine and ten. It says that the souls of those who've been excuse me The souls of those who had been slain for the Word of God cried out to God for justice, right? The resurrection hasn't come yet, but they're still conscious, they're still in fellowship, and they're called Calling out to God for justice for things that have taken place on the earth. Here's a good summary by a theologian by the name of uh W. G. T. Shedd. He said the intermediate state for the saved is heaven without the body. The final state for the saved is heaven with the body. The intermediate state for the unsaved is hell without the body, but the final state for the unsaved person Will be held with the body. And so this condition, the intermediate state, Calvin said, is a condition of incompleteness. It's a condition of anticipation. It's a condition, he said, of provisional blessedness. So there's something better, even better to come. But still it's a great improvement. And will be holy. Hebrews 12. 23 describes Christians in death. It says, as the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And so when you die, you will now be a holy person and you will have unhindered fellowship with your Lord and Savior, Jesus. Jesus Christ. Little side road there, back on let's get back on the highway. What am I talking about? Uh three reasons why we should not fear death if we're Christians, uh, but rather we should view it as a blessed state. Number one Because you're united to Jesus Christ. You're in the Lord, and nothing in all creation will separate you from Him. Here's the second reason, right in our verse. You will rest. Blessed indeed says the Spirit. Then what does it say? That they may rest from their labors. Hey, that must have been encouraging because these the the original uh audience of this letter, like I said, they they they they were they were they were getting clobbered. But God says you're going to rest one day. And it doesn't mean that we're going to be inactive in heaven. It doesn't mean that we're not going to work. But it means that work will not be toilsome. Remember in the perfect world in the garden, there was work, right? Nothing wrong with work, but the fall made it toilsome, right? God said, now by the sweat of your brow, you're gonna labor. All that sweat All that toil is going to be taken away. In fact, when it the word labors elsewhere in the New Testament is translated trouble And so yeah, there's a lot of trouble in our in our labors, right, in this in this world. For some it's physically exhausting, for others it's uh mentally And then other kind of jobs or endeavors are just emotionally uh frustrating. And uh there's And there's deceit and there's opposition and there's uh misunderstanding in several in our church, you know. Feel this in their in their job that they feel a sense of soil. And um students, I mean I always say y I remember when I was in seminary, I said, we give you a lot of work because it can really be really hard being a pastor. Or your college professor may say that we're giving you a lot of work because when you get out in the world, it's going to be twice as hard. Don't believe it. That's typically not the case. Uh 'cause uh if you're I mean if you're a student you take that seriously, that is hard. You're never done. You never squeeze it all in your head, right? So being a student is wearying. Being a parent oftentimes is wearying, uh taxing, uh marriage certainly uh can be wearying uh serving in the church, right? You're part of a church and you're serving and there's there's there's frustration there's sometimes frustration in that. The impugned motives or people Don't appreciate it, or they don't see w why you did this or that, or you don't see a lot of fruit for all your effort. You know, here my my ministry motto, uh nothing works, so try everything. Because there's a lot of there's a lot of frustration. But in heaven There'll be work, but it won't be a grind, it won't be disappointing, it won't be toilsome, it'll be satisfying, it will never be exhausted or discouraged, and nobody's ever going to criticize you For something that you did, or they're never going to understand your motives. So that's good. You're gonna rest. Spurgeon summed it up like this. He said Here we sow in tears, there we shall reap in joy, here we labor, there we shall enjoy the fruits of toil. Where no blight or mildew can endanger the harvest. Truly blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. And so you will be blessed. From that the time you're in God's presence down through eternity, you'll be A blessed person. So why is this a blessed state? Because you're united to Christ, nothing will separate you from Him, and then you're going to find rest from toilsome labor, then the third reason that heaven is a blessed state is because you will be rewarded And so when we die, if you're a Christian, when you die, you leave something behind, right? The toilsome character of work. But also, you take something with you. It says in verse Verse thirteen, their deeds will follow them. And so that's saying what you do now is going to have an effect in eternity. Your deeds will follow you. And somebody's saying, probably, hey, wait a minute. You're saved by grace, not by your deeds. Well, of course, right? That's I the banners are my garage, but one of the banners, right? Uh it says grace alone, right? We're saved by God's unmerited favor alone. We don't contribute anything to our salvation. Ephesians two eight and nine Paul said, by grace you've been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It's a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one can boast. So there's nothing that we do to earn our salvation because eternal life is a gift from God. However God does give his people rewards on the basis of what we did to serve Jesus, on the basis of our faithfulness to Jesus. Christ. Some people say, wait a minute, that sounds a little sketchy, and I've had these conversations. But let me give you a couple examples. Matthew 6 verse 20, Jesus said, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. By what you do today, that's going to affect your future. Um in fact in that chapter he says when you pray, do in private. Don't look for a lot of applause, because then you're gonna be rewarded in heaven. And so yeah, there are rewards. We're saved by God's grace, we go to heaven as a free gift, but we will be rewarded in heaven. How about 1 Corinthians 3 4 fourteen Paul said if the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he'll receive a reward. I'm doing a lot of quotes today. But it's Reformation Sunday, so I quote these great guys. Matthew Henry. He said the good deeds of Christians do not go before them as their price of purchase. In other words, the payment to get to heaven, their decent before them as their price of purchase, but follow them as their evidence of having lived and died in the Lord. And as the rew the reward we receive though is not really going to be uh in um proportion sufferings. So there are rewards. And this is important for the Christian to hear. This is important for the Christian young. You don't get a lot of pats on the back in our culture if you're a Christian. Now why do it? Why follow Christ? Well, because it's true, right? And you'll save your soul and you'll honor God. But also there are rewards. Your deeds will follow you. And that's what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15:58. Be steadfast, unmovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. Then he says, because your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Nobody may recognize it. But it will not be in vain. The period said what we root what we weave in time, we will wear in eternity. And so what you do today, how you conduct yourself today, will affect who you are and the rewards that you receive in eternity. And so a this single verse is useful to help us to recalibrate how we look at death. And we're all gonna die, right? So we all need to be thinking on this. A lot of people I'll just wanna I don't even want to think about it. But Samuel Johnson, not the Sam Johnson in our church, but the uh you know the li English uh writer and essayist and guy who wrote the speaker dictionary. He said, what do you say now? He said, oh yeah, the masses of men just oc I I mess it up. We just occupy ourselves with things So that we can distract ourselves from the thought of dying. But no, we need to think on it so that as death approaches, you know, we'll be composed. And we'll remember, we'll have a looser grip on this world, and we'll have the sense of anticipation there's something better to come. And so for the unbeliever, you know, death, you have to Is is this hollow white skull uh with this bony beckoning finger. Uh but for the Christian, you know, what's this verse say? Death is a glorious thing. It's Entering your rest. It's receiving your reward and it's being in the presence of your king. So that's why Luther said, He who fears death Or is not going to die is not sufficiently Christian. Right? You got a lot of work there. Uh you It hasn't hasn't registered yet. Such people lack faith in the resurrection and love this life more than the life to come. But the Bible says, God's gone on public record, right? A voice from heaven. Write this down. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. So if you're in the Lord, you'll be blessed. If you believe in Jesus Christ, you'll be blessed. If you don't, then you're going to be damned. Look at verse eleven. And you will Never rest. Verse eleven. Says the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest day or night. And so two different roads, two different destinies. And God has set this before us to set up. say, I invite you, come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, I'll give you rest. Let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, for those who are not Christians, that they would see how divergent these roads are, and that they would receive Christ by faith. and repentance, and they would receive that restful, that gift of rest, and also the promise of reward and seeing yeah. Help us to keep our earthly trials in context. Help us, Lord, to become a people who do not fear death. uh but who will be prepared to die well. And we know that we need your spirit to press that uh into our hearts and to that we might be Oriented and also for those who are do grieve the loss of loved ones. And we pray that this would be a bomb for their souls. I pray this in Jesus' name. We're going to sing the perfect hymn now for this uh this verse. It's for all the saints Number three fifty-eight. Sing it out, it's a great hymn. No fellow kind of gospel radio function. And thirdly, and third end story time as well. All the same who from their labors ran for the world compared. Thy name would be must be more ever. Thou art their order than their mind, thou they have been a well. Alléluia Alléluia Oh may I soul to single, true, and bold by that day to no. So to pay a whole warrior comfy Sweet is the colour fairness. But through the breaks are yet for your. From earth life bounds, from Bolson's farthest coast, through gate of earl's dream in the competition. Sneaking to Bother the Son and Holy Ghost. Whoops. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. I think it's a good one.