All kind of things take place. People ask me, how do you know um how many are at church that m day? I say, well during the prayer when everybody's eyes are close eyes closed, I count. So we're usually in the book of Philippians this morning we're doing something different. We're going to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 10 to 17. I'll give the context in a little bit. Chapter three, verse ten Paul wrote, According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it, for no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become manifest. For the day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but as though at only as through fire Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. Now it's interesting if you're not real familiar with this passage, and I'll bet you a lot are not, but you think, oh, 1 Corinthians 3, what's it about? It's about uh rewards And the subject of rewards for the Christian are spoken of, but this passage is mainly about how to build a church. How to build a church? What am I talking about? Right? We're not talking about brick and mortar. What's the church refer to in the Bible? It refers to the congregation of believers. In fact, um It means the assembly, ecclesia, right? Ecclesiastical, those who are called out into an assembly. And so there's a denomination, right? The assembly of God That's a good name for a Christian denomination. So the church is the assembly of God's people, all true believers who were, are, who will be. That's the universal church. But the Bible also talks about local congregations. And so Good News Presbyterian Church meets at Tuscarora Elementary School. One day hopefully we'll have a building and it'll say Good News Presbyterian Church, but maybe it should say Good News Presbyterian Church meets here. And so when we talk about the church and when the Bible talks about it It's talking about God's people. And God is building his people. Look at verse 16. Verse 16. Paul writes to the church in Corinth, do you not know that you are God's temple and God's spirit dwells in you? And so the temple in the Old Testament was just an object lesson, right? That's where God dwelt amongst his people. But there is no temple in the New Testament. No physical temple, because the temple, the true temple has come. We're part of that temple. So it's interesting. I hope you'll go back this afternoon and read the whole chapter In the first part of the chapter, verses 5 to 8, Paul compares the church to a field. And he says, in this field, some plant the seed, some water the seed, but in the end of the day, it's God who brings the growth. Now look at verse 9. Where he concludes that discussion, the field, he says about him and this other pastor Apollos, he says, we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field. And then in the end of verse 9, he changes the metaphor. He switches from a field to describe a church to a building. Okay? And so you are God's building. And that's the metaphor we're focusing on this morning. And so, yeah, when you become a Christian, the Holy Spirit, God the Holy Spirit, dwells in you. individually, but also he dwells in God's people corporately. And so that's why in uh, for example, in Ephesians 2, verse 21 and 22 Paul writes about this temple that God's building, made up of God's people, and he says we're being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. A little background there. What is this passage about? Well I said it's not about, it's not primarily about rewards, although that's uh that's certainly spoken of Now this passage is about how to build a church, how to build a people for God. So it's a it's instruction. And it's also warning to all who serve in the church. It's a warning to pastors. It's a warning to elders and to deacons Teachers, youth leaders, anybody who serves. It's a stern warning. Look at verse uh the end of verse 10. Paul warns these people. He warns us too. Let each one take care how he builds. Look at the end of verse 13. On Judgment Day, he says, fire will test what sort of work each one has done. And so our labors will be tested by God. And so it's a stern warning, and this is also a timely warning. Because, you know, well, since it really actually going back all the way to the early 1900s, uh the mainline Protestant Church has largely abandoned the Bible as its standard for faith and practice. And so we would say that about the mainline churches, but of late, bizarre because in the nineteen seventies the the the evangelical churches, the Bible teaching churches They fought what was called the battle for the Bible, the battle about the authority of the Bible. And they won that battle intellectually. Many scholars made the case that the Bible is a trustworthy document upon which we can build our lives. So the in the evangelicals established uh the authority of scripture back in the seventies But now many of these churches that profess the Bible to be the Word of God have uh walked away from it when it comes to, for example, uh determining the content and the character of their worship services When it comes to its views of gender and sexuality, of what constitutes, what does not constitute, sexual sin They've abandoned the Bible, in the focus of their preaching, Acts 20, verse 27, Paul says we're to preach the whole counsel of God. That's the entire Bible. It's all relevant to us All scripture is useful, it says in 2 Timothy 3. 16. They've abandoned this the whole counsel of God uh for self-help talks with yes some Bible verses to support the various points, but they're missing the really the thrust of what the Bible is teaching And so as we install, as we have installed our new deacons, as we consider our future as a church We want to build a church that's pleasing to God, and not just a church that draws a crowd. We want to build a church that Brings lasting uh spiritual fruit in the lives of its members. And to do that We need to embrace the church-building principles that Paul speaks of in the verses before us. And we also need to take Take heed of his warnings. So a little bit of background, then we'll jump jump in. So Paul planted the church in Corinth. He went on to other fields, and then a fellow named Apollos, a preacher from Alexandria, Egypt, very skilled man of God, he ministered in the church after Paul. So Apollos was a good man. But the Corinthians had a party spirit. Look at verses 4 to 7. Let's just look at what's going on here. One says, I follow Paul, and another, I follow Apollos. Are you not being merely human? What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believed As the Lord assigned to each. Then Paul says, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth. So in a church, right We each have, each Christian has a different task. It's given to us by God. That's what it says in the end of verse 5. The Lord has assigned to each, it says, A task or a task, I should say. So we each have various roles, right? You have pastors, elders, deacons, youth leaders. Some people make meals. Uh some people uh visit, well we all should visit. We all should pray, but then there's some who are prayer warriors. We all should do evangelism, but some have the gift of evangelism. There are some who clean the building up there in on uh cliff North Clifton Road now. So all these are all important tasks, right? The important thing is that if each is that each of us do the tasks, plural, that God has assigned to us. If you're a Christian and you're not doing anything but showing up on Sunday morning, You need to reconsider your role in the church because God's calling us each to do something here. But anyway We're going to look now more closely at this chapter or at these verses. We're going to look at the guidance and the warnings that Paul gives us in our church building enterprise. This is something of a charge to deep to the new deacons, but really it's a charge to all of us. So the first thing we see in 1 Corinthians 3 How to build a church, well, we must build on the true foundation And there's only one foundation upon which a genuine church can be built. And that foundation is Jesus Christ. That's what it says in verse 10 and 11. Again, let's look at it. Paul said, according to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation. And someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. And then in verse 11, listen. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Okay? So what does that mean to say the foundation of the church is Jesus Christ? Well, essentially it means it's talking about the gospel of Christ, right? The church must proclaim the gospel that Christ died for sinners. That God makes sinners righteous through the work of Jesus Christ and his death, in his resurrection. And we take hold of that by repentance and faith. And so that is the essential gospel message. That's our message, right? We're not about motivational seminars. We're not basically about delivering social services. We're not the religious wing of the Republican Party or of the Democratic Party But rather our business, chapter 1, verse 23, is to preach Christ crucified. That is the church. I mean that that is our mission. Men are sinners. Jesus Christ is a savior of sinners. Our message is not, and this is the message a lot of us heard growing up with our acquaintance with Christianity. Christianity is about becoming religious. Or becoming a Christian means that you're going to straighten yourself up. That's entirely wrong. The message is that, well, look at the banners, right? We're saved by faith alone, in Christ alone. And the only reason anyone is saved is not because of our merit, but because of God's grace alone, because of God's Undeserved favor. That's our message. And so just about every week I try to bring some clarity to that message regardless of what I'm preaching on, because that is the foundation of our church. Now let's broaden this a little bit. So when Paul says the church is built on the foundation of Jesus Christ, he's saying it's built on this gospel message. In fact it's summarized in chapter fifteen, I think verses three to five, but we can broaden it a little bit when we and we can add that The church is built, when we say it's built on Jesus Christ, we're also saying, well, more broadly, it's built on the foundation of his word. Right? What does it say? Scripture alone. Protestant reformers. Sola scriptura. That was one of their mottos. And so what they're saying, what they were saying, and what we say. Is that the Bible is the standard of our faith and of our practice? It's the standard of What we believe and how we are to live, how we are to conduct ourselves personally, in the workplace, as a church. And so on. So where in other words, we're saying our view of this book is not just that it's this wonderful ancient document With some elevated insights into the human condition and some good guidance about how to live a moral life or a personally satisfying life But rather we believe that this book is revelation from God. And you talk to some people, it's like that's hard to swallow. Well, it is hard for some to swallow. But we're persuaded this book is revelation from God. And so this is the final source of authority. In our lives. This is the final source of authority in our church. The Bible says this much about itself, right? 2 Timothy 3. 16, Paul said, all scripture Is breathed out by God. He could not say it more strongly You know, we say the Bible's inspired. When we say it's inspired, we don't mean like Shakespeare was inspired, Milton was inspired, the apostles and prophets were inspired. No, we mean really It's what they put down. God did not override their personalities and their experiences, but what they put in this book was precisely what God in his providence wanted them to put. All scriptures breathed out by God. Then he says, and is profitable. I think the NIV says and is useful. The entire Bible is useful. It's applicable. The Old Testament is not just a bunch of history lessons, but there are lessons for God's people in this day. And that's what he's talking about. All scripture is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. Why? That the man of God may be complete, equipped. for every good work. Same thing in 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 20 and 21. Peter referring to the Old Testament prophets, Peter says No prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. Now listen For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Now, many of you from a Roman Catholic background. When I talk to Roman Catholics, I always get down to, here's why we differ in our beliefs. It's because historic Protestants have one source of authority for the life of the church and so on. Catholicism teaches two sources of authority. They say the Bible, but also the teaching, the tradition of the church. And which push comes to shove is the teaching and tradition of the church that overrides anything in the Bible that they find disagreeable. So that's why there are these differences, okay? Protestant reformers came along in the 1500s, 1600s, and they said, no, uh, Scripture alone, this is the only source of authority for our doctrine and our conduct. And to put the teaching of the church, whether it's the Catholic Church or Protestant Church, or the traditions of the Church, to put the traditions of the Church above the Bible. is to go against the Bible's teaching and um it goes against the practice of the early church and uh it was really a novel idea that only took root in the fourteenth century and wasn't fully developed until the si the uh took root in the twelfth century, wasn't fully developed until the fourteenth century And then the Protestant reformers came along. They said, no, we need to get back to the Bible. So they translated the Bible into the tongue. And there was a printing press and it was put out. And the common man, uh or those who could read, began to read the Bible, and they realized there were many church traditions that violated the clear teaching of Scripture. So that's why Martin Luther in his famous uh dispute uh with the Emperor Charles V, this is in the fifteen hundreds He said, unless I am convinced by the testimony of the Scriptures or by clear reason, for I do not trust either in the Pope or in councils, since they have often erred I am bound by the scriptures in my conscience. I cannot do otherwise. Here I stand. And that's what any Christian should say, right? You go to a church, they're not teaching the Bible, they're reviling the Bible. If our church develops some tradition that violates the Bible, what do you do? You say, here I stand. We're standing on Scripture. And if our church ever gets away from this, there comes a point Uh yeah, all churches are flawed, all all churches miss certain things, but if the basic stance of our church violates the Bible, then we're really no longer a church. And so our aim is to build up and when I'm talking about church, remember I'm not talking about a building, right? We're talking about when we're building uh God's people Our aim is to preach the Bible and to teach everything that Jesus has commanded us. So this passage, how to build a church, build it on the foundation, Jesus Christ The second thing Paul says is that we need to build with care. Look at verse 10. Let each one take care how he builds. This is important. Remember the Great Commission? Jesus said to his disciples, go make disciples of all nations. Teaching them everything. So he didn't say go and draw a crowd, but he said, go and make disciples. That's what we want to do. That's what we're aiming to do, right? That's why Sunday school, we have these Bible studies, Sunday morning, what are we doing? We're teaching the Bible We teach doctrine. We want people to see how the whole Bible, the different themes of the Bible are all connected. We want our young people to know what you believe, why you believe it, so that when you leave the nest, you'll have some kind of grounding for your faith. It won't just be feel-good experiences and memories, but you'll have a biblical grounding for your faith. This is why we want to encourage parents. We need to sound this drum a little more loudly because we haven't done it much of late Encourage parents, right, to teach the Bible to their kids at home, to pray with them, have family devotions before bed or after dinner or whenever. So these are things that we want to be aiming toward. And um we ordained or installed deacons today. It's a reminder. If we want to build a church with care, I think the most important thing is that we have scripturally qualified leaders. That's indispensable. And we've all I imagine most of us have had experiences where that wasn't the case. Here's another story from North Carolina when I passed her down there. A great church, but not a perfect church. And I remember once we were in a deacons meeting and they're talking about new deacons. Who can we get to serve as a deacon? And one guy said Why don't we ask Tommy? Maybe that'll get him to come back to church. And I'm thinking, no, that's a how could we how could we think like that? No. We want sc scripturally Qualified leaders, right? Not perfect, of course. Nobody's perfect, but we certainly want men who are tilted in the right direction. seeking to be uh men of character, uh men who share our doctrinal commitments, who have credible family lives. who care for people, care for the sheep, uh they're men of prayer, right? I always point to James 5. You know, if you have a problem, go to the elder. Why is that? It's not because they're spiritual giants, but because They're supposed to pray. Go to the elders, it says, have them pray for you. That's why I encourage her we want our leaders To be men of prayer and also to be at the prayer meeting, because a church is the house of prayer, but also scripturally qualified leaders are servants, right? And so one of the 18th-century pastors, Ian Bounce, 19th-century pastor Ian Bounce, he says, the church is looking for better methods. God is looking for better men. Everything depends on the character of a church's leaders. So we want to be this kind of these kind of men more and more. Pray that God will raise up more, right? More that match up with our doctrine and our other commitments and have the character and so on. How to build a church. Build on the true foundation, the gospel of Jesus Christ. How to build a church, build with care. Then thirdly and finally, Build in a way that bears true and lasting fruit. So look at verse 12, 12 to 15. Look carefully. Paul said, if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, Each one's work will become manifest for the day. It's talking about the day of judgment. For the day we'll disclose it. Because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire Okay? So here's what's going on. Look back in chapter two, verse one to five. False teachers in the church, in the Corinthian church. were teaching words of human wisdom. So they were taking Greek philosophy, they were connecting it with the gospel, and they were they were messing everything up, okay? They were teaching words of human wisdom, rather, chapter 2, verse 7, wisdom from God. And so when our message echoes the culture, Then we're building, as Paul says in the end of verse 12, with hood with wood, hay, and straw. And that's not going to survive the fire of God's judgment. So think about that. All our efforts will have been in vain If we're just taking the message of the culture and dressing it in religious garb, it's not going to survive. It's going to be a completely empty Enterprise. Gordon Fee, a wonderful commentary in First Corinthians, he said, at the final judgment Church-building efforts based on philosophy, pop psychology, managerial techniques, relational good feelings, or what have you will come tumbling down. That's why we want to pray. Lord, help us for all our efforts, for all the energy we put into the church, we put into our families. Lord, help our efforts not to be in vain. We want to pray. We want to have our enterprise built on God's Word. And it does talk about rewards. Look at verse 14 now. Right? If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. The nature of the rewards are not specified. It's not a Mercedes, right? The person says, I have a Mercedes faith, so I'm getting this big reward. No, it's not that. Um it's not specified. One thing is clear, it does include praise from God. Look at look at chapter four, verse five, the end of the verse. It says, each one will receive his commendation from God. Praise from God is also mentioned as reward in the parable of the talents, Matthew 25. The master says, Well done, good and faithful servants. That's part of the reward, at least part of it, is the commendation from the God of the universe that you have been faithful. Whatever else is involved, Paul makes it clear, God will honor your faithfulness. And then for those leaders in the church who are not merely flawed Not merely errant in certain areas, but were false teachers. There's this grave warning. Go again to verse 17. Look at this. If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. God's temple is holy. God will destroy that false teacher. God is zealous for the spiritual safety of his people. So we have these stern warnings, Jesus, from gentle Jesus, meek and mild. Oh really? Look at Matthew 18, verse 6 Jesus said, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, not just referring to cute little children, but his sheep, his people. If anyone causes one of them to sin, Jesus said it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea. James 3:1, another warning. James says, Not many of you should pres should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. Now many churchgoers, many churchgoers, do not view false teachers with such alarm. Why? Well because they're nice these well the church goers are nice people. Most of them will go to church, right? If you're not a nice person, you don't go to church, right? No. No. Um False teachers in the church, they're generally nice people, right? They seem sophisticated, nuanced. Uh they'll visit you in a hospital. They'll speak words of comfort at funerals. Some of them wear robes with this elaborate embroidery. Uh oh, must be a holy man. He's got the all got that robe with all that embroidery. Uh he's a false teacher? Well Yes, the Bible says some are wolves in sheep's clothing. 1 Timothy 5. 24, Paul said the sins of some people are conspicuous. It's obvious. The heretical, they're sinners, or whatever. The sins of some people are conspicuous going before them into the judgment, but the sins of others appear later. That's what Paul's talking about here. We gotta be careful. This is why if you're a elder or a deacon in a Presbyterian church, It's not enough that you're just a nice guy. That counts for something. We want nice people. But you have to hold to the scripture. You have to hold to our form of doctrine. Or else it's not going to work. So many people don't view false teachers with such alarm, but God sure does, right? Verse 17. God will destroy him. I've told this story before, but it fits here. 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. Donald Barnhouse was the pastor. He was a pastor from like 1927 to 1960. Great preacher. And on Wednesdays he would have a question and answer session. People would come from other churches. One occasion a lady she raised her hand. She said, Dr. Barnhouse, I attend a church where the pastor, he doesn't believe in a virgin birth, and he denies the resurrection. And he makes fun of the Bible. And he takes a lot of delight in pointing out what he says are contradictions of the Bible, contradictions in the Bible. What should I do? Donald Barnhouse, he takes off his glasses. He said, Madam, you should pray he die. That's not a joke. He understood this stuff is serious, right? You you can lead people to hell And so that was the concern. And so to the new deacons and really to everyone, here we have some instruction. And also this warning, how to build the church, right? We want to build on the one true foundation, the gospel. We want to do our labor, our church-building labors with care. And we want to do it in such a way that we'll produce lasting fruit in the lives of God's people. So that's a wonderful enterprise, right? We have all we have our other activities, our other concerns, things we're involved in, our family and our work and whatnot. But we're all if you're a Christian, you're also a part of this great enterprise of building the church, the people of Christ. Let's bow our heads