And I would ask you to turn, please, to Philippians chapter two. Philippians chapter two, a familiar passage, a wonderful passage, and we come upon it this morning. Now if you remember from two weeks ago, we looked at verses twenty-seven to thirty. And in verse 27, Paul said, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. And then in chapter 2, he says, so, I think some translations say, therefore. Okay? So here's one of the things it means to be, to live in a way that's worthy of the gospel. Chapter 2, Paul writes, so if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from his love, any participation in the Spirit, Any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility can others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. to the glory of God the Father. Now if you look at verses six to eleven, you find some of the deepest theology That there is to be found in the Bible. Talks about Jesus' humiliation. In other words, he took on the role of the servant of the Father, that, as I said, was foretold And the servant songs in the book of Isaiah. And then verses what, 9 to 11 speaks about Jesus' exaltation, his ascension. to the right hand of the Father, His supremacy over all, in the coming day when everybody is going to acknowledge His Lordship Wonderful theological truths. Let's learn these so that we can have theological discussions, so that we can throw some of these terms out perhaps at cocktail parties and impress others. No? Well, maybe maybe no extra charge you'll get that. But the purpose uh for which the Bible gives uh theology is yeah so we'll have a deeper grasp of the God whom we worship and what he's done for us, but also So that it will affect our thoughts of life and our conduct. And that's precisely why Paul speaks about the humiliation and the exaltation of Jesus. And particularly, he speaks about it because he wants this to influence our relationships in the church. So he's not a generalist. He doesn't just say, may God bless these truths to your life. I remember a pastor friend. I'd say, why don't you ever make any application? He said, Well my application is the final sentence. I just say, may God bless this to our lives. And I'm like, you're not getting paid just to say that, you're getting paid to explain how the scripture itself is to be applied to our lives. And that's exactly what Paul does. Okay? And so let's look at the theology and then we'll see the specific application he makes to the local church. And so first of all, in verses 68 he talks about the humiliation. of Jesus Christ. And now when you talk about humiliation, you might think about when I do something embarrassing I'm humiliated. Well that's not what the Bible means when it talks about humiliation. Humiliation Is being treated in a manner that is beneath your dignity. Now we were all kids one day, or once at one time, and there are kids here And most of us know what it's like to be humiliated by a by a bully. So that's one form of humiliation. The elderly. also can suffer humiliation. When I passed from North Carolina, I remember going over to a nursing home in Chapel Hill, one of our members a very uh fruitful life, well respected in the community. He was a bank president, uh highly esteemed, but time passes, right? He grew old, dementia set in, his wife died, and he was put in this nursing home in Chapel Hill, and it wasn't a very nice nursing home. Went over there to visit him and I walked into his room. He had a flannel shirt on, food on his shirt, uh smelled of urine. His hair was all unkempt. And so I I called for the aid. I said, Hey, can you take care of my friend here? And she was brusque and impatient. She dealt with them in a very harsh manner. I'm thinking this lady doesn't know who this man is. She doesn't know who he was. Well, number one, he's made in the image of God But he was treated, she treated him in a manner that was beneath his dignity And that's what's going on when theologians of the Bible talk about the humiliation of Jesus Christ. The humiliation of Jesus Christ refers to his incarnation. His suffering, his death, and his burial. We have three of those elements in verses six to eight, his in his incarnation, suffering, and death. So look at verse six again. Says Jesus, though he was in the form of God, did not count a quality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing. taking the form of the servant of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself. By becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Now, what's notable, right, it says Jesus willingly took this low position When it says in verse six that he was in the form of God, it's not saying he was like God, but he wasn't really God. It's saying no, he was God. In fact, NIV NIV translates it He was in very nature God. And that's why we say in the Nicene Creed, Jesus is God of God, light of light, very God of very God. And yet, despite his exalted status, he lowered himself. He did not cling to that elevated position. But he was willing to stoop to a position beneath his dignity. And so the humiliation of Christ, this is important It did not consist in what he took off. He did not empty himself of his deity and become a man. He remained fully God. But he became a man. He took on our humanity. That's why it says in verse 7, he made himself nothing. taking the form of a servant. So he took the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of man. And so while remaining God, he took on our humanity. And I heard a great illustration of this once. I shared it once at a Christmas Eve service years ago. A missionary in Sudan, a man named Paul London, talked about what it was like in that hot, dry African nation And he said one of the tribes that he ministered to had a particular custom. The custom referred to how they chose the chief. Who would be the chief of the tribe? Well, he'd have to be the strongest man. That's who they made the chief. Why was that? Well, it's because the chief had to, you might think, well He had to wear this heavy ceremonial robe and this big headdress. Well no, that wasn't the reason that the chief had to be the strongest man, although he did wear that robe and that big headdress But the reason that the chief had to be the strongest man had to do with the fact that water in that region was so scarce they had to dig these deep wells hundred feet deep And it's not a well that I think that we think about, you know, with a a bucket on a pulley and a brick walls, but rather it'd be this narrow shaft, like a hundred feet down And because they did not want people to waste water, they had to make it hard to get down to the bottom of the well. And so they cut alternating slits all the way down. And so only a very healthy man could make that Descent down to the bottom of the well and then fill a skin full of water with enough water to prov to uh serve the tribe during for that day. So he'd make his trip down, fill the s the skin with water, and then it would take a lot of strength to climb up back up out of the well. But anyway. One day, one man's doing this and he fell back into the well and he broke his leg. Nobody wanted to go down there to retrieve him because nobody was strong enough. to carry a man up this narrow shaft all that way. And so what they did was they called the chief of the tribe. He was the strong man. And what did he do? He took off his great headdress, he laid aside his ceremonial robe He climbed down to the bottom. He put that man on him, and he carried him up. He was the only one who could do it. And so Only the chief could rescue that fallen man. And that's really what the incarnation is about, right? Only Jesus could do what he did. To rescue us, Jesus laid aside his glory, the glory he had before the world began, and he rescued us. And it says, what were we like? Well we're we weren't merely wounded, like the man at the bottom of the well. It says in Ephesians 2, we were dead. We were spiritual corpses. And uh he descended not into a well, but down into this world full of darkness, evil, ignorance, misery, broken people. Then he lived amongst us, right? For what, thirty-two or so years? I don't know. He he knew what it was like to suffer loneliness. Remember in Gethsemane? He knew what it was like to be betrayed, right? Judas. He knew abandonment. Remember his cry from the cross, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's why he says in Isaiah 53, verse 2, verse 3, He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He came down to us. In our misery. And it says in Philippians 2, verse 8, what? Being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death. On the cross. And so he bore our sin. Now you think about Paul's writing this to the Philippians. He became obedient to death on the cross They weren't clutching the crosses and looking at them, right? Because in 1st century Philippi, the cross wasn't a symbol of devotion There wasn't a cross out in front of First Presbyterian Church in Philippi. Some Baptists will dispute that, but I think it was First Presbyterian Church in uh in Philippi. It was not a symbol of devotion. It was a symbol of shame, right? It was this instrument of execution reserved for the worst of criminals But Paul is reminding us, Jesus came down to rescue us from the penalty of sin so that we would not die. And also from the misery of sin. He came down to rescue us also so that we could receive new birth, right? Jesus ascended to heaven. He gave the Holy Spirit Who regenerates us, who gives us this new birth. And so hark to Harold Angel sing. There's a great line in there. Wesley says, mild he lays his glory by. Born that man no more may die, born to raise the sons of earth, born to give them second birth That's why Jesus came down. That's why Jesus was humiliated. To rescue us, to save us. Then it goes on in verses 9 to 11 to speak about his exaltation, that's his ascension, that's his being seated at the right hand of the Father. So look at verse 9 again. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So Paul's reminding us that a day is coming when Jesus' kingship will not be incognito Everybody will recognize that Jesus is King. Don't worry about it. Don't be discouraged. Everybody's going to recognize it. Not everybody will be saved. Because they still reject him, but they will have to bow before him. It will be unwillingly, but it will be obvious to all. And they will acknowledge his lordship grudgingly. Well, that's a reminder, just as an aside, that today is the day of opportunity to turn to Jesus Christ. And if you go back, remember I read Isaiah 45? So there's a connection there. There's an implication that is spelled out in Isaiah 45, verse 21 to 23. God calls out, he says, Turn to me and be saved. That's the implication. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. By myself I've sworn, from my mouth has gone out, from my mouth has gone out in righteousness the word that shall not return. Then it says, to me, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. Excuse me. So the implication is You're going to bow one day willingly or unwillingly, and so bow before him now. So that's the theology. So let's stop. May the Lord bless this to you. No. Paul doesn't stop there. He draws the implication. And there, you know what? I have a fertile theological mind. At least I like to think so. I could draw some I could draw my own implications. I don't need the Bible. I can say, yeah, the incarnation, I could talk about how this underscores the gravity of our sin. We can't save ourselves. God had to save us. I could do that, but that's not the point Paul wants to make here. I could talk about how the incarnation displays the love of God, right? He sent his only son. That I could talk about that. But again, I would be doing injustice to the point that Paul wants to make Why does Paul in this passage talk about the humiliation of Jesus Christ? Because he wants to cultivate unity in the church in Philippi. There are some problems in this church. It was a good church, but it had its problems like most churches. There was conflict. There was division. Chapter 4, verse 2, we're tipped off to it there. It says he entreated Uodia and Syndechi to agree in the Lord. They were at odds. Chapter 2, verse 2, our passage. He exhorted the Christians there. He says, be of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and Of one mind. So there are problems in that church. There are problems in many churches. Conflict, division. First 10 years of my ministry, I was in a church. It was constant conflict There was always something grinding away, eating away. There were some toxins in many respects. There were good things, but there was this one sector of the church Where there is always conflict. Thank the Lord. I've said this before. I've been here 22 years. There was a little speed bump about two years down the road. A couple of us remember that. But outside of that, it's been relatively, well, uh remarkably smooth. I should say uncommonly smooth, right? Lord Please don't test us now. Uh so it's it's been remarkable the harmony. But we shouldn't take it for granted Harmony amongst a group of sinners, forgiven sinners, still just doesn't materialize out of thin air. It's something we have to strive for, something we have to work at. We have to die to ourselves. And that's what Paul's talking about here, because it's easy to get your nose out of joint, right? It's easy to get your nose out of joint. And so in light of all these perils, Paul points to Jesus Example of humility, he says, follow, look at Jesus Christ. Look at what he did for you all. And no, look at verse 5 now, he says Whoops. Well, I'm going to read the whole thing, one to five. Because now I want you to hear it as Paul's exhortation as his command to you, to us as a congregation. If there's any encouragement in Christ and any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit. In other words, have you been given the Holy Spirit If any affection and sympathy from Christ and from Paul, he says, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love. Being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit But in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. But look at verse 5. He says, have this mind among yourselves. Plural, right? Yourselves. He's talking to the congregation. And sanctification can only happen in community. That's why he's talking to them. Yourselves, okay? If you stay home, you like to listen to your star preacher on a podcast, well that's really nice in some ways. But you're not in the community. You're not, God is not working on you amongst the others. And so we sanctification is a corporate project. So young people, when you move up or move out And you go off to college or off to live on your own, don't be a lone ranger Christian. It's not going to work. But anyway, the takeaway in three words, and I put on the title here. Here's the takeaway. So, kids, when your mom or dad asks you what was the sermon about, here it is. Are you listening? Some of you are not even looking at me. I'm very t sensitive about that if our kids aren't looking at me. Thank you. I feel better now. My my my self-esteem is ri restored. Um the takeaway, humility fosters unity Humility helps us to be unified. And how does that happen? Christians live in harmony. When they put the interest of other people before their own. Easier said than done, right? Paul gives an example back to Timothy, his helper, right? Look at verses chapter 2, verse 20 and 21. Paul said about him, I have no one like him who will genuinely who is generally sorry who will be generally concerned for your welfare. They all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. So Paul speaks about Christ, then he gives Timothy as an example. We need examples, right? And that's exactly What he's doing. Okay. And so here's the upshot then. Here's the upshot. What are some thinking about first of all life in the church, life together, life in the congregation What are some ways that you can treat others as more important than yourself? What are some ways that you could put the interests of others before your own interest? Well that's a pretty easy question, right? It's about every way. Because I remember generally I'm looking out for me and my interest. But it's it's notable. I mean we see this when people we have a cover-dish lunch and some people go the extra mile to prepare something pleasing And a lot of it. It's like, wow, that's really looking out for the group here. You're not just doing the bare minimum to get by. That's notable. Others drive across town to pick up somebody to who can't drive to bring that person to church. That's putting the other interests of others before yourself. You could say, ah, you know what? That's too much. But you're looking after the interest of other people. Where you look around, service is over. After the service, you don't just walk over to those who you're you you know well, but you look for somebody you don't know and you Ask a couple questions just to become acquainted, see what's going on. You listen with a caring ear. You do you help with the nursery, you help with the worship with the worship training. Some people say, ah, I've done my time, my kids have grown up. No. You know, we all need to look out for the interests of others. Or think if I was over to the uh Braddock uh chapel, right, or new building There's bugs on the floor. I was thinking about the people who clean that place. That's a nasty job. We're trying to take care of the bugs. We're plugging the holes. We're going to get those bugs. But anyway, there were a lot of cobwebs, a lot of things that probably hadn't been clean in years. Some people did a lot of work, like five hours, the first couple that went in there. Like they they deserve they deserve a badge. But that's looking at one they want want to be a nice pleasing place to other people. Then others they just serve behind the scenes And they're not saying, pat me on the back, give me recognition. They're just looking out. They realize there's a lot of pieces that makes a church to make a church work smoothly and well And so that's what that's an their examples of looking out for interests of other people. For those who are married, let's think about this with marriage. Like, oh, oh, here's something for my wife to hear. Okay, no. No. Think it everybody knows better. But for those who are married, think about this how this call to humility applies to your marriage relationship, right? You may be at an impasse with your spouse. Things have grown cold. There's a distance There's there's built-up resentment. Things have been spiraling down for a long time. And so How do you reverse the spiral? Well, you don't it just doesn't reverse on a dime, right? But how do you reverse the spiral? Well, you try to do things that show humility And sometimes that catches the other's attention. You ask for forgiveness. You say, I was wrong. I see it now. Will you forgive me? That's a sign of humility, right? Or to say, you were right. I see what you're saying now. I I didn't see it. I see it. I see what you're saying. And I always said to my wife, I need to work on that. And um it doesn't I say that a lot too, so I don't make a lot of progress. But it sometimes it helps reverse the spiral. Um to not return hurtful words or attitudes, but to take the high ground, right? That too. That's a that's an exhibit of humility So it's things like this in the marriage, it helps you turn the corner, helps you make some progress, right? Rome wasn't built in a day if things are bad, but it helps you to make some progress. And so in application then for the mar marriage relationship is what is one way you can demonstrate humility to your spouse? That's a good application there, huh? Was one way, just one way, you can demonstrate humility toward your spouse. And the Bible does teach that those who humble themselves in the church, in the workplace, in the home, will one day be exalted. That's from the lips of Jesus, Matthew 23, verse 11. Jesus said to his disciples, The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Let's bow our heads. Lord God, we do pray. Pray for our marriages. Uh help us along. And those relationships help us help us to humble ourselves. We pray for our church family that we will put the interests of other people before ourselves Help us to overlook offenses. Help us to be more understanding. Help us to be more interested in others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's take our song book. We're going to sing 453, 453, all authority and power. Let's stand.