So Paul writes in verse three: For by the grace given to me I say to every one among you not to think of himself. more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned For as in one body, we are many members, and the members do not have the same function. So we though many are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them If prophecy in proportion to your faith, to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching The one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Let's bow our heads. We do ask, Lord, that as we look at this text before us, that you'll Give us insight. Help us to be attentive. And by your Spirit, apply it to us. Challenge us. Change us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So you'll remember, and I made this comment uh last Sunday that in the first eleven chapters of Romans Paul declared great truths of the gospel of salvation in Jesus Christ. We're saved by God's grace, not by what we do, right? We make no contribution We're spiritually bankrupt. Christ accomplished for us the salvation that we could not accomplish for ourselves. And God confers this salvation As a free gift to all who see their need of a Savior and rest on Jesus Christ by faith. And I mentioned last Sunday when you get to chapter 12, verses 1 to 2 Paul finally turns a corner. He finally moves from doctrine to application. And we'll see that now from verse uh from chapter 12 all the way to chapter 15, chapter 16 is mostly greetings, but even there you'll find some applications And so in verses 3 to 8, he begins his application by saying, or by pointing out, where Paul said in I think verse 2, you know, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And then in verses three to eight, he mentions two areas for starters where we need to be transformed. The gospel should affect, number one, our view of ourselves, and then our view or your view of your role in the church. Okay? And so verse 3, nice clear statement. He says, think of yourself with sober judgment. I'm going to read it again. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you. And remember, this was a congregation composed of Jews and Gentiles who had come to know Jesus Christ. And so there was surely some flick some some friction with these two groups in this congregation. And so Paul says Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought to think, but think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. According to the measure of faith, nobody's sure. I read the commentaries. There's all kinds of theories. What's Paul saying when he says, think of yourself according to the measure of faith that God's given you all kinds of uh ways to understand that. One way that I find more credible than the others As Paul may just be saying, using that word measure, to refer to the standard by which we measure ourselves. And I think his point is You need to measure yourself by God's standard. And that takes some faith to recognize what God says as opposed to what the world says. Measure yourself by God's standard and not by the world standard of what makes a person valuable And if that's the case, or regardless of whatever that phrase, that measure of faith refers to, when Paul says, think of yourself with sober judgment That command cuts in two ways. Number one, he's saying, don't get a big head, but on the other hand Don't depreciate yourself. So let's think about these two angles or two ways that that would apply. First of all If you're going to think about yourself soberly, verse 3, then don't think of yourself more highly than you ought. And that's a good lesson for most of us, right? Do you talk about yourself too much? Do you tend to dominate conversations? Do you have an opinion? Not everybody's like this, but once in a while you meet somebody, they have an opinion on everything. Things that you didn't think it was possible to have an opinion on. They have an opinion on. And then they'll ask you what's your opinion on this? And you're like I never thought about that. And as a pastor, a lot of people ask me questions like that because I'm supposed to have an opinion on everything. One a friend of ours What's your opinion of Downton Abbey? It's like, I don't know. I never I never thought it through. I have other fish to fry. Um But some people, they have an opinion on everything. But you know what? That's how some people are wired. But it's a little frustrating. When they feel like they have to tell you their opinion on everything in an unsolicited manner. And they go on and on and on What is going on here? Perhaps this person has an inflated sense of self-importance. Or here's another question. Are you easily miffed? when you feel that you were slighted. Why is that? Maybe you think too highly of yourself. Those with great talents can have an exaggerated sense of self-importance. So it's funny, last Sunday night, after the uh evening service, I was talking to James Brown, and he was telling me about uh the the denomination he used to be a part of before he came into our denomination And he said we would go I I would go to the annual meeting and there were celebrity pastors and I hope I'm conveying this correctly, it was really hard to talk to these people because they didn't want to talk to the podunk pastors amongst them in the denomination. They sort of stayed in their own tribe. And then I made a little sarcastic comment. Um I said, did they have entourages And James said, actually they did. So and then Later this week I was reading an article about John Calvin. I didn't realize this. But when he wrote Calvin's Institutes, right, this great summary of biblical doctrine He became popular. He didn't want his name to be written on those books. He didn't want the notoriety. And I had heard before that when Calvin died, his instructions were that he be buried outside the city walls of Geneva in an unmarked grave. Because he didn't want the notoriety. He just wanted to serve God. And so I think, whoa, Calvin understood what Paul was talking about in this verse, right? Don't think too highly of yourself. Well Most of us don't have the problem, right, that we have an inflated sense of self. For most Christians is we tend to sell ourselves short, we tend even to despise ourselves, to count ourselves, you know, what am I doing? What am I worth? And um that too, in that way too, you need to think of yourself with sober judgment And regard yourself as the Scripture regards you. What does the Bible say about you? The Bible says, you are made in the image of God. And that in itself is what gives you worth and value. And God made you with your particular personality your particular strengths, your particular weaknesses for a purpose. How can that be? Let me give you a couple examples. In Second Corinthians one, verses three and four, Paul writes That God even uses our hardships and our sorrows to equip us, to encourage, and to comfort others Who suffer similar hardships and sorrows. Or another example, 2 Corinthians 12, verse 9 Paul says God uses our weaknesses to teach us to depend on him. And that's true, right? If we're walking around or feeling like, hey I'm really something, look what I'm doing. We don't depend on Jesus Christ. But God's great prior God's priority Is that we recognize, as Jesus said in John 15, apart from me, you can do nothing And so think of yourself with sober judgment, right? Quit beating yourself up and selling yourself short Don't be so guarded. Take the initiative. Talk to other people. Get to know them. Encourage them. It's not all about you. And you'd probably be surprised. People like you. And this is a great church. Everybody gets along, everybody's welcoming, everybody's accepting. And so I think it's good if you're overly guarded to take a chance there. And I think you'll receive a positive response. And that'll encourage you. And that is really one of the purposes of the Christian community, right? People get beat up. They get beat up at school. I mean not physically, typically. Sometimes that does happen. But people are always putting putting one other putting one another down. The church is a community where there's safety, where there's love, where there's acceptance And I want to commend our young people because I've seen that. I've seen newer kids coming to the church over the past year or two And they come in and they're looking for friends. Will I be accepted? And now I see these kids are walking around smiling. They feel like they have a group of friends. That's a tremendous thing that our young people are doing. We want that to take place amongst our young people. We want that to take place amongst all ages. And I think our church in many ways is to be commended in that area. And so as Paul wrote, I think it's in Galatians, hey, you're doing a good job. Just do it more and more. So the first thing Paul said in verse 3 then is think of yourself with sober judgment. Secondly, verses 48 Paul writes, Use your spiritual gifts to build up the body of Christ And so, what is a spiritual gift? That's something like we always hear about spiritual gifts, but what precisely are spiritual gifts? And how do you figure out what your spiritual gifts are? Well here's a good let me just put it in a nutshell, okay? Certainly not the last word in our books I can recommend that go through the scripture on this subject. But in a nutshell, a spiritual gift is an ability from God, an ability given by God the Holy Spirit That enables the Christian to minister with effectiveness to the church, to the body of Christ. Okay? And the Bible says if you're a Christian, God has given you a spiritual gift, or perhaps spiritual gifts, okay? Look at verse 6. Paul speaks of us as having gifts that differ according to the grace, in other words, according to the ability that God has given us. Ephesians chapter four, verse seven, speaks similarly. Paul wrote there, Grace was given to each one of us. According to the measure of Christ's gift. And that's a passage also about spiritual gifts. I think there are like five passages in the New Testament that talk in particular about spiritual gifts. You put them together, I think there's something like 20 gifts. But you'll notice that, and I wrote, I put those texts in the bulletin, you can look them up later. And if you do, you'll notice that each list differs widely from the other lists. And each list mentions a handful of gifts in sort of a random manner. And so for that reason, I don't think if you put these five lists together You're going to come up with like, oh, these are the spiritual gifts, and only these. I think is sort of, here are some examples of gifts that God gives to Christians. And let me just throw out a couple that uh we find in those lists. Leadership, wisdom, serving. administration, hospitality, discernment, exhortation, faith, evangelism, giving, mercy. So these are spirit examples of spiritual gifts. So how do you figure out what your spiritual gift or gifts are? And here's what I suggest. Don't set out on a direct quest. I need to find out my spiritual gift. I need to find out my niche, my specialty, what I'm good at. I don't think that's the way to do it. I think the way to do it is the more is a more indirect approach. And here's how that would come about. You just serve in various areas of the church that come up over time, right? You try this, you try that, and in time You know, it might take a few years, it might take longer, but in time you hey you realize, hey, I sort of like doing that. Why is that? Why would that be? Like, I like doing administrative things. Why would that be? I don't know. My wife would say because I'm anal, but I would say because I like things in order. And that's sort of something that God put in me. And so I like doing that. I think that's my that's probably a a spiritual gift that uh God's given me. And so what do I like doing? What am I good at? And here's another piece of it. What do people say you're good at? Like, hey, that's really helpful what you did or what you said or what you taught And um and you see like there's some fruit from what you're doing in that area. Well we'd say That seems to be a spiritual gift. And so the approach then is don't be overly introspective. But you just get out and serve and in time you get a pretty good idea. Yeah, I think that's my spiritual gift. I don't think you're gonna say These are my spiritual gifts, right? So I'm not doing anything else. But you just serve and you discover those areas where you see some kind of fruit. Which I think that's a reminder for us When you see another Christian or some a Christian in the church doing something and you think they're skilled at it or there's effectiveness, then it would be good to s to give them some feedback. Hey, you know what? You're good at that. Uh not so they get a big head. Nobody I don't think we're always worried about giving people big heads. I think it would be helpful if we try to encourage others because nobody I don't think I don't know many people walking around with uh too big a head typically. And so let them know. And Paul goes on then. So he brings up these concepts of spiritual gifts, these skills that God's given each Christian. And then he says in verses 4 to 5, it's good to recognize that in the church people have various functions, various roles, various strengths. And so in verses four to five, Paul likens the Christian community to a human body For as in one body, we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function. So we though many are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another And so Paul draws this brilliant analogy, right? The church is like a human body. It is a living organism. It's not just an organization. It's an organism And the analogy is that Christ is ahead of the body, but every single part of the body is necessary if it's going to be a healthy body. And so in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 7, Paul wrote, To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. So he's just saying, hey, we all have gifts from God, spiritual strengths that God's given us, and he gave us these for Not so that we can feel like, hey, this is my thing, this is my specialty, but so that we can build up the entire uh community of Christians. And so the bottom line, now notice what Paul says. He doesn't just give a sort of a, why don't we tell you about spiritual gifts in an academic way? But he says in verse six, use your gifts. That's what he says to the church in Rome. That's what he says to the churches down through the ages. Look at verse 6 Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. And that's exactly what I want to say, right? We need you We need you Yeah I'm looking at you. I hope you feel uncomfortable. We need you to faithfully serve Exercising your gifts for building up this body of believers Because a church is not just a Sunday morning preaching station. Yeah, I'm going to go to church on Sunday. I'm going to get sort of a spiritual pick-me-up and I'll see some others, and that'll get me through the week. No. Like I said, the Bible says the church is a living organism. It's made up of many parts. And if it's going to be healthy We all need to be exercising our particular gifts. And I know some people you're in a busy season of life, so we're not saying take on 20 things. But I am saying even in an informal way, you can be exercising your giftedness. You don't have to have an official role But you know what if your your gifts encouragement? Well, then you exercise it, right? You might send somebody a note, you'll come early, you'll stay late, you'll talk to people That's not a big commitment, but it does make a notable difference in people's lives. And so these are the things, the kind of things that we're all to be aiming for in every part of the body is important. So think about look down at your shoe. Look down at your toe. You can't even see your toe. Doesn't seem that important. Well, did you know here's a little fun fact, okay? Did you know that Dizzy Dean, the baseball player, the pitcher He had to end his pitching career because he was hit in the toe by a line drive. It's like That makes no sense at all. Right? It's just a toe. What do you need a toe for? He needed it yet the rest of his body needed that toe to be working so the rest of his body uh could function in a manner that he could deliver a fastball. And so it is in the church. Every member plays an indispensable role if the body is going to mature. That's what the Bible says, right? I'm not a I'm not a self esteemed guru. I'm just teaching the Bible. Every Member of the body has a role to play, and that includes the kids And so look at this passage, read the other passages about spiritual gifts, and just sit out and start doing this or that. And see what comes of it. Doesn't mean you're locked into that role forever, but then you move on to something else, and in time you discover your spiritual gifts. Well, let's look at verses 6 to 8 Where Paul gives a sampling of spiritual gifts, and I will make a few comments on the first one, and then we'll breeze through the others. And so the first gift that Paul mentions in his list is the gift of prophecy. That's in the end of verse 6, he wrote, If your gift is prophecy or if prophecy, then exercise it in proportion to your faith. So here's the big question. I think Fowler White has written on this, right? Alright, good. Alright, I'm off the hook. If you have a question about prophecy, Email him, talk to him. Alright? I could give you a book. I could give you an article that Fowler White wrote. And I hope you don't end up correcting me though. So What is prophecy? There are different views. There's a lot of debate in the church about prophecy. My understanding Is that prophecy ceased as a gift in the church when the canon of Scripture was closed? So by the canon of Scripture, or as we say in New Jersey, the canon of Scripture When the Canon of Scripture was closed, that's the 66 books that composed the Bible. There early in the church's history, there was this general recognition that these sixty-six books are holy scripture. This is God's revelation to his people. Now Why do I say that? That prophecy ceased once the Bible was collected, written, collected, and recognized. Here's why. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2. So it's after Romans, after Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians. Okay? Ephesians chapter 2 And this is a very important text in this regard. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 20, Paul wrote That the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. So when you read that, you go, okay, the apostles are the twelve apostles, and the prophets, who are they You probably say, well, it's the prophets in the Old Testament, Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel. It's like, wait a minute. I don't think so. I think Paul is referring to the twelve apostles, plus Paul, he was an apostle, and New Testament prophets. Why do I say that? Two reasons. Number one, he mentions prophets after apostles, so that tilts us in that direction. But even more explicitly, if you'll turn to chapter 3, verses 4 to 6, chapter 3, verses 4 to 6, I want you to read this carefully. Paul wrote to the Ephesians, When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ. which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. And so Paul is saying there that there is something that wasn't disclosed in the Old Testament. That something was that Gentiles who believe in Christ are fellow heirs with Jews who believe in Christ. In other words, the first ranked members of the church. And Paul said, this is something that has only been disclosed in New Testament times. By whom? by the apostles and by the prophets. And so this is a new disclosure, and so that's why I think that Ephesians 2 20 when he says the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, he's referring to the apostles and the prophets who exercise the gift of prophecy in the New Testament church And I want you to notice also from Ephesians 2. 20 that the New Testament prophets, along with the apostles. Had a foundational role in the establishment of the church. You only lay the foundation once And now the building is being built upon that foundation. The church is being built upon that foundation. It says somewhere in 1 Peter, we're all living stones being built into a spiritual house. uh in which God dwells by his spirit. And so the apostolic period was a time when the material that would eventually be consolidated into the New Testament canon of Scripture was in a was in the process of formation And during this period, prophecy served to produce what was eventually recognized as New Testament scripture An example of that is Revelation 1, verse 3, where John wrote, or where the angel said, Blessed is the one who reads the words of this prophecy. And so the book of Revelation explicitly says this is a prophecy from God. And that's why it's included in the canon of Scripture. Now let me add this, okay, and I hope I didn't throw too many potatoes in the pot, because one more thing. Non-canonical prophecy. In other words, there was prophecy in the New Testament church That was not part of the New Testament scripture, but non-canonical prophecy was given to meet the needs of the church in that early period before the New Testament was written and gathered together. Okay? How were the how were the Christians in the early church to know What what course of action should we take in this situation or in that situation? God gave the church prophets who spoke forth his authoritative word to the church. Okay? But now we have the New Testament canon, and so that's why I'm persuaded that prophecy is not a gift that is given to the church uh after that period in time. But it certainly was a gift in the early church. Now there are streams of Christians who say, oh no, there's prophecy, but it's not really the word of God It's sort of more like a a really good hunch that the Holy Spirit gives you. It could be right, it could be wrong. Well, that's not what the Bible talks about when it talks about prophecy. The prophecy in the Old Testament were were thus saith the Lord. Right? They didn't weren't saying I it seems to me that we should be doing this. No. They said they were saying, thus saith the Lord. So that's the first gift in the list, okay? I'll be more succinct. Verse 7, what a gift is serving, right? We all should be serving, right? That's our calling. But some people They just love to serve. That's what makes them tick. There there's something about it. There there's an oddness about it. I don't know if you some of you seen the nineteen eighties movie Chariots of Fire. It's a great movie if you haven't seen it. Put it on your list. But I remember Eric Little explained to his sister why he wanted to run in the Olympics. He said, When I run, I feel God's pleasure. He had there was a sense of oughtness. That's what God called him to do. And some people are like that. They're self-motivated and they delight to serve. This is what I was made to do, right? That's That's somebody with the gift of serving. Verse 7, he speaks about the gift of teaching, and that's a gift. I guess all the gifts, we have to cultivate them. We don't just uh you don't just You're not just hatched, right? And you're a great teacher or something to cultivate. Second Timothy 2. 15, Paul commands teachers in the church to rightly handle the word of truth. Right? So we have to figure out this book, how it all fits together and how all the parts go, and we want to understand the scripture and then we not only teach it like a history lesson or s or uh uh here's what they did back then But it says in 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is useful. And so we teach it in a way that attempts to apply it to our lives. That's why I say when when you walk out to church, if I didn't apply it, then you look at me, you spit on the floor, and um you say, so what? You know, who cares And that's telling me I did not show how the scripture applied and it should be applied. And so there's teaching, and then there's exhortation, and there's also debate. What does that word exhortation mean? John Stout and his commentary on Romans said that this word translated exhortation, at least in uh my version, is translated exhortation. He said this word has a wide spectrum of spectrum of meanings Ranging from encouraging, to exhorting, to comforting, to conciliating, to consoling. Well, we should all be encouraging and exhorting one another, but some people have this gift. They're just encouragers. They're frank. They say specific things, and that's that's a gift. Contributing is a gift, right? We're all to give generously. But some people are just naturally generous. They love to give. That is their thing. That is what makes them tick. Leading, the end of verse 8, Paul says, the one who leads with zeal, right? We don't want reluctant leaders. So Yeah, I suppose I can help you out there or or um that'd be great to be a leader, but some of these people they wear me out. Uh y you know, if you're a leader you gotta do it with zeal. You can't be impatient with people, you've got to love people Or um you don't want to we don't want people who serve out of a sense of obligation. That is so depressing. I remember a pastor when I was young. Uh he told a story about this uh pastor he would go out to see the train uh uh at the station every day at like two o'clock. He'd go out to the train station. Uh and somebody said, Why do you always go up to the train station at two o'clock? He said, 'cause it's the only thing in this town that I don't have to push. And so yeah. All right. But we want to do it with zeal. We don't we don't want to get worn out. And so there you have it. Paul says Don't think of yourself more highly than you ought. Think of yourself soberly, which also means don't despise yourself. Don't sell yourself short. And recognize that this is one body, this local congregation, but also the universal congregation of believers, for one body. And God created each of us. It says in Ephesians 2, right? He created us as his workmanship for good works. Serve in various areas as the season in your life permits. And in time, you'll discern your gifts and focus on those areas where you'll see even greater fruit. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do thank you that you have given us uh this uh this outline. of how the church is to be structured, how we all fit together with our various backgrounds and strengths and weaknesses. And also spiritual gifts. Help us to serve faithfully, zealously. Help us to seek the good of the body, to build up individuals in it. And help us, Lord, to discern those areas where you've given us particular strengths that we could be useful to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.