To Genesis chapter fifteen. So we're going through the life of Abraham, chapter twelve to fifteen. We come to one of the key texts in Genesis. So I'll read the chapter. Remember last week we looked at fourteen. Abraham had Enjoyed a victory over these pagan kings who kidnapped his nephew Lot. They rescued Lot. They were blessed by the king Melchizedek. Then it says in chapter 15: after these things. The word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless in the heir of my house as Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. Behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This man shall not be your heir, your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars if you are able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And here's our text. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. And he said to him, I'm the Lord who brought you out from Ur the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, O Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? He said to him, Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he brought all these, cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other. But he did not cut the birds in half, and when the birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. Then the Lord said to Abram, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. As for yourself, you shall go to your fathers in peace, you shall be buried in a good old age. When they shall come back here in the fourth generation, and they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold a smoking firepot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your offspring I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. The land of the Kenites, the Kenesites, the Cadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rapheim, the Ammonites, the Canaanites, the Gergeshites, And the Jebusites now This is sort of a follow-up on words God spoke to Abraham back in chapter 12, especially the first three verses. So that was God's call to Abraham in chapter 12. God promised him among things too. The prominent things were, number one, he promised him a people were offspring. And he said in chapter 12, verse 2, that from his offspring would come a great nation. This was quite a promise. Abraham at that time was 75. His wife Sarai, who had been barren all her life, was 65. So he promised Abraham a people. And secondly, in chapter 12, verse 1 and 7, he promised Abraham a land, right? The land of promise, the land of Canaan. And Abraham was all in on these promises, so he left his homeland, Ur the Chaldeans, and made an 800-mile journey to the land of Canaan. And over the past, over the next 10 years, he would suffer various setbacks. One would be the fiasco when he went down to Egypt When there was a famine, and there were also advances. For example, last week in chapter 14, we saw Abraham's victory over these Canaanite kings But still, no children, no child, and no land. And so in chapter 15, Abraham asked two questions. The first question concerns his childlessness. Look at the end of verse 2. O Lord God, what will you give me for I continue childless? The second question concerned the land. At the end of verse 8, he asked God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? Now in this chapter, God reassures Abraham, he answers those two questions, and he confirms his promise. In two ways. Number one, he assures Abram or Abraham that his wife Sarah will indeed have a child, and he reiterates that promise in verses four and five. But then concerning this land, he reassures Abraham that he his people will come into possession of land. And the way that he reassures Abram there is not merely by reiterating the promise, but by making a covenant. Okay, so that's what we're going to look at And so this is a this I says I can't talk this morning. So I think I'll just hand out my notes, right? Um think about a symphony. And oftentimes there's the opening song, the overture Brings up themes that will develop more substantially as the symphony progresses. And that's what this passage is to the rest of the Bible, is something of an overture in that it raises two grand themes. That will develop as Scripture progresses. The first theme is justification by faith. And the second theme is, and I know this is unfamiliar to some, but it's a huge theme. The covenant, okay? So justification by faith is the heart of the gospel, and then the covenant Is really the governing principle that runs through the Bible. And so these are this is an introduction really to these two great themes that If you don't understand the gospel, you're not a Christian. And so that we're going to look at that, and then when we talk about the covenant, If you don't understand the covenant, you don't understand how the Bible fits together and how it's really one unfolding story. And you really don't understand anything you don't understand much about the faithfulness of God to his word. So first of all Looking at the theme that is raised here, the theme of justification by faith, and that means God credits to the one Who trusts in his promise, righteousness. God credits righteousness to your account. He looks at you as righteous, as being a righteous person When you trust his promise. And so after Abram expressed this distress to God that Sarai, uh ten years after the promise was first given, still had not conceived. God, as I said in verses four and five, reiterates his promise. So let's go back there. We want to get a running start on this. So verse four. Behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This is God saying, This man shall not be your heir, your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven, number the stars if you're able to number them. Then God said to him, So shall your offspring be Now, Abram's response in verse 6 as a landmark statement. It says, he believed the Lord And he, the Lord, counted it to him as righteousness. And so Abram believed he trusted God's promise. And so in other words, he was standing firm on God's promise when the commentators said that's really what the Hebrew word believed means. You're standing firm on some Despite his circumstances, despite his wife still had not conceived, and now she was seventy-five, he trusted God's promise. And what was God's ris response? It says at the end of verse 6, the Lord counted it to him as righteousness. So God reckoned Abram as a righteous man. Now he was a sinner, right? And we saw that. He lied to Pharaoh. He said, Pharaoh's not my wife, she's my what she's my sister. So he was a liar. I mean, he was a a sinner like like any one of us, but it says God counted him righteous. Now it wasn't because he was this great religious guy or this spiritual paragon or this moral uh uh example But it was because he trusted that God would keep his promise. And so this is the core of the doctrine of justification by faith, a doctrine that will develop as the Bible unfolds. And here's something you need to understand about the Bible. Themes unfold progressively. So we use the term progressive revelation. So that's why we read the whole Bible, right? And so we can't understand any one theme if we're just looking at the Old Testament. We have to see how it unfolds in the Old Testament and then more clearly, even in the New Testament. And so the word justification Is not doesn't refer to a moral quality. So when we say you're justified by faith, it's not saying God makes you a holy person. Or a good person. No. Justification is not a moral quality, but it speaks rather of a legal status. So think about, you know, you're standing before a judge. someone sitting for a judge. When a judge condemns someone, he declares that person guilty in relation to the law. When a judge justifies someone, he declares that person righteous in relation to the law. And so when God justifies us, it's saying he's pronouncing us righteous in relation to his holy law. Not that We're without sin, right? We we still have our sin. It's it's part of us. And so he looks on us though as having the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Now I said this develops, right, as the Bible unfolds. And so Genesis 15, 6, right, Abraham believed God and God regarded him as righteous. Let me give you three examples from the New Testament. where the New Testament writers appeal to Genesis 15, 6 to say, hey, listen, the only way anyone is saved Is through faith in Jesus Christ. And the first passage is Romans 4. We just looked at that. So Paul is making the case to Jews That the doctrine of justification by faith is not an innovation that came with the New Testament, but rather it's rooted in the Old Testament And he's saying to these Jews, even Abraham, the father of Israel, was declared righteous, not because he was a Jew, not because he was circumcised or he did anything religious. But because he trusted God's promise. Romans 4, verse 2. Paul says, if Abram was justified by works, He had something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Then there's our verse, Genesis 15, 6. Abram believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. So how were people saved in the Old Testament? They were saved by trusting God's promise that God would send a Savior. Okay? Here's another verse, Galatians chapter 2, verse 16. Paul's making the case, he says in Galatians 2. 16. A person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. And then in Galatians 3, verses 6 and 7 Paul once again appeals to Genesis 15:6 to make his case. A person is not saved by works, but through faith in Christ. Here we go, Galatians 3:6 says. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. See what he's saying? He's saying, listen, just because you descended from uh Abraham's bloodline, that doesn't make you a son of Abraham. A true son of Abraham is one who believes in Jesus Christ. That is a true Jew in God's eyes. It comes up again in James chapter 2. Verses twenty to twenty four, and I don't have time to sort this one out completely, but James points out that Abram there he says Abram wasn't justified by faith alone, but by works. And what he's saying there is that, listen, if you have true faith, it will show itself in works. But you put that with these other passages. And you see that you're justified by faith, but works are necessary as a byproduct to show that your faith is genuine. And so, just to put the cookies on the bottom shelf, and it's funny, we were talking about this in the high school, Sunday school class this morning, you know, what is the gospel? And um this gets to the heart of the gospel. It answers the question, how can a sinful man or a woman Come into a right standing with a holy God. And people say, well, go to church, become religious, reform yourself, right? But the Bible answer Is that the only way that a sinner can come into a right standing with a perfectly holy God is if God makes us righteous, and that indeed is what the gospel is about, right? Jesus lived a perfect life for we fell short, and then he died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sin. In his living a perfect life, we receive his righteousness. And then in his dying on the cross, he bears the penalty. for our sin. So that's the simplest explanation of the gospel I think that we could we can we have. But this is really uh the grand message of the gospel, right? And and I said this in Sunday school, so I'm repeating myself to the high schoolers, but bear with me. I said, and I say this from experience There are many churches, they don't explain this simple message in in in plain language, right? You think it's about being spiritual, about trying harder, about being religious. It's none of that. It's just recognizing your spiritual bankruptcy and your need of a savior and receiving salvation as a free gift. Okay? Now, what is faith then? We said justification by faith. And again, this came up in high school. All right. I'm just teaching my Sunday school as I feel like here. But um Faith in the Bible is not mere mental ascent, right? It says in James 2. 19. Even the demons believe in God. Even the demons remember in the gospel. They recognize that Jesus is the Son of God. But they weren't saved. So merely saying, yeah, I believe Jesus is God, yada, yada, yada, that does not save a person But it is true faith is resting on Jesus Christ. It's trusting in him as your Savior. And so the Puritans, they would talk about faith as recumbency. Now think about leaning back in your chair or maybe in your lazy boy. Having that hold you up. That's what faith is, reclining on Jesus Christ. And so this is the gospel, right? God makes sinners righteous. And the way you lay hold of the gospel, Christ saves. But the way you lay hold of what Christ has done is through faith. And if you rest on Christ, you are declared righteous. And so the question then is, do you understand this gospel and are you resting? on Jesus Christ alone as the one who saves sinners. There you have it, okay? So that was the first grand doctrine in Genesis 15 that's introduced. And then the second grand doctrine is the covenant. Now the covenant there was a covenant back in the garden, but it wasn't spoken of like this. So this is really the introduction. of the Oh and there was a covenant with Noah. Alright, so this isn't the introduction. This is stage two. Alright. It just occurred to me. All right, just throw this out. All right. We see the covenant more clearly uh expressed here, okay? So the covenant is where God ratifies his promises. So God promised, remember he promised Abraham not only a people, offspring, But he promised Abram a place, a land. He made that promise back in Genesis chapter twelve, then we're in chapter fifteen. verse seven, God reiterates this promise ten years later, chapter 15, verse 7. God said to him, I'm the Lord who brought you out from Ur the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. Abram asks, can you please um reassure me on this? Because you told me this ten years ago, and so in verse 8 He said, O Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? God could have said Because I said so. But he doesn't, right? God's patient, God stoops to help us when we have doubts. And so God graciously enacts a ceremony to confirm his promise. And this is strange to us. This is foreign to us. But it would have been familiar to Abraham because he lived in the ancient Middle East. And this is the way that they would they would ratify a promise or ratify uh a covenant by this ceremony, okay And so when two parties entered into an agreement, a covenant, think about a conquering king and he enters into some kind of arrangement with the king that he conquered. Okay, you give me a thousand horses a year, you give me two thousand soldiers a year, you pay me this much gold for a year, and I won't destroy your kingdom, and I'll protect you. Uh from invaders. Okay? So they would enter into this covenant, and what would they do? They didn't go down to the lawyer's office and sign 20 copies of a contract. It was a little more primitive. They would take an animal and they would slice it in half. Then they'd lay the two halves down on the ground, and then the two parties would walk between uh these severed uh pieces of the animal. Why'd they do that? It was to say, if I don't keep my promise, then may I suffer the same fate as these animals And so this ceremony was literally called, if you translate it, the cutting of a covenant. And so they would both walk through so as to invoke a curse on the one who might break the covenant. If I don't keep my promise, may God cut me down, as these animals have been cursed and destroyed. So look at verse 9 now, okay? So God said to him, Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he brought all these, cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other, but he did not cut the birds in half, and when the birds of prey came down in the carcasses, Abram drove them away. All right, so that here's what happens though in this covenant. When God makes the covenant with Abraham, Abraham Doesn't participate in the walking between the pieces of the uh carcasses. Rather, God put Abram into a deep sleep. Look at verse 12. As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. And so from this point forward, Abram would be a passive spectator of what God was about to do. And then, before we get to the next part, God foretells the Israelites' enslavement in Egypt. He talks about the Exodus. Then the Israelites return to the promised land of Canaan. That's verses 13 to 16. But Abram is not asked to walk between the severed pieces of the animals. Rather, God alone walks between the pieces of the animals. Look at verse 17 now. When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking firepot and a flaming torch. So this furnace represented God's presence pass between the pieces. And so God's covenant is different from the typical ancient Near Eastern covenants in that it was unilateral, right? There wasn't two parties in this covenant. There was only one party who ratified the covenant, and that was God. And so, first of all, God's saying, listen, if I don't keep my promise to bring you into the promised land, then may I be destroyed And he says, not only, if I don't keep my promise, may I be cursed, but by walking through the pieces alone God says, if you break the covenant, I myself will suffer the curse. Now, you see where this is going. This idea of God promising to take the curse. If either party broke the covenant, points to the cross of Jesus Christ, right? Because we broke the covenant. We broke it in space, right? By our sin. But because we broke the covenant, we don't necessarily suffer the covenant curse. Because Jesus Christ bore the penalty for our guilt by dying on the cross, he took the curse for us This is what Paul says in Galatians chapter 3, verse 13 and 14. Paul says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on the tree. Then he says, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abram might come to the Gentiles. so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. So Paul gets it, right, in Galatians 3. He says, listen, this is why Christ died. He suffered the curse for our being covenant breakers And so the remarkable thing about the covenant is that God not only takes the curse, promises to take the curse should he break the covenant, But he does take the curse that we deserved for breaking the covenant. And that's why Jesus died on the cross. So this wasn't some like plan B when Jesus was born into the world and died. This was God's plan from the beginning, that Christ would suffer the curse that we suffered. And so you'll notice in verse 17 of Genesis 15, it says, the covenant was ratified when? When the sun had gone down and it was dark. No accident that when Jesus died on the cross, what does it say in Mark or Matthew 27, 45? There was darkness over the land from the sixth hour to the ninth hour. Remember what Jesus what he did the night before he was crucified? He had the Passover with his disciples, and he said to his disciples, right, he took the cup, he said, This is my blood of the covenant. Which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. So there you have again the gospel, right? God does for us what we can't do for ourselves. God suffers the curse that we deserve for our sin, that we could be forgiven, and that we could enter into Covenant relationship with God. Every time we have the Lord's Supper, we repeat this covenantal language, right? It's saying we now have fellowship with God. Because Jesus Christ fulfilled the terms of the covenant. So remember when I said in the beginning, the covenant is a huge theme that runs through the Bible We see how God operates. God is a covenant making God, and he also is a covenant keeping God. And in Jesus' death on the cross, you know, God so loved the world, he gave his only son, we see the length that God will go to to keep his covenant promises. And so, yeah, in time the Israelites did enter the promised land. But that's not the real promised land. That was just an object lesson, right? Hebrews 11, verse 10. Abraham was looking forward to a city whose architect and builder is God. And so that will be our inheritance, the true promised land. And so we see here that The God of Scripture is faithful to all his promises, and that should be an anchor for your soul in times of discouragement. in times of distress, personal or national. He'll keep his promises, so we're going to sing the song. We sing his oath, his covenant, his blood. Support me in the whelming flood. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. And so if you're not a Christian, this is good n this is good news. You don't have to do anything to come to a right standing with God. All you have to do is take hold of Jesus Christ, or I might say rest on Jesus Christ. He fulfilled the terms of the covenant. You broke it, you're a sinner, but he fulfilled it for you, and he suffered the curse that you deserved. And all you have to do is receive it by faith. Right? Genesis 15. Abram believed the Lord, and God declared him to be a righteous man. Wonderful message. And it and when you see how these these themes go through the Bible, it's it authenticates it, right? It's like this has gotta be true. I can't explain this away how there's this this really these really clear lines that go from Genesis to Revelation. We do thank you, Lord, that you've you made these promises way back in Genesis. We see now their fulfillment in Jesus Christ. It helps our weak faith. We're thankful for this gospel that all we have to do is recognize that Jesus is God and believe in Him. For those who aren't Christians, I pray, Lord, that you'll help them to become convinced of this truth, convicted of their sin. And that they might rest on Jesus for their salvation. And we do thank you, Lord, that you're a God who keeps all your promises. So help us not to become discouraged Help us not to be weary or anxious because you're faithful and you're for us.