Any four to five year olds who would prefer to go to worship training, you have that option. I don't recommend it, but if you want to go, there's no shame in that We're going to turn to a new book for our study this morning, the book of Revelation. And um twenty-what twenty-two chapters. Uh one I think I'm gonna try to make it as clear as I can, but there is a good little guidebook for revelation of all the commentaries. I think the m The one that's most readable, uh good introductory commentary, it's a book called More Than More Than Conquerors by uh William Hendrickson. In fact, Kevin Raleigh uh got it. He read it, I guess, in a short span. He said it's really readable and he it's very helpful. I I think the same thing. Years ago we did Revelation on a Thursday night And we use that as a guidebook and I I I I I commend it to you. Um if you don't do it, you're not going to be lost, but it certainly adds a lot to our study This morning we're going to read the first eight verses, figure these verses out, or not figure them out, but apply them. Then also do something of an introduction to the book So chapter 1, verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants, the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ. even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is, and who was and who is to come. And from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and made us a kingdom, preached to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so, amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. There ends the reading of God's Word. Now when Czechos Czechoslovakia was under Kanye's rule, I read that churches were not allowed to advertise. And so I guess you would find it through uh just through some kind of underground network, but no public advertising of churches But then when communism fell, November 27, 1989, a Methodist church in the city of Prague, the capital city, they put out a sign right in front of the church And on that sign was painted three words. And the message was, the Lamb wins. And Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, he certainly uh had been reigning in Czechoslovakia all those years uh when that country was under communist oppression. But now that the government had fallen, it could be openly proclaimed that the Lamb wins. And that really is the message of revelation. At times it looks like Jesus Christ is not reigning, it looks like he's not prevailing, but he will always prevail. And as Paul said in Romans 8, those who are with him are more than conquerors. And that's the message that we need to hear in our day. Because the church in America, we're not, I wouldn't say we're persecuted, as Christians in many countries are, but the church is more and more being marginalized It's being dismissed. Uh Christian ethics is being uh pushed aside. It's even uh in many ways called uh bigoted And there is a militant secularism that has really just of late taken over the public square that has left many Christians despondent. And so we're wondering where is God and uh what what are his purposes in all these things? The lawlessness uh the celebration of immorality, uh the promotion of uh gender confusion, the cancel culture And pandering politicians have left Christians uh quite quite discouraged. And uh this is the conversation uh that I've had with many people, and I think we all sense this And so the book of Revelation is always timely, but I think it's particularly particularly timely in our day Because it's a reminder that God does rule over history, there is a spiritual battle taking place behind the veil of what we see And in the end, uh nothing will prevail against Jesus Christ and against his people. Now there are some challenging parts of Revelation once you get to chapter six. Uh chapter six to eighteen. I was saying to my wife this morning, I said, maybe I'll get hit by a bus or something before we get to chapter six and we won't have to deal with it But if that doesn't work out, I'm still trying to study ahead. And um the message here is that it's worth our study. Uh look at chapter or not chapter 1, verse 3, verse 3. You're going to be blessed. Now I think oftentimes, well, there are really two categories of Christians when it comes to Revelation. You have this small minority and they're obsessed with the book of Revelation, but then you have most Christians, it's like, yes, the Word of God, I know it's in there, and I I like some passages But it's really cryptic and I don't even want to take a stab at it. And that's probably that's I'd say most Christians have that view of revelation But verse 3 says, you know what? This is it's worth tackling of the book of Revelation. Look at verse 3 God says, blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. Now when you think about the group to whom that was originally given These scrolls were not plentiful, right? They would have to be copied by hand and so typically you would go to the your church and you would have one of these scrolls of scripture would be read to you And John says here, or God says through John, that the person who stood up front and read the text to the congregation, he would be blessed And also those who hear God's word and endeavor to keep it, they too will be blessed. And blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it for the time is near. So let me just make some uh some introductory comments uh to this book of the Bible. Uh what's the purpose? Uh what is the theme of Revelation. I think maybe one of the reasons we get intimidated by this book is that sometimes you'll hear these radio preachers and maybe even preachers on TV And they give rather fanciful interpretations of Revelation. And they approach this book like it's a puzzle to be solved. And they'll take the different symbols and characters that you meet in Revelation. And uh they'll try to match them to current events and they'll come up with these chronological charts uh charts that uh they believe will show the unfolding uh future events. But revelation was not written uh for the benefit exclusively of 21st century Christians and preachers who have too much time on their hands and rather uh fertile imaginations But rather the purpose of the book of Revelation is pastoral. It's a letter, right? Just like the other letters in the New Testament. It's an epistle. It was written to uh a certain group of Christians in uh the first century and these Christians were suffering uh persecution A persecution that would soon intensify. In fact, at the end of verse 3, John says the time is near. And most commentators think that John is saying the time is near In reference not to the return of Christ, but to in uh an intensification of this persecution And so the assurances that we'll read in the book of Revelation are about Jesus' victory over evil. He will prevail, there will be justice. And God's people will always be secure in Jesus Christ. Now, those assurances were given to these first century Christians suffering under Roman persecution But they do apply to Christians down through the ages. So a couple of weeks ago I mentioned these two uh nurses in Pakistan. It was in the news. uh that these two Christian nursers uh were falsely accused of accused of insulting Muhammad and they were attacked by a mob and in fact one lady uh suffered uh uh a stabbing And so they're they're they were saved by by the police. They're brought into brought into police custody. I imagine I haven't heard, but I imagine they're just languishing Now in some jail awaiting trial. But here's a message to the Christians in Pakistan. But not only to the Christians in Pakistan, but to Christians in our day. And the message is that despite all the opposition that God's people face Chapter 1, verse 12 to 20. Jesus Christ is with his church. He is walking in the midst of his people. Revelation also tells us, for example, chapter 8, verse 3 and 4, that Your prayers, if you're a Christian, your prayers have an impact on history Chapter 7, verse 17, promises that one day God will wipe away every tear from your eyes. 19 verse 2. He will avenge the death of his martyrs. Remember in 19 in the beginning of the service, I read Jesus Christ as a warrior coming on a horse. He is not only the Prince of Peace, but he is an avenging warrior. And then in chapter 21, where we have this wonderful promise But the day is coming when God will gather his people to himself, and we will live in a restored and renovated So it's a wonderful book. Yeah, it pertains to the future, but it also pertains to today. And so my the first thing I'm saying here is that revelation It's not this futuristic story about what's to come, but it's also or I should say it's mainly A pastoral letter to encourage, discourage, and oppressed Christians in a theme in a nutshell is the victory of Christ and his church. over Satan and his allies. That could be summed up, chapter seventeen, verse fourteen. Where Jesus speaking about, or John's speaking about Satan and his minions, and he says, they will make war on the Lamb, on Jesus Christ And the Lamb will conquer them. Why is that? For he is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. And no one will prevail against Jesus Christ. And so earlier I talked about a veil that Revelation pulls back. It's like we're looking at current events, we're looking at our lives. And what the book of Revelation does is it pulls back this curtain so that we could be reminded of the spiritual battle taking place and that God is accomplishing his greater purposes. And so as I said in Paul's words, we are more than conquerors. So Revelation, we're not going to understand all the details. Nobody understands all the details, but we're going to get the main message. And the main message Is that however uh bleak things may be in your life or for the Christian church here and around the world We know in the end that indeed Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, will prevail. Let's look at a couple nuts and bolts here before we look more closely at the text So the author, verse one, is the Apostle John, and but the ultimate author is God Himself, who gave this through Jesus Christ, and then Christ Through the agency of an angel gave it to John. Right? Verse 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the things that must soon take place Must soon take place, right? Not in the distant future. He's right in the first century Christians. Here's what must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant. John. So that was that's the means of transmission. The Father through the Son, through the angel, to John, who writes it down, who gives it to the early church, into the church, down through the ages. When was this written? Most likely around the year 96 A. D. The Roman Emperor was Domitian. He was a great guy. He left his brother to die. He seduced his niece He killed people for making jokes about him, and he required people to address him as God and Lord. So this was the this was the emperor under whom these Christians lived And it says in verse 9 that the Apostle John, well, he had been in Ephesus, but now he had been banished to an island off Turkey, the island of Patmos. And that was a typical form of persecution during uh Domitian's reign, that Christians would be banished to these Roman penal colonies Who is the revelation written to? Well the immediate address he says in verse 4, it says to the seven churches who are or that are in Asia. And so Asia And the Bible refers to Asia Minor, Asia excuse me, Asia. Let's try that again in English. Asia Minor, okay, which is where where present day Turkey is And you find a list of those seven churches in verse 11. The angel said to John, write what you see in a book. And send it to the seven churches, and here they are, to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamon, and to Phiatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laod The Cia. And so this was a circular letter that was to be distributed to these churches. And it's interesting Uh if if the messenger or the courier uh took that letter to each of those churches listed in the order that they are listed, he would have traversed a rough circle. Now there were more than seven Christian churches in Asia at this time, so why was the letter just written to seven churches? And in fact, you find the number seven throughout the book of Revelation. There's seven spirits, seven seals, seven scrolls, seven angels. Uh seven plagues or bowls of God's wrath. Why the number of seven? And uh well probably because the number seven, I should say Revelation is full of these symbolic numbers and seven Symbolizes completeness. And so we can say, I think it's fair to say, that though the the seven churches were the original audience It was really addressed to all chur all Christian churches at that time and to all churches down through the age. And that makes sense because when you as you get into Revelation We're going to discover that the principles and the uh events uh spoken of in this book are much broader uh than could have been applied merely to those seven churches In that time in history. And so, and also I would add, once you get to chapter 2 and 3, seven letters to these seven churches, at the end of each letter. There's a statement, he who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches And so this is saying to us, right? Frederick, Maryland, right, in in 2021. Yeah, this this letter may have been written to the church in Ephesus or to the church in Sardis, but John's intention was that whoever has an ear to hear, we need to hear this message that God gave us through the book of Revelation. Well here we are. We're looking at now the third point on the outline is interpreting the book of Revelation. Alright, we can nail this out in three minutes, right? Interpreting the book of Revelation No we can't, but we can certainly uh have a pretty good uh approach. Um How do you interpret, you know, once you get to chapter six, how do you interpret a document that is packed with bizarre imagery And symbolic numbers. Well, we have to recognize that it's a certain type of literature, a type of writing that was more common in the first century And in the ancient world, then it's common today. It's a type of literature known as apocalyptic. So you'll read in the Old Testament uh book of Daniel and uh Zechariah and Ezekiel, large swaths of those books are the same uh genre of literature. It's apocalyptic And so we have to realize we're looking at something a little bit different. And a good analogy would be, now imagine 200 years from today. Over in some foreign country, uh somebody discovers in their research American political cartoons From our period in time. Now when we read some cartoon on the editorial page, uh most of them we immediately understand what these cartoons are about because we know who's being referenced. And we know the uh the different met metaphors or images that are being used, right? So we understand, but you know, say somebody from Belgium 200 years down the road, they're trying to understand this kind of uh communication, uh there'd be a learning curve. They have to figure out what's going on The same thing when we read an apocalyptic writing from the first century. And so we, you know, we you don't read it like you'd read some kind of legal document in our day. And what we need to remember, in some in I remember a professor's seminary talking about Revelation. He said kids typically understand the book of Revelation Better than adults do. And this guy, he wrote a book on Revelation. What was his point? He said, kids go for the big picture. And that's what we want to do in our study of Revelation. We we might not get all the details, it doesn't matter, but if you get the big picture, you really have a grasp of what's going on. So we want to take revelation as being more impressionistic than uh realistic And so just go for the big picture. Don't if you don't if we can't figure out every element in a in a passage, uh that's okay. We don't want to be intimidated It wasn't written to intimidate us. It wasn't written, and sometimes you have these pastors and they consider themselves prophecy experts It wasn't written for them. It was written for the average Christian, right? Verse one. It says the revelation of Jesus Christ. So this book was intended to reveal Not to conceal. It was intended to show us, look at the end of verse 1, to show his servants the things that must soon take place. And so it was given to show us something, to disclose something about God and His purposes, not to confuse us. And yeah there are there are parts who are uh there are parts that are confusing, uh but if we interpret the confusing parts by the clearer parts in the book of Revelation And also by other parts of Scripture. That's how you should always interpret the Bible. And we're going to get a handle on the main message. And one of the keys to our interpretation, right? We're talking about how do we approach this? One of the keys to interpreting revelation will be to read it through the eyes in the experience of the the original audience And that again, I mean that's how you should handle any book of scripture, right? What was the author saying to the original recipients of this letter? What was their cultural context? What was going on with them? What was the author addressing? And once you do that, you're going to realize And so there's a big divergence in how you handle Revelation. As I mentioned, at least briefly, many interpreters will say it's this futuristic book It was written for people in the remote future, especially those who live during that time that immediately precedes the return of Jesus Christ. And so they come up with these charts about how history's gonna unfold, what's gonna happen to Israel, what's gonna happen to the church, what's gonna happen to Rome, and all these things And then they try to match the symbols to current events. I remember I was a new Christian in the nineteen seventies, and there's a really popular book out called The Late Great Planet Earth by Hal Lindsay. Remember that book? It was a sensation that sold I think thirty million copies. And so this but this was a fanciful futuristic uh exposition of the book of Revelation And so how Lindsay would say, yeah, the seven so and so here represents the European economic community. Then I think Gog and May Magog was the Soviet Union going at war against Israel Or something like that. Revelation 16, 21 talks about hailstones falling. Hal Lindsay said, well, they're bombs that are being dropped from airplanes. And so Uh his interpretation was only limited by the fertility of his imagination. But you have to ask a question What help would that have been to Christians in the first century, uh, to learn about Kiwi helicopters or whatever else was going to happen? you know, two thousand or three thousand years in the distant future. Uh they needed encouragement now, right? They were they were they were being oppressed, they were being persecuted Uh they some are being martyred. Revelation again, I said, it's a pastoral letter And again, verse one, about things that must soon take place. And so that to control our interpretation And once we see what John is writing to these first century Christians, then we take the legitimate lessons and we apply it to our lives and to our world today. Point number four. What is the focus of the book? Or I should say, two is the focus of the book? Well, this letter, as I said, was written to Christians who live in a vile society under a vicious government Some were being tortured. Many were losing their positions in the different craft fields by which they made their living. Some were being martyred for their faith. And these Christians were asking, where is God in all this? Have we believed in Christ? Have we put our trust in Christ in vain? And so these folks need to be reminded of the greatness of God and of the sovereignty of God and of his watch care over their lives. And that's precisely how the book begins. Even in the greeting in verses four to eight. And so in verses four to five, John focuses their attention on God and on his triune glory. Look at verse 4. He says, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come. So he's talking first of all about the Father. He never changes and he will never change. Then he refers to the Holy Spirit in a rather unique way. He refers to the Holy Spirit as the seven spirits who are before the throne. And this seems to emphasize the fullness. of the Holy Spirit's work in the church and in the world. So he speaks about the Father. He speaks about the Spirit. Then in verse 5 he speaks about Jesus. It says, and from Jesus Christ The faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, the ruler of the kings of the earth. God's people were being called to witness in the face of persecution And some would even face martyrdom. And John points out, Jesus Christ was a faithful witness. Even to the point of death. And he was the firstborn from the dead, and all those who believe in him will likewise be resurrected from the dead. And he's sovereign, right? Jesus is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Right? Caesar's power was imposing. As is the power of the state in our day, but Jesus Christ is the true sovereign over all the earthly rulers. Then in verse 5 to 8, the universe 5 he speaks about Jesus' work redeeming us. Reminds us he's going to come again And he'll always be there. He's eternal. He's our Redeemer. In verse 5. He's freed us from our sins by his blood. Right? You not you don't go to heaven because you're a nice guy, you go to church, you're religious You go to heaven, you're forgiven your sin, because Jesus Christ died in your place to redeem you. Then in verse 6 John says he has made us a kingdom priest to his God and Father. The idea that every you know you don't need a priest anymore, right? In the old testament they had priests, mediators between man and God. Jesus is the final high priest who died for our sin So now we have immediate access to God and to underline the intimacy that the lowliest believer has with the ruler of the universe He says that we are a kingdom of priests. And it's notable, that was the kind of language used in the Old Testament of Israel, but now it's applied to Christians. to the Christian church. And then John says, do not worry, do not worry. Jesus will come again. Verse 7. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. So it's gonna be obvious. There's gonna be no secret return in Jesus Christ. Somebody says, you know, somebody in a street corner holding up some sign, and you better get ready. Well, when Jesus comes, you're gonna see him. It's not gonna be a secret appearing And it says in that verse, all the tribes on the earth are going to wail. It's not going to be the wailing and mourning of repentance, but it's going to be the wailing of despair. So here we have a reminder You're gonna live to see this event. Now you may have died, but you're gonna be alive when he returns, right? Spiritually. We're all gonna And so we have this message throughout the New Testament You have to be ready. You have to be trusting in him and resting on him for your salvation. Because he will return And then he reminds his readers also that Jesus Christ is eternal. Verse 8. I'm the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is in who was in who is to come the Almighty. Now it's interesting in verse 4 that designation alpha or who is and was and is to come uh was used of the Father and now it's used of the Son. So that underlined the full deity of Christ as equality with the Father. But then this term Alpha and the Omega. That's the first letter in the Greek alphabet is Alpha. Last letter, Greek alphabet is Omega. And so Jesus is saying he's the beginning and the end before all these Caesars, before these earthly rulers came into being, Jesus was there. And after they're consigned to the dust heap, the dust heap of history, Jesus Christ will still be there. He is the end. He is the Omega. So he asked the question, what is the focus of the book of Revelation? It's not the future, it's not all these prophecy charts, it's not figuring out who's what, making all these correspondence correspondences between symbols and revelation and current events, but rather we need to rate read Revelation as focusing On Jesus Christ. He's a Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is a sovereign ruler over all of history. He is eminently worthy of our worship. And so that's why you'll find so many scenes and worship songs throughout the book of Revelation, God's people worshiping Jesus Christ, because he is worthy. And he's going to come back and he's going to vindicate his oppressed people. So this should hearten us for whatever lies ahead in the future. He's coming back, and even when we take the Lord's Supper, it says in 1 Corinthians 11 We proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. So this is a huge focus of the Christian life. He came once, and he's coming back. And so what's revelation about? As I said in the beginning, it's about the fact that Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, wins, and we are more than conquerors when we trust in God. Him. We do pray, Lord, that we would wrestle uh with this book. That it would show us the greatness and the glory of Jesus Christ, that we would be hardened. And encouraged by this promise that you are still at work in the world, you're still accomplishing Your purposes and history. We also pray, Lord, for those who aren't yet Christians, that they'll remember that you're coming back. But there's a way that to avoid judgment, and that is trusting Jesus Christ as a lamb who died for their sin. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing. We're going to come to the Lord's table. Let us sing number 427. The title is Amidst Us, Our Beloved Stance. 427. I'm gonna read a couple of verses. First Corinthians chapter eleven. All writings are received to the Lord, but I also Delivered to you to the Lord Jesus. On the night that he was being prayed, took bread. When he had given thanks and broke it and said, This is my body, deliver you And the same way also the cup after some are saying, This cup is the new covenant, my blood. Do this as awful Often as you drink it in remembrance of meat, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's Sabbath still eat times. We remember it's a memorial where we look back on Jesus' death for our sin, but it's also a fellowship That in uh chapter ten, verse sixteen. Paul refers to it as a participation or a communion uh with Jesus Christ. So we have fellowship with Christ, not in not in the bread, it's not in the cup. It has to come to Christ by faith, the Holy Spirit Unites us with Christ, deepens our fellowship with Him, confirms to us in our hearts all his good promises. Because he says, You, yeah, you, you filthy rock sinner, you're invited to have a meal, a fellowship meal, with the Holy God of the universe. How could that be unless Christ died for your sin and your sin has been taken away? And so you're Trusting in Christ, the fact that you're invited to his bank bill should be a confirmation that you're forgiven. It should encourage you, even as you struggle. Amen. As we struggle, right, with ongoing sin. And it's a reminder, we're going to see Christ again, right? We proclaim the Lord's death. So if you notice for a nuclear, we have these little cups. There's a little piece of cellotane on the top. You can grab that, we'll peel it off, and we'll apply it. Lord Jesus, the night he was betrayed, took bread. Having given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is free For you. Do this remembrance in me. Let's pray. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you were broken for our sin. And we thank you, Lord, that you've invited us this table that we could be reminded of what you did, but also that we could deepen. Our fellowship with you. Meet us this hour. We pray in Jesus' name. David, this is the body of Christ given for you. Do this in remembrance of him. In the same manner after the supper, Jesus took the cup saying This cup is a new cup in my blood. You this, as long as you drink it, in remembrance of me. Let's bow our heads. We pray our God that He would hear those who are Weary, calm those are anxious. We pray Lord for those who live in conflict. May you sustain that. We pray Lord That you help us to shine as lights in the darkness. Help us to hold to your word and not to our perception of things. And we pray, Lord, that we give us Stand out and bring many to Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. It's interesting, uh John Calvin after the church service uh people having been equipped in bed to kick him out he locked the doors and say, they need to go out there They need to be light in the world. That's probably a pretty good way to look at it, right? Get out of here and uh serve Jesus Christ faithfully in your home In workplace. Before we do that, let's take our songbook. We're gonna sing number eighty seven. Where is my chat? Let's hand. Alright, we'll go. See now the benefits Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless until the coming of our Our Lord Jesus Christ. He will surely do it. Amen.