If you're four or five years old and you'd like to go back to worship training, you may go that way. Want to stay here? Better yet. But um let's turn to Matthew nineteen as you're turning. I I want to m mention one thing. There are a lot of people here. We only have two home groups at the moment. These home groups are Dinner, lunchtime fellowships or cover dish lunches, we do them twice a month. And um it's a way to make some friends and you talk about you do a Bible study. You talk about the sermon text. So these are great groups. If you're interested in that, let me know. We're trying to start a new group. We need a couple homes, too. That's the challenging part. Uh if you should pay out be able to fit maybe ten people around your table, uh that'd be good. And uh let me know. We need some a couple more host families. If you're in a home group you don't have to host. Just need to find a house though, somebody who has a house who's willing to do that. that. So something to think about. We're in Matthew chapter 19, so I see a lot of new faces here. We're glad you're here. I'm marching through Matthew's gospel. It's a multi-year endeavor. Uh we're in chapter nineteen. And um last week we looked at verses sixteen to twenty-six Jesus' encounter with the rich young ruler. We pick up in chapter 19, verse 27. I'll explain the context a little more in a minute. But in 27 we read, then Peter said in reply, See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have? Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, You who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold and will inherit. eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. Now my question as we approach this text is a simple one, and it's a question that I imagine We have all asked. And the question is, is it is it worth the cost to follow Jesus Christ? That's the question That Peter asked Jesus very bluntly after his encounter with the rich young ruler. If you remember if you were here last week, this young ruler He wasn't willing to part with his possessions to follow Jesus. But Peter and the other eleven disciples parted with everything, right? They left their homes. They left their jobs. They left their security. And so in the end of verse 27 Peter points this out to Jesus. He says, see, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have? Yeah. Is this worth it? Is it worth Follow paying the paying the price to follow Jesus. To one of our our guys this week or one of our members and he said, you know, I was at work and I was just trying to do the right thing And I I was at a meeting and I pointed out that our company is engaged in deceptive advertising and we tell our customers we're going to do this and we don't do it and we know we're not doing it, what kind of applause do you think he got for that? His boss said, um, I wrote it down here, oh, he accused him Of being self-righteous, and why are you always putting yourself above everybody else? Well, that's the thanks you get for following Jesus Christ in the workplace uh sometimes for another another of our uh men here it was was a whistleblower for the uh veterans administration And that put him under all kind of pressure because he is following Christ. He wanted to do the right thing. And I wonder, you know, I imagine all our young people, things are crossing your mind about how you're going to live your life. You only get one shot at life, right? You're only going to be here for so long. You're only going to be young for so long and have so many opportunities in life And if you're Christian, if you endeavor to live in a distinctively Christian manner, that will impose limits on how you use your time on how you use your money, it will limit some of your associations, and it'll limit your moral choices. And your peers are all hooking up, and you're Christian, and you're endeavoring to be chaste. Until you get married. But what if you don't get married even? How is it going to turn out? You're going to miss out on something, so we're told. And so that's the question when we're confronted with these opportunities, is it really worth it to follow Jesus Christ? One of the reasons I believe the Bible's true, well, it knows us better than we know ourselves, but also it anticipates These questions that unbelievers ask when they contemplate or consider the claims of Christ, and it anticipates the questions that Christians ask When we come up against uh these these challenging uh situations. And uh as far as the question is uh is it worth it to follow Jesus Christ? This is anticipated. You see it in the Old Testament. I'll just put a couple passages down. Exodus 16. The Israelites are going through the wilderness. Hey, things aren't going so well. Weren't you going to bless us? So they start grumbling. The book of Job. Think about Daniel chapter 3. Daniel and the Lion's Den That was the price that he paid for following the God of Israel. And then throughout the Psalms, uh that question is raised. Is it is is it Is it worth it to be obedient to the God of Israel? We just read Psalm 73, a great example. Turn over to the New Testament. Same idea, Philippians 3, Hebrews chapter 11. The whole book of Revelation was written to Christians who were being persecuted in the Roman Empire. And the lesson is, yeah, it's worth it, no matter what happens. If you're martyred, it's worth it. Then you get to the parables of Jesus, which which we'll be coming to in a couple of chapters and even uh next couple chapters, um there's this talk about rewards, present sacrifice, trading off for future rewards. And so it's anticipated. We see it in the passage before us. And the answer that Jesus gives To Peter's question, now we've left everything to follow you. What will there be for us? And his answer in a nutshell is, God will never be your debtor. in your darkest hour, in your loneliest moment, in your most bitter season of grief, There's a promise in Scripture that you're not going to come out on the short end of the deal in the benefits of obedience and of Christian discipleship. will always outweigh the cost. So let's look at our text. Jesus, we're going to first look at the benefits the comedy refers to. And then we'll talk about short uh briefly the benefits that a Christian enjoys in this life. And I'm not saying that like everything's gonna be rosy, right? And not Joel Olstein. I think you picked it up up on that. But um nonetheless, there are benefits in this life. And so uh verse uh twenty eight he's talking particularly about the twelve disciples and he said you guys are gonna uh enjoy a future privilege and glory. I'm going to read verse 28 again. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne You who have followed me, and he's talking about the twelve disciples, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So in other words, at the end of the world, when the world is restored, Jesus Christ will be enthroned in heaven. And that's an allusion to back to Daniel chapter seven. But also you'll find the apostles each occupying a throne, and it says they're going to judge the twelve tribes of Israel. Now nobody's entirely sure if it means judging in a judicial sense or in the Old Testament sense to judge was to rule, right? The book of judges. They were rulers in Israel. They weren't judges as we would think of judges. They're going to judge or rule the twelve tribes of Israel. And that's a way of referring to not only to the Old Testament people of God, but to the New Testament people of God. Because in the New Testament, you remember the church, for example, Galatians 6. 16 is called the Israel of God. And so there is only one people of God. And so what he's saying, as I understand it, is that the apostles, the twelve apostles, will be rewarded. For their commitment and for their sacrifices, and they're going to have a seat of authority over the Church of Christ. Well, that's true on many levels. One level is they rule the church Through their teaching, right? It says in Ephesians 2. 20, the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets And so yeah, and then in Revelation 21 verse 14, uh it's talking about the New Israel, which is, I'm sorry, uh the the Israel, I forget what it's saying now. Now. Yeah, the Israel of God and um or the New Jerusalem. There we go. The New Jerusalem. And it's not so much a place as it's a people. And the foundation, the 12 foundations in Revelation 21, 14, is composed of the apostles. And so Jesus is telling the apostles, you know what? You're going to be rewarded. You're going to have a place of rule in the kingdom to come. Alright, well that's interesting for the apostles. What about us? Well, you look at verse 29, and here's where we're going to focus a little more closely. He talks about the future glory of all Christians. So I'm going to read verse 29 again. Jesus says, and everyone, right? So now he's not just talking about the twelve, he says, everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for my name's sake Will receive a hundredfold. A hundredfold is talking about in this life, because then he says, and will inherit eternal life. Eternal life just just doesn't refer to the duration that is forever, but it means life in eternity, the blessed life in the world to come. And so as Jesus is saying, eternal life is not only forever, but also it's infinitely wonderful. So that's something for uh for us to think about because we don't think much about that. You know, I made a a remark about Joel Olstein and you know in most contemporary uh Christian teachers books that talk about life in the here and now, right Joel Olstein, your best life now. We don't think about eternal life. You know why? Things are pretty good right now, especially in America. We don't have to think we don't have to think of we don't have to hope for something. Uh we w there are many things that we enjoy and it it's it's it's it's pretty good. Even the Christian books that are have been written When a sociologist, James Davison Hunter, uh surveyed the top sorry, the six leading evangelical publishing houses And he found that 80%, no, 87% of their titles refer to the things in the here and now, how God can help you. with your struggles in the here and now. So they're self-help, Christian books, pop psychology, self-therapy. So that leaves 13% of the titles that are published Are about more substantial things, about theology and God and the work of Christ and things to come. And so of that 13%, there's just a little slice that deals with things to come, with heaven, with hell, and uh with with what lies ahead in the Christian life. And so what I want to do is I want to take a little bit of time and just let's think about this. Let's think about the rewards to come. For God's people. And then we'll also talk about present benefits to following Jesus Christ. And so I think this is a helpful exercise Because it helps you put your losses and your disappointments in some kind of perspective, right? The Puritans would say, when writing to your coronation, don't mind if it rains And so Jesus is telling his disciples, you know what? There are hardships now, but he lays it out, you're gonna be rewarded. in the end of the day. So let's think about this. This isn't, of course, an exhaustive survey, but it's sort of just we're going to sort of look at some of the mountaintops of the benefits. that God's people will enjoy when we see God face to face. First of all You're going to live in a better world, right? We live in a very corrupt world. And it all went back to Genesis chapter 3, Paradise Lost. Well, that's the beginning of the Bible. You get to the end of the Bible, Revelation 21 and 22, and you have paradise regained. And that's why you find if you read Revelation 21 and 22 Much of the imagery from Genesis chapter 2 is picked up in that those chapters in Revelation Because it's saying that heaven is going to be a restoration to what the world was originally intended to be. And it's not going to be ethereal. It's going to be physical, right? There's going to be a new earth. C. S. Lewis said, God likes matter. He invented it. We're going to be physical. We don't want to take our ideas from heaven, from uh the popular media, but it's going to be physical. They worked in the Garden of Eden, right? There was progression. There were relationships to be developed, people to meet, things to be uh discoveries to be made. And we're gonna grow in our knowledge of God. Uh we're gonna grow in our love of God And there will be progression, and so the world to come will not be static It'll be physical. You know, think about the most beautiful things in this world, right? Beautiful flowers and mountains and uh wonderful variety of foods and people and all these things. Well, it'll be all these things and more because it will not be corrupted by sin, right? Romans 8 says the entire creation Groans for its liberation. It will one day be liberated, and we will inhabit that new world. So you're going to live in a better world and you're going to receive a new body. Romans 8. 23, Paul says We ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly For adoption as sons. Then he says, the redemption of our bodies, right? And so in heaven we're going to have physical bodies. We're going to be, we're we're going to we're going to be material. The difference, though, is we're not going to be we're going to be free from the corruption and decay that is caused by sin. Again, Philippians 3. 21, Paul says to Christians, Jesus will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. What that means precisely, the Bible doesn't explain, but there was something different about his body after the resurrection, right? I mean he was physical, they recognized him, and yet he w didn't he walk through the door or something like that like that in one of the gospels. So there was something different. And when you think about your own decline As you get older, and you think about the decline of those whom you love in the death of those whom you love Here's the promise that death for the Christian is not the final word. You will receive a new body that sin will not be able to taint And that death will not be able to touch. Pretty good. How about this? Another thing about the life to come. We're going to be morally and spiritually upright. In other words, we're going to be completely different. Um we're not going to be consumed by ourselves. Self-serving, insecure, covetous, resentful, petty. Right, but enough about me. Um all of us. Uh we're we're gonna be fully human, there's gonna be no trace of sin the anger, the resentment, the pride, the lust, the fears. And so there's a sense We don't know each other. Well, we know each other somewhat, but we don't know each other at all compared to how we will know ourselves. When we're redeemed fully, right? Because we're not gonna we're not gonna posture. We're not gonna present ourselves in a certain way, because there'll be nothing to hide We're going to be really delightful too. Not that people aren't delightful now, but we're going to be fully redeemed. When somebody becomes a Christian, they do become more delightful, don't they? Because they're not as wrapped up in themselves. But we're going to become, you know, this is a change that's taking place, and we're going to be we're going to be different. Here's something else. You're going to be in better company I I heard on the news last week in Mexico, I think they said ninety percent, but it was somewhere in the nineties In Mexico, ninety-eight percent of murders go on investigated So we're not saying it we're not even talking about going to court. They're not even investigated. What a horrible place. Or think you know you read about Haiti or some of the life in some of our inner cities. I was reading an article last week in the Washington Times about China this Muslim minority group, 1. 8 million They're called the the Uyghurs. It's UI G H U R S or and I think you it's pronounced the Uyghurs. They're bringing they're building this thousands of prison camps uh in this section of China, 1. 8 million Uyghurs are now in these concentration camps And it just it's amazing the speed at which they have built uh these prison camps And uh you know even we who dwell in safety, you know, still you you encounter some pretty rotten people. They're not going to be in heaven. Only the redeemed. We pray that more of the those who are unredeemed will be redeemed. That's our job. Right? But Revelation 21, 27 says of heaven, nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false. but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. So it's saying only those who have been saved by the grace of God will inhabit heaven. Only those sinners who know the forgiveness of Jesus Christ will have a place in heaven. And you're going to be in a place to go on, there'll be no more sorrow, right? Revelation 21:4 says that God will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. One of the old gospel singers, Mahala Jackson, said in heaven, it's always howdy howdy and never goodbye. And so no more sorrow. And another trait, and this will be the final one I'll put on my list Is you're going to be in the presence of God, right? That's what will make heaven heaven. We think, oh, all right, big deal. Pasadonas, that's a huge thing in the Bible to see God face Revelation 21 verse 3, when John receives this vision of what heaven is like, and he's told, Behold The dwelling place of God is with man. 1 John 3 2, the same thing. We shall see him as he is. We will see the God of the universe. And we won't recoil in fear and shame because our sin will be removed and we will have fellowship. With God. Nothing to sneeze at. Psalm 16, verse 11. The psalmist says: In God's presence there is fullness of joy and pleasures. Forevermore. And then Philippians 1. 23. That's why Paul said, to depart and be with Christ is far better. It's going to be better there than here. How can that be? It sounds sort of boring. That's what kids say, right? That's what we think. Sounds sort of boring. Not according to the Bible. So what we want to do is we want to study Scripture and what it says about what's to come. So that we can look forward to it. And when we have losses in this life and disappointments, and everything doesn't turn out as we hoped it would in our lives. You know what? This isn't the last chapter. We're going to see God. Here's what Jonathan Edwards wrote about seeing God. To go to heaven. Fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here better than fathers and mothers, husbands, wives or children, or the company of any or all earthly friends. These are but shadows, but the enjoyment of God is a substance. These are but scattered beams, but God is the sun. These are but streams, but God is the fountain. These are but drops, but God is the ocean. He says, you know what? Any earthly description of heaven can only scratch the surface, right? It's it's cloudy, we're blinded, we don't we don't So Edwards goes on to say to pretend to describe the excellence, the greatness, or the duration of the happiness of heaven by the most artful human composition of words would be but to darken and to cloud it. But what I'm saying is that you know what? Let's think on these things. Read the book of Revelation, read 1 Corinthians 15. Think on these things. Think on what's to come. Give some perspective to your life But then Jesus says to his disciples, there's not only a reward to come, but there is a reward in this life. So going back to verse 29 again. Everyone who's left houses, brothers, sisters, father, mother, children, lands for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold Then he says, you know, an eternal life to come. But he's saying when he says the hundredfold, he's saying, you know what? There are benefits in this life. And it's interesting, so it's reading about, Jesus is making this promise to his disciples. They are Middle Easterners. One Middle Eastern scholar wrote, there were two unassailable loyalties for the Middle Easter, the most important things in a Middle Easterner's mind, two unassembled loyalties, and it's impossible to communicate what this means in the Middle East Eastern context, because the Middle East to the Middle Eastern, their two unassailable loyalties were their houses and their relatives. And the disciples had left everything to follow Jesus. And Jesus tells his disciples, you're going to receive a hundredfold in this life. If you follow me. And so he's saying there are benefits in the here and now. We should, you know, from our own lives be able to say, yeah. I can agree with that. Here are the benefits that I could list because I know Jesus. You know, you're made to know God. You were made to live according to his commands. You are made to live in fellowship with his people When you're a Christian, that's a great benefit. You're not on your own. What's life about? I don't know. No. We know something. God has revealed it in Scripture And we have his commands to guide us. Life's a whole lot easier. I remember one guy just got out of jail and he was trying to live the Christian life. He said, Wow, life's really simple. And when you're just trying to follow the most basic commands in the Bible That's true on many levels. And when you're not living as God designed you to live You're anxious. There's a discontentment. Isaiah 57, 20 and 21 says, you're like the tossing sea. You're never at peace. But when you're and I'm a you know when I say when you're living as God designed you to live, and I'm not saying flawlessly, I'm not saying sinlessly, but I'm just saying when you're endeavoring To live as God created you, right? You live in repentance, and we know we stumble and all that. But you're trying to go down this road by the grace of God. There's a sense of wantonness about it. It seems right. It feels right. And it works. Life is difficult, there's a sense of aughtness about it. I was reading about this professor at MIT Her name's Rosalind Pickard. She grew up in atheistic home. She became a Christian. And she's this computing genius. She's a director of the affective computing research group at MIT. But anyway, she's telling the story of her conversion and she gave an analogy to explain Here's how my life is different now because I believe in Jesus Christ. And I think it's a nice analogy. She asked the question Have you ever tried to assemble something mechanical and it only kind of works Maybe the wheels spin but not smoothly. Then you realize you're missing a piece. And when you finally put it together correctly, it works beautifully. She said, this is how I felt when I handed my life over to God. I thought it had worked fine before, but after it was fixed So to speak, she says it was exponentially better. And so you can say, in this life, right now Christianity works. And the reason Christianity works is because it's the truth. And so There are benefits to following Christ in the here here and now. Life just works better. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying it's without persecution or loss, but it works better. And you're free from guilt. If you understand the gospel, there's freedom from guilt. And that's a huge thing, right? Especially if you're way down, right? You can't go to sleep tonight because you're because of your regrets and your guilt. Well, the gospel says despite all the foul and self-serving things that you've done, God forgives you. And now you can put your head down on your pillow at night and you can rest. And um it's interesting the parallel passage, Mark 10, 30 Jesus says, you know what, there's also going to be persecutions, and there are Christians who are persecuted right around the world, but nonetheless. To live in a knowledge of God, to live in accord with the truth, and to know his people is to know A peace and a degree of satisfaction that far outweighs the hardships and the persecutions that you face. Then he says finally, verse 30, there's going to be a great reversal in the world to come. Things are going to be turned upside or right side up next time around. He says that many who are first will be last, and the last will be first. And so that's a prelude for the parable in verse chapter twenty that we're going to look at last week. But I just want to say, first of all, to our young people, you know, you go to church, your parents bring you to church, you've heard the Bible stories, you sit under the sermons, your parents hopefully read you the Bible at home They're trying to bring you along. And um then you see other people and you watch things on TV and you think, you know, it looks pretty attractive Well, the message of the Bible is you're not going to come out on a losing end if you bow your life before Jesus Christ. And for others amongst us, you know, you you may have paid the price for following Jesus Christ. But here Jesus gives us a promise. God will not be your debtor. God will not be your debtor. Then for those you're not you're just becoming acquainted with the claims of Christ and with Christianity, again, uh Jesus is saying the same thing to you. I think about the missionary Who was martyr, Jim Elliott? He said, He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose And so Jesus has set before us a wonderful bargain. Let's bow our heads. First Lord we would say forgive us for our lack of gratitude for all the good things that you've given us and the privileges that we enjoy as Christians. We're very prone to grumble. We pray you change that. Help us to see more clearly the great benefits that we have in being numbered amongst your people, having our sins forgiven. in having the promise that we're going to live forever in your presence in a new place where there's no more death or sorrow or grief or pain. I pray, Lord, for those who are going through hard seasons that you'll hearten them with all these great promises. For those who are not Christians We pray, Lord, that they will seek these things out and they would see that to know you, to dwell in your presence, is Is a better gift than all the promises of this world, which are but fleeting. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your song book. We're going to sing 542, 542. Who are these like stars appearing? Let's stand and sing. Who are these light stars appearing? These before God's throne who stand Each golden crown is wearing who are all this glorious band Hallelujah sing, praising my heaven. Who are these of dazzling brightness, these in God's own truth array? Cladding wolves of furious brightness, roles whose lusterness shall fade Every touch by some true hand, hence come all this joyous hand These are they who have contended for their saviors honor long. Wrestling until life was ended by wing not a simple throng These who will the bikes are stained, triumph through the These are days whose hearts were ribbons or whatever and anguish child. Who in prayerful love has driven with all God they glorified Now they're painful conflicts more. God has been weep no more These light breeze have watched and waited, offering up through Christ their will. Soul and body consecrated day and night to serve him still. Now in God's most holy place, blast raised and before his grace Very good. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. Oh, may his name forever live, yes, like the sun. May his fail last By him, may people blessings give, may all the nations call him blessed, may all the nations call him blessed. And may his name all glory with eternally And may his glory fill the earth. Amen, amen, so may it be All men, almost who may it be