Let's turn to John chapter seventeen. This is Jesus' prayer that he prayed on the eve of his crucifixion. It's been called his farewell prayer. It's been called his high priestly prayer. And it's instructive. It reminds us what Jesus is praying for us right now. So here we are, John chapter 17. The third segment of this prayer, he had been praying for the eleven apostles, and now he prays for all of his people, those who've yet to be born, those who've yet to come to know Christ. Chapter 17, verse 20, Jesus said, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, through the preaching of the of the apostles. That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are one, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these that know you have sent me. I have made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them. and I in them. So this is interesting. Back in chapter 13, verse 1. John said about Jesus that said about Jesus that he loved his own until the end. And that's evident, is it not, in this passage, because as I said, Jesus here, this is the the eve of his crucifixion And still, he's not turning it on himself, but he's concerned about his disciples. And the reason for his concern, we see in verse 11 It says, or Jesus said, I'm no longer in the world, but they are in the world And so, yeah, uh he's concerned about them, and that's why he prayed for them shortly before his arrest, he prays this extended prayer For these eleven disciples, but also for the church to come. Right? We saw that in verse 20. He said, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me Through their word. And thus far, Jesus prayed several things for the disciples and for the church. He prayed that the Father would protect them. From the world's corrupting influence. You see that in verse fifteen. I do not ask Whoops, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. So he prayed that the Father would protect them. From Satan's corrupting influence. Verse 17. He prayed that God would grow them in holiness. He prayed, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is the truth. He prayed in verse 18 that they would have a sense of mission. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. Now in this final segment of the prayer, Jesus prayed that his followers would be united. That's the biggest portion of verses 20 to 26. He prayed they would be united And he prayed that they would be with him and that they would grow in the knowledge of him and of his love. So there you have sort of an outline And the first point, as I said, that I'm going to make is really the brunt of it. Jesus prayed for unity amongst his disciples. So let's take this. If you have the outline there, you'll see there's three aspects of this unity that I want to underline. First of all, I want to say that all true Christians are united. We are united in the Holy Spirit. We are spiritually united. Verse 23. He said, I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. And so that's that's uh that's talking about this spiritual unity that we have, Jesus said, I in them. Just as there was a union between Jesus and the Father So there is a union between Jesus and his people, and there's a spiritual union amongst Jesus people. This spiritual union is a given, right? Paul writes, we are in Christ. If we're related to Christ, we're also uh we cannot but be related to one another. But Jesus is praying that this spiritual union will be strengthened because there are ways to strengthen it and there are ways to hinder it. And that's why, for example, in Ephesians four verse three, Paul exhorted the church in Ephesus. He said Maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. So he's saying this is something that we must work at. And we should be doing everything we can to strengthen and to cultivate this spiritual unity. And so Jesus prays for unity, and uh he recognizes that all true Christians are united to him and to one another. And the second thing we see in this text is that the basis for our unity is the teaching of the apostles or apostolic doctrine. So before I point out the verse, let me just uh give a little background. The ground of Unity in the local church or unity amongst Christians in general, it's not merely that we have a common experience. It's not merely that we have a shared mission, although that's part of it. It's not merely just some sort of vague idea that yeah we should love one another. Or that you just happen to like the people in the church. These are just good folks and so it's it's pretty easy uh to enjoy uh fellowship and unity uh with this group of people. And I I had a had a friend in in this county, he pastored a a very conservative Bible teaching church and he he finished there. And then he wa he went to a more uh a a mainline church, which was more liberal in its theology its theology But my friend said, you'd be amazed at what camaraderie there is in this congregation. They're just good people. They like each other. They're gracious. They're congenial And that's all good. That's important. But unity uh isn't just the fact that you know what These happen to be decent people. These a lot of these people are just like me. We get along, it's it's in we we enjoy being together. That's part of it. But um in addition, though, biblical unity uh must be based on the truth of the Bible. And that's what Jesus points to in verse 20. The foundation of our unity is the apostolic teaching about Jesus Christ. So verse 20, like I said He prayed, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, through the preaching. And through the writings of the apostles. And so in other words, it's the teaching of the Bible, it's the teaching of the apostles, in this case uh that provides the basis for unity in the church. And if there's going to be A deep unity, substantial unity, it should be or it must be built on biblical doctrine. And again, So I have friends. I used to go to a monthly uh pastors meeting, lunch, and a bunch of these pastors were charismatic Christians and We're friends, but they would always say doctrine doesn't matter. Uh it's it's the spirit that brings us together and we should have unity. And here I am, I'm like I was like, that m that makes no sense. That makes no sense to me. Because in fact with them doctrine really does matter because if we said, yeah, let's have one church And let's not emphasize the things that you're big about. They would say, well, doctrine actually does matter, but that's sort of just what what they say. And Jesus said the same thing, right? He said, Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. And yes. uh doctrine uh does matter in the basis for our unity uh it has to be built on the truth of scripture It's not enough just to have the truth, right? We have to love one another, but truth is the foundation And that's why we say, for example, in the Apostles' Creed, well, I believe in the Apostolic Church, right? What are we saying? We believe in that that the church is built on the teaching of the apostles. And so no that's another easy or another way of saying that, yeah, there's we we want to be united And true unity is built on the foundation of biblical doctrine. And let me give you a verse or a passage to look up later. You can look it up now. Ephesians two, chapter thirteen to twenty-two, Paul is writing about how the gospel Brings Christians from a Jewish background and from a Gentile background together. The gospel unites people How does that happen? Well, this unity, he says in chapter 2, verse 20, is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. So Paul argues, yeah, there should be unity amongst different kinds of Christians because we're built on the foundation of the teaching of the apostles. and of the prophets. And by the grace of God, and I always say by the grace of God, because things could change tomorrow By the grace of God, our church has enjoyed a remarkable degree of unity for the past 25 years. And it doesn't happen everywhere, believe me. Because I pastored another church in the 90s. That wasn't the case. But it's the case here, by the grace of God. There are reasons I think that contribute to that. We can't protect the church from having division and every aspect, but there are things we can do. And one thing that helps provok unity in our church is that we are, we do have a very full doctrinal statement. Here's what we believe. So our our church leaders, the elders and deacons, the pastor, we all subscribe to a doctrinal statement of here's what we understand the Bible to teach, the Westminster Confession. If you want to know what our church believes, read the Westminster Confession. And if somebody's checking out the church, they read the website. It doesn't have like we believe these seven things But it has a really full statement of belief. People can know what they're getting into before they walk in the door. And then before they join, we have a nine-week inquirer's class where we go through a lot of details about what our church believes. And this all serves to create unity in the church. Oh, somebody's talking on the Zoom. That's distracting. Just wasn't turned off. But anyway, I just lost my thought. Um I was gonna say something else that was really interesting too. Oh my goodness. Um yeah, okay, I was gonna say. Hey You don't if you don't subscribe to every jot and tittle of what we believe And you still join a church, that's fine because you know what you're getting into, right? And so we don't we don't all agree on every single detail. But there's still this this uh common uh cause and mission uh because we are uh we understand what the church believes and teaches. And so Jesus prays that we would be united. And downplaying the importance of doctrine doesn't prevent division. It just postpones it because it comes sooner or later. If you go to one of these churches that says we believe these seven things They believe a lot more. Trust me. It's just when you start teaching something that goes against what the pastor says, you're going to find out precisely what they believe. So anyway Here's the third thing about unity. So the second thing was the basis of our unity is apostolic doctrine But then he also indicates that the success of our outreach as a church depends on unity in the church. And so years ago I read a book on D-Day by Stephen Ambrose and he had different incidents he recounted, but one of the incidents was um when the American troops were in England training To go across a channel uh for the Normandy invasion. Uh there was a paratrooper by the name of David Jones. He went into a pub And he got into a fist fight with another paratrooper and the soldiers and the other soldiers in the pub, they separated these two guys. But this fella that David Jones got into this fight with said, you know what When we go into battle, I'm gonna find you and I'm gonna kill you. So David Jones wrote in his diary, he said We landed in Normandy, then he wrote, wouldn't you know, the first person I met on the edge of that on the edge of that flood was the same paratrooper. And there I was looking down the barrel of his Tommy gun. Then he put it down and he wrote, We hugged We slap each other on the back, telling each other how fortunate we were to have made it through this far, and we started off together. These two men understood that the mission that they were engaged in was bigger than their petty grievances. And that's important for us to recognize. We have a mission that's bigger than our differences and our s our the the ways that we don't like about so and so or that they don't like about us. And the mission is to reach others with the gospel. So look at verse 21. Jesus speaks about that. He prayed that they may be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I and you, that they also may be in us. Why? So that the world may believe that you've sent me, right? This is the mission. Jesus saying, You guys should want unbelievers to recognize that this stuff is true and that Jesus is God. And so put aside your your your petty grievances. Look at the end of verse 23, the same idea. I'll read the whole verse, verse 23. He prayed, I and them, and you and me, that they may become perfectly one. Why is that? So that the world may know That you sent me and love them even as you have loved me. And so Jesus reminds us that we do have this mission to make Jesus Christ known to the world. And so that should this this mission should make us sorry, it should give us a sense of proportion about the grievances that we might have toward others and also a sense of proportion about Our particular hobby horses. And maybe we should just, you know, bite our lips once in a while. And I'll tell you what, over the years This is just my opinion. Over the years, people have left this church for the most inconsequential reasons. May I offer a couple examples. Years ago, somebody left the church. This family left the church. Why? Because people in our church celebrate Christmas. I heard what they had to say. I think they have a point there. We celebrate Christmas, but I appreciate their their position. I don't think it's a reason to leave the church. And they never joined another church because they couldn't find one in the area that held to that position. And so all the things the Bible says about being submissive to your elders, how do you do that if you're not in a church? How do you keep Hebrews 10, 25? Let's not give up meeting together. All those things were brushed aside because this church has people who celebrate Christmas. I think there's a lack of proportion there. So they're going to bedside Baptist and they think that's okay because at least we're not with those people who celebrate Christmas. Then there's a fellow who left our church because we support a missions organization that he has a problem with. And so he didn't go to church anywhere now because he didn't want to be tainted by the church of all the things we do and all the things we support. Here's a problem he had. So he's done with us. Years ago, here's this is a long time ago. Years ago a lady got mad at me because on the church uh phone list, the people if you're a member, you get an asterisk by your name. I didn't put an asterisk by her name. Sh I forgot to do it, or I I don't know what happened, but there was no asterisk and she read into that That I didn't want her in the church. And so she got mad at me. Then there was another couple who left the church because we had a cover-dish lunch. And there was a family, a couple in the church who had two boys who were just wild boys, they were just boys though, and they left the church because um This family wasn't controlling their boys going through the serving line at the cover dish lunch. Like There and that there was another there's another story about that family. We used to have a Sunday night Bible study at their house And I invited somebody to come to the Bible studying they didn't know ahead of time. And so he didn't just say, can you tell me ahead of time He didn't just send me an email. He sent me a letter, and it was a memorandum of understanding of how I should approach the Bible study. So Boston, you're looking forward to being a pastor. Um and then sorry I'm a little angry. There is a really super spiritual couple who boycotted our first Sunday prayer meeting Because when we prayed this prayer meeting, we're not lacing the prayers with enough illusions to Scripture. And so they're not going to come to the prayer meeting. And so I can go on. But anyway I would say to them, and then you probably have your hobby horse too, and you probably have something that's really you're angry about, some slight from years ago I would say I would suggest should not Jesus call to unity give you a sense of proportion about your hobby horses and the ways that you feel. that you've been slighted. Should not what Peter says in 1 Peter 4 8, should not love cover a multitude of sins. Nobody here is claiming that we have we're doing everything just as it should be done Should you not recognize that there's not a perfect church out there? And so uh we want to reach unbelievers with the gospel. But our message will be made credible by the quality of our relationships. That's why Paul In Philippians 127, he wrote that we must be contending for the faith of the gospel as one man. We must be united or uh John 13, 35, Jesus said, By this all men will know that you're my disciples. How? If you love one another. And so do you have a sense of proportion about these issues that you hold dear? Do you seek to express your unity With other Christians. Do you make an effort to become acquainted with other people? Even people that you might not think you have would have anything in common with. Do you make an effort Are you gracious toward others when they have a different position or a different viewpoint? Or they're not as studied up on this or that issue, or they parent in a different way. Are is there a general graciousness understanding that we come from different backgrounds we have different experiences and different exposure uh to the Bible. Do you do you think the best of them or do you write them off? Do you pray for them? Do you refrain from gossip? Do you r seek to resolve differences according to what it says in Matthew 18? Right, you go to that person uh one on one. And so Jesus prayed for unity. So that's the big thing there. Just briefly the second point. Jesus prayed that his people might be with him, that we would grow in our knowledge of him and of his love. So just briefly, we see he prayed. This is I think it's surprising. He prayed that we would be with him. So our the goal of our salvation isn't that isn't only that we go to heaven. The goal of our salvation is that we be with Jesus Christ. Paul spoke of this in Philippians 1. 23. He said, My desire is to depart and to be with Christ. Psalm 16, David said to God, In your presence is fullness of joy. So yeah, there's a believer wanting to be with Christ. But the surprising thing is if you look at verse 24, that says, or Jesus says, he wants to be with us. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am. That's striking. And it would have been even more striking to the first readers of John's Gospel Remember I mentioned a book I was reading last week, uh, The Rise of Christianity? Here's another great insight from that book. Rodney Stark said The Christian teaching, that God loves those who love him, was alien to pagan beliefs. I mean, you know, in the ancient world, a god was someone you called upon to help you with this or that And their gods had no interest or compassion toward people. They were completely indifferent toward people But here we have God Himself saying, I desire to be with my people. And so that's a remarkable thing. And then also, just going on briefly. Jesus prayed that meet we might be with him and that we might know him more and more. Verse 25, I'm going to read that again, verse 25. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me. I made them known, excuse me, I made known to them your name. And so Jesus prays that we'll know him And that of course comes through the scripture, it comes through prayer, it comes from a long obedience in the same direction. And Jesus prayed finally. uh that we would grow in our love for him. Again, verse twenty-six, I made known to them your name, and I'll continue to make it known. that the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. And so that's an amazing prospect that we would have the same love that the Father and the Son have for each other. And so there you have it. And that's something God does, right? He works in us. Uh Romans five verse five. Paul said, God's love has been poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, so it's a supernatural work that God does in us, and we certainly need Him to work that. And I would say uh we're blessed. As I said earlier, there is a a a notable uh degree of unity amongst our our people. We just pray it'll continue. We pray Lord You'll protect it. And we want to cultivate that. One of the Puritans, Thomas Manton, preached 45 sermons on John chapter 17. I don't recommend that, but he did have a couple good lines. Here's one of them. He said, The union of the saints together. Sorry. The union of the saints, when they are together, depends on their communion with God when they are alone. And so we want to cultivate our walk with Christ, and that will flow over into the way that we deal with one another. And it's interesting, some of the angriest people in churches are people who are not cultivating that, but they're very interested in being recognized. in in pushing uh their agenda. We don't want that to be said of us. So I'll close, uh just give you a verse to think about today, write it down. Ephesians 4, verses 2 and 3. Paul exhorts the church. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient. Bearing with one another in love. Then he says, make every effort, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you for your spirit. We thank you, Lord, for this church that is built on Scripture. We pray that we would continually be seeking to know you. Help us, Lord, to make every effort to Build up others to reach out to them, to pray for them, to show concern for them And just to engage other people, to remember the kids in the church too, helping them to know that they're part of this church. And so preserve our church for generations to come from division. We pray, Lord, that we will have an uncommon humility uh toward one another. We will think the best of one another. For those who aren't Christians, we pray, Lord, that they would see there's something supernatural about this. And that you would bring them to trust in Christ as their Savior. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we're going to sing an old song, 359, blessed be the tie that binds. Let's stand and sing. Bless me the time that I was in Christian. Before his prayers are Our fears are hopes, our aims are one, our concentration. We shared our mutual woes, our mutual bird is fair, and all is for each other blood lessons. It gives us in word pain, but we shall still Rejoin in heart and hope to meet again. This works hope revives our courage by the world. Way while each and expectation live to see the day Transforce all that pain in sin we shall be free and perfect love and pray. Eternity. Amen. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit Be with you all for now and evermore. Amen. So we'll take five minutes, then we'll have our meeting. Eating starts and then we're going to be able to do that. Five minutes. Five minutes. Sorry, I I don't know about the following work.