And there are there I should have said, if there are any children, four to five year olds, who want to go to worship training, you may go back there with Miss Becky. Alrighty. So I'm gonna read. It's a bit of a long passage. I've been biting off some big chunks here in Matthew. Matthew 26 verse 30, Jesus and his disciples had just celebrated the Last Supper Then it says in verse 30, and when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I'm raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter answered him, Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night before the rooster of crows, you will deny me three times. Peter said to him, Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And all the disciples said the same. Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane And he said to his disciples, Set here while I go over there and pray. And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with me. And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, So could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again, for the second time he went away and prayed My father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. So leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. Then he came to the disciples to the disciples and said to them, Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of Satan. Sinners. Rise, let us be going. See my betrayer is at hand. So then he's arrested. Then there's a trial. We're going to pick up in verse 69 We find out what came of Peter's confident assertion of allegiance to Christ. We read now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came up to him and said, You also were with Jesus the Galilean. But he denied it before them all, saying I do not know what you mean. And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders This man was with Jesus of Nazareth. And again, he denied it with an oath. I do not know the man. After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you. Then he began to invoke a curse on himself, and to swear, I do not know the man. And immediately the rooster crowed. And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus: Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Now, you're probably familiar with Exodus chapter 3? The story about Moses standing before God at the burning bush. And remember what God said? He said, take off your sandals for your standing on holy ground. And there are some passages in the Bible that even a dullard uh recognizes that there's something mysterious. There's there's something holy about this, right? You think about Exodus 3, that Exodus 3 passage. I think about Isaiah chapter 6, where God revealed his holiness to the prophet I think about Matthew seventeen, Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration. And then also We have this passage before us where Jesus is in this garden. And when you read the passage, uh there's a sense of Mystery, uh there's a sense of awe, and the reader cannot but feel uh that he's in water that's over his head. And that's how I feel uh or felt this week because I'm trying to uh uh convey uh the sense of the passage before us. And so uh just to review the context, this is the Eve Of the crucifixion. Jesus and his disciples, they just celebrated the Last Supper. And it says in verse 30, when they had sung a hymn, and that would have been one of the Psalms, because the Psalms Psalm the Psalter was the hymn book of Israel. When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And the Mount of Olives, so Jerusalem's on a hill, and you go down the hill And then there's another hill right next to it, and that's the Mount of Olives. So they went down the hill Jerusalem, and then they went up to the Mount of Olives. And it says that uh there was a garden on the Mount of Olives. That's from John chapter 18. And a series of events are about to unfold that will end uh with Jesus Christ being nailed to a cross. So we're looking at two things this morning The first thing we're looking at is Peter's presumption and his fall. Peter's presumption and his fall. So let's go back to verse 31. Verse 31 Where am I? Okay. Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written. And then he quotes, this is Zechariah 13, verse 7. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And so what is about to take place was foretold in the Old Testament. And the Apostle Peter would have none of this. Let me review with you verse 33-35 of his objection. Peter answered him. Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times Peter said to him, even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And all the disciples said said the same. Well we know what happened right before the night was over, before the rooster approach giving uh Peter had indeed denied Jesus uh three times And um when Peter had protested uh that he would never deny him, uh He was sincere, but he just did not know himself. And that's that is that's us, right? I mean uh Jeremiah 17 verse 9 The God says the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can understand We can't understand our own hearts. We we we don't recognize what we can do uh given the right set of circumstances And there are times earlier in our marriage where I would say to my wife, I would never be unfaithful to you And my wife's response was not, oh thank you for your for your allegiance, thank you for uh your promise. Her response uh the few times I said it was always first Corinthians 1012, where uh Paul says, Let he who thinks he stands take heed uh lest he fall. Because there's not one of us No matter how sincere w we may be, given the right set of circumstances, who would not fall, right? And we I remember somebody saying, we Calvinists not only believe in total depravity, we practice it. And so why would we be surprised that we would not fall And I think this is this is a this is a warning to Christians uh in our culture. Because I suspect, and I'm not a prophet, and I hope I'm wrong, but things you read, it looks like Christians are going to get squeezed by our culture You're going to be squeezed in the workplace not only to say, yes, I can tolerate same sex marriage, I can tolerate uh those who believe in uh gender fluidity, I can get along with them. But they're not only going to ask me, do you tolerate that? They're going to say, do you positively affirm those lifestyles and those beliefs and the other tenets of wokeness? And some Christians are going to go along to get along, right? Because you don't want to lose your job, you don't want to uh not be admitted to a college or to a graduate program, and some Christians are going to fall away, and this is going to sift the Church of Jesus Christ. And there will be pressure to compromise in our allegiance to Christ. And so, will it be you? Will it be me? Will we fall away? And so this account of Peter, the lesson there is we need to be prepared, we need to beware of presumption that resides in our own heart. This is why Peter said to said to his disciples in verse 41, watch and pray. That you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And so he's saying, watch and pray. Use all God's appointed means for your moral and your spiritual strengthening. That you can stand up in that situation when the pressure's on. Stay in the word. Read it. Read do your one chapter, two chapters, or three chapters, but take time. I know you don't always have a lot of time, but when you have the time Take the time to read it reflectively, to read it carefully, and also prayerfully. You know, just stop once in a while and think about it and pray, Lord. Burn this into my into my conscience. Help me to remember this about you and about your promises to me, and so on. Because so we want to stay in the word because we want to be reminded, although the whole world, it seems, is saying one thing When you read the scripture, you're reminded this is the truth. I can't get away from this. This has the ring of truth. And so stay in the word, stay in prayer, stay in fellowship with God's people, right? We need to see others to be reminded we're not the only ones out there who are Christians. And when we see others, we see the fruit of of spiritual transformation in their lives. And we it reminds us, you know what? God is still at work in people's lives. And I know many here are new, but there are people in our church who are radically changed. So when I see those people, it reminds me that God does change people. It also reminds me I need to be quick to tell others about Jesus Christ Because who knows what God's gonna do if God if God's gonna bring them to saving faith. So watch and pray. One of the Puritans John Owen wrote this When we realize the constant enemy of the soul abides within us, what diligence and watchfulness We should have. How woeful is the sloth and negligence then of so many who live blind and asleep to this reality of sin There is an exceeding efficacy and power of sin in believers, for it constantly inclines itself toward evil. So we need to be awake if our hearts would know the ways of God. We need to watch and pray because the sin Is within us. And when we're in a certain certain circumstances, we too will fall like Peter. And so what I'm saying so far is don't presume upon your ability to withstand temptation. Watch and pray. One more comment, okay, before we move on. About Peter's self-confidence in verse 33. He says, I won't fall away because of you. I'll never fall away. I think that's instructive in another way. Many worship songs, especially of the contempor the some of these contemporary songs, what you what that what have been called Jesus is my boyfriend songs where you just you're expressing to Jesus These confident assertions. I will always love you. I will always praise you. I will always exalt you. That is the same self-confidence that Peter had. And at the very least, we need to balance things out a little bit with some other songs. That acknowledge our weakness and our frailty. I think about I was looking at our hymn book this week, John Newton's hymn, How Sweet the Name of Jesus Sounds. It has a mind that acknowledges Weak is the effort of my heart and cold my warmest thought. Now which is more true of you? Jesus, I'll always love you, I'll always exalt you, I'll always love you. praise you for weak is the effort of my heart and my warmest thought of you is cold I think Newton gets that gets the prize on that one. The first song we sang, Francis Scott Key's uh Lord with Glowing And so in the first line he says, or he praise Help, O God, my weak endeavor, this dull soul to rapture raise. Thou must light the flame for never. Can my love be warmed to praise. That's a realistic approach to to the Christian life. That's why we need uh these kind of hymns because these are expressions of Christian reality. And so beware of presuming your ability to withstand temptation. Beware of presuming about your allegiance to Jesus Christ. I need to move on, but I want to say one more thing. This is especially for young people, because I'm sure though many of those who are older have thought about this. So Peter fell away. Forty days later, we find Peter right in the center of Jerusalem preaching about Jesus Christ. To the very crowds who had crucified him. What how do we explain that change in the Apostle Peter? He just, in this passage, he denies Jesus before this lowly servant girl. Forty days later He's right in the center of Jerusalem preaching about Jesus Christ. How do we explain that? And the only reasonable explanation Is that Jesus really did rise from the grave. And Jesus, as he had promised, really had equipped Peter with his power, with the Holy Spirit. That's the only reasonable explanation. So that's the first thing we see in this passage, Peter's presumption in Paul. Alright, well we're ready to start our sermon now. Here we go, verse 26 to 36. We see Jesus travail and Resolve. Okay, so this is in verse 36. On the Mount of Olives, there's a place called Gethsemane. Uh that word Gethsemane means oil press I'd mentioned uh from John 18. 1 that it was a garden and uh and also said, you know what, apart from the cross of Jesus Christ, but apart from Christ's death on the cross This is surely the most distressing and the most mysterious passage in all the Gospels. So what I want to do is I want to draw three lessons from Gethsemane. Three lessons. What do we what does Gethsemane teach us about Jesus? Three, and the first one's the longest, okay First point I want to make is this. Gethsemane displays the depth of Jesus' suffering. It displays the depth of how Jesus suffered for his people. And I say that because, you know, we recognize Jesus Jesus was fully God, but it's possible to so emphasize Jesus' divinity that we forget His full humanity. We forget that Jesus Christ was fully man, and as a man, he was horrified. By the prospect of the cross. And that's apparent in this passage, right? Look at the end of verse 37. Matthew wrote, He began to be sorrowful and troubled. Uh Greek scholar Max Zerwick translated it. He was seized by horror and distress. Then in verse 38, he said to his disciples, My soul is very sorrowful, even to the point of death. You look at the parallel pastors, Luke 22, 44. Luke wrote, Being in in agony, he prayed all more earnestly And his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. He th he was suffering this broiling emotional Agitation, despite. There's a line in Handel's Messiah. Behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto his sorrow. There was something unique about the sorrow, about the horror that Jesus Christ experienced in Gethsemane. Why is that? Why was Jesus horrified at the prospect of the cross? Especially, you know, y you read you read the Gospels And there were times when the people were about to stone him. They were grinding their teeth at him. He faced vicious hostility many times And he he faced these stress with self-mastery and with poise, right? He just walked right through the crowd and he wasn't worried about it. But he was horrified at the prospects Of the cross. There's something else that makes me scratch my head. You read church history, and there are many accounts of men and women who died, martyrs' deaths uh courageously and even peacefully. Think of John Bradford, the sixteenth century uh English reformer He was chained to a stake, and his his uh colleague, John Leaf, was chained to a stake next to him And before the fires were lit, he said to John Lee, Be a good comfort, brother, for we shall have a merry supper with the Lord tonight. Oh, that was John Bradford. But Jesus Christ, he wasn't of good cheer. He was undone. Martin Luther said of Jesus, no one ever feared death. as much as this man. So why was that? Why was Jesus so troubled at Gethsemane? And I would say number one, because he would he was wrestling uh with the powers of darkness. He he knew that he would soon be overpowered and destroyed by demonic powers Luke 22, 53 says to those who would soon arrest him, this is your hour and the power of darkness. He knew that Satan and his legions, this was their hour, all the forces of hell would be arrayed against him. And he also understood, and was horrified by the fact that he would bear the Father's wrath against the sins of his people. Notice he said, May this cup be taken The cup, particularly in the Old Testament, whenever it talks about the cup, typically It is speaking about the cup of God's holy wrath. Isaiah 51, verse 17, Psalm 11, verse 6, Zechariah 12 Verse two Revelation chapter sixteen they talk about or there it talks about the bowls or the cups of God's wrath And so Jesus recognized that the eternal fellowship that he had with the Father would be broken, and he would be the object of the full fury of his father's wrath against our sin. Another Puritan Richard Baxter said His agony was not from the fear of death, but from the deep sense of God's wrath against sin. Which he is our sacrifice was to bear in greater pain than mere dying. Another quote if you'll indulge me, Calvin So his horror was because he had before his eyes the judge himself armed with inconceivable vengeance. It was our sins The burden of which he had assumed that pressed him down with their enormous masks and tormented him grievously with fear and anguish. And so if you ever doubt the reality of God's wrath, you know, that's not gonna happen. God's not God's a loving God. He is a loving God, but he's also a judge. God, if you ever doubt the reality of God's wrath, think about the terror that Jesus suffered at the prospect Of being subject to it. He understood something of what it entailed, and he was terrified. But what's the upshot of this for us? The upshot of this is what Paul said in Galatians 2 verse 20. When he said, The Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. Well that puts a little more significance God for the sins of his people. Would he devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? Was it for crimes that I had done he groaned upon the tree? And he said, Amazing pity, grace unknown And so we see at Gethsemane something of the death of Jesus suffering. My second and third point I'll be a little more succinct. Second, Gethsemane displays the necessity of Jesus' suffering. You see this in the end of verse 39. We read where Jesus says, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will. But as you will. Then he says it two more times. Look at verse forty-two. Again for the second time he went away and My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. Verse 44. So leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying Now that's notable because there are broad-minded people who will tell you that all roads lead to heaven, right? You could be into old time roads religion or a new age religion or no religion or you can follow Muhammad or Buddha or Jesus, doesn't matter. As long as you're sincere, that's that's good enough for God. broad minded guy and he'll and he'll accept you. Well, but then we have to say, if that's the case, if all roads lead to heaven After Jesus had pleaded with the Father, if it is possible, why did he still go to the cross? And the answer is that there was no other way to be saved. Paul in Galatians three twenty one makes this very point He said if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law, right? If there's some set of commandments, if you follow these, if you pray these many prayers each If there's a way to be saved by some law or some method or some set of uh you know lifestyle Precepts, well then that would have been great. Um that God would have done that. But there's not a way to be saved before holy God by our religion or by our our moral striving. So no, there's no other way. That's why Peter said in Acts 4. 12, there's salvation, there's human There is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. And so there was no other way, and the reason is that only a God man could save his people, right? Jesus had to be fully man. Only a man could die in the place of another man, he had to be fully God because he had to be a sacrifice of infinite value. So Jesus prayed, Father, if it's possible, may this cup be taken From me, and we see that it was it wasn't possible because Jesus Christ, the God man, was necessary for our redemption So at Gethsemane we see the depth of Jesus' suffering. We see secondly the necessity of Jesus' suffering And we see thirdly the extent of the Father's love for us, right? When you have a child and that child is in distress. A parent's instinctive reaction is to run to his or her rescue. Right? And that's why we have what they call helicopter parents. Right. They're so compassionate. The parents are so compassionate toward uh their children. But we see here that God the Father uh looked upon his son He saw his son grieved to the point of death. He saw him sweat, drops of blood. He heard him, he heard his plea and his agonizing prayer. And had Jesus given the signal, the Father would have rescued him. Why do I say that? Because in uh Matthew 26 2653, Jesus said to those who arrested him, Do you think I cannot appeal to my father, and he will at once send me twelve legions of angels But the Father stood by. Why? So the Son could finish his redemptive work. That's why Octavius Winslow he asked the question, who delivered Jesus up to die? He answered, Well not Judas for money, not Pilate for fear, not the Jews for envy, but The Father for love. And I think that's good for us to remember when we doubt God's watch care, God's purposes, God's love for us. When we're in a terrible situation and we wonder, you know, why do you not hear my prayer, Lord? He said God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There is displayed the love of God for his people. Well I'm going to close. I just want to say one more thing to those who aren't Christians. It would be foolish to turn away from such love. Christ loved his people, he gave himself for sinners, and he pardons all who would turn. No, right? Think about this, let's bow our heads