I'll ask you to turn uh in the book of Romans, so we're nearing the end of Paul's letter to the Christians in Rome. And you remember this church was made up mostly of Gentiles, uh for kids. That means that a Gentile's a somebody who's not a Jew. But also there were Jewish people in this church who became believers. And we're uh looking at a section that began in chapter 14. I'll explain, if you haven't been here, I'll catch up a little bit. Well we're gonna look this morning at chapter fifteen, verse eight to thirteen, but I want to go back one verse to verse seven, which we covered last week, but provides the prompt for what he says in chapter or ver beginning at verse eight. So Romans chapter fifteen, verse seven Paul says to these Christians, therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. So he's talking to these Jews, Christi Jewish Christians, Gentile Christians. There is a little bit of friction there about what they were having to eat at these church meals The the Jews, Christians, they would not eat any meat. And so there was a little s friction about that. There was a little friction. The Jews were still observing the Old Testament holy days. It wasn't necessary So Paul is exhorting these people. Hey, you need to be welcoming. In fact, this discussion began in chapter 14, verse 1, where he says the same thing. For the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. Okay? And then we looked last week, the first six verses of chapter 15, he says, here's why you should welcome each other. Now we pick up in verse 8, okay? Verses 8 to 13. Here's another reason. We need to be welcoming and accepting and encouraging of one another. For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness. In order to confirm the promise promises given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written. Then we have four Old Testament verses. Therefore, I'll praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name. And again it is said, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with this people, and again. Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him. And again, Isaiah says The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles. In him will the Gentiles hope. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace and believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope Alright, we're going to look at this in one minute, but I'm going to tell you something that is very silly, but this is what was really this this is a huge theme in church planting. I think they started in the 1980s. They would say the church growth gurus, people who write books on how to plant churches and grow churches They came up with this this idea, they would call they called it the homogenous unit principle And what is that? They said, if you want to grow a church, here's what you do. You focus on one group of people, you make that your target audience. And then you know how to shape everything you do in a church to attract those kind of people. And they said And uh though tr it's true, if you get people who are very similar to come to your church, your church is going to grow faster. Because these people are going to make friends quicker, there's going to be more that they have uh things in common with, and the church will grow. And I remember when we came here in 2001 as the church uh as church as church planner, as church planner. People would ask me, who is your target group? Because there were other church planters in town. They were saying, well our target group is millennials or generation X Um and we had a family who visited our church for a few months and then they left. I said, Why aren't you coming back? They said, we want to go to a homeschool church. I said, well we got a lot of parents who homeschool their children. And they said, well, we want to go to a church where all the parents homeschool their children. And then we were out in Illinois years ago in Farmer City, Illinois, and that's an oxymoron, Farmer City, Illinois. It wasn't a city But we went on Sunday night uh to Cowboy Church. So they had Cowboy Church and it was all co country music and all this. But that was targeting uh country folk, okay? So no yuppies. I didn't see any yuppies there at cowboy church. But if you go to a yuppie church, right, you don't see any uh cowboys either. So I guess it's fair. But anyway, hey it works. The homogenous unit principle. It works. Uh your church will grow more quickly. But there is this problem that it violates everything the Bible says about uh the diversity that should be in the Christian church. And that's sort of a messed up word in these days diversity, but there is a there is a legitimate use of it. You see in Revelation chapter 7 verses 9 and 10 It talks about the church in heaven as made up of people, it says, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. Okay? So we don't want a homogenous church. We don't want it to be like a carton of milk. We want it to be diverse, like a can of mixed nuts. And I think I think I think we are nailing it. Okay That said, right, um the church would grow quicker if we focused everything on attracting uh a certain kind of person. There would be less misunderstandings, right, because more people would be just like you, they'd have the same interests, the same way of communicating and so on, uh, but that would viol the design uh that we see for the church And when you see a church where there is a good mix of people of different ages, of different education backgrounds and uh uh nationalities, I I counted, I think we have ten nationalities in this church. That's a good thing, right? And everybody gets along. It's a it's a great church. It's funny, this is an aside. I was talking to my son-in-law yesterday And he's he sent a couple to visit our church and they visited last summer, but they ended up joining the church he goes to. And I said, he oh he told me, he said, they said Good News Presbyterian is the friendliest church they ever visited I said, well why don't they come here? Why don't they join our church? Why'd they join yours? He said, well, because they like the youth program the kids children's programs or something at church. But anyway, so that was a but that was a good word, a good commendation uh to our congregation. But what we see In verses eight to twelve is this this argument, this statement, that Jesus came Precisely for the purpose, this is this wasn't his only purpose, but it came for the purpose of uniting various peoples. And as I said, that was what was going on in the church in Rome. Christians from a Jewish background, Christians from a Gentile background And there was, this is remarkable, because animosity between these two groups went back centuries, okay? And uh there were still struggles in the congregation. And if you remember from chapter 14 A dispute arose in the congregation because uh the Jewish Christians, as I mentioned, they were continuing to observe the Old Testament holy days They were continuing to have a kosher diet. In fact, they weren't even eating any meat. They were vegetarians, it says in the beginning of chapter 14. The Gentile Christians thought this is ridiculous. Don't they understand the gospel? Don't they understand that Jesus Christ All those Old Testament ceremonies, they were just object lessons pointing forward to the work of Christ. And so you can eat whatever you like, and you don't have to observe these various uh Jewish holy days. They're now superfluous Paul, in chapter 14, look at verse 3. I'm just getting a little background here. Chapter 14, verse 3, he says, listen. He says to both groups, don't let your differences over these issues, which are secondary, don't let your differences cause a division in your fellowship. Chapter 14, verse 3. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. Right? So the Gentiles were they were having beef burgers or whatever And they were saying, why don't you guys have some uh have some meat here? Why are you just eating your uh cow uh I forget what it's called. Kale. Why are you just eating your cow? Okay Why are you eating kale? That would make them uh cannibals. No. Why are you why are you eating uh kale And so they were despising the one who abstains, then the second part, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats For God has welcomed him. And then chapter 15, we looked at it last week. He gave a couple reasons why these two groups should live in harmony. And now, Philo brings us to our passage, verses eight and nine. He says, here's another reason That you should not despise each other, that you should not look down on each other. Jesus came to bring Jew and Gentile together when they have faith in him. as their savior. And that's why verse 8 begins with the word for. Paul is giving the reason that they should work to be more harmonious. Look at verse 8-9 one more time. He says, For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised To show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs. And so Christ came to the Jews to show that God was faithful. to his Old Testament promises to send the Messiah. And then he says in verse 9, this is the sort of surprising part. He also came, says verse 9, in an order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. Okay? So they're the two reasons that Jesus came, that Paul mentions here, to show God's faithfulness to the Old Testament promises he made to the Jews And also, secondly, to incorporate the Gentiles into the people of God And the notable part is the fact that Christ came also to save the Gentiles But Paul says, listen, you shouldn't be surprised about this because this was all foretold in the Old Testament scriptures. All you have to do is read it. And so that his Jewish audience would recognize this isn't just some peripheral matter, Paul quotes the three sections of the Old Testament. The law and the writings and the prophets. And so that's why you have in verses 9 to 12 four quotes from the Old Testament. Verse 9 comes from the law, 2 Samuel 22. He quotes it that says, Therefore, praise you among the Gentiles and sing to your name. So Samuel, in the book of Samuel, God is speaking about Gentiles coming to know God and seeing his praise. Then in the end of verse 10. He quotes from the law, Deuteronomy 32, 43, where Moses summoned the Gentiles to rejoice in the company of God's people. It says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. And then in verse 11, he quotes from Psalm 117. That was in the writings, and it says there, Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him. And then finally, in verse 12, he quotes from the prophets, the prophet Isaiah chapter 11, verse 10, where this there's a prediction that the Messiah A descendant of David, who was Jesse's son, would rule the nations with their confidence. And so I'll read it. The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles, in him will the Gentiles hope. And so Paul saying to these Christians from Jewish background, from Gentile background, he's saying, listen, God's plan from the beginning Was to bring Jew and Gentile together in one people, and that happened when Jesus Christ came. Now There's a lot that we don't have in common in our little church, right? Different backgrounds, different nationalities, different educational levels. uh different uh political leanings and so on. Different you know, I think the biggest background is probably you were raised like this and I was raised like that and we have different ways of doing things. But nonetheless, uh the lesson here The less the big less one of the big lessons in the New Testament is what Jesus said in John 12, 32. He said, When I'm lifted up, I'll draw all men to myself. And that is that that is the glorious message of the gospel. And so Paul is saying all this to press the Christians in the Church of Rome who were rubbing each other the wrong way, he's saying, listen, you need to have the big picture in mind. when you're having this kind of friction, uh when you're misunderstanding one another, and maybe when you're not giving the other the benefit of the doubt You have to remember that Christ came for this very reason to draw you together. And that's why, going back to verse seven, he said, Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. And then look at the the end of verse eight. He says you do it for did I say verse eight? I meant the the end of verse seven. Yeah, the end of verse seven. Why should they do it for the glory of God? So hey You want to glorify God. We sing about it all the time, right? And then people become missionaries. That's a way to glorify God. People give great amounts to the work of the kingdom. That's a way to glorify God. People work in different ministries in the church. That's a way to glorify God. Paul's saying, here's another way to do it. And it's it's pretty manageable. Make an effort to uh get along with other people. People with whom you don't have a lot in common, at least on the surface, because you do have the big thing in common. You've been made new in Jesus Christ. That's the lesson here. And when you look at church groups, when you look at youth groups, church youth groups, you see this a lot amongst young adults, singles groups, and whatnot. You walk into a room where there's some kind of social going on, or maybe it's before the church service, you walk in, you might be a new person. And you're sort of looking around to make some friends, right? You want to come to this young adult group or this youth group or the church if you weren't interested in making some friends. The new person comes in And everybody's in their little circle, they they're catching up with friends they haven't seen all week, and that's a wonderful thing New person will walk into the church and there'll be some church members. They're like they're going here, they're going there, they don't even look up, they don't even notice them. Then I'll say, hey, um did you meet so-and-so? Or hey, why don't you you know make sure that this person is attended to? And they'll say Well, of course. But I wasn't I didn't even notice them. And that's very understandable in one sense, but in another sense That's the whole we should really be more perceptive. We should be uh less turned in on ourselves in noticing them, especially in some of the smaller groups. And this doesn't happen very often, but it does happen And so this is this is this um I think this is a legitimate uh thing that we should take notice about. I need to look up, I need to look out look about I need to be the one who reaches out to someone who's sort of standing over there and not expect somebody else to do it. All right, that's the lesson of this passage. And I think that's the clearest application I can make. Now I can say, hey, it's 1115, let's call it a day. But there is something else here in this passage that I think is very helpful, okay? In verse thirteen, let's go back down to verse thirteen. Paul pronounces a benediction in which he asks God to help these folks strengthen their hope. Okay? Verse 13. Look at it closely. Don't close your Bible because we're going to look at another, compare it to something else. So verse 13, Paul says May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Now here's a question that this verse is going to answer. The question is, how does God strengthen our hope? Because that's sort of a nebulous concept. May God give you more hope. Okay? Well, this verse Gives us an answer. It's a specific answer. It tells us one of the primary ways that God strengthens a Christian's hope. Okay? Now before we look at the answer, I want you to notice that this is quite a notable word in this section. Three times Paul speaks about hope in verses 12 to 13. That's why I said, keep your Bible open. Look at there, verse 12. He quotes from Isaiah in verse 12, saying about this Messiah, that in him will the Gentiles hope. Then verse thirteen, may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace and believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Okay? So that's that's the theme of this little section. Here is something interesting. In verse 13, Paul writes, the Holy Spirit gives Christians hope. Right? That's why we prayed in the end of verse 13. That by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Now here's what I want you to note. Go back to verse 4. In verse four, Paul speaks of God's word giving us hope. Right at the end of the verse. Paul spoke about how through, it says, through the encouragement of the scriptures, we might have hope. And so the question we're bringing to this passage is: how does God strengthen our confidence? in the promises of his word that he'll give us hope. And if you put verse four with verse thirteen Here's the answer. The Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, works in conjunction with the Word of God to strengthen our hope. Now I'm going to say a couple more things about this, but this is important because in this fallen world there's a lot of discouragement. uh not only on believers, but believers, right? We see so much evil, we see suffering, we see sadness. We encounter a lot of lonely people, or we might be lonely ourselves. This passage is saying the way to counteract this, and here it is in one statement, is to pray that the Holy Spirit Will more forcibly apply the Word of God to your heart, to your outlook, to your view of life. Another way to say it. Is we need to be reading and reflecting on the promises that God gives us in this book And we, as we do that, we want to pray that the Holy Spirit will so uh impress these truths on us. That it'll it'll it'll change our outlook. That g we want to pray that God will Bring it to our or make us confident that all this stuff is true, okay. And it I and I say it works. We need to be in the word more. Now, when you're starting out, you're going, well, I don't understand a lot of this. Well, you just say in it. And it starts to come together. I was talking to one of our members this week. Start reading the Psalms. And I said, that's good. Just keep reading it. I said, it's like a thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle, right? When you start out, whoa, how does those all fit together? But when you get about 500 pieces down, a lot of the rest falls into place very, very nicely. And so, and I'd say for myself, when I am discouraged, rather often, I read the Bible and I go, I'm saying to myself, this rings true. I can't explain it away. This reminds me that there is more to life than what I'm just viewing outwardly. Okay? And so it's a real simple lesson. I'm sure I've said this many times in many ways. This is just another way. When you see your hope flagging, in other words, every day we get discouraged about various things, personal things, what we see going on in the news and whatnot. You need to reflect on the truth of these word of this book. You need to meditate or dwell on these promises. Let me give you the example. The Israelites were in captivity in Babylon, and in Isaiah chapter 40, verse 27 to 31, God has a little talk with the people of Israel. And he said to them, Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God? In other words, why are you so despondent? Then he goes on, Isaiah forty, verse twenty-eight. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth He does not grow faint or weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength And so Isaiah is sort of shaking the people of Israel and saying, Yeah, you're in a bad way, but listen, God is still sovereign, he will still accomplish his purpose. Romans 8 verse 32. Paul tells the Christians here. He says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Hey. If he didn't spare Christ, is he going to let you perish? Is he going to let your life go kaput kaput? No. He will accomplish his good purpose. Read the Psalms. One of my favorite is Psalm 42. The psalmist is in despair. And then he takes himself by the collar. He talks to himself and he says, hey. Why are you downcast, O my soul? Why are you so disturbed? Put your hope in God, all yet praise him, my Savior and my God. I was reading Psalm 9. Psalm 9, the um reminded me, excuse me It reminded me that though there are such evil powers in this world, the psalmist says, Listen. They're not going to prevail. That's a good reminder. So it's Psalm 9, verses 15 and 16. The psalmist says, the nations have sunk in the pit that they made. In the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known, he has executed judgment, the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. That's a reminder. Hey, listen, evil will not go on forever unanswered. God will make things right And so if you're Christian, you have hope. If you're not a Christian, there's really no reason for hope. Because this is all there is, and uh your destiny is bleak. That's why in Ephesians 2. 12 Paul spoke about unbelievers as having no hope and without God in the world. And so it is a miserable world. We should have moderate our expectations, but the gospel breaks into this and it gives us a better perspective and reminds us, listen, there is a God He does rule over all things. He has made himself known, so this isn't just wishful thinking. He's made himself known in creation He's made himself known on the pages of Scripture. As they often say, this book authenticates itself, and so that's how we were persuaded it's true. And he's it's made God has made himself known by breaking in the history in the person of Jesus Christ. And so this is why, if you're not a Christian, you can have hope. Because God has made himself known. He sent the Son as a Savior for sinners. We can be right with him, and we can know that He will accomplish His good purposes in history. And so what we learn then as you compare verses four and thirteen Is that the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, works in concert with the Bible, with the Word of God, to strengthen our hope And I want our kids, that's why I said to our kids, read the Bible, because you're gonna get you're gonna get blindsided one day by things in your life. You need to be strong when that comes so that you will not just fall to pieces. Now, let me say something else Um would you indulge me, okay? Because this this leads to something else. Never done. Okay. This idea when I said the Word of God works with the Spirit of God to strengthen us, to give us hope, that is really a corollary of a larger principle We see in the Bible. And the principle is this: the Holy Spirit always works in concert with the Word of God. And never separate from it. Now let me give you a couple examples and then I'll make an application. Okay Think about when God made the world. Genesis 1, verses 2 and 3. It talks about the Spirit of God hovering over the face of the waters. There's the Spirit of God, but there's also the Word of God. And God said, right, God spoke, let there be light, the word and the spirit, and creation go hand in hand. How is a person born again? In other words, how does one move from being spiritually dead to spiritually alive? The Spirit of God works in conjunction with the Word of God. And so, Jesus in John 3, verse 8 spoke about being born of the Spirit. Why'd you become a Christian? You didn't do anything. God gave you his spirit to open your eyes, to see and to believe. At the same time This is also a function of the Word of God at work. And so that's why in 1 Peter 1. 23, Peter said to these Christians, You have been born again through the living and abiding word of God. Alright? Here's another one. How do you grow in holiness? How are you sanctified? How do you become more like Jesus Christ? Well, the Bible says sanctification is a work of the Holy Spirit. You see that in Romans right here in chapter 15, the end of verse 16, Paul says, We're sanctified by the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit changes us. But at the same time, as Jesus said in John 17, 17, he said, he prayed, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. And so it's the word of God that grows us and sanctifies us. And so again, the whole the the Spirit of God and the word of God go hand in hand. And that's why Paul said in Ephesians 6. 17, he spoke about the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And so there's this conjunction between the Word of God and the Holy Spirit. All right, what's the application? Well This should be this should help us understand many things that our charismatic friends say, okay? They have a tendency to separate the ministry of the Holy Spirit from the ministry of the Word of God. And their idea, and I'm not saying all charismatic, but many would say, Yeah, you know, the word of God, we know it's God's word, we know it's true. But I want a more immediate experience of God. And that's where the real that's where the action is. I remember a friend years ago. He said he tells you said, I'm going on a backpacking trip this week. He was a Christian, but he said, I'm not going to take my Bible I'm just gonna let God speak to me apart from the Bible through the Holy Spirit. What was he saying? He was saying that's that's a more immediate uh connection that I have with God than through this old book that's sort of antiquated and has a lot of history in it. How about guidance? How does God guide Christians? Well Our charismatic friends would say, well God guides me through prompting me to do this or to choose that. Apart from the Bible, okay, I'd say that's mistaken also. Or they'll talk about worshiping in the Spirit. Now we think Worship should be informed by the Word of God. Right? Romans 12, 1 and 2. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And so it's the script, the Spirit working through the Scripture that governs our worship and animates our worship, but oftentimes in charismatic worship the idea is, yeah, we're going to have the sermon and whatnot. But also before the sermon, we're going to sing 15 songs and we're going to try to lose uh awareness and enter this like euphoric emotional uh trance And that will be the spirit really working and really sanctifying me. And I'd say, no, again, that's mistaken. And so God's word is a living word, and it's the word and the spirit That work together to grow Christians, and as I started out saying, this is what gives us hope. And so in other words, I'm just saying the same old thing I say like all the time. Is that we need to stay in the book, we need to reflect on it, even those days when we don't feel like it, because it does nourish us. And God's Spirit uses it to shape us. So that that's all I'm saying. And then just recalling where what this we started out with, the first really the main point of the passage was We glorify God when we strive to know and to encourage fellow believers, even those who are a lot different from us. And let's go back to verses 5 and 6. That'll be our closing lesson. So chapter 15, verses 5 and 6. Paul said to the Christians, this mixed group of Christians, May the God of endurance and encouragement Grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Jesus Christ, that together You may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray, okay? Father in heaven, we do pray that you'd help us to continue to encourage each other to become acquainted with people that we don't know. uh to love one another, to be patient, and to bear with one another, uh, with all our uh rough edges, and help us, Lord, to remember. That in Christ we are one, we do pray you'll preserve the peace, the unity of our church, as well as the purity of its teaching. Help us, Lord, to reflect the beauty of Jesus Christ. And also in our many discouragements and setbacks, help us to believe uh all the truths you tell us in scripture help that to shape our perspective. And for those who aren't believers who have no real hope, We do pray that you would bring them from unbelief to belief, recognizing the truths that you give us in this book. And preeminally, the truth tells us about the Savior of sinners, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.