So let's turn. We're marching through Matthew's Gospel. We're in chapter 18. And I was feeling ambitious this week. I bit off a big chunk, more than I could chew. A what? Matthew, John, let's not quibble about details. I've only been preaching through this book for two years, right? John. Okay. John eighteen, you know you know what I meant. Okay. John chapter eighteen, we're off to a good start here. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden which he and his disciples entered. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, Went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am He. Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them. When Jesus said to them, I am He, and they drew back and fell to the ground. So we asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus answered, I told you that I am He, so if you seek me, let these men go. This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken. Of those whom you gave me, I have lost not one. Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus So Jesus said to Peter, put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him First they led him to Anas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient for one man that one man should die for the people. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest. But Peter stood outside the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl, who kept watch at the dirt at the door and brought Peter in The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of the man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. Now the servants and the officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. Jesus answered him I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in a temple where all the Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me in what I said to them. They know what I said. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong, but if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Anist then sent him down to Caiaphas, the high priest Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed. Let's bow our heads and pray. Our Father in heaven, we recognize that these are your words to us. You have a message for us And you have given it to transform us. And so help us to be hearers of your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So this section is interesting in the sense that chapter 18, 19, 20 break up very nicely, chapter 18. concerns Jesus' arrest and trial. Chapter 19 is about the crucifixion. And then chapter twenty uh concerns Jesus' resurrection. That's why I thought I'd make a little uh time this morning and cut off a big chunk. Excuse me. But you know there's a lot in here and I'm not going to cover it all. But here's a tip for reading John's Gospel. You always have to go back to the purpose for which he wrote this letter, right? What was his purpose? If you've been here, you know his purpose. It's stated in chapter 20, verses 30 and 31. I'm just going to read verse 31. Where John says, These are written, right? Everything I've given you in this book, these are written. Why? So that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. And so Jesus excuse me, John is trying to persuade his readers That Jesus is indeed the Messiah who is promised in the Old Testament. Why does he want to persuade his readers of that? So that they will trust in him for their salvation. And so that's the purpose. And now that we recognize that, well, yet again, that would that should lead us to ask the question, how Do the how does the account that we just read advance John's purpose of disclosing to us Jesus' messianic identity? And when we excuse me, what does he teach us about Jesus' identity as the Messiah so that we as Christians who struggle and have our doubts, will have our faith strengthened, and then also So that those who are not Christians might become persuaded and bow before Jesus Christ and trust in Him for their salvation. And so there's four things in here, in this passage, well there's more, but four prominent things that point to Jesus' messianic identity. And the first thing I want to point out Is Jesus' providence over events? Jesus was in control of the events surrounding his arrest. and his trial. So remember uh chapters fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen. Jesus was in the upper room with his disciples. They had the Last Supper in chapter 17. Jesus prayed for his disciples, the 11 remaining disciples, and the disciples who would come, the church to come, and then after that meeting with the disciples, we read in verses one to three. that Jesus stepped out into the night with all deliberateness. So let's just read it once again, just to make sure we have the storyline. First one, when Jesus has spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley Where there was a garden which he and his disciples entered, now Judas who betrayed him also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priest and the Pharisees, Went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. The first thing I want you to note is that Jesus oversaw the time And the place of his arrest says in verse 1, he entered a garden. This was the Garden of Gethsemane, which is on the Mount of Olives. Jesus knew that these soldiers would be there to look for him and so he made himself available to them And as I noted when I read the Old Testament passage from uh 1 Samuel, uh like King David when he was betrayed, Jesus crossed the Kidron Valley to the uh Mount of Olives. And so this was all foreshadowed even in the Old Testament. This was all God's plan. This was all God's under God's providence. And uh you'll note in verse three that Judas brought a detachment of soldiers. It's interesting. I thought This is just a group of soldiers. In fact, it was a huge tribe of soldiers. A detachment officially was 600 soldiers. It may have been 200 soldiers But who knows for sure? But one thing is sure, it's not just a handful. Uh there were many soldiers that came to arrest Jesus. Not because Jesus was so powerful uh in that he would have fought them, but because he had a following And the Romans were afraid that his followers may have start may well start a riot. So it's interesting, there's this attachment of Roman soldiers And then in verse 3 it says, the chief priests and the Pharisees, and then the officers, this was probably the Jewish temple police. But it's notable because this is such an unlikely group of allies, right? The Jews and the Romans, bitter enemies, now working together to arrest Jesus. The chief priests were mostly Sadducees, but now they're in league with their competitors, the Pharisees, and then also there were the temple officers. And so politics, as they say, uh makes for strange bedfellows. And as they also say, the enemy of my enemy is my friend, and in this case They all had animus toward Jesus Christ, and so for at least this one time they were saying, let's work together and let's put Jesus Christ out of business. But what I want to underline is that Jesus was in charge. And that's one of the themes that recurs again. And again, in John's Gospel, Jesus' mastery of events. Let me give you just one example, chapter 10, verse 17. Jesus said, I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me. But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. And so this is to remind you that Jesus Christ was not the victim of the designs of wicked men. He went to the cross intentionally because this was the Father's plan. And then when Peter uh sliced off uh the the uh soldier's ear, uh Jesus said, put away your sword, shall I not drink the cup? That the Father has given me. This is why he was born. Remember, I said once, or somebody made the comment that the Gospel of John is a passion narrative with an extended introduction. Right? The first twelve chapters is just an introduction. And then you get to chapter thirteen to the end. It's it's about Jesus' death and resurrection. And so y this is the purpose for which Jesus came was to suffer in our place. But that's all an aside. What I've what I'm underlining first of all Is that we just have one more example of Jesus' mastery of events, of Jesus' providence over the events of his life. And I think that's helpful because my question to you is, what keeps you up at night? And that's a thought I mean, it seems like Becky and I, we wake up every night in the middle of the night And there's a couple things that just tear at us. And I ask you, what keeps you up at night? For some it's health concerns, for some it's financial concerns, uh for others it's wayward children. And then it seems from my conversations, it seems like many of us walk around uh with with a low grade anxiety because of The the lawlessness in our country because of the unraveling of our culture And then there are others who just live with constant grief. I was just talking to one of our members two days ago. Her husband had died, I think, four years ago, and she said It doesn't get any better. There people live with darkness and grief. And um and then others with regret over opportunities that they've squandered. You look at this passage, and I want you to see that Jesus Christ rules Over all things. Right? Jesus said in Matthew 10, not a sparrow will fall to the ground apart from the will of my Father in heaven. That's a reminder. Jonathan Edwards, the great 18th-century pastor, a theologian, had a daughter by the name of Esther. And uh her husband was killed, and then her infant son fell deathly sick, and he wrote this letter to his daughter, just a snippet of it. He reminded his daughter, he is a faithful God. He will remember his covenant forever, and never will fail them that trust in him. But don't be surprised or think some strange thing has happened to you if after this light clouds of darkness should return. Perpetual sunshine is not usual in this world, even to the wor even to God's true saints. But I hope should God hide his face in some respect. Even this will be in faithfulness to you, to purify you, and to fit you for further and purer light. And so remember God's providence over history, his providence over your life The second thing we see in this passage is we get a glimpse of Jesus' majesty and authority. Go down to verse 4 now. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am He. Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with him. When Jesus said to them, I am he, they drew back and fell to the ground. Remember? I said this was a detachment. This was more than a few soldiers. Jesus Christ, when he said, I am he What caused that? It's a mystery. It doesn't the the text doesn't explain But I think it's fair to say that Jesus revealed something of His Majesty. There was this brief disclosure, apparently, of His Majesty, and it frightened them. They probably thought they were gonna meet some religious wimp, right? Some guy in a hemp uh jacket or something and they rather uh meet this this this man who has authority Remember in Exodus chapter 3 when God revealed himself to Moses, he said, I am, right? I'm God, I'm the self-existent one. Remember in John 8. 58, Jesus said I am. And there's something of that. Jesus said, I am. And then in the Greek there is no he. I am. And there was this recognition Of Jesus' majesty. And so the soldiers came to arrest Jesus, but in the end, Jesus arrested them. And this is the interesting thing about Christianity. Nobody can stay on their feet. When they meet the true Jesus Christ as He's revealed in Scripture, not that pastel religious wimp you'll find in the mainline Protestant Church, but the Christ of Scripture, right? Ezekiel chapter one When God revealed his glory to Ezekiel, Ezekiel didn't go, oh, it's so wonderful, like you see on some of these pictures. No, he fell down on his face. Isaiah chapter 6, when God revealed his holiness to Isaiah. Isaiah didn't say, oh, it's so wonderful to be here He said, Woe is me, right? I'm a sinner, I'm a man of unclean lips. And so the the Christ, there's something compelling About the Christ of Scripture. And that's why I say to those who aren't yet Christians I say, just stick your nose in the Bible, just read the Gospels, read through the Bible, keep at it, and I know some here are doing that, and that's good. But then I say, what do you make of Jesus Christ? How do you explain this figure, his authority? His mastery over all these situations, and yet at the same time was a man of unequaled humility. What do you make of Jesus Christ? Napoleon, in the end of his life, read through the scriptures and he said, I know men, and I tell you, Jesus Christ. was no mere man. And so when you discover Jesus, who he is, his majesty and author his authority, You fall before him as your king. And if you don't do it today, uh one day you will. Uh you'll stand but you'll fall before him. as your judge. And so we're talking about how this text root discloses the person of Jesus Christ. We see something of his authority. uh over events. Uh we see His Majesty. Then here's something else. Boy, they're sort of loud, huh? Here's something else We see Jesus, listen, his passive obedience, his passive obedience. Let me let me as Ricky Ricardo would say, let me explain that to you. What did Jesus do to redeem us? What what how is it that Jesus redeemed us? And we would say He did two things. There's two aspects to our redemption. Number one, he fulfilled God's commands. He fulfilled God's law. He obeyed all God's commands perfectly. And so the theologians refer to Jesus fulfilling all those commands as his active Obedience, okay? So for 30 right, why wasn't Jesus crucified when he was eight days old? He had to live on this earth. For thirty-three years, he had to obey every detail of God's law. And so He obeyed where we fell short. And so that's why we say we speak about Jesus' active obedience. But then there's also Jesus Submitting to arrest, submitting to the trial in allowing himself to be crucified And this we refer to as Jesus' passive obedience. And so both were required for us to be redeemed. He could have He could have right in Matthew 26 it says Jesus said, Don't you think I could appeal to my father and he'll send twelve legions of angels to rescue me? But he did not do that. Rather, he submitted He allowed himself to be arrested, tried, and crucified, and he did this so that we might be redeemed. Verse 11, if I can find it. Whoops, long chapter. Uh verse eleven. Uh Peter Oh Jesus told Peter, put away your sword, right? I can take care of this, but I'm not going to, because I have to suffer. And so this is just reminding us that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. Because you go back to the Old Testament, Isaiah chapter 53, verse 7, for example. This is one of the marks of the Messiah, right? Isaiah 53, 7. Isaiah wrote, Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a lamb that before its shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. Ah, yeah, that's right. This guy he fulfills all those types in the Old Testament. I think this guy is indeed the promised Messiah Last one, last uh mark we see about of Jesus' messianic identity is his humiliation And so it's interesting, and I'm not going to give uh due uh uh uh time to Peter's denying Jesus, but I just want to want to note That the text in verses twelve to twenty-seven, uh the narrative moves between Jesus Jesus on flinching defense before Anis, and then it goes to Peter, where he goes wobbly before this little servant girl. And he ended up denying Jesus three times. So Jesus for Annas and Peter, Jesus and then Peter But this ordering of events right, John could have just had two blocks of material, but he he he he interspersed the the narrative Because he wanted us to see that both these men were on trial and they responded differently. Jesus stood up to his inquisitors. He denied nothing. And then there's Peter who who buckled right before this little servant girl, and he denied everything. Jesus stood, verses twelve to fourteen, before a corrupt court. And so the big enchilada Uh was Ennes. He had been the high priest in Israel 20 years before. The Romans deposed him, but the Jews, at least the Orthodox Jews, Saw the high priest has installed her life. So he was their high priest. He was their real high priest But then others were put in the official position at this time. It was Caiaphas, the high priest uh Anna's uh son-in-law. But They went to Annas because, like I said, he was the big cheese, he would settle matters in advance, and then Jesus would go to Caiaphas, the official high priest where an official uh decision would be rendered. But this family, uh, this priest was notoriously corrupt, and that's certainly the case of Jesus' trial. And just to look at some of the details there before we draw the conclusion, verse 19, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching About his disciples. He wanted to know how broad his following was and about his teaching. And then verse 20, we read, or Jesus answered him. I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple where all Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. And that's the nature of Christianity. There's nothing secretive about Christianity, right? The Masons have their secret ceremonies, the Mormons have their secret ceremonies But in Christianity everything is public. Like Paul said, I set forth the truth plainly. There's nothing secretive that goes on in the church either. But anyway, uh in in these trials, interesting, in in these Jewish trials, the defendant uh was never required to testify or to answer questions. Instead, witnesses were called in uh and to give to give testimony either for or against the defendant. And since Jesus had spoken openly, he'd been preaching for three years, there were plenty they could have called in as witnesses. And so Jesus in verse 21 says to this high pr this former high priest You need to proceed in a legal manner. Verse 21. Why? Oh, he said, why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. They know what I said. And then the high priest thugs didn't like them, like that, and so they the guy the the officer uh struck Jesus and said, is that how you answer the high priest? And then in verse um Verse 23, Jesus said, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong, but if what I said is right Why do you strike me? So Jesus Christ was asking for a fair trial. He did not get one And so Annas finally gives up. In verse 24, he sends him off to the official high priest Caiaphas so that an official charge might be brought against him before the Romans. But why am I talking about this? Well, um because I want you to note the humiliation that Jesus suffered for our sake. And we talk about humiliation. We all usually talk about doing something or saying something that's embarrassing. That's that's not uh there's another meaning of humiliation and that is to be treated in a way uh that is beneath your dignity, that's b beneath your status Last summer Betty and I went to Germany. We went to one of the concentration camps at Dachau. And it was grievous to see how men uh treat uh their fellow men, right? They're these Jewish prisoners, they they were not called by their names, they were called by they were given numbers. They had their heads shaved, and then there was this huge courtyard where the Jews would have to stand for the roll call, and even that was a form of torture because some of these roll calls uh went on for hours And if you if you stumbled, you could be shot right there. And they were humiliated. Some of these Jews were forced to crawl and to bark like dogs and and there is no privacy uh to go to the bathroom and there is torture and there is belittling and um there is there is brutalization not only of men but also of the women. That's what humiliation is, right? To be treated in a manner beneath your dignity And that's what Jesus underwent, right? Because he is God incarnate, uh and he should have been worshipped, but instead uh he was maligned And he suffered the indignities of his his arrest of the trial and then uh the shameful form of execution, crucifixion But even these indignities, even this humiliation points to Jesus' dignity. And again from Isaiah chapter 53 verses 3 and 4. So you see what I'm trying to do here? I'm trying to build up your faith by showing you how the New Testament answers the Old Testament and there's no way to explain it away. But anyway, in Isaiah 53, verse 3, 700 years before Jesus was born, we're told about the Messiah, he was despised and rejected by men A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. So there you have it. I've said a lot. The only the it that my sole purpose this morning has been to give you a window into Jesus' messianic identity by looking at his providence over all events, by looking at his majesty and authority, his passive obedience, and his humiliation. And so I ask you. What do you do with this? What do you make of Jesus Christ? I say that to the Christians because our faith goes wobbly. And I say that to those who aren't Christians, because this isn't a this is the question, this is the most important question to deal with. Stay in the Gospel of John, right? What did John say? These are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. In that by believing you might have life in his name. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for the self-authenticating nature of Scripture. Thank you for how it builds up our weak faith. Help us to remember that you do rule over all things, and though the wrong seems often so strong, you are the ruler yet. And so help us not to despair. Help us to press on as happy warriors. Help us to worship you. for your majesty and your authority. And help us, Lord, to thank you for your humble obedience that took you to the cross. That we might be redeemed. For those who are not yet Christians, we pray, Lord, that you would open their eyes to see. Persuade their hearts and turn them that they would repent of their sin and trust in Jesus Christ as the Savior of their souls. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.