Instead of worship training, may go back that way with Miss Kendall Court. And let's turn on our Bible to Matthew so we We took a couple weeks off over Christmas, and now we're back in Matthew. For those new here, we've been marching through Matthew's gospel. And we're now at chapter 19, verse 16 to 26. A familiar story, the story of Jesus' encounter. Excuse me, with the rich young ruler. So Matthew chapter sixteen, I'm sorry, Matthew Nap chapter nineteen, verse sixteen. We read, and behold, a man came up to him saying, Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All these I've kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess, and give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come, follow me. When the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. So it's interesting, you notice in verse 16, this man came up to Jesus and said, what must I do to be saved? Now if somebody came up to me and asked that question, and it doesn't happen very often, I'm not sure it's ever happened. But if it did happen, I think I would be pretty excited, and my instinctive reaction would be to explain the gospel in a nutshell. And here's how you become a Christian, right? Recognize who Jesus is. He's God. Recognize he lived a perfect life in your place where you fell short. Then he died on the cross for your sin. And the way you take hold of that is by repenting of your sin and trusting in Christ, believing on him, and you'll be saved. And I'd have that thing knocked out uh in less than fifteen minutes. And that's perhaps well not perhaps, in some cases that is the appropriate way to go if so if the somebody's been prepared and uh they're ready to hear the gospel, then why wait? But in other cases uh this approach would be misguided. It would be misguided. If the individual did not recognize his sin and his need of a savior, and it would be in fact disastrous because And this happens all the time, it would give this individual a false sense of assurance about his or her salvation. And that's the state of the man we meet in this passage. We read a number of things about him. He was a young guy, verse 20. He was rich. It says in the end of verse 22. He had great possessions. The parallel passage in Luke. Excuse me. Luke 18, 18 says that he was powerful. He was a ruler. We don't know what he was a ruler of. Perhaps he was a civil magistrate. But the most distinguishing characteristic of this man is that he was self-reliant. He was confident In his own righteousness. You see that in verse 16. Look at the question he asks. What good deed must I do to have eternal life? And so he saw salvation As something that he could earn, as something that he could lay hold of by his own effort. This was apparently a man who worked hard for everything uh that he had and so now he assumed that he had to do something to take hold of eternal life. In He's not completely different from a lot of the people we know. Outside the church, you ask the average person You know, you think you go into heaven? They'll say, yeah, and then they'll you say, why do you think that? And they'll point to the things they do, the religious a exercises or uh their good deeds. But also inside the church. In many churches, hopefully not in our church, but in many churches, they're full of people who are religious Uh they're immoral and they're self-reliant and they think that they have earned God's favor because they're because of their religion and because of the things they've done And these are good people, these are decent people, these are the kind of people you'd like to have as a neighbor, right? You could trust them. But nonetheless, that outlook does not save a person. uh that kind of self-reliance, that kind of trust in your own righteousness. And so the question that this this passage answers is How does Jesus evangelize the self-reliant? What does he say? to the person who thinks that he or she can earn his salvation because of the quality of his life or because of his faithfulness In his religious exercises. There's three things that stand out in this passage. And the first thing is he confronts them with the holiness of God. And one thing that stands out here is that this good man had a compromised, a watered-down understanding of the meaning of the word good. And Jesus said in verse 17, there is only one who is good. Same thing in the parallel passage in Luke 18, 18, it's even more explicit. The ruler said to Jesus, good teacher. And Jesus' retort in Luke is Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. Now, the reason Jesus said that is because this man didn't recognize that Jesus was God. He only looked at him as a teacher. So Jesus is trying to awaken this man to the holiness. of God. And um he's saying only God is truly good. And if we're gonna have some if we're gonna be effective In communicating the gospel to friends or family members who are inquiring after Jesus Christ. And they have to be somewhat interested, right, or else we're not going to have a conversation. unfortunately, but if somebody has some kind of religious interest or spiritual interest Then what we want to do, first of all, is convey to them from Scripture an understanding of the character of God. God is holy. And if you're not a Christian, you're not going to have any interest, you're not going to see any reason to flee to Jesus Christ. Unless you understand the character of God, unless you see that He is a holy God, right? Why do I my life straight the way it is? Why do I need Jesus Christ? If you don't understand something of the moral purity of God, Then you know it's not going to matter to you. John Calvin, right in the very beginning of this is massive institutes of the Christian religion. I don't know what somebody's reading it. It was sixteen hundred pages? Thousand pages. Okay. Piece of cake. I thought it was sixteen hundred. We read we had a little group who read it years ago And from the get-go, like in the very opening, he said, men are never impressed with a conviction of their insignificance. until they have contrasted themselves with the majesty of God. And so that's what we want to help people see. Even our worship service, right? This isn't a show. This isn't entertainment, right? There's a sense of joy, but there's also a sense of reverence because they're trying to convey something of the character of the world. of the God before whom we stand. Where do we get this understanding? You know, if you're not a Christian, how can you get up to speed on this? Read the scripture. Exodus chapter 3, Isaiah chapter 6, the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20. There is the holiness of God in the form of precepts. The Sermon on the Mount. Jesus says, here's what it means to be a holy person. We realize, oh I fall short. Uh I had a d I had a I had a much super more super A very superficial understanding of what it means to be a holy person. We have, for those who are new to it, uh we have a confession of faith, right? The Bible is our authority. But then we have a doctrinal summary that summarizes our understanding of the Bible, the Westminster Confession of Faith, formulated in the 1600s, and alongside that confession is a larger catechism. And one section of the catechism goes through the Ten Commandments and it gives an exposition of the implications of each commandment. Yeah, if you think I don't murder, I don't commit adultery, you read the exposition of those commandments and go through all ten. And you'll you'll be cut down to size and you'll recognize that I fall short of the glory of God. Now Some people reject some people object. That's negative. I'm a negative person, I guess. I've been told that. I'm negative. I talk about sin. In fact There was a couple who visited our church last year. They came for a while and then they quit coming. Then it got back to me. Uh they they quit coming because I'm negative. I talk about sin. And we We have a confession of sin in our worship service. And they found that distasteful, as many people do. But sometimes it's good to be negative, right? If you're sick and you go to a doctor and he says you have cancer, you don't say, oh, you're still being a little negative, aren't you? You say, ooh, that's a terrible thing to hear, but that's good. Because if he didn't tell you you had cancer, but he recommended a very severe course of treatment. You'd say, uh, I'm not doing that. I'm not I just have a little cold. Um I'm not going to submit to that kind of treatment. But if you if he sits down with you at his desk and he has his most austere face on And he explains to you, here's what you got, here's your diagnosis, but this is treatable, but it's going to be a very rigorous treatment. You you're all ears, because you want to know uh how you can be healed. And so it is You know, we don't have a confession of sin, or I don't talk about sin because I get a kick out of it, but this is a biblical diagnosis of our condition and even our service, right? There's a gospel logic to our worship service. I don't know if you ever noticed that. How does the service begin? Each week. We begin by focusing on the character and the majesty of God, the opening hymn, the opening prayer. And after we look at God's greatness and holiness, what do we do? Then we take a moment and we realize or we reflect, I fall short. There's a confession of sin. But we don't wallow in it. We just hold up our s or think of our sin so then we can be reminded of God's grace and forgiveness. And then we go forth and we read the scripture and we have the word taught to us and we have the sacrament so that we can be equipped to now go forth in a new obedience. So there's this gospel logic to our worship service, right? It's not a just an entertainment. Christian entertainment, but it's about God and His greatness, and then we have this sense of perspective on who we are and how we're to live our lives in God before God's presence And so this is all to say, Jesus, you know, when he said to this man, only God is good He's reminding us that before somebody becomes a Christian, he needs to deal with With the fact that he lives in a world governed by a holy God. And so we don't want to rush people To just say, yeah, I believe in Jesus. I'm going to pray this prayer. And I think it's a grievous thing that many people have been in churches and the pastor just said You know, just pray to receive Christ and you're all set. And there's not a sense of conviction that people receive and thousands upon thousands. Have made hollow professions of faith in Christ because they prayed these rote prayers, because that's how they were instructed, but they never truly saw their sin and their need of a Savior. And so there are myriads of people who have a false sense of assurance about their salvation, and many churches are full of people who are unconverted. And so rather than uh rushing people to make a decision, uh there's almost a sense, and I'm just saying this for for emphasis. You almost want to talk somebody out of it. Do you understand what's involved? Do you understand the cost of discipleship? Do you understand that Christ is calling you to lay down your life In allegiance. And if the person says yes, then we say this person understands that what God is about and what he's revealed about himself. And so, how does Jesus evangelize the self-reliant? He tries to convey the holiness of God, and the second thing he does Is he punctures their self-righteousness by showing them how they have fallen short, how they have broken God's command. Here I go, being negative again. It's not me. I'm just telling you what's right here in the Bible, right? The Bible's a negative document in places, but ultimately, of course It's a it's a wonderful document. And so the man said, What must I do to in have eternal life? And Jesus said in the end of verse seventeen If you would enter life, keep the commandments. Okay? And that's true. If you can keep God's commandments perfectly You're going to have eternal life. Did you know that? We always say we're saved by grace. Well, there is a second option. You can be saved by keeping all God's commandments perfectly That's not me. That's Romans 2 verse 13. Paul said, it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. And so just let me know after church if that's you. Okay, the doers of the law will be justified. But Jesus has a hunch that this guy is not a doer of the law. And so in verses 18 and 19, when the guy says, So what must I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus, keep the commandments. Here's all you gotta do. Verse 18, he says, um Or the man said, which ones? And Jesus said, Well, you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. If you do all those things, you're set, and you'll be saved. And the guy says, is that it? Look at verse 21. He says, All these I have kept from my youth. So what do we conclude about this man? This man is delusional. He has no understanding of who he is, of who God is, and what God's law is about. Uh J. C. Ryle made the comment, an answer more full of darkness and self-ignorance, it is impossible to conceive And yet, this man is on alone, right? Um many people are exactly like this man. Well yeah, I I keep I keep the Ten Commandments. We would say, yeah, we keep the Ten Commandments, but only in the most superficial sense, right? I haven't murdered, I haven't committed adultery, I haven't stolen a toaster uh from Walmart And so, but that that's the most superficial thing, because the commandments apply not only to the outward acts of tr transgression But they uh they speak about the inward uh thoughts and uh inclinations in our hearts and uh includes not only what we didn't do, But what we failed to do, and that's where this Westminster Larcher Catechism is helpful, it talks about the myriad implications of each commandment. You know, you shall not murder. That forgives not only uh you know an outward act of murder, but it includes uh sinful anger, the desire for revenge quarreling, the confession or the catechism, overeating and over-drinking. You know, we're all murderers. Uh we are sorry, we've walked broken that sin at some level. Um the seventh commandment Thou shalt not commit adultery. It includes the thoughts and attitudes of our hearts. Again, we're done for on the seventh commandment. The eighth commandment, thou shalt not steal. Yeah, we don't may might might not steal goods and from people, but um that includes keeping your contracts If you don't keep your contract, you're breaking that commandment. It includes avoiding unnecessary lawsuits. It includes returning books and tools that you've borrowed. And some of you have my books. I don't know I don't remember who you are. So you might want to think about that. I ha it's funny, years ago I borrowed a book and inside the cover it said Remember the Eighth. That was a new Christian I had to look at oh thou shalt not steal. Okay, okay, I'll I may I need to take that book back Uh when I when I'm I'm done with it. It includes the eighth commandment, protecting the property of other people, right? When you go in a motel and you turn out the lights, that's an implication. Uh when you're in a rental car, do you treat it as your own car? When you're walking through the parking lot of the supermarket, do you walk across that nice little uh uh emb embankment with the uh with the little plants on it and the mulch and you beat that up. Well, you would do that if that was in your front yard. So these are all implications of the eighth commandment. And then it's say so I'm saying Jesus is alerting he alerts people to how they've broken God's commands. That's this discussion, right? You shall not murder, you shall not Commit adultery adultery and so on. And the guy says, Oh, all these I've kept. No, he has not kept them. And so what we want our inquiring friend to do, and hopefully we'll have conversations, you know, as she could think. to know somebody hopefully have these conversations. And they'll say, yeah, I'm a pretty good person. I don't really need Jesus Christ. And no, you've really fallen short because uh God's standards are much more exacting. And one thing you might say is read Matthew 5-7, the Sermon on the Mount. A preacher once said, on judgment day, may God save you not so much from the Ten Commandments but from the Sermon on the Mount. Because a Sermon on the Mount is the most exacting exposition of God's law in the Bible. So what we want to do As the Puritans would say, we want to wound with the law so that we can heal with the gospel. And so we want to use God's commands correctly. We don't say if you keep all these commands you're going to get to heaven. can get to him like that, right? We're sinners. But it's to show us our sin. It's like an x-ray. God's law is like an x-ray to show us our sin and our need of a savior. It's like a tracer chemical. that a doctor might inject into a sick person so that he can discover the invisible course of our disease. So that's the purpose of God's law. And so back to the passage, this man said, Well, I've kept all my he says he's kept all God's commands from his youth. And so in verse 21, Jesus then challenges him. Because he did not understand that he fell short. And so now Jesus uh tries to uh really press it home to him And he said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Come, follow me. Now he's not saying that he can earn his way to heaven by giving up his goods, but what he was doing, what Jesus is doing here is he's showing this man uh that he violated the first commandment because he puts his possessions before God. And um so Jesus doesn't have a beef uh with wealthy people, right? You look in the Bible. Abraham was wealthy, Solomon was wealthy. Joseph of Arimathea had wealth. Remember the story about Zacchaeus, the tax collector? He was loaded too. And yet they were all saved. They were became godly men and uh at the same time uh they were wealthy But Jesus wanted this man to see that he did not keep God's commandments. He put other gods before him. He was an idolater. He put his wealth before God. And so what this presses on us is the question, what do I put before the God of Scripture? Am I an idolater? And yeah, we're all idolaters in one way or another, right? And so this convicts us as well. And so how does Jesus evangelize the self-reliant? He confronts them with the holiness of God. He punctures their self-reliance by showing how they have broken God's commandments And then the third thing we see is he lets the reluctant walk away. And so in verse 21 When Jesus said, go sell what you possess and give it to the poor, and you'll have treasure in heaven, we find that this man would not let go of his possessions to follow Jesus. Verse 22 says, When the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And so he was sorrowful because he knew in his heart of hearts that he was making the wrong choice. But he would not, he would not let go of his idol. And that's something for for you to think about. If you're not a Christian, and you know in your heart of hearts, yeah, this is true. I I can't I can't shake this. I I cannot explain this away. I know this is true, and yet you have something that you will not part with that you need to think this through And um and Jesus he doesn't he doesn't say okay the man says I I can't I can't. Jesus doesn't say well let me renegotiate this uh arrangement But rather uh he he let the man walk away. Then look at what Jesus says. We're coming to the end here, verse 23 and 24. 23 He said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again, I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. That's impossible, right? Now some people tried to weaken the force of that saying by to say, well, you know, there was this gate in Jerusalem, it was really narrow, it was called the needle's eye. And when a camel went through it, I remember reading this when I was in my twenties, I thought, oh it makes a lot of sense. Um that this little gate in Jerusalem for a camel to get through It has to have all its burden taken off, then it squeezes through. It's not easy to get through there, but he can get through there. That is complete speculation What Jesus is saying is that no, can't be done. It's impossible for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven. This caught the disciples off guard because Jews in Jesus' day regarded wealth as a sign of God's blessing. So the disciples are thinking If it's hard for a rich person, blessed of God, to enter the kingdom of heaven, where does that leave us? Look at verse 25. When the disciples heard this, They were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? And humanly speaking, nobody. Verse 26 Jesus looked at them and said, with man this is impossible, but with God all things are imp all all things are possible, right? And so despite the temptations that wealth can bring, there are thousands and thousands of Christians who are very wealthy. And um because when God chooses to open the per open a person's eyes, uh they're gonna be opened. And so we see here Yeah, salvation is a free gift that God grants to sinners. We don't deserve it. It's a gift of his grace, right? We can't earn it. We don't merit it. All we can do is say, I need a savior. And God grants us salvation as a gift. But nonetheless, if you get it, if you see this then you're willing to obey his commands, you're willing to let go of your idols to follow Jesus Christ. And so that's the question that we'll close with. Are you willing to submit to the cost of following Jesus Christ? And if you're not, then you cannot receive salvation as a free gift. Let's bow our heads. Lord, I pray first for those who are not believers and uh there are comforts and aspirations they have in it And it gets in the way of their allegiance to you. And so I do pray that they would recognize that it's a wonderful bargain to have this gift to be forgiven, to know you, to have eternal life, and help them, Lord. uh to turn from those things that are obstacles to their leaning on Christ and being forgiven. And I also pray that those of us who by your grace you've opened our eyes to see and to believe, and you've forgiven us, help us to be uh diligent in trying to engage unbelieving friends and family members in these kind of conversations And help us to use the things we see in this text about alerting them to your holiness and to your moral law that it that these would be used to bring them conviction and salvation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well we're gonna come to the Lord's table. And I'd ask you to turn in your uh