Like, you know, what do I do on Saturday Sunday morning? I study the bulletin so I don't make silly errors like that and distract people. But anyway, we're going to do something different this week and next week. Today we're going to look at Luke chapter 16, great passage. So we're taking a little break from the book of Revelation. We're looking at Luke chapter 16. Apparently it's a parable. It's called the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, though nowhere in the text Does it say it's a parable, but that's what most people think it is, and I think that's a reasonable conclusion. So I'm in Luke chapter 16, verse 19 There Jesus said, there was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and who feasted sumptuously every day. Yet at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with swords, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried. And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. And he called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things. But now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides all this, between us and you, a great chasm has been fixed in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able to And none may cross from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, Father, to send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers. So that he may warn them lest they also come into this place of torment. But Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. He said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. Now it's interesting for those who are new here, you may not realize this, but there are many people in this church who were converted in their adult years Many who were skeptics of Christianity. I can even remember a couple guys here. I met them and uh would chat with them and The they say, well, I remember one guy looking at me at the table across from Dave what famous Dave's barbecue and he said I'm a man of science. You know, this is not my I'm I don't believe this sentimental uh vacuous gush. He hated to say that part, but he said, I'm a man of science, and there are others like that Uh there's one woman in our church who back in the nineteen sixties she was part of a terrorist organization. So she was a little bit skeptical skeptical of Christianity And then there are several who have said they were completely turned in on themselves, and they never considered the claims of Jesus Christ. So I only say that if you're like, you know, I'm a little skeptical of this stuff, especially if you're a young person, right? Parents bring you to church. If you're skeptical, there are people here who have been in the same boat, so they they understand where you are. But also I want to point out That the passage I just read has something to say to you because Jesus gave this parable to skeptics. Go back to verse 14 before the parable. It said the Pharisees who were lovers of money ridiculed Jesus. And so they were skeptics. Jesus told them this parable to wake them up. And so here's a parable where Jesus speaks to skeptics. But also, it gives Christians one important principle for how we can reach skeptics, okay? This is going to be really important in the second part of the sermon. Jesus sets the stage very simply. He says there were two men. This is the nice thing about parables, right? They're really clean. They're really simple. There were two men. Verse 19 speaks about a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and who feasted sumptuously every day. And so he was a rich man. And like the Pharisees, remember verse 14, what did Jesus say about the Pharisees? They were lovers of money. Well, Jesus gives a parable. Here's a guy who had some money. So maybe they'll listen to him. He was clothed in purple linen. What was so important about purple or what was the connection between purple linen and rich people? Well back then purple dye was very expensive to make. You'd have to go to the seashore and if there was a particular snail They c they would collect these snails and then from each snail you would get like one drop of purple pigment. So they would use that to make this dye for the clothing that only somebody who was wealthy uh could afford. So he was clothed in purple, he lived like a king But also, if you read the parable closely, not too closely, it's right there, you'll see this guy was religious, right? He he was He was deferential to Abraham, right? The father of the Hebrews. Three times he called Abraham his father. And so he was a Jew. He was a child of the covenant. And uh he he uh he was a follower of Abraham, but he ignored uh the teachings of the Jewish religion. So there was a rich man, verse 20, then there was also a poor man named Lazarus, who was covered with sores. He desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. And he was so miserable he had to be, he says in verse 20, he had to be laid at the rich man's gate And then just to underline his misery, it says that the dogs came and licked his sores, and this would have been repugnant uh to Jews who regarded dogs as unclean. So that's what's going on, and then both men die And it's from that point that the two main themes of this parable come out. There are a lot of really interesting things that this parable talks about But I just want to focus on these two main themes. And the first one is the great reversals that come at death. And this and the second theme is the sufficiency of Scripture to bring unbelievers to faith in Jesus Christ So the first thing has to do with the great reversals that come at death. So they both die. Now there's this huge turning of the tables. Again, verse 22. I'll read 22 and 23. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried in in Hades. Being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off. And Lazarus at his side. And so there's a switch. Now Lazarus is at Abraham's side. How did he get there? It was not because he was poor, right? The Bible doesn't teach that Justification by poverty, there's no virtue in that, but it's assumed that Lazarus was a follower of the God of Abraham And he was carried by his by the angels to Abraham's side, it says. Why is that? Well, because the Bible says uh heaven's like a banquet, right? Use that imagery. Revelation 19, Matthew chapter. uh twenty-five. And who will be at that banquet? Well Luke uh thirteen, twenty eight and twenty-nine says, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob And all the prophets, they're going to be there. And it says in that section, they're going to recline at table. They're going to recline at table in the kingdom of God. And people from the four corners of the earth. are going to come to this table. And it's speaking to Jews, right? And so to say that Abraham will be at the banquet will be will be to say that you will be with the father of the Jewish people. And so the ideas of reclining at this table No chairs, right? They would lean on, they'd be on the ground, they would lean on their left elbow, they would kick their feet outside from the table But Lazarus has a prime position because he is right there next to Father Abraham. So Lazarus is an Abraham's side. In other words, there's this great reversal for him. But then the rich man, the end of verse 22, it says the rich man also died and was buried And in Hades being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his side. So he went to Hades. Now we usually think about now Hades isn't the same thing as hell, sometimes especially in the Old Testament, it just refers to the realm of the dead or the grave But when you read about the New Testament, you discover that Hades is never used as a destination of those who are saved. And so it seems to be referring to Hades as the lake of fire. They read of like in Revelation 20. Uh verse fifteen. months ago about hell. We had a class on it last uh spring. It's uh the fire's never quenched, the Bible says. It's called a place of eternal fire. Seven times the gospel says that in hell there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And this man is in misery. And this is really the only place in the Bible that describes the experience of someone who is in hell from their perspective. And he is in torment, and he doesn't ask Father Abraham or who what who what who was it, Elizabeth for a pitcher of water. He just asks if if if If Lazarus could come and apply one drop of water to his tongue. That's in verse twenty four. So the rich man called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and sent Lazarus to tip to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish. In this plane. And so this is saying the residence of hell uh would would just long uh for the slightest relief, even for the briefest moment. And so and it can't be done. And there's no end to his suffering And so one of the great one of the points being made here is that there's no end to the torment, and there is no exit from hell. Go down to verse 26. Abraham said to the rich man, Between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who have passed from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. And so there will be no emissaries from heaven sent down to rescue the people in hell. And there will be no get out of jail free card given to the citizens of hell. And so this is just saying, and this is the important part, and this is the part that the rich man did not comprehend. But once you die, that's it. Your fate is sealed, right? It's like the door's closed, the key has been turned, and the lock has been set. And that's it. And so that's when we have these pleas in the Bible. For example, Hebrews 4. 7, the writer says, what, today we hear his voice. Do not harden your heart. You know, here we are in this cafeteria in comfort. And you're sitting under the preaching, under the reading and preaching of God's word. And yet perhaps there are some who say, you know, I don't want to hear that. That that's old stuff, or I I've heard that a hundred times. But this is the warning. In one day, it'll be too late. J. C. Rile made the comment that hell is nothing more than truth known, too late. Whoa, it was all true. He made another comment to Christians. He said the highest form of selfishness It's the man who's content to go to heaven alone. What about all those people who haven't heard, who who don't understand the gospel? And so this should wake us up. And so, first of all, consider the dramatic reversals that come at death. And don't let your current state of comfort inoculate you to the urgency of the gospel. Here's a second principle. And I think this is huge. The second principle in this parable concerns the sufficiency of the Bible. The sufficiency of the Bible, not only for the Christian life, but in evangelism. And so once the rich man is told. That there is nothing that can be done to alleviate his suffering. His concern turns to his five brothers who are still alive. And he doesn't and he doesn't want them to share his destiny, so he devises an evangelism strategy for reaching them. He calls out to Father Abraham, he says, Father Abraham, would you send Lazarus Down to earth, right? Lazarus died too. Would you bring Lazarus back to earth back to the earth, back from the dead? To warn them, because if my brothers see somebody come back from the grave, that will get their attention. There are people taking up that strategy. And I remember years ago, driving downtown, there's a church out there on their big message board. They had a guy coming named Don Piper. He wrote a book called 90 Minutes in Heaven. 90 Minutes in Heaven. And then he went around speaking. So that the gist of the book was Got I think he got in a car accident and he says he died and he saw what heaven was like and after ninety minutes he came back. So he has this message. Then by some strange coincidence, just two years later, there was a guy named Bill Weiss. He wrote a book called Twenty-Tree Minutes in Hell. Uh did he go to hell or did he see how well things worked out for Don Piper's book deal? I don't know. Um he went on the speaking circuit then So these guys said they came back from the dead. Where'd they get this? Well they took a page out of the uh out of the rich man's evangelistic manual. But anyway, in this parable, we have a man in hell proposing an evangelism strategy. Here's how we can reach people. Okay? Send Lazarus back to the grave. What does Abraham think of that strategy? Does he scratch his chin? And does he say, uh, you know what? Maybe you're on to something there. Uh no. He says it would be a fool's errand. If you go down to verse 29. Abraham said, and this is the key, this is the key verse, I think. Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes from the dead, goes to them from the dead, they will repent. Verse 31. He said to them, if they do not hear Moses and the prophets, and Moses and the prophets is just shorthand for the Old Testament, right? That was the scriptures. There was no New Testament If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. And so The Jews had the scriptures, right? Remember when Jesus was walking down the road to Emmaus after he rose from the grave in Luke 24, verse 27 Luke writes that beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them, these guys were walking with them. in all the scriptures of things concerning himself. And so this is saying that even before the New Testament was completed, the Jews had the their scriptures, our Old Testament And that was sufficient to point them to Jesus Christ, that they could find salvation for their souls. And so, and we're in a we're in a better position, right? We have the New Testament, which shows how things worked out after Jesus' ministry, death, resurrection. And also then all the writings that explain the implications of Jesus' ministry and the fulfillment of all these Old Testament prophecies and types and shadows. So we have the whole thing now. It's complete. And so the lesson then is that if people will not listen to the Bible They will not listen to anything, right? Even if a man should rise from the grave. And so my question then Who do you think has the wisdom in this debate? Abraham or the man in hell? Abraham says, The Bible's enough. The Bible's sufficient. The man in hell says, no, you know That's fine, but they need something more to really get their attention and to convince them And this is where the church in our day is, right? Yeah, the Bible is great, but how do we draw people in? And what do we give them? Maybe um You read a Bible verse, but then give them uh more of a talk uh like a therapeutic talk. G give them six points and how to do better in this area Or our charismatic friends would say, you know, yeah, we believe the Bible, but then if we put an emphasis on miracles and on tongues or prophecy Then that would really get people's attention. Where I told this story years ago when I passed in North Carolina, there's a pastor down the street, and one I remember reading this article in the newspaper It was weird, I went to college with this guy, so I was really surprised. But he said one day a year, this article was about him, one day a year he would dress up as a clown And the the gist of the article was, you know what? He said, this this sort of gets people's attention, gets them to listen. So I couldn't imagine that. Dressing up as a clown and standing here And saying, you know, thus saith the Lord. But that's where we are. Now, and I want to say to our young people, probably perhaps some others too. Have you ever said to yourself, I've heard all this stuff in the Bible, and I don't have any great objection, it just doesn't hit me. Like it seems to hit others. But if God would speak to me somehow, maybe in through some event, or if God would give some kind of sign, Then that would do it. And then I'd be like, yeah, you know what? This stuff is true. But I don't I don't see much happening. This passage here says, look at verse 31, if the scripture doesn't convince you, then nothing is going to convince you. Abraham said to the rich man, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead. So here's what I want to say to those who are not convinced, who are not persuaded about the truth of Christianity, who have not bowed before Jesus Christ. What I want to say is real simple, and I've said it many times, is you just need to open this book, you need to wrestle with it, you should Take time each day and just start going through it, right? Start in the four gospels, read it. And in time, we trust that the Spirit of God will so persuade you That this stuff is true. Jesus is God. He is your King. He's the Savior of sinners. And so wrestle with it. Set under the teaching of it, be attentive when it's taught. Because Paul said in Romans 10, 17, faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. How does somebody go from being an unbeliever, from being spiritually dead, to becoming a believer who has been regenerated by God The typical instrument that God uses is this book, 1 Peter 1. 23. Peter said to these new Christians, he said, You have been born again. Not of perishable seed, but of imperishable. But then he says, how? Through the living and abiding word of God. So your spiritual birth came as a consequence. Of God's Spirit working through his word. Then he goes on in 1 Peter 1. 25 to say, and this word is the good news that was preached to you. So there you have it. Well, it's sort of short there. Real clear though, right? Real clear passage, real simple. Just stay in the Word. It discloses Christ. It shows that He is a Savior. And a lot of people, you know, they're not believers, but they just start reading the Bible. And it has the ring of truth. And that's the thing about the scripture. Because it is God's Word. Remember Jesus in John 10, he said, My teeth hear my voice. If you're one of Christ sheep, you recognize this to be the voice of God. And I remember as a new Christian, when I had doubts and struggles, And I was in Belgium for a year, surrounded by unbelievers. I'd just go back to my room and I'd read the Bible and I'd go be like, no, I can't explain this away. If nobody else believes, I cannot explain this book away. This is the truth. This is from God. And then of course there's all all the internal ways that the Bible corroborates itself So it is self-authenticating, but all I'm saying right now is that you will hear the voice of God. And so I say to those who may not who are not believers I say to young people who are not believers, do not be so preoccupied with the with the moment that you're in. uh with the concerns that you have at the moment that you neglect to tend to your soul Because you have been privileged. This book has been given to you. You have it in your language. You have access to it. You have an opportunity. to hear it taught. Because everything depends on how you respond to the Christ who is revealed in the Bible It will mean either the bliss of heaven or the pains of hell for eternity. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you that you have spoken clearly And we pray, Lord, that we would have confidence in this book. I pray for those who are not Christians, that they would search it out And they would put down their other entertainments and uh take it take a break from their concerns, and they would just sit in a chair and search this out daily. And by your spirit, you would persuade them, give them saving faith. convict them. And I also pray, Lord, for those of us who you have been gracious to give us eyes to see and ears to hear That we would be more aggressive, graciously aggressive, to engage other people and to point them to Christ. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. So let us take our hymn book, great hymn that speaks just about this. It's God's Spirit. who illumines the word of God. So it's number one hundred forty-five. The Spirit breathes upon the Word. Let's stand and sing. So I should definitely If I blow all the double things, it's a bottom. The first went to write in God, let's require God, the Lord was very The beast of birthday day, the beast of birthly day, the soil my home. Receive now the benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you, be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Amen. Don't need to bless the home reason to get. Really we're spinning within you've got vision with hand and then we're handling okay how it's going to have taken forget it, yeah. So I don't give it on my LTI or you know what we need to put in