Three to four to five year olds. Four to five year olds, if you would like to go to worship training, you may go out there with Miss Becky. And then let's all turn to Matthew chapter 28. So it's our last study in the Gospel of Matthew that we began some years ago. We took some detours through different books, but now we're in Matthew 28. And um I think I'll do now a five-week summary starting next week of the Gospel of Matthew. Should I do that? Now everybody's ready to move on, right? So we're going to move on Next Sunday we're going to have a guest preacher, a church planting candidate. So we'll have some guests here, our church planting committee, a couple of core groups, but a young man from Lancaster, John Hayward, is going to be preaching. So we'll look forward to meeting him, and I think I'm going to preach on a psalm after that. Then I'm probably going to go to the book of Revelation. So start reading the book of Revelation, okay There's a lot there, and we'll see how we do there. But this morning, we're in the final verses of Matthew's gospel. Well known to many, the Great Commission. So we begin in Matthew 28. Verse 16 Matthew writes, now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him But some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All the authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. And behold, I am with you always. Now it's notable, even before we jump in here, it's notable that the other three Gospels Record appearances that Jesus made after the resurrection to various groups, disciples, and uh to a couple others, but Matthew moved straight from Reporting on the resurrection to reporting on the Great Commission It wasn't an accident. Matthew, and every writer, every gospel has a different purpose, but Matthew wants here To set forth the Great Commission as the chief implication of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so what Matthew is saying is that the resurrection gave his disciples a new purpose In life. Their purpose now was to worship. We see that in verse 17. And their purpose was to witness. We see that in verses 19 to 20. This is instructive. No matter how mundane, no matter how tedious, no matter how disappointing your life may be. We can look here and be assured that God's called you to know Him and to worship Him And to play a part in his great purpose for humanity, which is to make disciples of all nations. And I just want to ask you, do you see that as your great ambition? I want to make disciples. I want to help people know Christ I want to help Christians grow in their knowledge of Christ. That really should be amongst the supreme purposes that we see for our lives. Young people. As you right now, and as you prepare yourself for life, I want you to embrace that. Yeah, God has called me to make disciples. No matter what I do, whether if I'm a trash man or if I'm an accountant or if I'm a missionary, whatever I do I need to remember that I am part of this great program that God has for history. And so we're gonna there's a lot in here. We're just gonna ask three questions of this commission. Number one, who did Jesus commission? And then what activities are involved in carrying out this commission? And then finally, why can we be confident? That the Great Commission to make disciples of all nations, why can we be confident that this mission will be fulfilled? Okay? So here we go. First of all, whom or who? Should be whom, right? But we could say, who did Jesus commission? And typically, when you read this commission, Uh especially if you grew up in a in a church or in some Christian group where there is a great emphasis on missions and as a new Christian in college, I was an intervarse Christian fellow Fellowship and they put a great emphasis on world missions, and it was great, rightly so. But I do remember them saying that this commission applies to every individual Christian In a direct sense, every Christian should be prepared to go to the ends of the earth with the gospel Now as we read this more closely, we realize, well, it wasn't so much spoken a command for every Christian. to go to the ends of the earth, Jesus spoke these words primarily or firstly, or initially, to the eleven apostles, right? Verse 16. Now the eleven apostles went to Galilee. To the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. Now before I jump in there, let me just make a little side note. Why do you tell them to go to Galilee? That was a four-day walk north. They were in Jerusalem Why did Jesus tell them four times in Matthew's Gospel 2632 and chapter 28 verse 7, 10, and 16? Why is there such an emphasis and why does Matthew even repeat it? That Jesus told them to go to Galilee. And I believe that's because that's where the gospel started. And that's where it was promised it would start. Isaiah chapter 9, verses 1 and 2. Foretold that the light of the gospel would dawn in Galilee. That's where Jesus began his ministry And so in Matthew chapter 4, verse 12 to 15, Matthew quotes that prophecy from Isaiah 9 to say it's fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Now the disciples Continuing the ministry that Jesus began inaugurated their ministry as well in Galilee. But that aside, what I want to underline is that Jesus gave this commission firstly to the eleven apostles, not to Christians in general. But it's fair to say that the commission extends beyond the eleven apostles And it goes to the church collectively, all right? Because the eleven apostles, those eleven men, could not, and they did not take the gospel to all nations Then Jesus promised them he would be with them to the end of the age. Well they they're dead, but Jesus promised is now to the church that he'll be with us to the end of the age. And I said to the church, not so much to individual uh Christians, because no single Christian can take the gospel course of all nations, and no single Christian, or no not all Christians, are called to baptize and to teach, right? That's something the church does. People have different gifts in the church. Some baptize, some teach. And then some and others do other things in the church. But as a church, and I'm not just talking about our church, but as a church of Christ, all those who are truly redeemed, this is our commission. Okay? Not everybody in the church is called to be a missionary. Sometimes I think uh there's a lot of guilt in churches saying you should be a missionary if you're going to be a first-class Christian, but no, you have to be called to be a missionary If you're not a missionary, you're still a first-class Christian, right? But we all do have a role nonetheless in praying for our missionaries overseas and also in advancing the mission of the church. And then of course of being a witness in our personal lives. So it's to the church, okay? Firstly to the apostles, then to the church. No complaints there, right? Let's get a little more specific. What does Jesus call the church to do in this commission? Usually when we hear this spoken of, it's in the context of evangelism. Okay? Jesus is saying, you need to go out, you need to knock on doors, you need to meet people, you need to talk to people. Sure, we need to do evangelism, but that's a very narrow explanation of what this uh what this command is about. In fact, so we're going to break this down, just one sentence, verse 20, and if you break it down grammatically, here's how it works in the Greek, okay? You have a command, an imperative. And there's one command, make disciples, okay? So that's the heart of the Great Commission. Make disciples And then there are three participles, or I better I would be better to say, three traits that should characterize the manner in which we make disciples and have This is in the bulletin and the italics, okay? So how do we make disciples? Will we do it by going, by baptizing, and by teaching And so if you read it in the in the ESD translation of the Bible, Jesus says, Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them and teaching them. And so it's usually taught, okay, you need to go and you need to make disciples, right? You need to go out the door and talk to people. You need to go to Timbuktu and uh be a missionary and you need to make disciples. But actually The command is one command, make disciples. So we can translate it like this. Going therefore Make disciples of all nations, baptizing them and teaching them. Okay, so that's how we're going to cut it up. And hopefully, well not hopefully, this will be. This will be practical. So, first the command, the general command is to make disciples, okay? Um not just illicit decisions, and it's funny a lot of uh churches say we're we're a great commissioned church, and what they're really doing though, what the focus of the ministry is is getting people to just say they believe in Jesus, to pray a prayer, to sign a card, to walk an aisle. Once somebody's done that, you feel like, all right, we've accomplished No. To get decisions. He's calling us to make disciples. And then we have the specifics about how we're to do that. Three specifics he gives us First thing he says is while you're going. So in other words, we need to be proactive in making disciples In other words, we not we should not merely be open to sharing the gospel with somebody who comes to us or who asks us a question. But rather uh we should take the initiative with people, right? We should build relationships with people, we should build bridges so that those conversations eventually uh do come up, we want to be proactive in our homes. We want to want to be proactive at school amongst our classmates and in the workplace. So we don't we're not to wait for people to come to us. We're to be uh proactive Uh we don't wait for the nations to come to us. Uh we send people out to the nations and we hope our young people will pray about that. And maybe God's calling you to go overseas to share the gospel. Now, so make disciples. Be proactive about that. What's that mean practically? Well, there are I think the most immediate thing we would think about as far as making disciples is um taking somebody under your wing, like taking a new Christian under your wing and and helping that person understand the Bible. And there are people in our church who do that. And that's That's what we should be doing. And it certainly includes teaching groups. Paul in I think 2 Timothy 2 2 he says the things you've heard from me uh teach others, uh teach these things to reliable men, plural. So we teach in groups, we pass it on to groups. So that's all important But there's a couple things that are often overlooked, and I think these are three of the most effective ways to make disciples that don't get much airtime. Okay? I think here's the most effective way to make disciples get married and have children That is the tried and true method of making disciples. And I've said on other occasions, the most effective tool ever devised For evangelism and disciple making is not the little four spiritual laws gospel tract, although that certainly is useful It's not the Billy Graham crusade or rally, though that certainly has had some usefulness, but rather the most effective evangelism tool ever devised by man, or or by God I should say. Is the marriage bed. God's purpose. Malachi chapter two, verse fifteen God's one of God's purposes for marriage, he says, is he seeks godly offspring. And it is Without um undoubtedly the most effective tool for evangelism Ever devised. We were talking Thursday night about uh Dutch people. They have this phrase in the Christian Reformed Church, a Dutch heritage denomination. And they would call it Dutch evangelism And they would say that because these Dutch families were so large that that's how the gospel was propagated in these Dutch denominations. And rightly so So we want to do Dutch evangelism. We got a couple Dutch evangelists in the back there. Chris and Christina Mason, right? Seven kids and one in the oven. So, and they're very deliberate. They're building a community of believers in their home. And so overlook best methods of fulfilling this command to make disciples. Number one, get married and have kids. Now some single single people said Well I want to get married. And so, yeah, and I know it's hard. It's hard to find the right person. It took me a long time But we just pray. We need to look be looking out too for our singles who desire to marry. So that's the first overlook method for making disciples. Second overlook method Is to exercise hospitality. So Rosaria Butterfield, a Christian writer, she wrote a book with the title, The Gospel Comes with a Housekeeping. That's pretty good, right? If you want people to hear you, you have to know them. They have to see you. They have to witness what you're about. They have to know you love them And hospitality is this incredible tool that God's given. And that's why you have these commands Throughout the New Testament, Romans 12. 13, Paul says, seek to show hospitality. 1 Peter 4:9, show hospitality to one another without grumbling. 1 Timothy 3. 2, Paul says that hospitality is a requirement for being an elder, right? You have to have a hospitable disposition, you have to be loving and interested. and people. Hebrews 13, too, the writer said, show hospitality to strangers, and not just to your friends from church, but to outsiders, right? This is how people come to know Jesus Christ especially in such an impersonable in person in personal uh collection Forgot that word. Here's another one, okay? So uh overlook ways that we can make disciples, a hospitality, get married and have kids. Here's another one. Plant churches. Plant churches. Now it's right there in the Great Commission. If you can show me where it is in the Great Commission I'll buy you lunch. I'm not confident you're not going to see it, okay? It's right there in the Great Commission, the command to plant churches. Where is it? It's implied in the command to baptize. Why do I say planting churches is connected to the The command to baptize. Well, when new believers are baptized, they're baptized not only into Christ But they're baptized into the church. You see that, for example, in Acts chapter 2, verse 41. Luke writes that those who receive the word quote were baptized and there were added that day about three thousand people. See the what Were those 3,000 people added? They were added, if you look to look at the context, they were added to the local church. And so the Great Commission is about planting churches. And if you'll I want you to notice the book of Acts. People say the book of Acts is about evangelism Well that's not that's a little general. The book of Acts is about a particular method of evangelism Church planting. That's what Paul did. He went all over the civilized world and he planted churches. He didn't just share the gospel in the street corner, get somebody to pray and say, Alright, good, you're saved but he brought these people Into churches, and he discipled these churches. He would follow up on the churches. And so how are we to fulfill the Great Commission? We're to fulfill it by being proactive, by going, right? Not only in sharing the gospel, but by having kids that we endeavor to raise and to nurture In admonition the Lord by exercising Christian hospitality and also by being involved in church planning. So that's the first way we do it. Second thing we do to fulfill the commission is that we baptize. We baptize, right? In our day, uh the sacraments were oftentimes seen as just uh religious rel religious rituals But really they're central to the life of the church. Even Jesus here in his last words he commands the church to baptize because baptism is the initiation rite by which someone is brought into the church. And in fact as D. A. Carson put it The New Testament can scarcely conceive of a disciple who is not baptized. And so there is this intimate connection. Between professing faith in Christ and then having this sign of salvation applied to you, the sign of baptism. And I said baptism's a sign, that's to be a way to describe it. So it's a symbol or a sign, an outward sign of an inward reality. And it's funny in in in the inquiry's class today we're talking about baptism. What is it a sign of? Well a number of things that A sign of union with Christ and his death and resurrection from Romans 6. A sign of cleansing. Ezekiel chapter 36, 25 to 27, and 3. 5. Baptism pictures the cleansing. God sprinkles clean water on us that will be clean. It's also a sign of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, right? So that's That's what we use, our mode of baptism is a sprinkling, because it pictures a sprinkling that cleanses and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. So we say baptism is a sign, an outward sign. Of what God has done for that person. He's washed away their sin. He's cleansed them. He's given them the Holy Spirit. And then we also say that baptism is a seal. That's a strange word, a seal, but you might want to think about like a king has a A stamp that he presses onto wax with his royal seal. And what that seal does is it confirms or authenticates some kind of document. And so baptism is a seal that we belong to God, that we're saved, that we're forgiven, and that He will always be. our God. And so we're talking about how do we carry out this commission to make disciples? And Jesus says, be proactive, go. And he also says, we're to baptize, giving the people the mark that they're now numbered amongst God's people. And then thirdly, Jesus says, we're to teach, right? He says, teach them to observe all that I have commanded you. So there's an ethical component to the Great Commission, where Jesus saved us by his grace, right? He died for our sins. But then he also gave us commands to follow. And so and if you'll just let me take a little side road here, uh just so you'll see the richness of scripture Before we talk about what it means to teach God's commands, let me point out something that's one of the themes of the Gospel of Matthew. And it's not an accident Jesus is standing here on a mountain and he's telling his disciples, teach my commands. Who else was on a mountain? And has something to say about commands. Well we could say Moses, right? It's not an accident. This is a huge theme in the way that Matthew structured his gospel. Let me go through this, okay? And then we'll move on. Moses led the Israelites out of bondage to Egypt, right? Brought them out of Egypt. They went through the Red Sea But he went through the wilderness and finally to the promised land. Do you remember back in Matthew 2, after Jesus was born, King Herod went on a rampage To slaughter all the children in the region who were under two years of age. And so Joseph and Mary, they got out of town, right? They went down to an Egypt until the rampage ended, and then they came back to Israel. And so in Matthew chapter 2 verse 15, Matthew writes, This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Then there's a quotation from Hosea 11, verse 1. Out of Egypt I called my son. Hosea 11:1 is referring to Israel being called to Egypt. Matthew applies that verse to Jesus because he, like Moses, led his people out of Egypt. Moses led the people through the waters of the Red Sea into the wilderness, and in forty years in the wilderness where they were tempted Jesus Christ too passed through the waters of the Jordan when he was baptized, and immediately after his baptism He went out into the wilderness where he was tempted for forty days as the new Israel, the faithful Israel Moses gave the Ten Commandments from a mountain. Jesus gave his exposition of God's law, which included the Ten Commandments. From the mountain, right? The Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5 to 7. And then Moses gave five books: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus number Deuteronomy. Matthew structures His gospel around five discourses, five speeches that Jesus gave. So to say, Jesus is the second and greater Moses Of whom Moses spoke, because back in Deuteronomy 18, verse 15, Moses told the people of Israel, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers, it is to him to whom you shall listen. So Matthew is making it abundantly clear that Jesus is this greater prophet. Whom Moses promised. But there's a difference. When Moses led the people out of Moses led the people out of Egypt Why? What did Moses say to Pharaoh? Let my people go that they may worship me, right? That they may worship God, I should say. Jesus led his people out of this greater bondage to sin and to Satan and to death. Why? Oh, verse 17. That they might worship him And then as Moses gave the Ten Commandments, after they were delivered from Egypt, so Jesus delivered us by his death and resurrection. Why? Now here we come back. We're back on the highway now. Just run up that side road, we were taking a ramp. Uh teach them to observe all that I have commanded you. Okay? So Jesus, yeah, we're saved by grace, just like people were in the old test. But we still have this ethical component to the Christian life as response uh to the salvation that God's given us, we're to observe and we're to teach others to observe everything. Jesus said all that which He has commanded us. And you think about it, the Bible's a really big book, right? There's a lot in here, and I've been at it for 40 years, and I and I'm not just saying this. There is so much I don't understand. But Jesus teaches us here as a church, as parents, as Christians. That we're to teach all of it. We're to endeavor to know it so that we can apply it to ourselves and then teach it to others. And that's why uh that's why my method is I just preach through books of the Bible typically because that forces me to teach all of it. Because some of it if I got up every Tuesday morning and said what am I gonna preach I probably spent two hours trying to figure out what I'm gonna preach on. When I say I don't know if I could preach on that, I don't know if I could understand that and and uh organize it. But when you have to, you do it. Uh Sunday's coming and it always works out because the Bible is from God. It's intelligible And all of it applies. Okay. So we teach the books of the Bible, we cover everything, even those things that are not Immediately interesting, even those things that make us uncomfortable, even those parts that may be unpopular at the moment. And we teach not only the New Testament, we teach the Old Testament, right? Because the whole book Is from God. We don't just teach the simple gospel, right? Every week in our church isn't just an evangelistic sermon. But rather Paul said and commanded us in Acts twenty twenty verse twenty-seven. We proclaim the whole counsel of God, right? From Genesis to Revelation And we endeavor to imply it. We not only do it from the pulpit, we do it from the Sunday school classes, the Bible studies. And we want to encourage and equip our parents to do this more and more at home. And so here's our commission, right, to make disciples. How do we do it? do it proactively by going. We want to baptize. We want to teach. And I said in the beginning This should be amongst our supreme ambitions to see the the carrying out, the application uh of this commission. And I and I say that to our young people. So many young people in our in our culture have a sense of aimlessness or purposelessness But here is a mission for your life. No matter what vocation you pursue, no matter where you live. This should really be at the heart of what you see as a purpose for your life. And so give up your small ambitions And really lock on to what Jesus Christ has called every Christian to embrace this wonderful commission. And this is our calling as a church, right? to enjoy one another's fellowship and uh build one other build one another up. But we we we have a a calling, a mission Yeah, we all want to embrace this and I I would think you know everybody should have some role in the church. It just shouldn't be coming on Sunday morning, but we all really need to be actively Engaged in some role, whether a formal role or an informal role, of trying to build others up and to equip our church uh to be more effective. We've had a a Pakistani family uh visiting us a few times. They just moved to Frederick. They were in Pakistan I forget how long ago, but they were driven out because the the uh the man uh Admin uh he has a ministry in Pakistan Equipping churches with Sunday school materials, or not only Sunday school, but Christian education materials for kids, and then training uh people in the churches to teach children and to make decisions. He said there are hundreds of thousands of Christians in Pakistan. And so he's involved in a wonderful ministry. I hope they come to our church because it would be good for us to know them, to hear what's going on. They could tell us what's going on in Pakistan, and then we can encourage them and pray for them and stand shoulder to shoulder with them and have this reach at least indirectly into uh Pakistan. And so let's uh let me close by just giving an assurance I've talked and talked and talked. I just want to give now a word of assurance that you know what? It seems like you look around Looks like the gospels were in a twilight of Christianity in America. And that may well be But Jesus Christ will still accomplish his purposes amongst his elect. He will still bring people to know him. And the nations, right, the Southern Hemisphere are Uh in in North America Christianity's dwindling, but in the Southern Hemisphere it's growing. And so Jesus is still accomplishing his purposes and we can have every confidence uh That Jesus will indeed accomplish or carry out this commission. Because he says in verse 18, all authority in heaven on earth has been given to me. And what he's doing there is he's alluding to something way back in Daniel 7. 14 that foretells the Son of Man coming. And Daniel said, To him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Then it says, His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom shall not be destroyed. And so here Jesus reminds us that the gates of hell will not prevail against the church, no matter how desolate our country becomes spiritually The gates of hell will not prevail against the church. There will always be a church. There will always be people who follow Jesus Christ. There will always be people who come to know Jesus Christ. Because even in the most secular culture, John 10, 27 applies where Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. So as we proclaim the gospel, there will be on believers Who come to know Jesus Christ because they will hear his voice by the Spirit through the Word of God as it is read and as it is taught. And Jesus says, Don't you worry, I'm going to be with you to the end of the age. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you have not left us to pull this off in our own strength. We thank you that you have not left us aimless in our lives But you've given us a calling. You've set forth these marching orders. Help us, Lord, to embrace it with zeal Help us to be happy warriors, even as we see the destruction of secularism in our country Help us, Lord, to go forth speaking forth your word, raising our kids in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And we pray, Lord, for our young people. that they will not be caught up with the trivial matters that is that are set before them every day, but that they would see this great calling to which you called them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your song book. We're going to sing a song list right about this passage. It's 453. 453. The title is All Authority and Power