At the first five verses So Jesus, this is the night before he's crucified. He's talking to his disciples And he said in chapter 16, the end of that chapter, he says, In this world you will have many tribulations, but take heart, I have overcome the world. Then in chapter 17, when Jesus has spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life. to all you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence. With the glory that I had with you before the world existed. So this entire chapter is a prayer. The Anglican pastor J. C. Ryle who many of you esteem, he he said that John seventeen is the most remarkable chapter in the Bible. And many regard it as such. Um back in during the Reformation in the uh fifteen hundreds, Philip Melanchton, the Protestant Reformer, said There is no voice which has ever been heard either in heaven or in earth like this prayer offered up by the Son of God himself. And this is a passage that we cannot we can't begin to fathom its depth. You know, it's like being a a kindergartner. In an honors class at Harvard. And in this prayer, Jesus consecrates himself to the Father. And then he prays for his people, and so since the fifth century, uh this prayer has been come to be known as Jesus' high priestly prayer. What's a priest? A priest is a a mediator, one who stands between man and God. And so Jesus prays for his people, and so he's our priest And it's interesting the Book of Hebrews says Jesus isn't merely only the priest, but he's also the sacrifice who is offered for our sin. And so Jesus is both our great high priest and he is the final sacrifice for sin. This is the longest prayer that we have of Jesus that is recorded in the Gospels. The other prayers are pretty short. I mean the Lord's Prayer, Matthew 6. There's something to that, but then the other prayers when Jesus prayed at Lazarus' tomb, Jesus' prayer in Gethsemane, uh Jesus' prayer on the cross. There's short prayers, not necessarily that Jesus prayed a short prayer, but what the writers recorded was just at least a snippet of those prayers. This prayer, well, like all those prayers, but this one certainly is notable because As you read this, and I encourage you to read it a few times this week because we'll be in it for a couple weeks, Jesus bears his soul to the Father. And the Holy Spirit, in recording this prayer in John's Gospel, has granted us access to this inner sanctum. between the Father and the Son, and it's really revealing about what is important to Jesus. And another thing, and we're just covering five verses this week, but we're going to cover more next week. You discover as you read this, it's a really dense prayer. It's packed with biblical truth, it's packed with theological truths. And we could spend weeks on it. And there are those who have. There was a Puritan pastor by the name of Anthony Burgess who preached 145 sermons on John chapter 17. So that's how the Puritans did it. Comes out the 1,200 pages in the book. If you want to order the book, Anthony Burgess, my pastor, he's sort of superficial. He did three sermons on it. I want to delve into it. Okay. Look up Anthony Burgess on Amazon and uh that's twelve hundred pages. You can knock that out this week and uh write a paper on it. Let me know what you learned. But um I'm not a Puritan. I mean, I subscribe to Puritan theology, but not to their approach to preaching. Because hey, we're all getting old and um we need to learn more about the Bible in John chapter 17. So I like to t I like to take big sweeps. I want to I wanna introduce the whole sweep of scripture. And so uh in this prayer, this prayer is nice in that it breaks down into three sermons. The first five verses, Jesus prays for himself. Verses 6 to 19 he prays for the apostles. Then verses 20 to 26 he prays for the church and the world. So I'm aiming at three sermons, maybe it'll be four. Uh we'll see. But what I want you to note as we as we approach this prayer Is that in studying Jesus' prayer in John 17, we learn what is important to Jesus. And if it's important to Jesus, it should be important to us, right? We're his disciples These are the things that we should be striving for, these are the things we should be praying for, and also we should take some comfort and encouragement. about the fact that Jesus continues to be our great high priest. He's praying for us, and we're going to see some of the things that he's praying for in John chapter 17. So the first thing I want you to notice, and this is sort of we're still entering into this, is this is verse 1. Jesus prayed, Jesus, the Son of God, prayed, even though he recognized the sovereignty of God the Father. One of the recurring themes in John's Gospel is Jesus speaking about his hour coming. Remember back in in uh chapter two, the wedding at Cana? Jesus or they ran out of wine at this wedding and his mother pressed Jesus, Hey, throw out a wine. And Jesus responded, I think it's chapter 2 verse 4, he said My hour has not yet come. And then a couple more times he says, my hour has not yet come. And then he starts saying, the hour has come, or John writes that, and sometimes it comes right off Jesus' lips. The hour refers to The time of Jesus crucifixion and resurrection. And so it's been somebody said That the Gospels basically are a passion narrative with an extended introduction So really the heart of the Gospels is Jesus, the story about Jesus' death and his resurrection. And so in verse 1, Jesus finally said, Father, The hour has come. He had a sense of destiny. He knew from the earliest days that his ministry would culminate. In his death on the cross. He recognized that this was the Father's sovereign plan. But the only thing I want I want you to note at this moment Is that though Jesus recognized the Father's sovereignty, he still prayed? Right? Verse 1, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, The hour has come. I point this out because we can give lip service to the importance of prayer But in the back of our minds, we have this awareness, God is sovereign. And so, yeah, I should pray, but it's really not going to affect outcomes The Bible teaches the opposite. The Bible teaches that because God is sovereign, we should pray. God's aw being persuaded that God's in control of all things should not deter us from praying But should motivate us to pray because prayer is God's appointed means for carrying out his sovereign purposes. I don't understand this, but and there's this is a mystery. Yeah, God is sovereign, but at the same time Scripture speaks about the efficacy of prayer. Right? Jesus in Matthew 7. 7 said, Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you'll find, knock and it shall be opened to you. And so, just looking at verse 1, I just want you to notice something here, that there's no conflict between the sovereignty of God in the efficacy of our praying. And so God's sovereignty does not relieve us of our duty to pray. Right? We're not a philosopher's club, right? We're Christianity is a super supernatural religion, so it's important that we pray each day. First Thessalonians 5 17, I think it says pray continually, and certainly that we gather to pray. Here's the second thing we see in this passage. Jesus prayed that God the Father would be glorified through the cross. And so I think that's notable, even as Jesus stood right on the brink of his arrest and his crucifixion His concern was that he would be glorified, that his father would be glorified. You see that in the end of verse 1? Father, the hours come, glorify your son, that your son may glorify you. Then you go down to verse 5. Now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. Well that's a that's a phrase that you hear, you know, we want to glorify you, Lord. What does that mean? Basically, it means that God's greatness and his perfections will be displayed, they'll be recognized, and that God will receive the praise that rightly belongs to him. And Jesus, in his earthly ministry, did glorify the Father. Look at verse 4. I glorified you on earth. Jesus glorified the Father by His perfect obedience. Having accomplished the work that you gave me to do, Jesus would supremely glorify the Father through the cross. And this is the great paradox or the irony of Christianity in that the cross, this cruel instrument of shame, uh became the instrument by which the glory of God was most brilliantly displayed. Right? You think about what scripture says about the cross. How does the cross display the glory of God? Well we say it displays his holiness and his justice, right? Sin must be dealt with It also puts on display his wisdom in that God was able to redeem his people without compromising his justice. It displays his mercy, his love. His grace, all of God's attributes are brilliantly displayed in Jesus' death and resurrection. And then in verse 5, Jesus prayed. that the Father would restore to him the splendor that he shared with the Father before the incarnation. Do you notice that in verse 5? Glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. There will be one difference, or there would be one difference though, in the glory that Jesus would have after the resurrection in that his glory would now include a glorified human body. And so Jesus now sits at the right hand of the Father, physically, fully God, fully man, and he's the one who goes before us. In one day, like Jesus, our bodies, our physical bodies, falling apart, right? Some of us are our bodies are falling apart. One day we will receive new bodies. First Corinthians 15, 42, Paul describes the resurrection bodies. He said, What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable. What is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It's sown in weakness. It's raised in power. Hey As you get old, and for those who are getting old, hey, this is a reminder. This is in the last chapter. Our crumbling bodies will one day be restored. And so Jesus prayed that the cross, this instrument of shame, would turn into an instrument by which God the Father and God the Son would be glorified. And not worked out just as he prayed, because this morning around the world, millions of Christians are gathering to worship The risen Jesus Christ around Jesus' throne in heaven, he is being worshipped by those who are in his presence even right now. And so in this prayer Jesus prayed even while he recognized the Father's sovereignty in this prayer. Jesus prayed that he would be glorified in the cross. And then thirdly And there's much in this point, Jesus prayed for God to grant eternal life to his people. So look at verse 2. Since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So The night before Jesus is crucified, he prayed that his people would receive eternal life. If that's what Jesus prayed at this desperate hour, then I think it's fair to say that eternal life is the most or certainly one of the most important things in the world. This is a huge theme in John's Gospel. You know, we we we pass we we we pass over this But again and again, what's John talking about? He's talking about eternal life. Go back to chapter 3, verse 16. God so loved the world that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life Chapter 5 verse 24, Jesus said, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death unto life. And there's a whole slew of verses, but you get to the end of John's Gospel, chapter 20, verse 31. And John says, here's why I wrote this gospel. That you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, and that by believing you may have life in his name. And so if eternal life is important, so important that Jesus would pray about it on the eve of his crucifixion, then we conclude this is really important. What is eternal life? It's another word for salvation. And it refers not only to its duration, but to its quality. It begins not when you die, but when you believe in Jesus Christ, when you trust in him, that he suffered the judgment that you deserved for your sin. Is that clear to everybody, right? How do you receive this eternal life? It's not by your religious exercises, it's not by your good deeds, it's not by your moral striving But it's rather by resting on Jesus Christ. And this is something that you receive immediately. It's not something that you'll graduate to. But when you believe on Jesus Christ, it said in 524, you have passed from death unto life. It's a life. Jesus says he'll slake our spiritual thirst. In 414, he promised the woman at the well, whoever drinks the water that I give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I give him be will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. So there is that theme yet once again. And so Jesus in verse 3 says, excuse me, pfft He said, this is eternal life. Then he says that they may know you the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. And so at the very heart of this promise of eternal life is the fact that we will know God. We won't just know about God, but we will know God in a personal, in a relational sense. And um and I would say, before you can know God you have to know something about Him, right? And that's I think that's where the challenge is in our day. Many people have no idea of what God is like. Ephesians 4 18, uh Paul spoke of his own people, the Jews, as alienated from the life of God, because of the ignorance That is in them. And we live in a culture and even a church culture where people don't know the most basic things about the God of the Bible because it used to be, I mean in my generation Your parents or your grandparents went to church and there was somebody to sort of tell you about Christianity, but Many people nowadays, I mean, they're they're complete their their background is completely unchurched So that so much so it's been said that the average farmer with an elementary education a hundred years ago knew more about the Bible than the average college graduate graduate. in our day knows about the Bible. And even in the churches, not only the liberal Protestant churches, but in the evangelical churches, there's ignorance about the basic truths of Scripture. So Becky and I talk about what am I gonna do when I retire? There's things that I want to do that she's not crazy about, but one of them is I don't know if this these people would have me. I'd like to go to a dead liberal Protestant church and say, hey I'll be your pastor for free. But I'm going to teach the Bible. We'll see what happens there. But I mean, because a lot of people in the pews If their pastor would just teach the Bible, they'd go, Oh, this is good stuff. I'm interested in this. They're not getting the Bible at all Years ago, we had a woman in our church, she went to the Lutheran seminary in Gettysburg, she got her Master of Divinity degree. She didn't know anything. She sat to our Sunday school class on the Westminster Confession of Faith. She said, I learned more about the Bible in that Sunday school class. than I learned in seminary because they're not teaching the Bible. They're not touching the Bible. It's all these social issues that they're on. The other day Becky was talking to a woman Who lamented the fact she said, I want to believe in God, but I can't believe, or I I I'm having a hard time believing. What should I do? Well, Romans 10, 17 answers that question. It said, faith comes, it says, faith comes from hearing the Word of God. What should I do Well, open the Bible, and I say this to our young people or anybody here, you're not so sure, you know, how can I know this stuff is true? Well, you gotta read it. Send on continue to come, said under the preaching of the word, ask questions. Then I also said to Becky, I said, tell this person about this little um uh Christian radio uh uh uh that you get on your uh phone uh an app is called Refnet, Reformation Network where you have good solid Bible teaching, Bible uh preaching and whatnot. R-E-F-N-E-T. That's an app for the Bible. But I'd say, you know, this person's not a believer, but Just listen to the word of God and that's how it comes about. So Jesus prayed Verse 3, this is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God. And so yeah, you have to know something about God, but that is not enough to receive this eternal life Uh you can't just know about God in a in a theoretical or an abstract way, uh, but you have to have a a knowledge, a personal knowledge, a personal relationship uh with God. And this is something that God promised his people in the Old Testament. Hundreds of years before Jesus came to the world In Jeremiah thirty-one, verse thirty-four, God spoke of a day, he said, when they shall all know me from the least to the greatest. God promised there would come a day when my people will know me. And that's what Jesus Christ has brought about. And so that's where we are, right? We can know God. Can we know God more? Sure. Do we know God superficially? Yes. There's room for growth. But a Christian knows God personally and grows to know God more and more, right, through his study and reflection on the Bible through his life of prayer, through his participation in the fellowship of the church, and through his endeavoring to live a life of obedience and repentance. And so this is our privilege. Jesus prayed that we would know God. And those who are Christians, we can say, I know the God of the universe. Although I certainly I need to know more, that should be my supreme ambition. Think about the Apostle Paul. He'd been a Christian for some thirty years. And yet in Philippians 3 verse 10, he said, I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection. And so that is a noble ambition. That is what we want to be striving after. And There's no greater endeavor. Aren't we privileged? We get to go home this afternoon, you have a good lunch, and then you could sit down, you could read some uh read a portion of scripture, you could think about the sermon, go over the passage, you can read some uh Christian book of devotion, and you can deepen your knowledge of God. Charles Spurgeon made the comment that there's no greater endeavor than to know the name, the nature, the person, the work, the doings, and the existence of the great God whom he calls Father. And so, yeah. It's important to learn the Bible, right? It's important to learn the final points of Reformed theology. But it's also important that we don't see this knowledge merely as an end, but as a means to knowing God. And so in Jeremiah 9. 23, God said, Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this, that he understands and knows me. That's a noble ambition. Here's something else, we're almost done regarding this eternal life. Verse 2, Jesus says this is something that God grants as a gift. Go back to verse 2. He said, he prayed, Since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. Okay? So this eternal life Is a gift, is something that God grants, is something that God bestows on those who are lost and blind and uh were unwilling. It's something God grants, right? All we do is open uh put out our empty hands, and you receive it. You receive it by faith, you receive it by repentance, by doing a U-turn. Changing course. And now walking toward Jesus Christ instead of rebelling against him and Jesus gives. What's the same verse two? This is the final thing. Jesus said that he gives eternal life to those whom the Father has given him. Did you see that verse 2? You've given him authority over all flesh to give us to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. This is telling us that out of the great multitude of people that comprise humanity There is a group of people whom the Father has given to Jesus. And that's not the first time Jesus spoke like this. Go back to uh, or just listen, John 6. 39 There Jesus said, This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me. But raise it up on the last day. So Jesus says, I have a company of people whom the Father has given me, and I'll raise them up. Same idea, Acts 13, 48. Uh Luke wrote that as as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Or in John ten twenty-seven, Jesus said to these people, you do not believe, because you're not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice and I know them. And they follow me. And then in Matthew 24, 24, Jesus refers to this company, to this group as the elect. And so I've talked about different aspects of what is eternal life. It's knowing God is something that God grants. We don't earn it. We don't deserve it. And um but I want you to hear really the big thing I want you to hear here is that Jesus, in this most critical hour of his life, prayed that his people would receive eternal life If that's the most important thing to Jesus, that should be the most important thing in the world to us, for Christians, that we have eternal life. That we are ambassadors for Christ. We can present the offer of eternal life to unbelieving friends and relatives. And then from believers, it says, you know what, I have a lot of things going on in my life, but I need to remember what's really important, and that is that I enter into this eternal life that Jesus offers freely to any who would receive it. And so there's a there's a parable, Matthew 13, verse 44, a man found a treasure in a field. What was this treasure? What did it represent? It represented eternal life. And Jesus says, when he found this treasure, he sold everything he had. Because he realized, whatever it takes, I want to get this treasure because this is supremely valuable. It is supremely important. And if you're not a Christian yet, this is something that I want you to see. Jesus prayed for this on the eve of his crucifixion. This is supremely important that you receive from Jesus Christ this eternal life. So let's bow our heads. Our Father, we're thankful that you had a plan all through history to redeem a people for yourself. We're thankful that despite our discouragements we have in our lives, that we have been granted this treasure. And so help that to keep help may that help us keep things in perspective. And then I pray, Lord, For those who have not received this eternal life, those who do not know you We pray that you would open the eyes of their hearts, that they might recognize the truth of the gospel. in that they would receive Jesus Christ as their Savior, as the one who died for their sin. And that by your grace that they might walk with you and know you and grow in their love for you. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.