Uh somebody was telling me we should put a sign that says nursery on the door just so new people know that. So gotta work on that. We'll talk to the nursery sign committee about that one. Um let's turn to John chapter twelve. John twelve So for those who are new, we're marching through John's Gospel. And now we come to this closing statement by Jesus. John 12, verse 44, Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that this commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, as we look at The words that Jesus spoke, we pray that they would not be dead letters on the page, but that by your Spirit they would speak to us. They would ring true. We would recognize that this is the voice of God for us. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There have been times over the years when A church member had a loved one, or even an acquaintance had a loved one in the hospital or in the nursing home dying, and that loved one apparently was not a believer So this uh member would say, hey, would you go visit my uncle or my father in the hospital And try to explain the gospel or see if he has any questions. And I gladly do that. That's a wonderful opportunity And um on many occasions a person by that time has no interest or they're not clear minded. Others, you know, they're They're clear-minded and they were interested and they gave some kind of assent uh to the truths of the gospel, and we we always pray uh that it was uh a genuine uh thing And um but I go sort of making like a final plea, a final presentation of Christianity. Sometimes the person is not in the hospital and they don't realize that this is the last time they will hear. Uh when I was 33, I was a pastor in North Carolina. My parents lived in New Jersey. They came down for a weekend visit. And my father wasn't a believer And during that weekend I was like, I want to be able to just say something, have some kind of conversation. And so I had like a a little conversation. It didn't register and it didn't I don't think it took hold. And then my parents went home and two days later, my father died completely, unexpectedly. And of course, if I knew that at that time, I would have had more of a sense of urgency about that conversation. The passage before us constitutes Jesus' final appeal to the crowds in Jerusalem. From chapter 13 to the end of the gospel, Jesus largely is speaking to his disciples privately. Now in this final appeal, Jesus doesn't say anything that he hasn't already said So when I read this passage last Tuesday morning, I sort of took a big gulp because I thought, hey This has already been covered in the Gospel of John. What can I say that would give it any freshness? Well I hope I can say uh something but we want to approach this basically uh as sort of a s a summary statement of some of the grand themes that Jesus spoke and that John and John himself uh spoke of. Uh it talks about believing in him. It talks about Jesus having been sent by the Father. There's the themes of light, darkness, judgment, and eternal life. And so yes, this is familiar uh territory, and yet what we want what we want to know is the sense of urgency That Jesus speaks of these matters in this passage. Look at verse 44. It says, He cried out He's in Jerusalem. It's the week of the Passover. There are great clock great crowds. And Jesus Just cries out trying to awaken these people, hoping that at least some will hear And we'll respond to the gospel. But this isn't just a history lesson of what Jesus did 2,000 years ago amongst the people in Jerusalem, but God's word is living and active, and so we should hear it as Jesus' entreaty to us. If you're not a Christian. You go to church. That's great. But you're sort of sliding along. You haven't done, you haven't really settled things with Jesus Christ. Hear the call that Jesus makes. Or if you are a Christian, here's a good review of some of the essential truths of the gospel. That we stand on and also that we want to uh share with unbelieving friends and loved ones. And so we see Jesus cries out for you to believe, number one, because of who he is. He reveals God. Jesus Christ is God incarnate He reveals what God is like. So you go to Amazon. com and if you stick in Man Search for God, you're going to get a bunch of books. I wouldn't read any of them, but they're out there. I wrote down some of the titles. Man Search for God. How about that? Man seeks God, searching for God, man's search for the invisible God, man's quest for God In other words, there's not too many different ways that you can say that. So they're all about the same, and it goes on and on and on. And there is no end to the speculations about how man can find God, and of course there's no and to the various forms of spirituality, that's the modern rule, right? Spirituality out there that arise from these searches for God. But in our passage, verse 44 and 45, Jesus makes this revolutionary claim about himself. He says, you can know God. through me. Let's read verse 44 again. Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. So that is one of the Grand declarations that is made in John's Gospel. Go back to chapter 1, verse 18. John wrote, No one has ever seen God. God the only Son, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. John 14, 9. Jesus said, Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Hebrews 1 calls Jesus the the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of his being. So when we say the Nicene Creed We refer to Jesus as God of God, light of light, very God of very God. So Of all the religions out there, these Christians come along, and we say that You can know God, and the only way that you can know God is through Jesus Christ. To recognize Jesus in Scripture is to have an understanding, not an exhaustive understanding, but an understanding of what God is like. to hear Jesus' words as the recorded in Scripture is to hear the voice of God. And Jesus says that look at verse 49 For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. And so this is the radical claim that Jesus Christ makes of himself. He is God. So what do you make of that? Not everybody makes a claim like that. If somebody else made it, we'd think they're crazy. Jesus makes that claim. And of course most of us were here because, yeah, we're persuaded. This is true. It's a fantastic claim, but we are persuaded that it is true. And if you've never searched these things out, right? You come because mom and dad brings you, or because your spouse brings you, or whatever, if you've never searched these things out We always want to say, open up the Bible, read it, right? Just weigh it out. It's funny, so we have a relative who told Becky, she said to Becky, I'm going to buy a Bible and I'm going to start to read it. Great. Here's why I'm going to do that. I'm going to find the contradictions and show them to you. And I still thought, great, because right, the Bible has a persuasive power about it. In fact, Charles Spurgeon said in the Bible It's like a lion. You don't need to defend a lion. All you need to do is let it out of its cage, and it will defend itself And so that's our confidence, right? Hebrews 4. 12 says the word of God is living and active, right? It's it's a living word, it's a living book. Somebody said it's the uh uh the the Bible is uh sharper than any two-edged sword. Somebody said it's the only sword that you can stick into somebody that'll make them alive And so we're persuaded that Jesus Christ is God. He reveals God to us. His words are the words of God. And so if you're not there yet, if you're not persuaded, open the Bible, right? Read it and pray, Lord, help me to see. Open my eyes to recognize this if it is indeed true. And so Jesus cries out, number one, for all men to believe that he is God, that he reveals God. Secondly, He calls out for us to deliver for him to deliver us from the darkness. That is found in verse 46. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness. So you see what I said before? This is repeating everything that John uh recorded earlier. John 8 12. Jesus said, I'm the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. But John's trying to persuade his readers, right? Chapter 20, verse 31, I write these things to you so that you may believe. So he There's this repetition. Jesus spoke, so John records Jesus' final speech in public. He wants to remind his readers who aren't yet believers Outside of Jesus Christ, man resides in spiritual darkness. We're separated from God. We are ignorant of his truth. And um that doesn't annul this sense that Just about everybody has, believer or unbeliever, that there's a God. There's some component within us that says there is a God. In most of us before we became Christians we can remember that. Yeah. I mean I I I had this instinctive sense that there is a God. Now you can say, well that's just your feelings. All right But the scripture says this is how God constituted people. Let me give a couple verses. Romans 1, verse 20. There, Paul speaks about man, the unbeliever, knows there's a God. His invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature. have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world out in the things that are made, right? We're made in God's image. We're living in God's world and so we recognize. Just looking at the power and the beauty and the majesty of of of the created world, that there is a creator. God has put this component within us. Ecclesiastes 3. 11, the writer says, God has set eternity in the heart of man. Yeah, there there's some longing. Uh C. S. Lewis described it as the echo of a tune we have not heard, right? Like it's this song I haven't heard, but I know it's out there. That's what we have about this sense that there's a God, that there's more uh to life, that there's eternal life. He called it the longing for a country We'd never visit it. We know, yeah, there is this heavenly home. There is this creator. And so we have this sense, and this explains How it is that in such a secular age that still, you know, as has been said, man is incurably religious Uh we know there's something more. Yeah, our sin has blinded us. We we dwell in this in this darkness and and w and We grope for some kind of knowledge of the God, right? We have this quest for God. Well Jesus is the light. He's the one who delivers us from the darkness. And this is why I say with distressing regularity that you want to open up the scripture, right? You want to read it. And you pray God will open your eyes. Here's what Paul said Why was Paul a Christian? In 2 Corinthians 4 6, he said, God, who made light shine out of darkness made his light shine in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of Christ. That's why Some people are believers and others aren't. It's not because those who are believers have this great spiritual insight or wisdom But it's because God, by His grace, opened our eyes to see and to believe Well, why don't more believe then if this is so true? In John 3. 19, we're still talking about light and darkness. John three nineteen explains People love the darkness rather than the light because their works were were evil, right? Natural man wants to go his own way. He wants to do his own thing. And Outside of spiritual regeneration, he doesn't want anybody telling him what to do. He doesn't want anyone pressing upon him any kind of moral requirements. Because in our unregenerate state we we we relish sin, we enjoy it, and we don't want to let it go, right? Because there is pleasure involved John 3. 20, everyone who does wicked things hates the light. Doesn't come into the light, lest his works be exposed. But Jesus makes this promise, verse forty-six Whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness. And so My question, are you walking in the darkness or are you living under the light and by the light? That Jesus Christ the Lord provides. So Jesus speaks with great urgency. He reveals what God is like. He says, I can deliver you from the darkness. Number three, he warns that those who reject him will be judged. So verse 47 And 48. And really no honest presentation of the cla of the claims of Jesus Christ will uh uh will ignore This warning of judgment forty seven if anyone hears my words and does not keep them I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I've spoken will judge him on the last day. Well, which is it? That's a little confusing. First he says he didn't come to judge the world. Then he talks about people being judged on the last day. But there's no contradiction because it's just Jesus is just saying, when he says, I didn't come to judge the world, he's saying that's not wasn't the purpose of my coming. It was to bring salvation Luke 19, Jesus said, the Son of Man came to seek and to save that was which is lost. However On the last day, he will judge the world, 2 Timothy 4. 1. He will judge the living and the dead. What will be the basis of that judgment? His word, the end of verse 48. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. This is a little concerning. If you sat under the preaching of God's Word, the teaching of God's Word, if you've grew if you grew up in a Christian home where God's Word was taught if you're acquainted with the Bible, if you have perfect attendance in Sunday school for six years and you have all the sticker stains still on your forehead to prove it uh then that is not a comforting thing if you reject what Jesus teaches because you know his word And you will be judged according to it. And so if you're indifferent to the claims of the gospel, if you're just drifting along This is a warning that you should think through what is really important. J. C. Ryle made the comment that the saddest road to hell is that which runs under the pulpit, past the Bible. And through the middle of warnings and invitations, because the person who rejects Jesus Christ with such knowledge will be judged according to that knowledge. Well just step back, we're almost done. I just want you to think about this, this idea about judgment. In our world, in our culture, people think that history is just this random succession of events. Things will go on as they've always gone. That's the thing, the theme one of the themes of the book of Ecclesiastes They think there's no goal, there's no endpoint. But if you read the Bible Few things are more clear than that history is moving toward its consummation And that there will be a judgment. Paul, preaching in Acts 17, 31, said, God has fixed a day. So it's on the calendar. God has fixed a day. On which he will judge the world. And then in Romans 14, he says, we're all going to stand before the judgment seat of God. And so that's quite stern too, right? Uh you might be busy, you might be disinterested. But it doesn't change the fact that there will be a day, there is a day marked when God will judge the world. And so, yeah, happy happy, right? However, John five twenty four Here's the good news. Jesus said, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment. but has passed from death to life. Thessalonians, Paul said, Jesus delivers us from the wrath to come. And so that is the that is the Good news of the gospel, that right now you can pass from death to life if you rest on Jesus Christ as your Savior. And then when you stand before God's judgment seat, you you don't have to come up with those uh useless claims to righteousness. You know, I I go to church or I'm trying to be a good person. All those claims won't get you anywhere, but you you can just say, I recognize I'm a sinner. Jesus Christ is God incarnate. He came to live a perfect life where I fell short. He died to bear the penalty for my sin. And so I have full confidence that you will receive me, not because of any virtue or merit that I have, but because by your grace you have clothed me in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So that's the wonderful message that we have. And so We see Jesus appealing here in Jerusalem to good, decent, religious people, right? They traveled up there uh for the Passover. But he says, You're lost. You must believe in me And um yes, that's our message, right? Life is uncertain. The Puritans talked about closing with Christ. It's great that you go to church, it's great that you have a spiritual inclination But they would say, Have you closed with Jesus Christ? And there's a set there should be a sense of urgency about this if you're not a Christian yet. And also for us we who are believers by God's grace, right? We should, you know, we get we get so involved in our daily routine, but we should always keep this sense of urgency before us. So let's pray that God would do that in us. Let's bow our heads Father in heaven, we pray that uh you'll give us a sense of urgency For those who are believers about coming to you, receiving you, believing you, following you And then for us who are believers, we pray that we wouldn't be laxed, but we would make the most of every opportunity. to engage people in conversations and gestures that lead them to Jesus Christ. I pray this in his name. Amen. Amen.