A wonderful passage, one of the high points in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew sixteen, verse thirteen to eighteen. And just a heads up, this will take two weeks to get through. So if you're saying, hey, he didn't cover this, he didn't cover that, I probably will cover it next week. Matthew 16, verse 13. Now, when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and excuse me, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. Now there's a lot of questions uh that we ask in life and that we seek answers to, right? When you're young, you have questions, especially as you get into high school and uh young adulthood, asking questions about your identity, you know, uh who am I and you know why am I here? What's the purpose of my life? What makes me valuable? Uh how can I know what what steps to take as far as a future course of action is concerned. And you grow older and you have other questions. Some of that sometimes they're philosophical questions and Sometimes they're just questions about your life and things aren't turning out as I anticipated. There are losses, there are disappointments. Uh there are dashed hopes and dreams and you wonder about, you know, why did things work out in this way and not in the other direction? And uh how is this how is this all Wha what's the purpose of this all? These are all big questions, right? These are important questions, but there is a question that eclipses all those questions as important as they are. And for many people, this question is not on their radar screen. But I'd say it's the it's the preeminent question because the way you answer this question uh influences the way you deal the way you deal with the other things uh that you're wondering about and it's the question That Jesus asked Peter in verse 15. He asked Peter, Who do you say that I am? In other words, what do you make of Jesus Christ? Your answer to this question, where you come down on this question, will determine how you look at life, how you live your life, and it will determine your eternal destiny. And so then I said this is one of the high points in Matthew's Gospel. It really is. Matthew's Gospel has been really working up to this encounter that Jesus has had with Peter. Because it discloses to us as clearly as has been disclosed up to this point the identity of Jesus Christ and his mission. And so concerning his identity, Peter confesses, you are the Christ, you're the Messiah, you're God incarnate. Then as far as his mission is concerned, Here we see God's purpose for history. God's purpose for history is to build the church of Jesus Christ. That is Jesus' mission. So let's look at these two things. First of all, the identity, or we if we turn it around, we could talk about Peter's confession. of Jesus Christ. Just a couple words about the setting here. It says in verse 13, that they came into the district of Caesarea Philippi. And so this is way up at the northernmost uh I think border of Israel is twenty-five miles north of the Sea of Galilee, which is uh which was in the northern part of Israel And uh this was uh Gentile territory. It's within the boundaries of Israel, but it is Gentile territory. Caesarea Philippi was originally called Panias, named after a Greek god, uh the mythical god of nature. And there's this huge white marble temple of the ruins which still stand uh to this day. And uh it was it was overlooking the city. And so this was a pagan city. It was a city that was pro pluralistic uh many gods, very relativistic. And uh Herod Philip was the minor ruler of this area, the Tetrarch. And uh he wanted to ingratiate himself to Caesar, so he changed the name of Panaeus uh to uh Caesarea And he also wanted to stroke his own eagle, ego, so he called it Caesarea Philippi. Okay? A little bit for Caesar and a little bit for me. Let's call it Caesarea Philippine. It also distinguished it from this other uh city called Caesarea. And um Jesus Where are we as far as the timeline is concerned? Well, you get to chapter 19. Jesus is going to leave the northern part of Israel. He's going to start making his way down to Jerusalem. It's going to be a long journey. But he's going to start heading for the cross. And so it's important that his disciples come to a clear understanding of who he is and why he's come. Apparently he's not so sure about if they get this yet. And why should we be sure about it? Because they have said nothing up to this point that would make us think that they recognize that he is God incarnate and they that they recognize why he came. And so Jesus is now bringing things to a head. He's going to ask them a couple questions about who they think he is. And it's interesting. Now, as you read Matthew's gospel, you read you come to this incident, like he heals some people, he drives out some demons, uh, he feeds the multitudes, he walks on the water. He preached a sermon on the mount. How does this all tie together? Well, one way it ties together Is that there's a thread that runs through all the incidents in Matthew's gospel, from about chapter 2 up to chapter 16? And the thread is the various responses that people had to Jesus Christ. Matthew is always reporting on the responses that people had to Jesus. And largely, up to this point, the responses have ranged from misunderstanding to outright rejection. And so Jesus asked his disciples, in the end of verse 13, Who do people say the Son of Man is? So he didn't ask them first, what do you think of me? He says, what are others saying about me? What do they think about me? The apostles in verse 14 say, well, most people think you're a prophet. Now read verse 14 again. They said some say John the Baptist, John the Baptist was beheaded, but some are thinking well John the Baptist came back to life. Others say Elijah, so they're saying Elijah's come back, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. And so, well, this is sort of complimentary, right? Elijah, Jeremiah, John the Baptist, well, people think highly of you. But the problem is they didn't think highly enough of them And that's what we see in our day. A lot of people think highly of Jesus. Oh, yeah, he was a holy man, or he was a great teacher, or the best uh example we have about how we should live our lives and of the giving to others. Very complimentary, but not complimentary enough because they do not recognize that he's the Messiah. And uh you get to verse 15, and he says, Well what about you guys? But who do you say that I am? And this is Peter, and perhaps his finest hour, he says in the end of verse 16, you're the Christ. the Son of the Living God. You are the Christ. And I just want to say to our kids, Jesus Christ Christ is not his last name, it's a title. It means that he's the anointed one, he is the Messiah that God promised, whom God promised He would send. And so what when Peter says you're the Christ, he's saying, I recognize that you're the Messiah that was promised by the Old Testament prophets. Uh all throughout the Old Testament, the prophet prophets were saying, sometimes more clearly, sometimes less clearly, that God's going to send, God's going to come to his people, he's going to set things right And he's going to reconcile his people to himself. And he's the anointed one, just like priests and prophets and kings in the Old Testament. They were anointed with oil. They were set apart for their office. Jesus shows up on the scene. And in Luke chapter 4, verse 18, he quotes Isaiah 61, saying, The Spirit of Excuse me. He said, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. And so Jesus recognized that he was God's Messiah. He was the anointed one. And so What a relief. Peter finally gets it to some degree that Jesus Christ is God incarnate, the Messiah who's come to save his people. Now it's interesting how Peter, or excuse me, how Jesus responded to Peter. He didn't say, hey, good job there, buddy. I'm glad you finally put two and two together. But rather In verse 17, he said, there's only one reason that you recognize this, and this is because God was gracious to open your eyes. Look at the end of verse 17. Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. Why does anyone believe? Well Because God removes the blinders that are on our eyes. Jesus spoke like this back in chapter 11, verse 27. He said, All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the excuse me, and no one knows the Father except the Son. And then he says and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. And so why do why do you, if you're a Christian, why do you believe, but the other guy doesn't? It's not because you're so wise or you have some kind of spiritual uh sensitivity, but it's because God opened your eyes to see and believe. And if you're not a Christian, if you're not persuaded, What do you do? You say, well, you know, God hasn't persuaded me, God hasn't brought me to faith. No. We say, you know, you can you you should still seek, right? You should still read the scripture and set under the teaching of the scripture and read credible uh Christian books that help set forth the case for Christ in Christianity, and you should certainly ask questions of others in the church and ask questions of me. And if you say I have doubts and I'm not going to go, are you kidding? You have doubts. No, this is this is what we're here for, right? To encourage each other in these things And so that's the that's the first thing he talks about, his identity. And this is a huge theme in the Christian life. Who do you say Jesus is? This affects everything about your life. I was saying to our kids last night uh when we re we read this after the after we had supper and I said, you know, our priorities and the things that we think are important in the way we live our lives are different. From unbelievers we meet, because it all rests on this, that we were persuaded that Jesus Christ is God. He's the Messiah. And so that makes all the difference in our lives, and we understand we're not consistent, but still it makes a significant difference to be a Christian. And to be not not a Christian, and it all hinges on what you do with Jesus Christ's claim that He's the Messiah. So something there to think about if you're not a Christian Let's go on, okay? So that's his identity. You go to verse 18, he talks about his mission. We have the promise he gives. And when God gives a promise, it's not just like, hope we hope it's going to turn out like this, but it's it's it's a language of certainty. And that's what we see in verse 18. Jesus said, I tell you, you're Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now that first phrase there where he says, you're Peter, and on this rock, we'll talk about that next week. There's a huge debate down through church history. What is Jesus referring to when he says, on this rock, and the Catholic Church says, well, talks about they they say Jesus is setting Peter apart as the first Pope But um we don't understand that. We'll talk about that next week. But what I want to focus in on is it where Jesus said, I will build my church. Now Think about the question of history or the issue of history. What is the purpose of history? And here we have the answer. The ultimate purpose of history is that God build his church, that God gather his people unto himself. Where they know him, they're in his presence, they're in a new place, and there is no more sin. That is God's purpose for history. And in this verse, Jesus said, I'm going to build my church. This is not where God's purpose is inaugurated. God's purpose for history was began way back in the Garden of Eden. God had two people that he called to unto himself, Adam and Eve. They were to know him and follow him and worship him and have fellowship with him. And they rebelled against him, but God's purpose was not thwarted. God's purpose, he continued to unfold his purpose. Now before I want to say a couple more things about that, but I want to go back. Jesus said, I'll build my church. And I know it's sort of cheesy when a pastor says, this Greek word means this and this Hebrew word means that, but I think it's really useful here. The word church is in Greek is ecclesia, right? We have the word ecclesiastical, ecclesiology, okay? And it's derived from a verb ek calao. Ek out kaleo call. So the church are is a is the company of people who God has called out. What's he called them out of? He's called them out of the world, he's called them out of darkness. And he's called them unto himself to be his ecclesia, which we translate assembly or congregation. God is calling out an assembly, a congregation to himself. He didn't invent this in the New Testament either. This was in the Old Testament. God had his congregation, his assembly, Israel. And that's leading up now to the New Testament church. Remember, we just read Genesis 12, God said, I'm going to make you a great nation. So God was calling a people. Of all the peoples on the earth, God was calling onto himself The Israelites as his nation. And then we read that in Exodus 19, where it says, you're a kingdom of priests, you're a holy nation. So again, we see this idea about God calling out a corporate, excuse me, a community of people to know him. And The church, there was a church in the Old Testament. So we say the Old Testament church is a nation of Israel That's why in the book of Acts in the New Testament, when Stephen's giving a speech to the Jewish leaders in Acts 7. 38, he called Israel the congregation. The ecclesia, he used the word ecclesia, the congregation, the assembly in the wilderness. So the Old Testament Israel, they're the they're the uh that's the church in the Old Testament. What's the church in the New Testament? We're the fulfillment of Old Testament Israel. That's why Galatians 6. 16, Paul said to Christians, to the church. You're the Israel of God. So all I'm saying, and I don't know if I said it as clearly as I'd like to, so let me say it again There's one people of God down through history. It began in the Old Testament. God was collecting them to Himself. They largely rebelled, Israel largely rebelled. God's purposes were not thwarted. You get to the New Testament, Jesus comes down He's obedient, where Israel was not obedient, and now he collects unto himself a people of Jewish background and now Gentile background. And they're incorporated into him as the church. And that was God's plan from way back in Genesis 12. Remember, God said to Abraham, Through you all nations on the earth or all families on the earth will be blessed. God's plan, God's promise to Abraham comes now to a beginning of its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. And then we go through history and you get to the book of Revelation, and what do you read in Revelation 7 verse 9? Gathered around Jesus Christ, who's on his throne, is a multitude from every nation, tribe, people, and language. And so the Bible is a unit from Genesis to Revelation, and it's the unfolding story of God's plan to gather unto Himself a church. So when Jesus says, I'm building my church, he's telling us something about history. It's not just Cycle after cycle, the same thing. It's not a random succession of events where we don't know what's going to happen, but rather there's an endpoint to history In the end point, for example, is summarized in Revelation 11:15, where the writer says, the kingdom of this world has become the kingdom of his Lord and of his Christ. And he shall reign forever and ever. And so that's God's purpose. He's building his church. We're privileged. We're in one sector of the universal church and one period in history where God has been gathering unto himself his people. But we have something of an understanding of God's purpose for history and how our itty-bitty lives fit into it. So we're looking at Jesus' come or his statement, I will build my church. It tells us about God's purpose and history. The second thing the statement tells us Is it underscore, excuse me, it underscores the corporate character of the Christian life And that's something we need to be alerted to because as Christians in America, we have a very individualistic, generally, we have a very individualistic understanding of the Christian life, right? I have my personal devotions. I have a personal relationship with Jesus. And that's all true, and Christianity is God and me personally, but there's this huge emphasis in the Bible. That is a corporate thing. It's something that is lived out in community, in Sunday worship. It's not just a place where you go for a personal spiritual lift or to hear the Bible taught, but rather it's where you go to be joined in community with other believers. And Jesus didn't say, he said, on this rock, I'm going to save hundreds of souls or millions of souls. He said, on this rock, I'll build my church, a community. And we say, I believe in what? The communion of the saints. And Jesus came not just for individuals, but he came to save unto himself a people. 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, echoing The corporate language that we read in Exodus 19, Peter now speaks to the church, not to Israel, and he says to the church. You're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. And so what I'm saying again Is that the church is a community. And that's why we have all these commands in the New Testament. We call them the one-another commands. Love one another, welcome one another, instruct one another, greet one another, serve one another, bear one another's burdens. Then it says, bear with one another. Exhort one another, show hospitality to one another. And so what I want to ask you Is that you look at the Christian life from this perspective that it's not just me and Jesus and yeah, like the nice people at church But no, I have a commitment to fellow Christians in this church and fellow Christians I know out and about. We need to establish more of a corporate mindset. Well let's go on Jesus says, I'll build my church. So we have a, we see God's purpose in history. We see Christianity as a corporate enterprise. And we also see the language of ownership. He says, I will build my church. I think that's helpful. And I I pastored in the 1990s in the South. And I I've heard it a couple times up here, but I heard it all the time down there. We're not going to do that in my church, the sense of ownership about the church. Uh I remember there's one guy who was going to put a clock up in the back of the sanctuary. And this sweet lady, an older lady, Mary Joyce Thompson, who I loved. He's not putting that clock up in my church. I said, Mary, that's very nice, but uh it's not your church. And if I were to say, my church, and I try to avoid that language, just slap me. Say It's not your church. It's Jesus' church. In the confession, we say the only king and head of the church is the Lord Jesus Christ. And rightly so, he called it into existence. He laid down his life to redeem the church. That's what it says in uh Acts 20-28. Paul speaks about The church of God, which he obtained with his own blood, and he's intimately joined to the church. That's why in Ephesians 5 and Revelation 21, The church is called the body of Christ. What could be more intimate than the relation between the head and the body? Revelation twenty-one, the church is called the bride of Christ, uh what what could be more esteemed in the eyes of Jesus Christ uh than his bride? And so Jesus says, I will build my church. And one more thing, one other implication of this statement, I'll build my church. Jesus here assures us that he's going to do the building. He's going to do the building. That's good for me. I was saying at the uh Thursday Bible study. Don't talk to me on Sunday night. I'm not a pleasant person. I'm on suicide watch because The whole week is building up to Sunday morning, adrenaline building up, Sunday night, you relax, and this thing go the way you're hoping, that then go the way you're hoping. Oh my goodness Is anything gonna change? But then I this week I began Tuesday morning, Jesus said, I will build my church. Jesus built his church. He uses the ministry of faithful Christians to build his church. We have a responsibility But in the end, it's Christ who builds his church. Remember what Paul said, 1 Corinthians 3. 6? He said, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he knew so neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth. God grows his church. And when he says, I'll build my church He's not promising that he's going to build Good News Presbyterian Church. I think as we do God's work in God's way, that's likely to happen. But he's saying about his church around the world and in the nation. Christianity is going to continue. It's going to continue to grow. Well, how can that be? It's receding, right? In the Western world is In North America, it's receding. In in Europe, it's receding indeed, but he's still building his church. He's building in Asia. He's building it in um Latin America, he's building it in China, in Africa. Guy from Penn State, a professor there, Philip Jenkins He talked talking about um Africa. Uh 1900 there were 10 million Christians in Africa. In 2000, there were 360 million Christians in Africa And he said by conservative estimates, by twenty twenty five, there will be six hundred and thirty million Christians in Africa Now it's it's oftentimes shallow. They need to be taught, they need to be grounded, but Christianity is spreading by the Spirit of God. And Jesus promised in verse 18, the end of the verse, he said, The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. What does that mean? Oftentimes I thought this meant The powers, the forces, the armies of Satan are not going to conquer the Church of Christ. I thought that for a long time Then I remember I was listening to Focus on the Family once and the speaker said, No, he said the gates, gates are a uh a defensive, uh something used for defense. And so he was saying, this guy said, the gates of hell mean that they're not gonna hell's not gonna be able to stand against the church. The church is on the offense. That would really preach, but that's not what the text says, unfortunately. And so um if you want to bring the text into it, uh the gates of hell will not prevail against it. The Greek word is Hades, which means primarily uh the place of the dead, the realm of the dead, the grave. Think about the Hebrew corresponding word, Sheol, and David said, You will not abandon me to the grave, to the And so Jesus isn't referring to satanic powers. He's not referring to the flames of hell, but he's referring here to the place of the dead. And so the gates of Hades refers to the gates which imprison or hold the dead captive. And you'll see this in Scripture, Isaiah 38 verse 10. One enters the gates of death or the gates of Sheol when you die. Likewise Job 38, 17 speaks about the gates of death, the same thing, Psalm 913, Psalm 107, 18. And so so it excuse me. What Jesus is merely saying here is that the church of Christ, his church, will not be shut in by the gates of death To say it plainly, the Church will never die. The Church of Jesus Christ will always uh be going on. God will accomplish his purposes through his church. I was talking to a pastor friend on uh Wednesday, and we are saying uh uh We were both pastoring in the late nineteen eighties and um I said Even 30 years ago, which seems like yesterday, if you're young, it doesn't seem like just a short time. It was yesterday, I can give you, as you, if you're older, I can give you know details. about what I was doing 30 years ago, pastoring. And um it just I said people just had more of an interest. And that they had a church background. If some if somebody didn't go to church and some crisis entered entered their life They say, well, maybe we need to go start go start going to church. Let's go to that church down the street. Or let's uh let's go talk to a pastor. That's very seldom the response that people have in our day because many people have never been in a church. It's not even on their, they don't even think about that's something they might want to do. So things have really changed in our nation. And then you watch the news, it's so depressing, right? Just on every level, from every perspective It seems that things are getting worse. But Jesus says, you know what? The gates of hell will not prevail against the church. And you get to the book of Revelation And you're tipped off, in the end, Christ and his church prevail. So we're on the winning team. And so we want to get more people to see this and to see that, yeah, this is this is where history is going, and although the church is oftentimes marginalized in our culture, uh Be of good cheer. God's going to accomplish his purposes. I read about a guy named John Reith, a Scotsman. He was the first general director of the British Broadcasting Company, the BVC. And for many years he ruled it with an iron hand. He died in nineteen seventy-one. And under his uh under his tenure, but he was a devout Presbyterian, and when he was in charge, I read Uh the BBC stayed off the air on Sundays until 1230 so that people could attend church and after the and after that on Sundays they only broadcast classical music and religious programs So the BBC was a lot different. And during the end of his time there, uh one of the board members said, You know what? The BBC should consider how to give Christianity a decent burial. And John Reith, the man was six foot seven, he stood up, he looked at this man, and he said The Church of Jesus Christ is going to stand at the grave of the BBC and at the grave of all the various institutions in this bankrupt world. And so he understood God is going to accomplish his purposes through the church. So next week we'll go on. What did Jesus mean when he said, You're Peter, and on this rock I'll build my church? What did Jesus mean in verse 19 when he talked about the keys? of the kingdom as heaven. We'll talk about that. But the only thing I want you to take home with you today is the two main things that Jesus talked about. uh or that we talked about this morning, a reminder, he's building his church, he will accomplish his purposes in history So my first question is, do you have as high a view of the church as Jesus Christ does? Do you understand God's plan for His church down through history. And then my second question is more uh more essential. The claim that Jesus made about himself, that he's God incarnate, are you with Peter on that one, or are you still uncertain. If you're uncertain, you need to wrestle with it. You need to immerse yourself in the Bible. And I believe that you're going to see you cannot explain away Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads and pray. Thank you, Lord.