Turn in our Bibles to John chapter seventeen. John chapter seventeen. So good to see some new faces amongst us. Marching through John's Gospel. And this morning we're on Jesus' prayer. It's been come to be known as Jesus High Priestly Prayer. And um two weeks ago, so we didn't have church last week because of the snow. But here we are in chapter 17, verse 6, where he prays particularly for his disciples And so I'll read that. I'll ask you to follow along and keep your Bible open. So Jesus prays in verse 6 to the Father. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you. For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you, and they have believed that you sent me I am praying for them. I'm not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I'm glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I'm coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me I have guarded them, and now one of them has been lost, except the son of destruction, that the scripture might be fulfilled But now I'm coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world, and for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth. Well, there's a lot there, huh? And if you didn't s read this uh ahead You may be thinking, whoa, that's a bit of a blur. Uh but we we're going to cut it up and um there's there's uh wonderful things in here. And I just want to begin by just asking the question, just step back. I want to ask the question, what is Jesus doing right now? And the Bible says, well, he reigns and rules over all things, and that's true. What else is he doing? The Bible also says that right now, Jesus Christ is praying for his people. Romans 8. 34. Paul writes, Christ Jesus is interceding for us. Okay. So Jesus is praying for us. And then the next question is. Well, what is he praying for? And we don't really have to speculate because Scripture tells us many things, many concerns that Jesus Christ has for his people. And we find some of those concerns in this prayer that Jesus prayed on the eve of his crucifixion. And so as I mentioned earlier, the first, well I didn't mention this, let me mention it now. So a couple weeks ago we did the first five verses. Jesus prayed for himself. Now we're in verses 6 to 19. Jesus prays for his disciples, the 11, the apostles. The next week we'll get to verse 20 to the end. where Jesus prays for the church, for us. So look at verse 20. He said, um, where he prayed, I do not ask for these only. But also for those who will believe in me through their word. And so Jesus prayed for the apostles, then he prayed for the church. But Even though in verses six to nineteen Jesus is praying particularly for the apostles, what he prays for certainly applies to his prayers for us. So that's our that's our task this morning to answer the question what are some things that Jesus is praying for as people but before we get there I want to ask a preliminary question, and that is not what is Jesus praying for, but for whom is Jesus praying? And that's the first point on the outline. And I have there, Jesus prays for those who belong to him. In other words. The Bible teaches that Jesus has a particular people. And yeah, there's a sense in which Jesus prays for Uh everyone, right? I think about on the cross, what did Jesus pray? Father, forgive them. They know not what they're doing. So there's a sense where Jesus prays for everyone, right? For God so loved the world, all people without distinction. But there's also a sense in which Jesus prays particularly for his people. And that's what he says in verse 9. He said, I'm praying for them. I'm not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me. for they are yours. And so there's a subset of humanity that Jesus refers to as those whom those who have been given by the Father to Jesus. Matthew 24, verse 24, 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 1 identifies the subset as the elect. So these are the ones particularly for whom Jesus prays. And I would say that That should be a great assurance to the Christian. And I remember when I was in college, I was a new Christian, and I started going to this this big Baptist church in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Calvary Baptist Church. And the pastor of that church, his name was Mark Quartz, and he was the most direct speaker. He was a he was a great man of God and he was a great preacher. And I just I was I was spellbound uh hearing the word of the scripture opened up each week by Mark Quartz. And it was a huge church, it was a couple thousand people And um I loved going to Sunday school because all the college girls were there. So it was a great it was a great season in life. But I also loved uh going to hear Mark Quartz preach And one day I got a letter from Mark Kortz. It was just a little note, but on a note, he said, I'm praying for you. I don't know if Mark Korse knew who I was, but he knew I was coming to his church and he sent this note to me. I was like, whoa, this guy's praying for me. So I I was very That was a great encouragement to me, but you look at the scripture and we should say, that's nothing, right? Here Jesus goes on public record to say that he is praying for his people. That's a good reminder. When you're anxious, when you're discouraged, when you're alone, you go back to the Bible, yeah, we should be praying, but the Bible says you're not alone. Hebrews 7. 25 says that Jesus Christ, our great high priest, always lives to make intercession for us. Charles Spurgeon put it like this. He said, Our Lord Jesus pleads for his own people. When he puts on his priestly breastplate, it is for the tribes whose names are there And the tribes in New Testament terminology refers to the church built on the foundation of the twelve apostles. So there's a reminder, Jesus Christ, if you're a Christian, you're not on your own. Jesus Christ is praying for you. I could add something. Romans 8, 26 and 27, I think it says that the Holy Spirit is also interceding for us And so there is this Trinitarian interplay where the Son and the Spirit are appealing to the Father on our behalf. So Jesus prays, it says in verse 9, he said, I'm praying for those who belong to me. Which raises the question, how can you tell whether you belong to Jesus Christ? In other words, how can you t how can you know if you're going to heaven? And again, we don't have to speculate because in this text, Jesus identifies two marks of his children. The first mark that you're one of his children is that you accept his words as the very word of God. Look at chapter or ch I'm sorry. Look at verse eight, just the first phrase. He said, I have given them the words that you gave me, and they received them. Now, Jesus is put is speaking particularly, of course, of the apostles that Jesus taught them during his three-year ministry They received his words. Yeah. But it's also true in a broader sense that a Christian is somebody who receives Jesus' words as the very word of God. And this is a familiar passage to many, 1 Thessalonians 2. 13 Where Paul said to those Christians, he said, I thank co I thank God constantly for this, for what? That when you received the Word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it Not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God which is at work in you believers. It's a supernatural thing, right? When someone becomes a Christian, and I've said this many times in many ways, when somebody becomes a Christian, they open up this book And they recognize that this is indeed the Word of God. That's why John or Jesus said in John ten My sheep hear my voice. We live in a culture where there's a plurality of religions and philosophies But when somebody becomes a Christian, they hear the word spoken, they hear it preached, they hear it taught, or they read it, and it has the ring of truth. That's why Jonathan Edwards, back in the 1700s, he wrote a little treatise that titled The Distinguishing Marks of a Work of the Spirit of God And he said, one of the distinguishing marks of Christian conversion is that you have an elevated esteem and hunger for the Scripture. In other words, you want to know what this book says. You want to understand it. You want to apply it. Because there's this recognition, there's this persuasion that it's from God And conversely, if you have no interest in reading the Bible, in understanding it, and applying it, And that's a really bad sign. It's a sign that you may well be unregenerate and on your way to hell And so how can you tell whether you belong to Jesus? Well, the first thing he says is you accept his words as the word of God. And the second thing he says, and this is the second part of verse 6, he says You obey my commands. So in the end of verse 6 he says about his disciples, yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now that's that's the Christians endeavor, right? Do we stumble? Do we fall? Do we fail? Absolutely. We do it regularly But there's this ambition to y keep, to obey Jesus' word And so we ask the question for whom is is Jesus praying? He's praying for his people. How can you tell if you're amongst his people? And the answer he gave in this text is that, well, you accept his words as the very word of God, and it's your ambition, it's your endeavor to walk in his ways. So now, after all that, and that wasn't an introduction, that was a first point. We're making progress. Let not your heart be troubled here. What does he pray then for us? Well, three things. And the first thing is on point two. Jesus prays for your protection from the evil one. You see that in verse eleven. He said, In I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I'm coming to you Holy Father, keep them in your name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. It comes up again in the last chunk of that prayer. But what I'm pointing out there is where he prays that God the Father would keep them. because it says in the end of verse fourteen, the world hates God's people. The world, he said, has hated them. Why would anybody hate Christians? I don't understand. They're generally peaceable, uh good, neighborly people But the world hates Christians. How can that be? Well, the Bible tells us, Jesus mentions it in the end of verse 14 He hate the world hates Christians generally, uh he says, because they are not of the world, right? We don't belong to that system. It's system that a Pose us God. We don't share the world's values. Of course, when Jesus said the world has hated them He's not saying that all unbelievers hate Christians, nor is he saying that Christians will constantly endure or face the world's hatred But he's talking about this general hostility that the world has towards God's people and we see it all about us, uh we there's uh I would think, I would say, there is this irrational antagonism uh that the world has toward Christians in the media and public policy and the po in the popular culture. I don't uh it's hard to explain And then we look in other countries where there's uh where there's violence and uh there's bloodshed against the church. And we ask the question, why would the world hate Christians? And we acknowledge sure some of it uh is due is is of our own doing because of our our our foolishness, that's true, but nonetheless, uh there is still, as I said, uh this irrational hostility toward Christians And I think we get a clue into what causes that in verse 16, where Jesus said, They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. And the world interprets this, this different allegiance, this different set of values, the world interprets this as condemnation. And I was talking about going to church in college. I remember going to church, some of my doormates, you know, it'd be when I got home from church, they'd be waking up and um and I'd get these scowls, like, well What's wrong with that? I went to church. Is that is there is that a crime? But I'd get these scowls. Not from everybody, of course, but there were some. It's like What's what's going on here? Well some of them thought I was crazy. Uh but I think others is like, well, there was a sense of conviction that uh they should have been doing the same Or when you even with the best of intentions, even with the most delicate approach, When you share the gospel with somebody who's not a believer, a relative or uh a friend or whatnot It's hard not it's hard for them not to be offended because basically what you're saying when you when you boil it down, you're saying that they are wrong That they stand condemned and that Christianity is the only way. People don't like that. I mean, some yeah, if somebody's open, that's different But many people take that as a statement of condemnation. Or if you don't sleep around and carouse with the world. That will condemn and convict some. That's what Peter said to 1 Peter 4:4. He said about these unbelievers They're surprised when you don't join them in the same bl in the same flood of debauchery and they and they malign you They're mad at you because you're not going along with their ways. Think about what's it say in 1 John 3. 12. Why did Cain hate Abel? John writes, because his own deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. And so one reason, not the only reason, but what one reason the world hates Christians is because it feels condemned. by those who endeavor to hold to a biblical ethical system. So um Yeah, the world hates Christians, not always, but often, and so for that reason, finally, I'm going to say, what does Jesus pray? He prays for our protection from the evil one. That's what he prays. We'll look at that in a minute. But he prays not that we'll be protected from social conflict. We know that's true, right? We watched the news a couple of weeks ago. Uh this church in Minnesota was invaded by anarchists Or we re we watch on the news about the slaughter of Christians in Nigeria. So no, he doesn't pray that we'll be protected from bodily harm Uh and you you read the book of Acts and you realize the the apostles for whom Jesus prayed in particular here Uh they were protected from bodily harm, right? But ten of the r remaining eleven died martyrs' deaths, they were beaten, they were whipped, they were imprisoned, they were stoned But they kept marching on. But no, he doesn't pray that. But he does pray that we will be protected from the world's corruption. that we will pre be protected from the evil ones. Satan. Look at the end of verse 11. He prayed, keep them in your name. Then you go down to verse 15, the same thing. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one, that you protect them. That's one of the recurring prayers in Scripture that God keep his people. The priest benediction in Numbers 6. 24, how'd it go? The Lord bless you and keep you, protect you. Or think about one of the most delightful Psalms, Psalm 121, the Psalmist praise, I lift my eyes to the hills. From whence comes my help? My help comes from the Lord. And then he says to God, or the psalmist says of God, he who keeps you. Will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. Then he says, the Lord is your keeper. He will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. And so that's a great prayer. Lord God, protect your people. And we want to pray this afternoon at 5 o'clock for God's people in other nations that are suffering persecution. Well, here's a little aside if you look at verse 12. Jesus prayed, while I was with them, with these disciples, I kept them in your name which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the son of destruction. So if you ever wondered whatever h whatever came of Judas, did he go to hell? Well, there you have your answer right there. And this happened, he said it goes on in that last phrase in verse twelve, Jesus said, that the scripture might be fulfilled. That's the fulfillment of Psalm 41 verse 9, where the psalmist talked about his friend in whom he trusted has lifted his heel against me. And so Jesus is saying that Judas, uh, he he was not kept, but he was never one of Jesus' own in the first place. Way back in John chapter six. Verse 70, Jesus referred to Judas as a devil. And so this did not catch Jesus by surprise when Judas betrayed him. So Jesus prays that will be kept safe from the evil one. Excuse me. Here's the second thing, more more concisely. Jesus prays for our growth in holiness. That's verse seventeen. This is a wonderful verse. If you've never heard it, I imagine most have, but This is a great verse. He prays, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. And so to be sanctified is to be set apart. For God. Jesus Christ. He was set apart for God. Look at verse 19. He said, And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in the truth. And so just as Jesus was set apart, so we have been set apart for God. And how does God Grow us in holiness? How does he change us? How does he bring us to become more in the likeness of Jesus Christ? And there's the answer right in verse 17. What does it say? How does God sanctify us? He sanctifies us in the truth, right? That's why we have this fixation on the Bible. This why what do we do on Sunday morning? We teach the Bible in Sunday school. In this in the church service, we teach the Bible. What do we tell you to do all the time? Kids, read the Bible, read the Bible, right? Can't go wrong there. Why is that? Because this is how this is the ordinary means That God uses to change us more into the likeness of Jesus Christ And so Jesus prays for our growth in holiness, that we will be transformed, and that happens by the truth of God's word, right in Romans 12, Paul said, be transformed. By the renewing of your mind. It's a process we have to exert ourselves, but this is the ordinary means that the Holy Spirit has given to change us into Jesus' likeness. Here's the third thing that Jesus prays. It's number four on the uh in the on the outline there. Jesus prays that you will have a sense of missions And so he prayed not that we withdraw from the world. He prayed not that we conform to the world, but he prayed rather That we might be missionaries to the world. You see that in verse 18 As ye sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. There was a comment Martin Luther made in one of his writings. He said, Christianity is designed to be a profane religion. And by that he meant that is to be out of the temple In our in our terms, in other words, we don't just stay in we don't just go to church things. We don't just stay with church people. But we're out and about, we're mixing with people, we're inviting people, we're exercising hospitality with unbelieving neighbors and others. That's what Jesus is praying, that we will have this sense of mission. I recently read a book. The title is The Rise of Christianity. It was sort of a history, but it was by a sociologist, a guy named Rodney Stark, The Rise of Christianity. And the subtitle explains what the book was about. It's a great subtitle Here it is. He said, here's excuse me. How the obscure marginal Jesus movement became the dominant religious force in the Western world in a few centuries So he's asking the question, how was it that this this movement in the backwaters of the Roman Empire within a few centuries overtook the Roman Empire. That's a good question. Well you said, well, because it was a work of God. Well yeah, but looking at the means that God used, how did that come about? And Rodney Stark gives an array of reasons why Christianity, after a slow start, began to grow at a phenomenal rate. But one of the reasons he said that the early church grew was that the church remained an open network. That's his term. The church remained An open network. In other words, he said the early Christians maintained their relationships With their unbelieving relatives and unbelieving neighbors and whatnot. They kept these relationships open. The church did not separate itself From the larger society. So the Christians kept meeting unbelievers and serving unbelievers. In our terms There are people in our church, they've had church socials at their house, and on many occasions they've invited their neighbors or their relatives who weren't believers. And everybody just mixed That's how it should work. That's what we're aiming for. Or you think about our youth group. Invite your friends to youth group. That's how young people become Christians. And when somebody invites their friend the youth group, don't stand there over in the corner like a post, but walk over and meet them because it's really hard to show up to one of these things for the first time if you don't know anybody. And that's how I became a Christian. And so, yeah, it works. And so Um we need to be deliberate because after you're a Christian for many years you tend to get more involved in the church and you lose ties with your unbelieving associates And so Jesus prayed that we would have a sense of mission. So, what did I say in the beginning? What is Jesus doing right now? He's praying for his people. What's he praying for? Well, there's a couple things right here, huh? He's praying for your protection from the evil one. He's praying for your growth and holiness. He's praying that you'll have a sense of mission. So these are good things for us to pray for. If you're not a Christian, though, you're on your own. He's not praying for you. But we're praying for your salvation. We're praying that you will see that Jesus Christ is God, that you will trust that He died for your sin. and that you will rest on him for your salvation. And he does have this invitation, right, to all people. Come to me, all you who are weary, all you who are burdened And I'll give you rest. So that's a wonderful invitation. So let's bow our heads. Lord God, we're thankful that we're not fighting this battle on our own. We're thankful for our Lord Jesus. who does intercede for us, and we pray, Lord, for your protection. I pray it for this congregation and for your people and countries where there's persecution. We pray, Lord, that you would grow us in holiness. We pray that we would recognize that our lives are short in that we should have this sense of mission, of building up your people, and of also pointing on believers around us uh to the only uh true Savior, Jesus Christ. For those here who are not yet Christians, we pray, Lord But they would hear your word, that it would have the ring of truth, and that they would bow before you and receive you as their Savior. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well we're going to sing the song right there in the bulletin before the throne of God above. So let's stand and sing. For the throne of the I mean it was He bore me three tin on his head. No tongue can bid me the steep farm, no tongue can bid me the steep far. Satan tempts me to despair and tells me all The guilt with it of word I look at see him there who made an end of all my sin because he said the Savior died my son. For God the just is satisfied to look on him and pardon me, to look on him and pardon me. Me in the prison land, my perfect spotless righteousness, the great unchanged of all I am, the king of. Glory and grace myself I cannot die. My soul is purged by his heart, my life is there, is Christ on high. With Christ my Savior and my God. With Christ my Savior and my God. You may be seated. The Apostle Paul Said I receive from the Lord, but I also deliver to you that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way after supper he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant, my blood Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes. Here's one way to think about the Lord's Supper. It's a confirmation, it's a token of God's covenant promises to us. You think about uh two men they make a deal, they seal it with a handshake, or when a man and a woman take wedding vows, they exchange rings as a visible uh token or seal of their commitment. And in a similar way, God confirms or seals his promises to us and the Lord's Supper He's saying, Yeah, your sins are forgiven. They've been uh you've been cleansed, and you're fit to come into fellowship with me. And this meal confirms it. And then in taking the Lord's Supper, we as God's forgiven people turn around and we should see this as an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to Jesus Christ. And we've lapsed here, we've lapsed there. But now we've we've re reminded of God's grace, of his forgiveness, and we're also reminded that we belong to him And so in taking the bread in the cup, we are reaffirming our commitment to Jesus Christ. If you're not a Christian, don't take the Lord's Supper. Rather Believe on Jesus. Repent of your sin. Receive Him. And then next time around, take the Lord's Supper. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you invite us into your presence. Thank you that you've made us fit. By removing our sin and clothing us in the righteous robe that Jesus Christ has provided. Help us, Lord, to lift up our heads and to delight that the God of the universe has shown us favor. And we pray, Lord, that as we participate in the sacrament, that we would have confirmed in our hearts Your goodness, your favor toward us, and also that you would strengthen our weak faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread, and when he gave thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do not This in remembrance of me. And I really know. It was not one of the things. Oh là, c'est un peu plus de temps. Take and eat, this is the body of Christ given for you. Do this in remembrance of him. In the same manner, after the supper, Jesus took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant, my blood. Do this as often as you drink it. And remember Oh, how many? Oh, the last hour. Oh, you have to session. This cup is the new covenant, the blood of Christ, shed for many. For the forgiveness of sins, drink ye all of it. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for the welcome that we have received in Jesus Christ. Thank you for your promise of watch care during these cold dark days. There's