And um there's a misprint, the bulletin that says 1 to 36, we're going to do eleven to thirty-six last I'm sorry. Yeah, children. Four to five year olds and they go back with Miss Megan to worship training. I'm sorry. Okay, Romans 11. Last week we did the first 10 verses. Today we're going to bite off a big chunk, verse 11 to the end. It's a huge chunk, but we can do it because we're not going to cover every detail. And for starters, I'm just going to read verse 11 to 24 And so have your Bible open, keep your nose in it. There's some details here we're going to have to cover. And so, just a little context, in verse 7, Paul had mentioned that. Not all of Israel was saved, but rather some of them were hardened, their hearts were made hard. God hardened their heart after they rejected the gospel. And now in verse 11, he asked the question, so I asked, did they stumble in order that they may fall? By no means. Rather, through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles so as to make Israel jealous Now, if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean? Now I'm speaking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry. In order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? If the doe offered its first fruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is holy, so are the branches. But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others, and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree. He's talking to the Gentiles. Do not be arrogant toward the branches, the Jews. If you are, remember, it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. Then you will say, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in. That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief. but you stand fast through faith. So do not become proud, but stand in awe. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of God. Severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, provided you continue in His kindness Otherwise you too would be cut off, and even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree engrafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree How much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back in to their own olive tree? Now we're going to stop there, and then we're going to pick up in verses 25 to 26, okay? And so, um in verse one of last week, Paul asked a question about Israel. Has God rejected his people? And he gave an emphatic no And as evidence that God has not rejected the Israelites, Paul points to himself as an exhibit of God's grace. He says, Look at me I'm a Jew. God opened my eyes to recognize that Jesus is the Messiah. So that's verses 1 and 2. And then he adds in verses 2 to 7, I'm not the only one. And he speaks about a remnant of Jews who have come to believe in Jesus Christ. as their promised Messiah. And so in verse five he wrote, At the present time there is a remnant, a remnant of believers in Jesus Christ. At the present time There is a remnant chosen by grace. And last week I mentioned in Acts chapter 21, verse 20, James, the leader of the church in Jerusalem, spoke about, quote, the many thousands among the Jews who have Believed. And so many Jews did believe in Christ. They recognized he was the Messiah. However, many more did not believe And so there's the question, why? And the answer Paul gave back in chapter 9, verse 6, is because they thought that they could obtain righteousness before God by their own efforts, by their own works. And as a consequence, God hardened their hearts. And we saw that last week. when we looked at verses 7 to 10 of chapter 11. That brings us up to our present text And so the question then that Paul asks is: Is there any hope for these unbelieving Jews? And Paul says in our passage, yes, there is indeed hope for those Jews who do not presently recognize Jesus to be their Messiah. And Paul says that God by his grace will bring many Jews to recognize that Jesus is the Messiah. You with me so far? Okay. A lot of explaining, right? Sorry, we're just getting warmed up here. That said, there's a debate, and this is why this is a difficult passage. There's a debate about when this will take place, when these Jewish people will come to know Jesus Christ as their Messiah. Many hold that when Paul speaks about this uh ingathering of Jews to know Christ that he's looking down to the distant down the quarters of time, to the future, uh to the end of time, before Jesus Christ returns. And he's saying uh that there will be this mass conversion of the Jewish people. That's the popular understanding My understanding, and it's a tender position because this is very this is a very uh challenging passage, but my tentative understanding Is that Paul is speaking of God's saving purposes for the Jews in the present era? In other words, in Paul's day, down through time, including in our day. Now A lot of things come up in this passage that are challenged to understand. We're not going to resolve everything, but we can still draw some clear lessons from Romans chapter 11. And in a nutshell, I think the three prominent lessons are number one, we're going to see that changed lives make effective evangelists. Number two, we're going to see that Christians God or Paul calls Christians not to get puffed up about our salvation, that we're believers and others aren't. And then the third thing we'll see is that God is not finished with the Jewish people, but he is bringing them to know Jesus Christ. So the first point is verses eleven and sixteen, and the idea is that God uses changed lives, uses the witness of a changed life to bring somebody uh from unbelief to belief in Jesus Christ. That's what Paul says in verse eleven. He says God is using the Gentiles who were converted to Christ to bring Jews to know Christ. This is completely counterintuitive. We would not have expected this. But Paul writes that one consequence of Israel's fall, of Israel's becoming hardened in heart is that the gospel then went to the Gentiles, and many Gentiles became Christians. So look at verse 11. Whoops, my my when my Bible fell I opened it up to Revelation. No wonder I couldn't find verse eleven. Romans chapter eleven, verse eleven So he asked, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means. Rather Through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles. Why? So as to make Israel jealous, okay? So because many Jews rejected the gospel, the apostles went to the Gentiles. And they became believers. Okay, you see this in the book of Acts. Let me give you two texts. Acts 13, verse 46. Paul and Barnabas told the Jews in Antioch, quote, Since you thrust it aside the gospel, since you thrust it aside. And judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, Paul says, we're going to turn to the Gentiles. And then in Acts, um 18 verses 5 and 6, Luke writes, When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that the Christ was Jesus. And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood be on your own heads. I am innocent. And then he says, From now on, I will go to the Gentiles. And so this is precisely uh what we see unfolding in the book of Acts. Jesus himself made this prediction in Matthew 21, verse 43. Jesus said to the Jews, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruit. And so the gospel was taken from the Jews and was sent to the Gentiles But in Romans eleven, Paul explains that is not the last word about God's dealings with the Jewish people. And so in our text, chapter or verses 13 and 16, Paul explains that God is going to use the salvation, or I shouldn't say God is going to use, he says God is using the salvation of the Gentiles to make the Jews envious And as a consequence, that will lead to the salvation of many Jews. Look at the end of verse 11. Through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles. Why? So as to make Israel jealous. And many people, some of the radio preachers you hear will say, this is talking about a mass conversion of the Jewish people that will take place in the end times. My understanding is that Paul is speaking about Jews coming to know Christ in his day, in the present era, and in our day. Why do I say that? Look at verse 5. He says at the present time. There's a remnant, a remnant of Jews chosen by grace. In verses thirteen and fourteen, Paul speaks of his desire for the salvation, not of future Jews But of his Jewish contemporaries. Verse 13. Now I'm speaking to you, Gentiles, inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order to make whom my fellow Jews jealous And thus save some of them. He's not talking about something that's going to happen way down the road. He's talking about what is happening in the present era. Okay? And he's saying when the Jews see the blessing of Christian conversion in the lives of the Gentiles, that's going to get their attention. Hey, this this fellow's changed. There's something different about him. He's loving. He's gracious. He wasn't like that. What's going on here? And so Paul's saying those conversions are going to make the Jewish people jealous. And that has happened down through time. You know, thousands and thousands of Jewish people have come to recognize Jesus as the Messiah. And God has used the Gentiles of all people to bring them to this knowledge. There's a member, a theologian I would read, his name is Charles Feinberg, he died some years ago But he grew up in Pittsburgh in a Jewish home, an Orthodox Jewish home. He studied Hebrew, he studied Jewish history, Jewish literature, and the scriptures at the Hebrew Institute of Pittsburgh. Then he went to the University of Pittsburgh, and he was a smart guy. He got through there in three years, and then he graduated, and his plan was to go to rabbinical school to become a rabbi But he had this cleaning lady who was a Christian. And she wasn't lettered, but he recognized there was something about this woman. She's an upright woman. She's gracious. There is something different about her. And so this led him to ask her all kinds of questions about Christianity. She couldn't answer all of his questions, but she pointed him to a fellow she knew, a guy named uh John Solomon, who was a scholar And he answered Charles Feinberg's questions. Charles Feinberg then became a believer, and he went on to become a great Old Testament uh theologian How is it? Because God saw something different about this woman's life. And so we understand this, right? We can talk about the Bible, and God uses the Bible to bring people to an understanding, to persuade them to believe in Christ. But right alongside the Bible, God uses a Christian. There's something different. That makes the gospel attractive. And that's what lends credibility to Christianity. And you think about folks in these church, folks in this church, Many of you became Christians through the witness of somebody you knew it. For some, it was your husband or your wife. There was this huge change. And you knew them, and that led credibility to your message. They came to know Christ. Becky, I remember Sh when she was a kid. She didn't grow up in a Christian family. She didn't go to church. But there was a lady down the street. Uh Becky was friends with her daughter. And Maryland Thayer, there was just something different about Maryland Thayer, and it took like 20 years down the road. Uh it was one of the one of the links uh that brought Becky to a saving knowledge of Christ. There's something different about this lady. I mentioned uh this young couple that I met when I was a teenager, Bob and Debbie Charles There is something different about their marriage. They they were happily married and this guy taught the Bible, and I'm like There's something to what this guy's saying because of the quality of their marriage. And so they lent it lent credibility to his message Probably one of the most effective evangelistic tools in our culture is Christian children. They're respectful, they're courteous, they're not self-absorbed. That does not always the case, but when that happens, that's a very powerful tool for the gospel And so that's what Paul's talking about here. He's talking about the power of a changed life to get the attention of unbelievers and to pique their curiosity and to draw them to Jesus Christ. Here's the second thing we see in verses 17 to 24. We see a warning against spiritual pride. So there's a country song titled, Don't Get Above Your Raisin. He's saying, Don't forget where you came from. Don't forget your humble beginnings And start to thinking you're something else when you're not. That's what Paul says to the Gentiles in the church in Rome. He says, don't look down on the Jews who don't believe in Jesus. Don't hold them in contempt Remember, you were added to the covenant people like a wild shoot grafted into an olive tree, the olive tree being Israel. And uh so don't be arrogant about your newfound salvation. Look at verse seventeen. He says, but if some of the branches were broken off, talking about Israel, right, the Israelites who didn't believe in Christ, so they were broken off from the people of God. And you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others, and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree Do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember, it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. And Paul says, listen, if God is able to incorporate Gentiles into the people of God, Which is like wild shoots, like weeds being grafted into an olive tree, how much easier Will it be for God to incorporate his people, the Jews, back into the true people of God? So you see that in verse 24, he says, if you're a cut off From what is by nature a wild olive tree engrafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree How much more will these, the natural branches, the Jews who didn't believe, be grafted in to their own olive tree? That's all he's saying. And so it's a call to have a measure of humility toward those who are not Christians. And um I think we know that, but that's what the text says here. I've seen it where it's just crazy how Christians can get so puffed up. I I can explain the nuances of Reformed theology. I know all this stuff. You're just some unwashed person. You don't understand anything. Well I remember when I was a new Christian I got my father to come to church, but the church was so full of snobs, he said, even the greeters in that church hi hatya. It's like, whoa, what what kind of witness is that? And we we should always have our eyes open. uh to new people, and some may be unbelievers, and we should always be on best behavior, right? Because we want to have a credible witness for Jesus Christ And so Paul says, don't be full of yourself, but rather stand in awe, stand in awe of God that by his grace. He saved you. He gave you the opportunity to recognize the truths of Scripture. He wa he opened your eyes uh to see that this stuff is true and by some measure uh to walk in his ways. Great reformed pastor from New Jersey, that's where I'm from. Al Martin, he said, a man who has seen God is humbled to the dust. And so that's what we want to remember. Yeah. God has God was gracious to us, and so we want to be humble toward other people. Here's a third thing, and this is just verses 25 to 26 I'm not even going to read a chunk of that in the final section, just because there's so many details you can only cover so much in one sermon. And so in verses 25 to 26, I want you to have that open because it does require a little bit of explanation. So let's read these verses again. Paul says, Lest you be wise in your own conceits, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers. Now in the Bible, in mystery doesn't refer to a puzzling situation, but refers to something that was previously hidden, but now has been revealed by God. Okay? And so Paul is going to speak about a mystery, something that God has now revealed in the New Testament. In the mystery of which Paul speaks. Is that God hardened the Israelites as punishment for their stubbornness But he says it's only a partial hardening, not to say that it's only in partial in time, but it's only partial in that Just some of them, some of the Israelites were hardened, not all of them. And he says, and I haven't read it yet, but this hardening will continue to the end Until the full number of Gentiles come to Christ. Look at uh the end of verse twenty five. I didn't read it, did I? I want you to understand this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Now some people say, oh, and then the hardening will be lifted. I don't think that's what it's saying. This is why this is debated. I think it's just saying Until all the Gentiles come in, uh there will remain some Jews who are hardened to the gospel. And then it says in verse 26, and here's a $64 question, here's the question over which honest Bible interpreters they debate. The question in verse 26 is who is all Israel? So Paul says, in this way, all Israel will be saved. Again, to whom does this term all Israel refer? And um Many would say that it's Paul's talking about a large scale conversion of the Jewish people in the end times. All Israel will be saved. They read into it, this is going to happen in the end times. All the ethnic Jews who are alive when Jesus Christ returns They will come to know Christ, they will be saved. What about those who live before that time? They say, well, they're gone. So I I'm not sure about that position. If these verses refer to an end-time conversion of the Jewish people end-time conversion of the Jewish people, here's my question in verse 14 Paul is referring not to the salvation of the Jews in the future, but he is speaking about the salvation of the Jewish people in his own day. Right? He speaks about my desire, quote to make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them. And so it's a popular understanding That Romans 11 says that in the end times there will be a mass conversion of the Jewish people. I don't see it. I don't see that being taught in this passage, and I would add it's not taught anywhere else in the New Testament. And so if you have a passage which is on clear, uh it's a very slender thread uh to hang uh that hope on. That said, I hope I'm wrong, right? We would hope that God in His grace would bring a mass conversion from the Jewish people in the days to come. But I'm I'm not persuaded that's what this passage teaches. My understanding then, and I know we're getting a little dense here because I'm throwing all this stuff out. My understanding Is that in verse 26 when Paul speaks about all Israel, he's referring to believers in Jesus Christ. both Jews and Gentiles. That's a little tricky there, but the reason I believe that is because in the end of verse 25 Paul wrote, a partial hearting has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles come in. Then we say Come into what? Into what do the Gentiles come? And the answer is, the Gentiles come into the Jewish people, the people of God. And so, and here's where I support it, in verse 17, Paul spoke of the Gentiles being grafted into the tree that was Israel And in a similar manner in 25, he speaks about Gentiles coming into Israel. So to come into Israel is to become an Israelite. So let me end at verse 25 again. A partial hardening has come upon Israel, the Jews, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way all Israel And I believe it to refer to the Jews and Gentiles together who believe in Christ. And in this way, all Israel will be saved. Now let me just make one more comment to support that I hope I was semi-clear. There's a lot of stuff there. This is supported by the rest of the New Testament. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 12. Paul spoke about Gentiles being incorporated into the Old Testament people of God, into Israel. And so there he said that the Gentiles were once separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. But now in chapter 3, verse 6, he says the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus. And so that fits with the New Testament perspective on the question, who constitutes Israel? Israel in the New Testament is the true Israel, and that would be anybody who believes in Jesus Christ, whether you're from a Jewish or a Gentile background, you are a part of the true Israel. another word for which is the Church of Jesus Christ. And that's why in Galatians chapter 6, verse 16, Paul writing to the church in Galatia composed of Jewish and Gentile believers in Jesus Christ Calls them, quote, the Israel of God. There's a lot there, right? But it's in the Bible. I had to march through it, okay? Here's the lesson. God is working out his purposes in history. He is accomplishing his purposes. He is bringing people to Christ, Jews to Christ. Gentiles to Christ, and God's purposes unfold in the most unexpected ways. Right? That's what Paul's talking about here. God used the hardening of the Jews to send the apostles to the Gentiles. They came to know Christ. But God wasn't done with the Jews. He used the conversion of the Gentiles to open up the Jewish people to the truth of the gospel. And so he gets to the end, and in verse 33 to 36, what's he do? He says, this is beyond our understanding. Let's read verse 33 now. O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Right? Who would have predicted this? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. So he's saying God's ways are inscrutable. This should humble us. This should give us pause before we start complaining about God's providence. And we should recognize God is still accomplishing his purposes in history. And that should give us some confidence, right? To be happy warriors. to be faithful, to seek to be credible witnesses for Christ, and to trust God will accomplish his good works in people's lives. So we want to continue to pray. For people we know whose hearts seem as hard as stone, you don't know what's going to happen. You don't know how God's going to use you. We want to continue to endeavor by God's grace to live lives with some measure of credibility And certainly we want to be gracious and humble before others, trusting that God will accomplish his good works. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we recognize that there are difficult parts of Scripture, and yet there are still a lot of things that are clear in a passage such as this. We pray that we be humble toward you. We pray that we would not be puffed up about our knowledge or about our virtue or about any kind of moral progress we've made uh but that we would recognize that it's only because of your grace, and we ask for that you give us a graciousness uh toward others. Help us to be more vigilant about checking our our ill desires. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The final songs in the bulletin is from these last few verses of Romans. So let's stand up. We'll sing this Romans doxology. So many other troubles. For the death of the riches of wisdom of God, I want search of his praise, how profound. His judgment so high above our thoughts, and his path wisdom man can trace for from him. And through him and to him all things to him be glory forever. To him be glory forever, Amen. The death of the riches, the wisdom of God's magnificence. Who has been his advisor? Oh, who has counseled him? Oh, he gives us who can replay. And through him, and through him all things. To him be glory forever. To him be glory forever. Amen, a man. Oh, the death of riches of wisdom of God, our images, our unfair. And his mercies are new each day. Through him and to him all things, to him be glory forever. To him be glory forever, man, Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen.