Your Bible to the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 3. We're turning a corner. Romans chapter 3, verse 21 to 31. I might pick up next week and go back to 27 to 31. I didn't really do it justice, but we'll wait and see on that. But Romans 3, verse 21, we'll read all the way back over to 31. Paul writes, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness of the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By law of works, no, but by the law of faith For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one, he will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Now many of you are familiar with the story of Martin Luther's conversion. He was a man who understood the holiness of God and he had a great fear. Of God's judgment. And he knew that one day he would stand before God's judgment seat. Summer, summer day in 1505, he's walking down the road. He was a law student and suddenly a storm came over the horizon and unleashed a terrible uh uh thunderstorm, a lightning bolt knocked him to the ground. Scared to death, he cried out, Saint Anne, I will become a monk. And so he left his studies in law, and that week he entered the monastery because he wanted to make himself morally acceptable. To stand before God one day and to escape the terrors of hell. And um And so he set out on this program to grow in holiness. He prayed, he fasted, he would go to the confessional daily. Sometimes for as long as six hours, I was reading about in his biography, the priest to whom he was confessing, he said, Okay, that's enough. Get out of here. You're good And he thought, and this isn't too odd, he thought that perhaps if I punish myself, that will help earn some merit in God's eyes, and so oftentimes during the frigid cold winter nights in Germany He slept without blankets. Perhaps that could be some way to accrue some kind of favor from God. And so looking back, he wrote, I was a good monk, and I kept the rule of my order as strictly That I may say that if ever a monk got to heaven by his monkery, it was I. I had if I had kept on any longer I should have killed myself with vigils, prayers, readings, and other work. And yet, for all his efforts, they weren't sufficient. To ease his guilty conscience, right? And only serve, all these efforts only serve to intensify his awareness of his sin. Because he understood that his sin wasn't measured by how he compared to other people But his sin was measured against the holiness of God. And he in this in his despair he said This word is too high and too hard that anyone should fulfill it. Now You might think, this guy's a little uptight, right? Well, you might think that. Not if what the Bible says about God's holiness is true. No, we're too lax. He gets it. He understands. So he was wrestling with this question, how can a sinner Be right with God. Well, that's what the question the book of Romans raises That's the question the book of Romans answers, right? And so from chapter 1, verse 18 to chapter 3, verse 20, we spent, I think, about four weeks on that section. And it made the case That we're sinners and we stand condemned before God. Well, I said we're turning a quarter a corner this morning because after setting forth Very conclusively, our problem, our sin problem, in the passage before us He presents God's solution. Not our solution to our sin and how we can stand before God, but the solution that God has provided. Now I know a lot of you already understand the gospel, and that's what this is. This is talking about the gospel. But if you don't You're in a good place because this is a wonderful passage. And I'd say to our young people, don't doze off this morning. Yeah, you young people, the ones who aren't looking at me right now, don't doze off this morning This is real this is a this is crucial to your life, okay? So first of all, we're gonna review Man's fundamental problem, and the problem is how can I, I a sinner, stand in the presence of a holy God? And we looked at these first three chapters, and they made the case, really, uh, that we're all spiritually bankrupt We're all morally corrupt, and outside of Christ, we are all irretrievably lost. So look at chapter 3, verse 23. Paul says to his readers, Jews and Gentiles, okay? He says, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. In other words, we all miss the mark. And last week we looked at the previous the section that uh precedes it Where it made the case for universal depravity, right? We're all corrupt. Look at chapter 3, verse 10. As it is written, none is righteous, no not one, no one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. And so it's clear, we're all undeniably guilty before God. We are all without excuse. I was listening to a sermon by the great Scottish pastor, Eric Alexander. He just died this past January. But in one of his uh messages, he was uh r recounting uh a time in his life when he was the chaplain uh for the high court in Scotland. And so he would set in on uh some of the trials. And he one day he was in there in the courtroom listening to a particularly uh heinous uh uh trial of a man who uh committed a particularly heinous crime And the evidence against this criminal was overwhelming and irrefutable. And uh it wasn't a very long trial, and the jury was not uh sequestered uh for long. They in a remarkably short time they came out and they delivered uh the guilty verdict. And after that, the judge looked at the man and he asked him, Do you have anything to say? And Eric Alexander recounts: this was an hour of destiny, if ever there was in this man's life. The counsel looked at him, the jury stared at him, and the people in the public gallery had their wise their eyes wide open. And there was silence in the place. And as the judge repeated the question, had you anything to say? The man stretched out his arms and opened his hands and raised his brows because there was nothing that he could say. His silence was a silence of inescapable guilt, and the silence was broken when the judge delivered the harshest sentence. uh that he could give uh for his crime. Well that's what Paul does in the first three chapters of Romans, right? He establishes our guilt so conclusively that it says in chapter 3, verse 10, every mouth is stopped. There's nothing that we can say in our defense, right? There's no way, and there's no way we can make up for it. You can't make up for it by becoming religious. You can't make up for it by trying to become a more moral person. Look at chapter 3, verse 20. By works of the law. No human being will be justified in this sight. In other words, by working harder to keep God's commands, that's not going to put you in God's favor. So what are we to do? What are we to do? Okay? And this was the question that Luther grappled with as a monk And as a monk, he wasn't just walking through the garden each day looking at the birds singing on the trees, but he was a scholar, he was a professor of the scripture, of theology, of Greek and Hebrew At the University in Wittenberg. He had studied Romans, he'd studied Galatians, he studied the Psalms many times And then finally, going through Romans again, he discovered the solution to his problem of his terror of one day standing before God's judgment seat. He saw what's right here in this passage, right? That were justified by faith. Excuse me And so the first two words in verse 21 are really two of the most important words of the Bible, right? Because we've labored the first three chapters Where Paul makes the case that we're sinners, we're lost. But then he turns this corner And he says in verse 21, but now, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, apart from God's commandments And this righteousness, this is what Luther understood finally. When it talks about the righteousness of God, it's not talking about the righteousness God possesses, his righteous character But it's rather talking about the righteousness that God gives, the righteousness of Jesus Christ that God gives to us when we trust in Jesus Christ. And so here we see then Luther's solution, the Bible's solution. Is justification by faith in Jesus Christ. And I want to make sure everybody's with me on this. This is a huge word in the Christian lexicon. Justification. If you don't understand this, you might not understand what it means to be a Christian. But you find various forms of the word justification four times in this passage, right? Look at verse 24. Says we're justified by his grace as a gift. Verse 26. In the end of the verse, it speaks about God as a just As just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Look at verse 28 It says, we hold that one is justified by faith, apart from works of the law. And then finally you see it in verse 30, it talks about God who will justify The circumcised and the uncircumcised. How? Through faith. So I want to make sure that you're clear on what it means When we say that we're justified by faith, what the word justification is referring to. And we we can say basically it's the opposite of condemnation. Justification, it's not a uh a moral quality. It's not that you become a good person or a holy person. That's something God does. us when we become Christians. We grow in holiness. We never become completely holy, right? So we see God face to face. So justification is a is a legal status That God confers upon sinners. And so when a judge condemns someone, he says, You're guilty in relation to the law When a judge justifies someone, he says, you're innocent in relation to the law. And so, in other words, in a nutshell When God justifies someone, he pronounces that person righteous in relation to his law. Okay? It's not because we're free from sin, we're still sinners But rather it's because he looks upon us as having the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Okay, so justification involves something that God takes away from us He removes our guilt, right? He puts it on Christ who died on the cross. And then he clothes us or puts on us the righteousness of Jesus. Well, what would move God to do that? Is there something about you, something about me that makes us attractive that God would want to do that? No. It says in verse 24. It's His grace. We are justified by His grace as a gift. And grace means His unmerited favor. God gives us What we don't deserve, right? So salvation is a gift that God confers on the guilty. It's not a reward that he gives to those who deserve it. That's why we sing, right? Amazing grace, because We can't explain it. There's nothing about us that moves God to be merciful to us. He is just a merciful God and He has mercy on whom He'll have mercy. There you have it. Well, but how do you take hold of it? Okay, so Christ died for sinners. There's this offer. How do you take hold of it? Well, you start going to church and you try to clean up your life and you try to keep the Ten Commandments. No, that doesn't work. Right? That just shows us we need a Savior because we see how far short well how far short we fall No, we take hold of it. This passage says throughout the Bible, it says, by faith, by faith, by trusting. God's promise that he does forgive us. Seven times in this passage. I'm not going to read all the times you see it, but you go verse 22. He speaks about the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. How about 25? God put Christ forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. Okay? Go through that passage. You'll see this word faith. Seven times. Okay? So you're not, God doesn't declare you righteous because of your personal efforts. God declares you righteous because you believe in Jesus Christ. Not just he was a great guy, but you believe he's God in the flesh? He lived a perfect life where we failed, then he died on the cross to pay for our sin. And faith isn't just, yeah, you know, I know that. It's not just uh head knowledge or giving mental assent to some doctrine. Uh but it's it's been the I think the best definition Faith is resting on Jesus Christ. Or think about if you have a lazy boy recliner. Reclining on Jesus or the Puritans would speak about it as recumbency. We could also call it trust. I trust God's promises. So in other words, a Christian Is somebody who looks at what Jesus has done and he concludes, that's true And he says, that's for me. That's what it means to have faith. So it's simple. Okay? It's simple. Some people don't like that. What am I supposed to do? You can't do anything. That's the whole point here. You can't win the favor of God. You just have to receive with empty hands the salvation That he gives to you. Verse 28. We hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So that's why Luther looked at the law, which is God's commands. He says, the law says, do this, and it's never done. Grace says, believe this, and everything is already done. And so the question then is Is your faith, what you think is faith, really just you're giving mental assent To the truths of the gospel. Christ died for sinners. Or are you resting on Jesus? You see your need, you see who Jesus is, you see what he's done. Are you resting on him for your salvation? He lived a righteous life, and then he died the death that you deserve. If If you are resting on Christ, then the Bible says you're saved. You pass from death to life. And the most important thing It's I mean, why do why are we in business? Why are we here? Why do we have a ministry? Why do we gather? It's because we want people to come into the kingdom. We want people to make this transaction to God. We want people to latch on to Jesus Christ by faith to know God's forgiveness, to be assured of their salvation and eternal life, then we want to help them to grow, to know God and as a servant. That's basically what the church is Everything else is really uh superfluous. Okay. Well let's go on. Ask a question. This doctrine of justification. Um The Roman Catholics they say, well, Martin Luther came up with that. It's like, no, Martin Luther didn't come up with it. Paul talks about it right here. But Paul didn't come up with it either. It's in the Old Testament. So imagine Paul writing to these Jews. Some of his recipients of this letter were Jews. And he's making his case, and he's going to go on in chapter 4. This is taught your scriptures, right? Our Old Testament. This is taught your scriptures. So we read Genesis 15 earlier. And it said there in Genesis 15, 6, Abraham believed the Lord, and he counted, and the Lord counted it to Abraham as righteousness. God reckoned Abraham as righteous. Because Abraham trusted God's promise. Same thing in the book of Habakkuk, chapter 2, verse 4. Their Habakkuk says, the righteous shall live by faith. And Paul takes that verse and he uses it in Romans chapter 1, verses 16 and 17. Because he says, listen, justification by faith is taught throughout the Scripture, not just in the Old Testament. Well how can uh how can how can it be that God's a holy God and He can still justify sinners, okay? How can he remain just and pardon us when we've broken his law? Isn't that to compromise his holiness? And we say, well no, because the the cross, it displays his holiness, but it also shows his grace, right? Justice is upheld. Christ died for our sin, but also We see his grace in that we don't pay for our sin, but God himself came and paid that penalty. Well there's a lot there's a lot in this passage. Let's do a couple more, okay? So we did a big word justification. Here's another important word in verse twenty-four. Redemption, that's a commercial term That means to buy back. You might think of someone redeeming a slave. He purchases a slave And then he sets that slave free. So he that slave was redeemed. And that's what Jesus did. He redeemed us. He purchased us. He bought us back. Because we were enslaved to the power and the penalty of sin because of Jesus' death, were released Here's another big word. You might want to keep this one, this one you can impress others. Verse 25. Propitiation. That's if you have the English Standard Version. Some of the other versions use this word. It's the correct word. If you have the New International Version, it's a decent translation But the translators whimped out. They, instead of using this word that nobody knows propitiation, they used the word atonement. Sometimes they would use the word atoning sacrifice. Well that's too broad. And by the way, does anybody can anybody define atonement in one sentence? They say, well Most of us can. But Sherry can. Most of us can, right? So I say, listen, if you're going to give people a word in the Bible that they can't understand, you should give them the right word And the right word is propitiation. Okay? And so, think about it. Justification presupposes our guilt. Okay? So God declares us righteous. Redemption presupposes our bondage, right? To sin, to death, to Satan. It's about us being released or set free. Propitiation presupposes that we are objects of God's wrath. And what propitiation does. Well, it comes from the Old Testament altar of sacrifice, where uh a sacrifice would be laid on the altar. to satisfy the demands of God's wrath, because God's a just God, right? And so a substitute would be put on the altar and it would die in the place of sinful man. Well in the Old Testament these sacrifices were animals, right? God says, wait a minute, you can't put an animal in the place of a human. That's not a fair trade No, a man would have to die for another man. Well those sacrifices were just object lessons pointing forward to the true sacrifice, the final sacrifice, Jesus Christ, right? So when Jesus showed up, And John, was it John chapter one? John the Baptist said, uh, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And so Jesus is the final sacrifice. He stood in our place. He received the wrath that otherwise would have been directed to us. Now, if you're in one of the mainline Protestant churches, they would object. They would put down their T and they would say, uh that that's a primitive view of God. A God whose wrath must be placated? What is this? Um well This is the God of the Bible. For God to have no wrath against sin would be to deny his holiness and to deny his justice. But the good news, look at verse 26, God is not only just, but he's also the justifier. of the one who has faith in Jesus. Therefore, chapter 5, verse 9, since therefore we've been justified by his blood, How much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? And so this is a very this is a fascinating passage. It's very dense, right? But you have these truths. What did y you could hold up the work of Christ like a diamond? What do you accompl what did Jesus accomplish on our on the cross? He accomplished our justification. And then you turn the diamond He had he accomplished our redemption. And then you turn a little more, what did he accomplish? He was a propitiation for our sin. And so this stuff is true. It's t it it's it's tight, it fits together, it answers the problem not only raised in Scripture, But the problem in our hearts, right? And we know we each have an appointment with God. And one day you're going to stand before the Creator, the King of the universe. And if you're outside of Jesus Christ, you got a problem. Because the evidence will be presented that you've broken God's law and space, right? You haven't served him as the only true God. You haven't drawn your thoughts of him and honored him as he's revealed in Scripture. You've taken his name in vain. You've desecrated the Sabbath. You haven't honored your parents and others in authority over you You're a murderer in your heart, you're an adulterer in your mind, you're a thief, you covet, you're not content, and you don't always uphold the truth. So what are you going to plead? Well, our only plea, our only defense, we can't point to our shoddy moral strivings or to our hollow religious efforts. But we can only point to Jesus Christ. And so, do you see the gospel here? Do you believe the gospel? Do you believe on Jesus Christ? Here is God's plan for saving us, that we can be free, that we can rest at night, not worry about what's going to come. But we can know, no matter what happens in our lives, God is for us. He's with us. He's given us his spirit, and he'll change us in one day. We will be lovingly welcomed into his presence. So I'm asking, are you a Christian? Are you a Christian? That's the question. If you're not. Then let's have a talk a little bit. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for the very convincing argument that Paul gives us in the Bible that there's only one way of salvation and that's through faith in Jesus Christ. I pray for any person here who is not a Christian. I pray that they would be persuaded they need a Savior and that Jesus is that Savior and that you would grant them faith and repentance. And we also, Lord, you've given us this wonderful message that help us to look for every opportunity to point others to the Savior. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen