And so this morning we're in the last uh section of the book of Revelation, so Revelation chapter 22. If you don't know where to find out in the Bible, uh we need to talk after So it's the last uh last page of the Bible. So if I hear a lot of leaping and shuffling uh through, um maybe we'll do a little Bible study. Revelation chapter 22. So John recounting his encounter with these angels It says in chapter 22, verse 6, and he, the angel, said to me, These words are trustworthy and true, and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets. Has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. And behold, I'm coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. When I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me But he said to me, You must not do that. I'm a fellow servant with you, and your brothers, and your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God. And he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy. And the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy. Behold, I'm coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay everyone for what he has done. I'm the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and that they may enter the city by the gates Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star. The Spirit and the bride say, Come, and let the one who hears say, Come, and let the one who is thirsty, come. Let the one who desires take the water of life without Christ. I warned everyone, we hear as the words of the prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plague struck described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book. He who testifies to these things says, Surely I'm coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all. Amen. Alright, well that's a that's sort of an interesting uh passage, and it's uh different from most passages In the Bible, because most texts in scripture they have a discernible structure. You know, they're sort of like a like a sandwich, right? You sort of see how it fits together. You have the bread on the outside, put the meat down, then the cheese, you don't put the mustard under and bean All this stuff, right? So well I don't know how you do it. But um there's some it if you look at a sandwich, you go to a sub shop, you go, alright, I can see why they put it together like that. that. I may have done it a little differently, but I guess I can see the logic there. Not so with this passage. This passage is more like a tossed salad. It just throws a cut a number of things out there and they're all very notable and interesting. But it we don't really see how it fits together and I don't think it is to there is a there is a uh process uh by which these things were given. But nonetheless, two themes in this passage, if you read it over and over, you'll notice that two themes do come up. The first theme is the nearness of Jesus' return, and the second theme that is repeated is the importance of obeying the words that are given in the book of Revelation. Which makes sense, right? Uh this this message was given to Christians who were being persecuted, who were oppressed, who were losing their jobs. in the first century in the Roman Empire, who were surrounded by these pagan temples and sexual immorality. And so this this This letter was given to encourage them to trust God's providence and to persevere, but also to say to them, Listen, no matter what happens Don't waver in your allegiance to Jesus Christ. And so it makes sense that in the very end The angel, well, Jesus Christ, who gave it to the angel, who gave it to John, who put this down, would say, It's really important that you obey this. Because I'm going to come back. I'm going to judge the wicked. I'm going to reward those who are trusting in Jesus Christ for their salvation and endeavoring to honor them with their lives. And so our task this morning is just to look at these two themes. The first one briefly, the the promise about Jesus return, his soon return And then the second theme, the importance of obeying the words of Revelation. And those two themes are even encapsulated. Look at verse 7 Jesus says, Behold, I'm coming soon. Right? So there's the first theme. And then the second, blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. That's the exact they are the exact themes that the book of Revelation started out with. Go back to chapter 1, look at verse 3, for example. Uh John writes, Blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in this book, right? So the importance of obeying. And then it says in the end of verse 3 of chapter 1 14 the time is near, right? The eminence of Jesus return. So let's look at the first one, the first thing, the nearness of Jesus' return. Five times in Revelation 22, we read about Jesus or speaking about Jesus' imminent return Look at the end of verse six. The angels speak about what must soon take place. Verse seven, Jesus says, Behold, I'm coming soon. The end of verse ten. But the time is near. Verse 12, Jesus again says, Behold, I'm coming soon. And then the second part of verse 20, Jesus says, Surely I'm coming soon. Alright, so we see that, but we still have a question. It's been 2,000 years, and he still hasn't returned. And so how do we account for the delay? In my understanding is that and you see this in the parables too, when the Bible speaks about or when it says something to the effect that Jesus is coming soon, The emphasis, or what it's saying, is that the table has been set, the next redemptive event will be the second coming of Jesus Christ. And so we have to look at it through the lens of a New Testament believer compared to that of an Old Testament believer. And so in the Old Testament, there are many prophecies about the consummation. In other words, the end of the world, God would judge the world, Hebrew res uh reward his people and he would bring about a new heaven and a new earth. Well in the Old Testament That wasn't going to come right away because there were other things on the calendar that had to take place for God's redemptive purposes to be fulfilled. Right? The Messiah had to come He had to live a perfect life in the place of his people. And then he had to die on the cross and rise again, ascend to heaven, and then give his Holy Spirit, who would empower his disciples to take the gospel. To the ends of the earth. Well, those things have already taken place, so the prerequisites have been fulfilled. And so when John says, and also when Jesus says The time is near. What I understand to be saying is that we are living in the era of when Jesus Christ can return at any moment. And that's the same thing that Jesus is talking about in the parables when he was talking about his return. Now, here's why here's one reason I say that. If you compare an Old Testament prophecy, this is Daniel chapter twelve, verse four. God spoke to Daniel, and then in chapter 12, verse 4, God instructed Daniel, he said, shut up the words and steal the book until the time of the end. And so for God to tell Daniel, okay, I've given you this prophecy about what's going to come, now shut up the words, not shut up Daniel, but shut up the words, steal the book until the time of the end. It was conveying the idea that the fulfillment of God's words to Daniel were remote, the distant future that would come in a different epoch, a different You go to Revelation twenty-two, verse ten What does the angel say to John? He said to me, Not seal up the words of this book, but do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. And so the bottom line is that Jesus can return any time, so you would be wise, believers in the first century, believers in the twenty-first century You'd be wise to obey his words. Not that obeying his words will get you to heaven, right? We don't want to confuse things, right? Only Christ who lived a perfect life and died for our sin. Gets us to heaven, right? But if you really believe this stuff, you're going to endeavor to obey these words. So that's the first theme, the nearness of Jesus' return, the eminence of his second coming. The second theme is what I've been sort of I've already said in three different ways. Let me do it Uh the importance of obeying uh the words of the book of Revelation. So I just want you to hear this. How many times uh this passage emphasizes The importance of listening to these words. In verse 7, Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. End of verse 9. It talks about those who keep the words of this book. The end of verse 11 speaks about, it says, let the righteous still do right. Verse 18 So adding and taking from the words of the prophecy of this book is bad. Do not do bad. And so let's talk a bit then a little bit about this thing about the importance of obeying uh Jesus' words. First thing I have there is three reasons to keep the words of Revelation. This is important for our young people to hear Support for all of us here. But I know sometimes young people daydream. Don't daydream. Come back to earth. Up here. This is Pastor Peter calling. Okay? Three reasons. First reason, the reliable. You can trust them. You can bank on it. Verse six. These words are trustworthy and true. Talking about the words in the book of Revelation. And so here's a here's a a flat out statement that the words of the Bible, well of Revelation in particular, I I think it's fair as Say by implication of the Bible. God goes on public record to say that this book is reliable, it's trustworthy. Now here's why I bring this up. There are people, there are churchy people, there are certainly pastors. I call them clerics. There are pastors, church leaders, who would say, I believe in Jesus, but I don't believe in the Bible Well that's sort of convenient. You know why? Is there something you don't really like about the Bible or if there's something you disapprove of or that our culture disapproves of You just say, well, you know what? That's in the Bible, uh, but we follow Jesus. Well, that's a head scratcher. How do you know anything about Jesus apart from the Bible? or anything they taught. But in fact, y it's weird, I was in a church a church building and I saw this piece of Sunday school literature for an adult Sunday school class and it it said this exact thing this is just a couple weeks ago I just glanced at it and it talked about we don't commit the sin of bibliolatry idolizing the Bible What we do is we follow Jesus. Sounds really spiritual, uh, but it's completely uh irrational because like I said, how do you know anything about Who Jesus is or what he taught, apart from the scripture, and then of course some historical accounts about this man, Jesus of Nazareth. But here's the real problem with this line of thinking Look at chapter 19, verse 11. I'll show you where I'm going here. Chapter 19. Chapter 19? Verse 11. In that verse, Jesus is called faithful and true. You have um yeah and now it's interesting Greek word translated faithful could also be translated trustworthy. The reason I say that, look at chapter 22, verse 6. It says the same thing about the scripture, about the book of Revelation. These words are trustworthy and trustworthy. True. It could be translated faithful as it is in the King James and the New American Standard. In other words, in the Greek we don't need that, but Just take my word. What it says about Jesus in chapter 19, he's faithful and true. It says the same exact thing, the same exact statement about the Scripture. And so God's word written is as trustworthy as God's word incarnate You cannot separate believing in Jesus from believing in his word. You can't separate following Jesus. From following the scripture, which is the word of Jesus Christ. And so we're talking about reasons that we should obey The book of Revelation. Number one, this book's reliable. It's from God. It's the Word of Christ. A second reason, this is real simple. But it states it in the end of verse 7. You'll be blessed. Look at the end of verse 7. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. You'll be blessed. Well why? Well, because God blesses obedience, right? Remember 1 Samuel 2. 30? God says, those who honor me, I'll honor So of course us will be blessed, but also you'll be blessed, and I want our kids again to listen. You'll be blessed. Because you'll be living your life in accordance with the truth. There's such a thing as truth. And when you live your life in accordance with the truth, You're going to be blessed. Life will be easier. I'm not saying it'll be easy, right? Because we live in a fallen world. We're fallen, struggling sinners, and so life is oftentimes difficult. But when you endeavor to walk in God's ways, life is easier. That's what Psalm 1 says. That's a theme that you find it throughout the book of Proverbs. It just works better. I remember years ago, we had a guy in the church, he had addiction issues, he had been in j uh jail, his prisoner I forget. And he was now a Christian, he was a new Christian. I remember we went out to lunch one day, and he said, Life's just a lot easier when you try to live uh by God's command. Yes. It was like this great revelation, but he never thought about that. But it was also like, yeah, that is really true. It just is it's hard. Life it can be difficult, right? because of this world in which we live and because of who we are, but it would be a lot, it's a lot more difficult if we did not follow Jesus Christ and endeavor uh to and to follow his commands. Same thing was said by a lady named Rosalyn uh Pickert. She's a professor at MIT She's the director of something up there called the Effective, Affective Computing Research Group. And I'm just saying that because she's not a slouch, okay? She's not a slouch. She became a Christian And she explained really nicely how her life changed after she became a Christian. Here's what she said She has a question. Have you ever tried to assemble something mechanical and it only kind of works? Maybe the wheels spin, but not smoothly. Then you realize you are missing a piece. When you finally put it together correctly, it works beautifully. She said, This is how I felt when I handed my life over to God. I thought it had worked fine before, but after it was fixed, It worked exponentially better. So yeah, so when the Bible, when it says, you'll be blessed, right? The end of verse 7. Blessed are those who keep the words of this book. That's one of the things that it's talking about. Here's a third reason to keep the words of the book of Revelation. You will be in highly esteemed, exalted company So in verse 8, again, as back in chapter 19, John's about to worship this angel who had disclosed these things to him. And what's the angel do? He says, You knucklehead. Look at verse 9. He says, He said to me, You must not do that. I'm a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God. And so, look closely there, he's saying, look at the end of that verse, those who keep with those who keep the words of this book. He's saying that if you keep the words of Revelation, you'll be in the same elite category As the angels, as the prophets, as the Apostle John and the other apostles Because you're those who keep the and those who keep the words of this book. And so you'll be a member of a very esteemed club. Why am I saying saying that? The only reason I'm saying that is because in our culture, in the eyes of the world, Christians are oftentimes dismissed as being ruse But that's not how God regards you if you endeavor to keep the words of the Spirit. And so there's there are three reasons we just looked at three reasons why we should endeavor to keep the words of Revelation in the book. Scripture in general. Now, well how do we do that? Well, here are three things. Three ways to keep the words of the book of Revelation. And the first way is simple. But it's right there in the page. It says You keep the words of this book by trusting in Jesus as your Savior. So it's interesting, and I've said this twenty times, and I've said this a couple times. I said that revelation was given to encourage Christians in the face of persecution But Revelation's also an evangelistic book. It invites unbelievers to come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness. And for cleansing and for eternal life. Where we see that, look at verse 14. Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and that they may enter the city by the gates. So the Tree of Life, it's a reference to Genesis 3:24, eternal life, right? Adam and Eve were banished from the garden. They were prohibited to eat from the tree of life. But now We have eternal life in Jesus Christ, right? And that's the metaphor. The eating from the tree of life. They're allowed to, where am I in verse 14? They're allowed to enter, they enter the gate, enter the gate. The city by the gates. We saw that earlier in chapter uh twenty-one. The gates of heaven are wide open. And so there's this invitation for all to enter. If you see your sin, you need of a savior, you see Jesus Christ as that savior. There's this invitation to enter. Blessed are those who wash their robes. The robes represent our character, right? Our own character outside of Christ is foul. Isaiah 64, 6. All our righteous acts are like filthy rags. But Jesus cleanses us. He cleanses our garments. He puts on us robes of righteousness. And so by trusting in Jesus Christ as your Savior, that's a way to keep the words of the book of Revelation. You see this evangelistic appeal issued again. Look at verse 17. Verse 17. The Spirit, and so there's the Holy Spirit. The bride was the bride. The bride's the church of Christ, right? We saw that in chapter 12 The Spirit and the Bride say, so the Holy Spirit and the Church issues this universal invitation. Come, and let the one who hears say, Come, and let the one who is thirsty come, and let the one who desires take the water of life without price. And so here we have in the Book of Revelation an evangelistic appeal. And Christians, right? This is Reminder to us. We need to have the same warm evangelistic disposition. So, what do you learn about Revelation? uh from Revelation. Well we didn't we didn't learn Revelation as this book about speculating about the future, but one thing we we learned is really Right here and now, we need to point others to the Savior that point them or issue to them this warm invitation to come to Jesus Christ. Christ. Second way to keep the words of the book of Revelation by pursuing holiness. Right? Verse 11 Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy So verse 11, what's going on there in the beginning of verse 10? It says it's not an encouragement for evildoers to continue in the rebellion, but it's rather saying it It's a it's really a warning. There that there comes a point when those who are hardened against God, like it says in Romans 1 God lets them go. He says, okay, let them continue. But there will be a day of judgment. That's a grievous state to enter into, right? So that's what we need to hear the The warning from Hebrews 3, right? Today if you hear his voice, don't harden your heart, but rather come to Jesus Christ while you still have it within you, while you're still not before you're crusted over And you can't really hear this invitation. But then it says, so we're talking about ways to keep it. And I said, by pursuing holiness. You see that in the end of verse 11. Where it says, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy. And so here, John is writing to Christians in the first century. Some of them losing their lives. And he's saying, listen, no matter what happens, it's still important to pursue holiness. It's still important. To seek to know Christ and to honor Him in your thoughts, in your activities, in your words, and so on. Here's a third way to keep the book of Revelation, then we're done. And that is found in verses 18 and 19, where there's this warning against tampering with God's word. So chapter 22, verse 18, ver The angel says through John, I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book. If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book. And so man is commanded neither to add to nor to take away from The words in the book of Revelation. And it is talking about the book of Revelation, right? Talking about this book. This not the entire Bible, but this book of Revelation. I'm not saying that you should add two and take or take away from the rest of the Bible. is an implication that we shouldn't that this follows or that there that this applies to all the scripture, right? Because scriptures from God, 2 Corinthians 4. 2, Paul says, we refuse to tamper. with God's word. So of course it applies to all of Scripture. How do we how do people do that? How do churchy religious people add to or take away from the words of this book. And while we could talk about those who would add to of the commands in the Bible. That we would one category would be those whom are called legalists, right? They add commands, think about the Pharisees, added all these extra prohibitions uh to the commands in the Bible, as if there weren't enough to start with. Or the Roman Catholic Church, they down through the centuries they've added rules about if you're a priest you have to can't marry. this uh the worship of of of of Mary, penance and so on, but then also within the the Protestant world uh down through the centuries Protestants have added uh to the scripture, right? Those churches that say you can't have a a drink of wine with your dinner. You can't drink in moderation. Uh that without some adding something that goes beyond Scripture. The Bible says don't get drunk, it doesn't say you can't drink. They would say the Bible for you know for not for centuries, but in the early part of the twentieth century, many American churches were saying that interracial marriage is something that the Bible Uh prohibits. No, it's not in there. I remember years ago when I did the youth group in my old my old church. I said, did you know I don't want to mess this up so I don't get offended Did you know the Bible condemns interracial marriage and all the kids are like, What are you a bigot or something? And I'm like, no, uh 2 Corinthians 6. 14, it says a believer should not marry an unbeliever, right? They're there are the two races, the race of Adam and the race of uh Jesus Christ I hope I didn't mess that up. Playing cards. Here's one that some churches do. If you join our church, you have to be in a small group. Now what is that? That is adding a command to the scripture that goes beyond the scripture. So we can't do that. So that's why we're going to talk about I think sometime The regulative principle of worship. We only command those things that are commanded in the Bible. Alright, so some people add to the Bible. The bigger problem is those who take away from the Bible. So you go down to the American, I think it's the Museum of American History in D. C. You'll see Thomas Jefferson's Bible. It's called Jefferson's Bible. Has anybody ever seen that? Yeah. So Thomas is a smart guy, right? But he don't like everything in the Bible. So he said, you know what? I'm gonna make my own Bible. And he got out his uh his exactum And he cut out the good parts and he pasted it all in a book. And that's Jefferson's Bible. Well, uh he wasn't he wasn't the first and he's not the last uh to ignore the parts of the Bible uh that he found uh to be uh distasteful Right? Because now, not just now, down through history, many churches, Christian denominations deny cardinal uh doctrines of scripture, right? The supernatural character of Christianity. So no, we're just a philosopher's club, or we're just We're just like ethics, you know. Uh we we don't really believe, we're more deistic. Or um they deny the deity of Christ, the resurrection. That sounds uh sounds mythical, right? It sounds like you're just uh you're not really sophisticated. You're um the the big one's the reality of eternal punishment. Uh God wouldn't do that. You know we've I think we've all heard pastors say, well that Bible's not really true. Well that was just he was trying to get their attention. Um a huge one is the sexual ethics that the Bible teaches They'll say, well that was for that day and things evolve, right? God don't put a period where God puts a comma. That's what one denomination says, which is their way of saying If we it doesn't fit our frying pan, it's not a fish, so that part's really not uh the word of Jesus Christ. Well, and I I want our young people to hear, if you think about this This one, G. K. Chesterton said, and this is particularly particularly relevant when we talk about sexual ethics. Chesterton said, don't ever take down offense until you know the reason it was put up. Thinking about those who dismiss a biblical sexual ethic Yeah, they they've torn down this fence. And what has it done? What has been the product in the lives of so many people? just a devastation. What it what has it done to our society? And so yeah, these commands, for example, the commands about sexual or sexual within marriage. It's given there there it's there for a reason, right? It's to give us boundaries within which good things can run wild. And uh without those boundaries He end up with what we have today in the United States of America. And so The words of revelation, in the words of all scripture, of course, right? The words of Scripture are trustworthy And true. They were given to us by Jesus Christ. He's faithful and true. This book he's given us and that's been preserved and passed down through the ages It's trustworthy and true, and you can stake your life on it. And so look at verse 20. This is from John, he says. Oh no, this is from Jesus. He says, He who testifies to these things says, Surely I'm coming soon. And John responds, Amen. You know what that means? So be it. Come, Lord Jesus. Then this benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all. Amen. Wow, what a wonderful book. What a wonderful word that God's given his church. in the twenty first century. That's Bournemouth. Thank you, Lord. Um We haven't been left to speculate with the growth in the dark, but you have disclosed to us who you are, what you're like, how we can know you, how we can live lives pleasing to you We pray that we be resolute in our conviction about the veracity of these words, the reliability. and the applicability of these words. For those who aren't Christians, we pray, Lord, that you awaken them, allow them to see that there is such a thing as truth, and Jesus Christ is the one who who reveals it. He's also the Savior of sinners, sinners like us. We pray, Lord, that we'd not only be hearers of this word but that we be doers. We need your spirit to change us and to deepen us in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, take your song book. Number three twenty-two. It's this prayer, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Six seconds. And we please the whole through the creation of us in the war, the glory we come. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, he who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. Yes, I don't know if you're not gonna bring up the printed. Yeah, I'm not sure. I always do it. Yeah.