Chapter nineteen. So working through Matthew's gospel, we come to three very significant verses. Chapter 19, verse, beginning of verse 13 to verse 15, familiar passage with huge implications that we'll talk about this morning. We read, then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people, but Jesus said Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and went away. So it's interesting, verse 14. Jesus said, To such belongs the kingdom of heaven. So he's not only saying the kingdom of heaven belongs to children But he's saying that if you have the disposition of a child, then you are you have the right disposition to be a citizen. of the kingdom of heaven. So it's certainly saying, you know, you have to have the right disposition, but let's not overlook the fact that it's also talking about children. And it's saying that Uh children are rightful citizens of God's kingdom. And this has implications for how we treat kids in the church. It also talks about parents' responsibility to bring their kids to Jesus, and that's what they were doing, right? They were bringing verse 13 The children were brought to him. They didn't come by a taxi, right? Their parents were bringing them to Jesus Christ. So we want to talk about what are some of the things that we as parents should be doing to bring our kids to Jesus Christ. So I think this is a pretty interesting passage. I hope you'll stick with me. First thing, the most obvious thing, Jesus welcomes children into his kingdom. He welcomed everybody, right? He wasn't just about being around the religious people or the hot shots in town, but he associated with everybody and he had a special place in his heart for children. It says in verse 13, these parents are bringing their children to Jesus. Why? That he might lay his hands on them and pray. And so it was common for Jewish parents to want to bring their children to a rabbi to have the rabbi bless them. And they at the very least recognized Jesus to be a great teacher. I I think they they were Jews and they recognized Jesus to be the Messiah. He had been teaching amongst them And so they brought their children to Jesus to receive from him his blessing. The disciples, surprisingly, they didn't appreciate this. It says in verse 15, they rebuked the people for doing this, or the parents, I should say. If we're doing this and they I guess their assumption was Jesus was b growing in importance and a better thing to do than to be wasting time. uh with these kids and this was a typical Jewish attitude. I would read Jews back then. They cherished children, but at the same time, they did not regard them as very important. And so the disciples said, You know what? Jesus has uh bigger fish to fry than to take care of these kids that you're bringing to him. So the disciples are shooing his parents away. Jesus says, wait a minute. Again, verse 14. He said, Let the children, let the little children come to me. Do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. And so Jesus regards children as important as adults. I hope all the kids are listening to this sermon This is about you. This entire passage is about you. You have a stake in this. So I want you to be looking at me and hear what Jesus says about you. He regards you as important, as adults. So one implication, so should we then, right? As a church, we should regard children as important as adults And we're Americans. We do that. Like we put great emphasis on children, so we're I'm not saying that we don't, but this is just a reminder that, yeah, we should take special notice. of the kids in our church. We should learn their names. We should aim to speak to a couple before or after the service each Sunday. When there's a church lunch or some kind of church activity, that's an opportunity to become acquainted with the kids. Take the church phone list. I'd say try to pray for every person in the church throughout the week. Just go down and listen and pray for the people in the church and become use that to become acquainted with them. I try to take note of the kids, typically if I'm uh aware, I try to take note during the sermon to say something directly to the kids. the whole sermons to everybody, but I try to say something to the kids. If I forget to do that, kids, you should come up to me after the service when I'm at that door and she says, hey What am I, chopped liver? I can see some kids doing that this morning. I can see Micah Mason doing that. What am I, chopped liver? So somebody's gonna do that. But that's fine. Uh you know, implications. Churches should regard the children as important. One implication, another implication is that the church nursery, when somebody, a child's baptized The church takes a vow, we all raise our hands, we will assist the parents in the Christian nurture of this child. It would be very helpful if every able-bodied adult said, you know what, at least once a year, I'm going to take a turn in the church nursery. I'll become acquainted. uh with the infants, with the babies, and uh I can serve, I'll give the nursery workers a bit of a rest too. So that's something for everybody to think about, you know, helping there in the church nursery Here's something else, a little something a little uh more elevated. Some people say That children cannot receive a spiritual blessing from Jesus until they're able to make a conscious decision for Christ until they understand who he is and what he's done until they can personally believe in Christ they have a they cannot really make a conscious decision for him. I don't see that in this encounter. In fact, in Mark chapter 10, verse 16, it says, Jesus took them in his arms. And it says he blessed them, laying his hands on them. Jesus blessed these children. Now what I want to ask, was Jesus just pandering to sentimental parents? They love Jesus apparently and are bringing their kids to Jesus for a blessing. Was he just pandering to them, or was he bestowing upon these children a genuine spiritual benefit? The Bible says he blessed them, then he blessed them. That's what happened. He conferred upon them some spiritual benefit. Most of these children, I imagine, they were too young to understand what was taking place. Nonetheless, they received a spiritual blessing from Jesus Christ. Now what I want to say, here's where I'm going with this. I have an agenda. I have a purpose, I should say. Jesus is in the is in the business of bestowing his benefits, he's of bestowing the benefits of the covenant on children prior to their to their exercising conscious faith. And these are children of the covenant, right? God made his covenant promises to the Jews. These parents recognized, it seems, that Jesus was the Messiah. And so they brought their children to him to be blessed. These children could not make a decision about Jesus Christ. But Jesus Christ could make a decision about them, and he conferred his blessing upon them. Now here's where I'm going. Our church is full of people who don't believe in infant baptism. That's fine, right? We were you don't have to believe in this, but I think the Bible teaches it Now, does this passage have anything to do with infant baptism? Well Charles Spurgeon, he was a Reformed Baptist preacher, and he preached a sermon on the parallel passage in Mark, and he gave the sermon the title. Children were brought to Christ, not to the baptismal font. So Spurgeon said, it doesn't have anything to do with baptism. I quote him. This text has not the shadow of the shade of the ghost of a connection with baptism. I love Spursion. But I think no, I I agree, this passage does not teach infant baptism. This cannot u be used as a proof text for infant baptism, but I do think it has a connection to the baptism of the children of Christians. And here's the connection This teaches that the blessings of the covenant are for children. That's exactly Why we baptize the children of Christians. We don't believe baptism saves that child, we understand that, but we do believe that the blessings of the covenant are for children. And so why would we not give the children the sign of that covenant, which is baptism? It doesn't save, it's just a sign. The child is inside the church, and the child is an heir to God's covenant promises. And one day that child will have to own those promises for himself. He will have to believe on Christ. He will have to repent of his sin and own Christ as his Savior and His Lord. We all agree on that, but all I'm saying is this teaches that the blessings of the covenant are for children. If the blessings are for them, Then why not give them the sign of that covenant? Here's something else. This is for the kids. This is something to children. Jesus invites you to himself. Right? He's welcoming you He is waiting for you to come to him and to receive his blessing. And how do you do that? You do that by Admitting I'm a sinner, right? My heart is bad. I say things, I do things, and I think things that are displeasing to God But I also believe that Jesus Christ lived the perfect life where I fell short, and then he died on the cross to take the punishment I deserved for my sin. And so Jesus Christ invites our children to himself to believe on him and to receive the blessing that he offers, the blessing of forgiveness. And the blessing of knowing that He is always with you, He's always for you. And so what do we have so far? We see that Jesus welcomes children into his kingdom. Here's the second point. This is an example that parents should bring their children to Jesus. Apparently these parents believed in Jesus, right? And they brought their kids to him. In the parallel, one of the parallel passages, Luke 18, verse 15. It says now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them. And so it's just this general, we see something going on here. Parents should bring their kids to Jesus. That's a little bit abstract. What does it mean practically? Let me give two two ways, two of the numerous ways, that we should as Christian parents be bringing our children to Jesus. One way simple. Just bring your kids to worship consistently. Sunday school would be good too. That's aimed at them. Consistently bring your children to worship. Even the young children. And then they pick up on this from the very from their youngest years. A pattern begins to be built into their lives that, hey, you know what? This is Sunday. And it's not about me. It's about gathering with God's people and worshiping God. This seeps into their understanding over time. And um it's good to have the kids in the church service. And I know a lot of churches they have you walk in the door, Becky was saying this last night, you walk into the door And the babies go in this direction, and the teenagers go in this direction, and the adults go into the sanctuary. And then they all meet up after the service and they weren't together. I think the ideal is for the children to be in the service, you know, from whenever their parents can get them or train them uh to set through the service. And I know the objection, I've heard this, I hear this regularly. Well, but the service is over their heads. They don't know what's going on. And to that, I want to say two things. Number one They could figure out some things because one of the the beauties of having a service with some kind of structure in it, like we have the Apostles' Creed. We'll have the Ten Commandments. We have the doxology we oftentimes sing. We have the Lord's Prayer. Is that children can participate in many parts of the service. And so they can learn these classic expressions of Christian worship that have been passed on down through the centuries So yeah, children can participate in many parts of the service. The second thing I would say to the objection when parents say, well, they're not going to understand what's going on is I say, it's okay that they don't understand everything. But they're learning some things. They're picking up things. They see that Sunday is the day for worship. That's quite an accomplishment right there. They see their parents worshiping God. This authority figure in their lives are now bowed down, offering worship to God. That's hugely instructive to children They see there's a spirit of re this isn't some kind of concert or show. They say, they see there's a spirit of reverence in this room. These people, it's not about them. They're offering something to God. That's instructive. And they say they see this is a place where they're loved, and others take an interest in them. So what's not to like here? I remember a friend saying one of his fondest memories from childhood was studying in church. He didn't remember what it was about. But he remembers his father wrapping his big old hand around his little hand. And he said, that made a profound impression on him And so you see, there's practical reasons and there's biblical reasons. This is the pattern of Scripture. Children worship together with their parents on the Lord's Day. Joshua 8, 35. It says that there was not a word of all that Moses commanded for Joshua. Sorry, I misread that. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel, and the women, and the little ones. So they were there for the reading of God's law. Same thing, 2 Chronicles 20, 13. We read: all Judah stood before the Lord with their little ones, their wives, and their children. Remember when Jesus entered Jerusalem, Matthew 21, 16, he encouraged the children's praise Or you think about when Paul wrote the letter of Ephesians and Colossians, this is Ephesians 1, Colossians 6. 20, or Colossians 3. 20. He had instructions for the children. So Paul writes this letter, right? Didn't have Bibles printed. They didn't have little apps on their phone. This was a scroll or some kind of parchment It was taken to a church in Ephesus and other churches. Where was Paul's letter read? It was read in the worshiping assembly on the Lord's Day And he says, I have something to you I have something to say to you kids in the church. And so, yeah, this is this is the pattern of church life. Children are involved in the worshiping assembly. So I'm asking the question. What are some ways that we as parents should bring our children to Jesus? And we say, well, bring them to worship. And the second thing is bring in the worship not only on Sunday morning, but daily in your home. Have family worship in your home. That's what our Westminster Confession says in chapter 21. God is to be worshipped in private families daily. What's that mean? I know we've talked about this over the years, but for those who are newer, this idea of family worship, what the what am I talking about? Something like this. Everybody does it their own way. Here's a simple way, an accessible way, maybe a way you can build on as your kids become adjusted. Just take ten minutes a day After supper, or maybe before your kids go to bed, you open the Bible, you're working through a book of the Bible. Read a scripture passage, have little discussion, pray. Some people, some families, they sing a psalm or they sing a hymn. That's really good. We don't do that. Although we tried it last night because we were doing Hark the Herald Angels Sing. And um so I pulled it up on my phone. This is just a little tip. The OPC. org, that's the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. They have the Trinity Hymnal. And they had, you could just push a little button and it plays a song. And then there are the lyrics. So it almost worked, except I can't sing. But I think it would work for others Um so you know you sing a hymn or a psalm, uh you read a passage of scripture, if you have young children, one of these children's Bible storybooks, if you're not sure w what are good ones were acquainted with some and others are acquainted with some. And um if you're a newer Christian, you're not familiar with the Bible, say, well I don't know, I don't know if I can lead my family. every day uh in worship. I'd say if you're a new Christian, just start doing it. Just start working through like the book of James or the Book of Proverbs, Sermon on the Mount. And um you might not uh understand everything. Now it's okay, right? You don't have to be a theologian and lead family worship. Just you're learning with your kids and they ask you something and say, I don't know Or um you can just ask everybody, hey, what's something that stands out about this passage to you? So you can do it. It's also good to learn the catechism, the Westminster Shorter Catechism. We have some copies of the children's catechism for young children. I think like if you're under six, that'd be a good one for the children to start on, just to learn the basics of of the Bible in a Christianity. So you have a little Bible reading time, maybe a couple comments, a little conversation about it. And then you pray Maybe a different person prays every night or a couple people pray or just a father prays or however however you choose to do it. But over time this is going to make an impact on your kids. And they're not only going to learn some content, but they're going to learn from your example. They're going to say, right, your relationship with Christ. It's just not a Sunday morning affair And you have your kids for about 18 years. Let's see, 10 minutes a day. I know it doesn't work out every day, but suppose 10 minutes a day, family Bible reading, prayer. And then 365 days a year, 18 years, that's going to influence your children. They're going to understand a lot of things about the Bible. that guys going into seminary do not understand. And it's going to leave a mark on them. Douglas Kelly, a professor at Reformed Seminary in Charlotte. He wrote about his childhood and he grew up in a Christian home. He said, those of us who are raised in Christian homes Where there was daily worship can never get far from our minds. The sounds of our parents' loved voices, lifting our very names in intercession And calling on the Lord to bless us in large and small matters. The memory of the parents' voices praying for the children There's probably no more effective way to influence our teenage and adult children for God than to let them hear us praying for them by name On a daily basis while they're young. This says you're important to your parents and you're important to God. God is the one who will help you. Then he writes, if young parents will pray with and for their children now while they are small, it may pay rich dividends in preventing grief and alienation during teenage in adult years. And so if you don't have this practice, I encourage you to take it up. It's pretty simple. You don't have to prepare for it. Remember, years ago we had a guy He'd get up and he'd take twenty minutes every morning to prepare for his family devotions. Because he was newly married. He married a lady who had a daughter and he wanted to be a good father. And I said, you're not going to be able to do this for long. And uh but he tried now after a while just like now we're just open to Bible. Just pick up where we left off last night. And that's that's how you do it. You want to be idealistic, right? You're gonna encounter I speak from personal experience here. You're gonna encounter distractions, bad attitudes. and inattentiveness. What do you do? You just march on, right? You try to march on, hopefully with good humor. And um but then that's not it. So we're talking about bringing our children to Christ, family worship and Sunday worship. But then something else, we just read this in Deuteronomy chapter six. So all the opportunities that come during the day just to talk about the things of God and how the Bible explains this and how it That's what Moses said in Deuteronomy six seven. He said, You shall teach God's commands diligently to your children. When? Not just during a time of instruction, but he says You shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise. You know, just as you're going down the road. These things come up and take advantage of it. Okay? Bring your children to Jesus. One more thing, then we'll close. And we also see in this passage something about attitude. It's not just about children, but in verse 14. Jesus says in so many words, only those with the attitude of children will be saved. And so in the end of verse 14, he says, to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. What does it mean to receive the kingdom of God like a child? What do you think of that? What does it mean to receive the kingdom of heaven? like a child. Some say, well it means to receive it with a a childlike innocence. Ooh, I don't know. Children are innocent That's in Psalm 51, verse 5, David said, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Then uh St. Augustine made a comment. He said, I have personally watched and studied a jealous baby. He could not yet speak. And pale with jealousy and bitterness, glared at his brother, sharing his mother's milk. Children innocent? Well they say, well, no, it means to have a very simple faith, right? And we have I've known people, especially in the South, they'll brag. We'll say, I have a simple faith. I don't worry about theology and doctrine. You know, I I just have this simple faith and I think I think it's some kind of uh badge uh to be worn, when it's really an excuse for spiritual slothfulness. Right. They don't have a childlike faith, they have a childish faith. In the Hebrews five, uh Christians are are rebuked for having a childish faith. The writer said, though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone again to teach you the basic principles. of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. He's saying you're like children, you're still on milk. So a childlike faith isn't to have a simple faith And it's not to be humble like children, because children generally are not humble. So then what does it mean to have to to to have the demeanor of a child in entering the kingdom. And I think it just means that you have to recognize your helplessness, right? Babies And toddlers, even toddlers, are pretty well babies are utterly helpless. Toddlers are virtually helpless. And of all the animals, you know, it takes a number of years before a human being can really live independently. Children are completely dependent on their parents and on others for their survival So I think when Jesus says, to enter the kingdom of God like a child, he's just saying you have to acknowledge Your helplessness. You can't save yourself by your religion, by your efforts of personal reformation. But you need to be saved. You're morally corrupt. You're spiritually bankrupt. And you know, how does the Bible describe unbelievers? Lost. Dead. Blind, alienated from God, without hope. In other words, as helpless. In this in the hymn, Rock of Ages, what do we sing? Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Helpless, excuse me, naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Then he says, foul like to the fountain fly, wash me Savior, or I die. That's what Jesus is talking about here Unless you adopt the disposition of a child, you'll never see the kingdom of God. Maybe there's somebody here, right? You're not a Christian. And you this is this is the disposition you must adopt. And I'm talking to our kids too. Do you see that you are spiritually blind You're morally corrupt, and there's no hope for you. You might be having a great time now, but in the long run, there is no hope for you apart from Jesus Christ reaching down, saving you, snatching you from the fire, granting you a new heart, and giving you eternal life. That's what you need. If you're not a Christian, you need to bow before Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, we ask that you would so humble us that we would recognize that you're the king. We're your servants. We pray for those who've yet to receive the privileges of being numbered amongst your children, that you would enable them to bow low before you and to call upon you for salvation, give them faith and repentance. We pray for us as a church And as parents, excuse me, help us to be diligent with our young ones, to point them toward you. Give us your grace. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing this song that's right in the bulletin. It's called A Little Child The Savior Came. You'll recognize this tune. Let's stand and sing.