We're in Matthew chapter eighteen. We're making good progress here. Matthew chapter eighteen, beginning at verse twenty-eight. Sorry, John. Whoa, I'm cracking up. I did this last week. I d Okay. My wife will have a word with me later. Okay. She'll say, You're losing it. And I'll say, No, I'm not Nancy. Okay. Matthew chapter eighteen, verse twenty eight John chapter eighteen. Somebody come up and slap me. Okay. Okay, here we go. Okay. Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, if this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Pilate said to him, Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but the but my kingdom is not from the world. Then Jesus said to him, So you are a king Jesus answered, You say that I am the king, for this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness about the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him But you have a custom that I should release one man to you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. So let me recap just from last week. So Jesus was arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane. He was brought first to this guy Anis, who had been the high priest in Israel. But he they have a new high priest now, Caiaphas, but Annas was really in the eyes of the Orthodox Jews the real high priest, he held all the power, he made a decision, and then he pushed Jesus over to Caiaphas. the official high priest to render an official decision or verdict and charges that could then be sent to the Romans And you'll know, of course, that Israel was under Roman rule, and so Israel did not have the power to condemn someone to death. And so they had to send Jesus to the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, who we would never have heard of were it not for the fact that he was a Roman governor at this time, and they wanted Pontius Pilate to condemn Jesus to death. Now, this is a big chunk of narrative, but there are and there's a lot it that that's found here, but I'd say it's notable mostly Because it provides us an insight into the nature of Jesus' kingdom And that's the really the second point in the outline. The first point we're just going to cover though verses 28 to 32 In that in these verses, we see something of the blindness of Jesus' enemies. And it's instructive because this is the case down through time And the first thing we see about Jesus' enemies is that they strained at gnats while swallowing camels. They strained at nets while swallowing camels. And so in verse 28. We read they led they they excuse me they had they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, why not? So that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. And so it's interesting that these thugs who condemned to death the only good man who ever lived were nonetheless fastidious about keeping the Jewish ceremonial law. They didn't want to be defiled by going into the house of a Gentile in rendering them unable to participate in the Passover meal. This is what they were like. Back in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus condemned the Pharisees for being scrupulous about the most minor things, such as tithing spices, but he said, but neglecting the weightier matters of the law Justice, mercy, faithfulness, and so he called them blind guides, straining at a gnat, but swallowing a camel And that's instructive, and I think that's a warning for us because sometimes we can straight at a gat and swallow a camel. And I think it's great. It's important that we tithe, that we observe the Sabbath, that we're in public worship. In that we know God's word, and that we know theology even. That's really important. But you can do all those things. But if you walk around with a chip on the on your shoulder or you have a critical sphere or you don't cut people a little bit of slack once in a while then you're not too different too much different from them. You are straining at a gnat and swallowing a camel. And so there are other examples we could give So we see first of all the blindness of Jesus' enemies in that they strained at gnats and swallowed camels, but also They misrepresented the most basic facts about Jesus Christ. So now we're down to verses, excuse me, I'm all stuffed up here. We're down to verses 29 to 31. They misrepresented the facts. And so in Mark 14, The Jews convicted Jesus of blasphemy, that's a parallel text, because he claimed to be the Son of God. And so it was on the basis of this religious claim that Jesus had claimed to be the Son of God that they brought Jesus to the Roman governor, Pilate asking Pilate to then execute Jesus. And uh the Jews were just hoping that Pilate would rubber stamp other verdict. But Pilate says, hey, wait a minute here. Let's let's hear what's going on. And so verse 29 it says, Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring? against this man, and I think that may have caught them off guard because they were not expecting an examination. And maybe out of self-defense, in verse 30, they become belligerent If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Now Pilate and the Romans had no interest in these intramural squabbles of the Jews. uh i in this area and so that wasn't their problem and to his credit I mean pilot he wasn't a paragon of virtue but to his credit he didn't want anything to do with this look at verse 31 Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. And that would have been fine with the Jews. However They didn't have authority to administer the death penalty. And so that's why, of course, uh they brought him, Jesus, to Pilate. The end of verse 31, the Jews said, It's not lawful for us to put anyone to death. They needed Pilate to condemn Jesus to death. And then you go down to verse 32. And you see yet another refrain, we've seen this before in John's Gospel, of an allusion to God's sovereign purposes. So John writes. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show what kind of death he was going to die. And so this was all under God's providence. Jesus has said, or excuse me, had spoken about the kind of death he was going to die, for example, back in chapter 12 Verse twenty-two, where he spoke about being lifted up, right? Being lifted up how? Being lifted up on the cross. When I'm lifted up on the earth I'll draw all men to myself. And so Jesus was forecasting back there that he would die by crucifixion. And this is notable because the Jewish method of execution was stoning. That's what the Old Testament taught And yet it was the Romans who had the uh method of crucifixion. And so Though Jesus' enemies were blind, they were still doing the bidding of God in his sovereign purposes. So that's just the first section here, verses 28 to 32. We see the blindness of those who oppose Jesus Christ. Now we're looking at verses 33 to 40, and this is interesting, and there's a lot in here, but what we're going to do is we're going to look at four statements that display the contrast Between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the world. And so Pilate felt pressured by the Jews to interview Jesus. And so he has this interview. And let's just go through this. First of all, the first statement I want you to notice is in verse 33. Where Pilate asked Jesus, are you the king of the Jews? Now in the original, in the Greek, the U is emphatic It's the first word in the sentence, you, the king of the Jews, because Jesus did not look like a king, right? He had just spent the night before. In the Garden of Gethsemane, sweating, what is what is say, sweating blood, tears And uh his I'm sure his features were swollen because of his travails. He was dressed like a peasant This was keeping in keeping with the Old Testament description of the Messiah. Right? Isaiah 53, verse 2 Isaiah said, he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him. And it was obvious to Pilate that Jesus was no threat to the Roman government. I want to read you a statement that Charles Spurgeon made, and I think it's very helpful. Spurgeon makes an application from this. You know, Pilate's question, are you the king of the Jews? Spurgeon said Pure Christianity, in its outward appearances, is an equally unattractive object And wears upon its surface few royal tokens. What is he saying there? What what do we learn about the Christian life, about the Christi yeah, about the Christian? I think the application is: hey, we're followers of Jesus Christ. We should be equally unassuming We should be equally indifferent about the ornaments of the world and those ornaments that we possess. wealth or degrees or um titles, that's that's fine. But That's not the center of who we are. That's not how that's not our identity is not found in these ornaments. Because genuine Christianity, and hence genuine Christians are uncontrived, right? We're not concerned about image management. And so many people, right, they have their little uh social media accounts Where they just put these perfect pictures, that's image management. That's completely unchristian We should just be who we are and not pretend to be something else. And we could say the same applies to churches. Churches shouldn't be so concerned about image management And you see it across the spectrum. You see it in a very Calvinistic churches in our sector where you think uh you walk into some of these churches and they're so austere and the pastor is so serious And the people are so serious, you think you were in some kind of caricature of Puritan New England And it's uh I'm sure Puritan New England was ju was joyful, but there's this caricature caricature that our and Dave Speese used to be in one of those churches. He's laughing And I'd been in those churches. I was down in North Carolina. I visited one of those churches. I thought I was talking to King James himself and I talked to the pastor Then there's chur the very high churches with their processions, their pageantry, the stoles, the pastor wearing the robe with the stoles and all that stuff And then you have at the other extreme the pop Christianity churches with the light shows and the the latte bars and the you know the hipster pastors and their skinny jeans and all that stuff And um they're trying to convince you, not very effectively, but they're trying to convince people that it's really cool to be a Christian. We're really not a bunch of dorks, but um people know better than that In fact, if you look it up down in Florida, Google thecoolchurch. com. There's a whole network of churches down in Florida called The Cool Church. So they really want you to know that it's not you're not going to be a dork if you come to church. But anyway, so um First comment or statement we looked at uh where Jesus said, My kingdom is not of uh I'm sorry W what it what was oh yeah. Are you the king of the Jews, right? He was on assuming in the application I made is that there s should be something uncontrived about uh Christians, about churches. Here's the second one, where Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. Now we need to look at verse 33, the second part of verse 33, just to understand what's going on here. So verse 33 Pilate entered the headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? And then in verse thirty-four Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? And so Jesus needed to understand What what Pilate was really asking, if Pilate was asking the Roman question, are you a political king, then that would have been concern for Pilate, right? Because he would have been a Jesus would have been a seen as a threat to Caesar But if Pilate was asking the Jews question, the religious question, do you proclaim yourself as the Jewish Messiah? If that was the case, then that's fine with Pilate, because that's just a religious issue. And so to Jesus So Jesus asked for clarification in verse 33. Pilate replies with condemned, because he didn't care. Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world. So Jesus is saying, yeah I'm a king, but I'm not the head of a political kingdom, and I will not establish my kingdom by force Jesus' kingdom has nothing to do with the power and the wealth of the world. It's not established by armies. It's not maintained by taxes. And Jesus was not a threat to the Roman government. So that's a really this is a very important statement when Jesus said My kingdom is not of this world. This has much to inform us about the Christian's relationship to the state, about the church's relationship to politics. And so let me make a couple clarifications here in this regard. First of all Let me say what he's not saying, as far as I understand, and Christians have different views on this issue. Here's my understanding. When Jesus said, My kingdom's not of this world, he's not saying That his kingdom has nothing to do with the world. So while the church and the state Have separate spheres of authority and separate governing structures, they're not completely unrelated, right? They share many of the same concerns And both the church and the state are accountable to God. Jesus' kingdom Yeah, it's not of this world, but still it's over this world. And in Psalm 2, the psalmist warns the earth's rulers, you better set up and you better take notice because one day You will give an account to God. So we're talking about what's he not saying when he says, my kingdom's not of this world? Jesus is not saying that his kingdom has nothing to do with the world, nor is he saying that the rulers of the world are free to ignore him or his laws, nor is Jesus saying that Christians must keep their convictions out of the public square because that's that has something we don't want our convictions to have anything to do with the world That's Pietism. We don't believe that either. The Bible speaks on moral issues, and many of these moral issues just happen to be political issues, right? The Bible has something to say about the rule of law, about property rights, about Abortion and euthanasia, sexuality, gender, marriage, gambling, uh the rights of parents to raise their kids and to have authority over the education of their children. These are all Bible issues, these are Christian issues. And they happen to also be debated in the public square. And so the church has a right to speak about moral issues Even those issues that happen to be politically charged. And so we refer to this as the prophetic role of the church. We even have the authority to call out political leaders for their unbiblical policies and their ungodly behavior. That's all fair game. At the same time, this is an important qualification. This is this is my understanding. At the same time The church should not be in the in the business of partisan politics in advocating political candidates. So here's the distinction. And I've had run-ins with people in this church over this issue. As Christian citizens As Christian citizens, we should support our political candidates. But the church as an institution should not. That's not our business. That's not our job. What's the church's job? The church's job is to preach the gospel in all its fullness. It's not to get behind particular political candidates. For a couple of reasons. Number one We don't want people to get the impression that you must adopt a certain political persuasion to be a Christian or to be a member of this church. That would confuse people. Oh, so uh we we we will never say that Christianity is the Democratic Party or the Republican Republic Good New we'll never say Good News Presbyterian Church is a Democratic Party at prayer, the Republican Party at prayer. And those churches that promote political candidates send a bad message that it confuses the Christian gospel and uh With with particular political parties. That's a problem. It is highly risky as many churches and many public Christians have found out Because when their favored candidate does something grossly immoral, then the church ends up with egg on her fa on its face and it hurts her credibility. And so the nature of the kingdom of God, the first thing I said, it's excuse me. It's unassuming, it's uncontrived. And the second thing about the nature of the kingdom of God is that it's not a political kingdom. It's it's it's the it's it's a spiritual kingdom. And yes, Christians, we should be politically engaged, right? We should be voting. We should be telling our friends who to vote for and have these conversations But the church doesn't take pol official positions on political uh canonists Here's another one. Sorry I'm sort of clogged up, I'm not very pleasant to listen to, I know. Not that I'm usually pleasant to listen to, but um even worse today. Here's the third one. So Pilate's question: What is truth? So here we are, verse 37, the second part of the verse. Jesus answered, You say that I'm a king, for this purpose I was born, and for that, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? I don't think he was asking it in a phil philosophical way. I don't think he was saying, oh Great wise one. What is truth? No. He was being he was being uh skeptical. He was dismissing uh Jesus And Pilate really embodies the cynicism in a relativism of our age, right? What is truth, right? You have your truth, I have my truth. There is no such thing as absolute truth And people don't want to know if there is because they want to do what they want to do. And the last thing they would want to do is bump into a wall called absolute truth. But the claim of Christianity, and this is something for our young people to take note of, especially those who are about to fall asleep on me, There is the claim to Christianity is that there is such a thing as truth, and you can know it. That's what Christianity is all about. It says, yeah, God has spoken. He's revealed himself, and we can know this God. Look at the end of verse 37. Jesus said Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. So how about that? If someone were to walk into this church, and maybe somebody did, if someone were to walk into the church, Ian had we're just curious, is there such a thing as truth? We could say, there sure is. We know there's truth, not because we're so insightful. But because God, who is truth, has revealed Himself in Scripture, in history, and in the person of Jesus Christ. And if you're interested in the truth, all you need to do is listen to Jesus and to his word. I don't know how many people are asking that kind of question, what is truth? I perhaps not many. And that's discouraging, right? But we have the answer, right? There is such a thing as truth. We can know it. And most people are asking the questions: what works for me, what will make me happy. But there are huge questions, and I say this to our young people There are huge questions if you're not if you haven't landed squarely on Christianity and you're still wrestling with things, there's questions to answer. Right? The most basic question. You know, why is there something and not nothing? How is that? Where did we come from? Did we just evolve or come out of the protoplasm? Or uh is there a God who created us? If there is a God, has he revealed himself? How can I know him? And then who is Jesus Christ? Are there moral absolutes? Things are definitely right and wrong, not just because it's convenient, but because, yeah, this is an absolute moral standard. This behavior is right, that behavior is wrong. Are there moral absolutes? Then you think through these questions and you you search the scriptures, then you ask the question What are the implications of the answers I come to? How should that affect my life? And so Pilate was dismissive. What is truth? I say to our young people, I say to everybody of course, but especially to our young people, that's a good question. And I encourage you to search out the claims of Jesus. Well, here's the fourth thing, fourth statement that reveals to us the nature of the kingdom. So the third one was the kingdom claims that there is absolute truth. Then this fourth statement where the crowd said, not this man But Barabbas. And so look at verse 38, the second part of the verse. After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and said to them. I find no guilt in him. So Pilate recognized that Jesus was innocent. He wasn't a revolutionary. He posed no danger to the Roman government, but Pilate was sort of in a a a tricky position He didn't want to release Jesus for fear of offending the Jews. And so what to do? Well He said I he attempted excuse me, he attempted to release Jesus without acquitting him. And so he thought himself clever. He reminded the crowd of an old custom that the Romans had with the Jews. Each Passover The Jews were allowed to ask for the release of one prisoner. And this was a symbolic gesture wherein the Romans remembered God's mercy to the Jews and delivering them uh from the Egyptians. And so in verse 39, Pilate says to the crowd, But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? And much to Pilate's chagrin in verse 39. They cried out again, not this man, but Barabbas. Barabbas says there Barabbas was a robber. The other gospel said he had committed murder and he was a notorious prisoner, and yet the chief priest had persuaded persuaded the people to call for the release of this guy who had in fact uh participated in a rebellion, the very crime of which they had accused Jesus. And so we see That you know the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the world, what I would say here is that the world's values are turned upside down. That's the nature of the world, right? The world celebrates things that are oftentimes abhorrent. And it often despises things that are noble. And so we see something here of a reminder that, yeah, there are two kingdoms. There is the kingdom of God and there is the kingdom of the world. We are citizens of both kingdoms, right? We are in both kingdoms. But our ultimate citizenship, as Paul said in Philippians, is in heaven. And a person becomes a citizen of this heavenly kingdom not by their good deeds, uh not by their virtues, but by God's grace, right? It's something that God it's a citizenship That God grants to us by His grace. We don't deserve it. We deserve hell. But He gives it to us as a free gift. When we trust that Jesus lived the perfect life where we failed and he died to pay for our sins. And so when we take the Lord's Supper, that's true. One of the things the Lord's Supper reminds us of is that you know what Our citizenship is in heaven. We're proclaiming Jesus' death until he comes. One day we will be fully We will fully inhabit that kingdom, and the kingdom of this world will become the kingdom of the Lord And he'll reign forever and ever. So that's an important, this is an important issue for those who aren't Christians. You know, you need to become a citizen of God's kingdom. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we're thankful that you have uh opened to us uh this kingdom Help us, Lord, to remember that there are many discouragements and frustrations in this world, but you have conquered the world. Help us, Lord, to be fully engaged in the world, but not to invest our hopes in our heart. in it. And I do pray, Lord, for our young people that they would faithfully follow you, that they would take up All the privileges that are theirs as citizens of heaven. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.