Option to go to worship training with Miss Lindy and Miss Corey. And I want to ask you to turn to John chapter fourteen. If you don't have a Bible, there's some in the back right in the back of the center aisle here. John fourteen It's a great passage. Becky said, has a look. I got some red meat here, John fourteen. So it's a wonderful passage. Uh gets to some of the most basic truths of Christianity. Well, the whole gospel, right? It's about it introduces us to Jesus Christ. And this is the night before Jesus is crucified. Jesus is with his disciples And he says in fourteen verse one, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and I will take you to myself, that where I am you also may be. And you know the way to where I'm going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So how about that in verse 1? Jesus said, let not your hearts be troubled. And The disciples are probably saying, like, oh really? Um they had all kind of reasons to be troubled. Jesus had just told them back in thirteen thirty-three He was going to leave them after being with them, after being with them for three years. Judas has just left the supper. You saw that in the end of chapter 13 He's just left the supper to betray Jesus, and this would set into motion the wheels that lead to his arrest, his trial, and his crucifixion. And he just told Peter back in 1338, you're going to fall away. So all hell is about to break loose, and Jesus says to his disciples Let not your hearts be troubled. And in saying this, he wasn't saying that everything's going to work out just fine in this life, because things don't always work out. Right? Marriages fall apart. Children go astray. Illnesses set in Evil multiplies, nations rise, nations fall. And Jesus said as much. 1633, he said In this world you will have tribulation. But Jesus nonetheless says to the eleven to the eleven remaining disciples, Ten of whom will die martyrs' deaths, that they need not be troubled, because God is in heaven He's the ruler. He's the sovereign over all things. All his ways are wise. All his ways will work out for his glory and for the good of his people. And He'll accomplish his purposes in history and in your life. And so that's why he can say Take heart. And in this text, you can break it down to three nice reasons why we should not be troubled. Not only the disciples, but this was written for all Christians. Why should you not be troubled? Three reasons. Number one, because Jesus said, I'm preparing a place for you, an eternal place for you. Number two, I'm going to come back. I'm going to take you to myself, and number three, because he said, I am the way to God. And so let's go through these. We'll put most weight on the third point. First of all, though, let not your heart be troubled, Jesus said, because he is preparing an eternal place for you. Look at verse 2. There Jesus said to his disciples, In my Father's house are many rooms That little verse tells us two things about heaven. Number one, he calls heaven or he likens it to a house. So he's telling us heaven In heaven will be like a family, or I should say that we'll be like a family. We will be a family. That's what this household imagery Conveys heaven is a family of God's people. Right? In fact, the church here is referred to in Ephesians two as the household of God. And so the church on earth With all of our struggles and with all of the offenses and our misunderstandings, the church on earth should be becoming something of a family. And we should be striving for harmony. And thankfully When we are redeemed and all our sins taken away and we are fully human, we're going to have harmonious relationships forever. That's a good reason to become a Christian. You're going to live in harmony with other people. But also, Jesus tells us something else about heaven in verse 2. He said, In my father's house are many rooms. Well, this comports with other scriptures that tell us that heaven is going to have a massive population. And you think, well, wait a minute. There's a verse back in Matthew 7, Matthew 7, verse 14 Jesus said, the gate is narrow, and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Well yeah, relatively speaking, but still heaven will have a huge population of Revelation um seven nine. John describes heaven as a great multitude that no one could number And so then Jesus goes on, he says, I go to prepare a place for you. So this place already exists, but Jesus, in going there by way of his death and resurrection prepares a place for us because he's going to give us his righteousness. He's going to make us fit for heaven. And so in a nutshell The disciples are about to embark on the most difficult years of their lives, but Jesus says Take heart, the best is yet to come. And you hear that, you hear that kind of talk in church and say, ah, yeah, that's pie in the sky. And we say, well, it's pie in the sky if it's a myth, but if it's true, then it's not pie in the sky. It orients us as to what life is about, as to what is on the horizon. And so if you say, I'm not so sure of this, this is this sounds like pie in the sky All I would say is you better be sure. Open up the Bible, become acquainted with it. Figure out what's the main message, ask questions, continue to come, search things out. Because, hey, we're Christians because we're persuaded this stuff is true. And um and there's this cliche which is completely uh False, I was gonna say bad word, completely uh fallacious. Um They say Christians are uh Christians in our day are heavenly minded and they're no earthly good. You ever hear that? It's like I've never met a Christian who is too heavenly minded, right? We're too focused on the here and now. So that's just that's just uh silliness. And then people deride the Puritans. They say, oh, they're talk they're always talking about heaven The Puritans, I mean there's this caricature of the Puritans, but in fact, the Puritans were earthy, realistic, practical Christians. And yet they put a huge emphasis on thinking about the fact that there's something more to come. One of the Puritans, um Richard Baxter, he wrote a book about heaven, and he exhorted his his readers, he said, Bathe thy soul in heaven's delights. And then he offered 12 reasons. This is how the Puritans do it. They couldn't offer like three reasons, like a good guy like me. They give 12 reasons why we should contemplate heaven and why it is beneficial. And it is, so that's important. Uh when my mom was dying, I I would see her and I'd I'd read her a passage about heaven. I was trying she was a Christian. And I was trying to help orient her, hey, there's something better to come. I'd read Revelation twenty-one and twenty-two or first Corinthians fifteen. That talks about us getting a new body, or this passage here in John chapter 14. And so we have to remember, we have to impress upon ourselves that you know what? This isn't all there is. There's something more to come. C. S. Lewis, he said All your life an unattainable ecstasy has hovered just beyond the grasp of your consciousness. Right? You have this sense there's something more. Why is that? Well, in the book of Ecclesiastes, it said, God has set eternity in the hearts of men We instinctively know that death is not the final word. So Lewis said, you know, this sense that there's something more to come has hovered just beyond the grasp of your consciousness. He goes on, the day is coming when you will find beyond all hope that you have attained it. And so for Christian, for the Christian, death is not something to fear. It's something that we welcome. So that's the first thing reason why we should be troubled. Because Jesus said, I'm going to go prepare an eternal place for you. Secondly He says, I'm going to come back and take you to be with me. Verse 3, I'll come again and take you to myself. So he's talking about his return, his second coming. And so he's telling us he's going to take us to heaven. And heaven is not this vague, ethereal place where you float around on clouds and you suffer a life of religious tedium. But no. Heaven's a material place. It's physical. Right? I'm on this C. S. Lewis rant today. I think he said, God likes matter. He invented it. Okay? Heaven's a material place. What was the earth in the garden? It was physical. There was no sin before Adam and Eve sinned. What is heaven? Revelation 21-22 It's a recapitulation, a reconstruction, or a renewal of the garden, and in the garden, you know, that story in Genesis That's just the beginning, but there it wa was to be development and even with the fall there was development. I think Genesis 4, you've discovered musical instruments and technology. And so heaven's going to be a great place. I imagine there will be food, a variety, right? Because it's the earth recapitulated. There will be relationships. There will be development. We'll get to know people. There will be discoveries This is these are some of the themes that we can draw out and think about. You know what? It's not going to be boring. It's not going to be ethereal, but it will be the earth-renewed 1 Thessalonians 4 will recognize each other. However, without the remnants of sin, and we won't be so turned in and awkward because we'll be fully comfortable with who we are. So heaven's going to be a great place. However, despite all the delights of heaven The chief delight in heaven will be that will be with Jesus Christ. Verse three again. I will come again and take you to myself, that you may be where I am. That will be the chief delight of heaven. In 1 John 3. 2, John said, we shall see him as he is. And so just to make it super clear, okay? What when you boil it down, what is Christianity about? It's not a system of morality. Okay? Yes, there's a moral code in Christianity, but that does not get to the heart of Christianity. Christianity is not primarily a philosophy of life or a guidebook or how to adjust to life's stresses. That's part of it. But that's not the heart of Christianity. Christianity is about knowing Jesus Christ. Heaven is where Jesus is. Eternal life is being with Jesus forever. What is the church? It's the assembly of the redeemed, those who know Jesus Christ. And so, my question is: do you know Jesus? Has God opened your eyes to see that you're a sinner, that you need a Savior, Jesus Christ lived a perfect life. where you fell short, and then he died to bear the penalty for your sin. That's how you come to know Jesus. So Jesus said, let not your heart be troubled. Because he's going to prepare an eternal place for you, he's going to come back, he's going to take you to be with himself. And then thirdly, in verses four to six Jesus said we should not be troubled because we know Jesus and he is the way to God. So look at verse 4. Jesus told his disciples, you know the way to where I'm going? Thomas in verse 5 interjects, Lord, we do not know where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus in verse 6 says, you know the way because you know me. And we have this classic statement in verse 6. Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life No one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus is the way to God because He's the truth of God. And he gives the life of God. And so if you know Jesus, you know the way to heaven. Now This is not a popular verse in our culture. Jesus, in verse six, exclaims exclusivity. And a lot of people find that narrow-minded and um sort of stuck up. Well, let's think about uh these claims. First of all He says he is the way. Now, we're a Protestant church, right? We're a Bible-teaching church. Many Protestant churches over the past hundred and twenty years have sort of compromised on what this is saying. They no longer teach Jesus is the way, but they rather, because they're more broad-minded and thoughtful and nuanced and sophisticated Um they don't say Jesus is uh the way. They say Jesus is our way. They might say he's the best way, but there are other ways all roads lead to heaven You could believe in Buddha, Muhammad, the Dalai Lama. You can believe in old-time religion or new age religion or no religion. But what counts is that you're sincere, that you're loving, and uh If you're just a good egg, uh you're gonna God's gonna get you into heaven. And so it's into this individual this um relativistic and uh pluralistic culture in which we live, that you read Jesus' words in verse six, and they land uh with a thud Because he says not I'm a way, he says I am the way. And in saying that, he dismisses all other religions as erroneous and as idolatrous. And so Muslims, Jews, atheists, really nice church-going moralists, they may be good people and they may be sincere people. But if they don't recognize that Jesus is the only way to be reconciled to God, then they are in error. And this kind of dogmatism is offensive. But we're not claiming moral superiority. We're just saying we're persuaded that this document is true. And this is what it says. And the Bible's not a wax nose where you can make it say you can, you know, shape it. To be whatever you want to be. No, the Bible makes very clear statements that Jesus Christ is God's only provision by which sinners can be made right with a holy God. Let me give you a couple other verses that say the similar things. Acts 4. 12 Their salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. 1 Timothy 2 verse 5. There Paul wrote, There is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. And think about it like this. If there were another way for sinful men to be reconciled to a holy God. Don't you think that the Father who loved his son from all eternity would provide would have said, you know what, you don't have to go to the cross Think about Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane in Matthew 26. He prayed, Father, if it is possible that this cup pass from me. Well, it wasn't possible. That's why Jesus drank the the cup of God's wrath to the dregs. Or how about this one? You might not may not have heard this one. Galatians three, verse twenty-one. There Paul wrote, If a law had been given that could give life Then righteousness would indeed be by the law. In other words, if it were possible To devise a set of rules or some program of morality by which we could work our way to heaven. Then, yeah, of course God would have said, follow this program, he would not have said sent his only son to die on the cross. And so Christianity claims exclusivity. Christianity claims it's the only way. We're not claiming that. We're not that smart. We're just saying, yeah, this is what the Bible says, and we're persuaded that it is true. So it's highly exclusive But hold your horses. It's also inclusive. You know, sort of like everybody's welcome to come to our house. We'll feed you. Might just be a cracker. Uh sometimes like Becky's for lunch, what are you having? I'm having yogurt with granola in it. I'm like, well, what else we got? But you'll get something, okay? But we everybody's welcome, but there are stipulations. You you need to come in through the door. Don't slide down the chimney, not with that gut you have. Um don't crawl in through the window or try to get in through the heating duck. No. Coming through the door, but everybody's welcome. And God is the same way. But go back to verse 2. What Jesus said, in my house are many rooms. Everybody's welcome. He talks like this throughout the Bible, the gospel, John 11, 28. Come to me, all who are weary and burdened. and I'll give you rest. He doesn't say, come to me if you're a paragon of moral virtue or if you're a really religious person. He just says If you're burdened by your sin and you see on the Savior, come to me And I welcome you with open arms, regardless of your past sins. You don't have to shape up before you become a Christian Look at us sometime, write this down, 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 to 11. He talks about the vile sins that these Christians in the church in Corinth were engaged in, but he says, but you've been washed, you've been sanctified by the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ has made you worthy. Regardless of your station in life. Galatians 3. 28 says, no, you could be low, you can be high, man, woman, Greek, Jew, whatever It doesn't matter. As long as you're trusting in Jesus Christ, you are welcome into God's family. So there's this huge Christianity big umbrella. It's inclusive, but at the same time, Jesus said, you must come through the door And what does he say about himself in John 10 verse 9? He said, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. So you don't go to heaven by being a do-gooder or a churchgoer, but you go to heaven by resting on Jesus Christ, who died in your place for your sin, who lived a perfect life. And who gives you his righteousness when you trust that he is your Savior. So Jesus is the way And then he says about himself, I am the truth. I lived in Savannah back in 1987, so I just happen to remember this. I got this book by a guy named Alan Bloom. He was a professor at the University of Chicago, The Closing of the American Mind. He opened it up the very first sentence, I think Is this. He wrote, this is way back in eighty-seven, there is one thing a professor can be absolutely certain of. Almost every student entering the university believes, or says he believes, that truth is relative. You may believe God, that's great for you. I don't believe it. You may believe that the child in the womb is a human being. I don't. But you have your truth. I have my truth You may believe that having sex outside of marriage is okay because this is the age in which we live. I don't believe it. So we all have our own truths And it's in this sea of moral relativism that the Bible says, no, there is such a thing as absolute truth. There are moral laws, and Jesus Himself says, I am the truth. So he is the truth. And you read the Scripture, which is the Word of Christ from Genesis to Revelation, you read the Scripture and you discover he tells us the truth. He tells us the truth about ourselves. We're valuable, we have dignity because we're made in the image of God, but sin has polluted that image. And so because of our sin, we no longer stand before God's smile, but we stand under His judgment. The Bible tells us the truth about God. He's not some distant and personal, benevolent deity, hardly engaged in our lives, but no. He's personal, he's holy, he's just, he's loving, he's wise, he tolerates no rivals. Isaiah 42, verse 8, God said I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. He tells us the truth about how to be saved, how to be redeemed. He said you can't be made right with God by your own efforts. All your religious acts, Isaiah 64, 6 or something. are like filthy rags. They don't commend you to God at all. The only way to be made right with God is by resting on Jesus who lived a perfect life in our place, who bore the penalty for our sin on the cross. And then of course Jesus as the truth tells us the truth about how we should live our lives. And so Jesus is the way, Jesus is the truth, Jesus is the life. So I was at, so our denomination has its annual meeting. It's called Synod. Every June is in North Carolina, like the business meeting and organizations and theology and whatnot. So anyway I'm at Synod, and I met this guy. He said, hi, Matt. He said, hi, my name's Joe. I'm an alcoholic. Then he said, for 25 years, my best friend was Jack Daniels. And I spent most of those 25 years in bars and back alleys. And then he said, he said One day I wish I could imitate. One day I was tricked, cajoled, and manipulated into doing something that I thought I would never sink so low to do. What was that? I went to church. And um he heard the gospel, he became a Christian. This was the this is an AR church, ARP church in Kissimmee, Florida. And he became a Christian. And he said, today when I look in the mirror, I'm comfortable with who I see. I'm not the same person. So this guy's an elder in his church now. He said, my interests completely changed. He said I'm interested in drama and I'm interested in ancient church history, things I never imagined. But that's what happens. You know, and I know most of the people in the church You don't may not know, but some of these folks who are converted as adults, you would not believe The thing, the stories they've told. But this is what happens. Christianity is a supernatural religion, right? He gives life in the here and now. He gives eternal life And but before you receive that, you must say, yeah, I see, I am I am spiritually sick, I am lame, I am ailing. And uh I'm a corpse. That's what uh Ephesians 2. 1 says. You were dead in your trespasses and sins. Spiritually, I was a corpse. I couldn't see this stuff. I didn't recognize it. I had no desire for it. I found it repugnant. I was I I was going to church and the pastor would read the Bible or he'd say something, and it was just like a different you speak in a different language. But then The light went on. What is that? That is the work of God. So dead men cannot resuscitate themselves. God must give us this spiritual life. And we pray, right? If you're not a believer, I say, pray, young people, why are you here? Just because your parents brought you? Well, pray that God will work in you so that you'll see and that you will believe. Because the Bible says God gives dead people spiritual life. Here's a verse to write down, Ephesians two, verses four and five. Paul said God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which He loved us Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive in Christ. So it's God who makes us alive. That's our hope. You have a friend, a loved one, a family member who's not a Christian? What should you pray? Lord, open her eyes, help them to see, help them to believe. And Jesus said in uh first John 5, 12 Whoever has the sun has life. Whoever does not have the sun does not have life And so, do you have the Son? That is the question. So we're done. This extraordinary claim that Jesus made in verse 6 I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. You must rest on Jesus as your Savior. So I said this was an extraordinary claim. So what do you do with it? Either Jesus is crazy or he is God. This is either completely true or completely false. As since I've been on this C. S. Lewis uh rant this morning, here's one one more. Take this one home. He said Christianity, if false, is of no importance. If it's true, it is of infinite importance The only thing it cannot be is moderately important, right? It's either all true or all false. But it's not just this comfortable thing of sent religious sentimentalism. It's true or it's false. So where are you on that? Let's bow our heads