Okay. Let's turn to Philippians. Philippians chapter one. We're at verse ver beginning at verse twenty-seven. Paul writes to the Christians of Philippi, Christians in Frederick, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel. You're not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation and that from God. For it has been granted to you for the sake of Christ, excuse me, that for the sake of Christ, you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Engaged in the same conflict you saw I had and now hear that I still have So I know many of you have been here, you've heard this before, but just to catch everybody up, Paul wrote uh this letter. uh to the Philippians from a condo on the Riviera. No. No. He was in Rome and he was in he was under house arrest. And um he was awaiting his trial. But he's up he was optimistic that when his trial did come, that he would be acquitted Because in the end of verse 26, he speaks of his expectation, it says, of coming to you again. But here's the whole point of this paragraph. He says, whatever happens, whether I can come to you, whether I'm acquitted. Or whether or not, he says in verse 27, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. And so really, and I have the ESV that it translates it only, so that's emphatic, uh the NIV. uh it translates it whatever happens okay and that's that's very helpful whatever happens The important thing is that you conduct yourselves in a way that lends credibility to the gospel message. So whether your life is pleasant or whether it's miserable, Paul's saying, live in a way that befits the name Christian. And so the gospel, there's a word that's found twice in verse 27, it's found six times even in the first chapter. And so I want to make sure everybody knows this. What is the gospel? If we don't know the gospel, we're in trouble, right? We are in trouble. In fact The word good news and good news presbyterian church means gospel. So we could be gospel Presbyterian Church. So the gospel, just to make sure everybody's on board, I would I didn't get it until I was 17 The word gospel is not about what we have to do to get to heaven or to earn God's favor. It's not a plan about here's how you can shape up and become religious. But rather the gospel Is about what God has done for us. That's why it's called good news. We can't save ourselves. But in the gospel, we see that God has broken into history. And sending his son, Jesus Christ, Jesus lived a perfect life where we fell short, and then he died on the cross. Not to show how much he loves us by being a good example of laying down his life, but to pay the penalty for our sin. That's the gospel. It's the power of God who saves, that saves sinners. Okay? So we're saved by grace, by God's unmerited favor, not by anything That we could do. Now Paul says in verse 27, let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel. So his point is that the way that we conduct ourselves either adorns the gospel or it discredits the gospel. We can say, yeah, it makes sense. How many of you were influenced to become a Christian because you saw the example of another Christian? And I'm like, yeah, I could think of one couple that opened my eyes to Christianity by their example. And I'm sure many others would say the same thing. And so and then on on the other hand, um many people reject Christianity because of the lousy example Of those who call themselves Christians. In fact, the atheist philosopher Nietzsche said, I might believe in the Redeemer if his followers looked more redeemed. So Paul's on to something here when he says, let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So he's saying, you know, live in a way that's consistent with your prof with your profession. He's not calling for perfection, right? We can't attain that. But he's calling for credibility. He's calling for some level of consistency in our conduct. And so in this text, I can point out, or I can see three ways where Paul says, here's how we're to live, here's how you're to live, in a way that adorns the gospel. Strive for unity with other believers, do the right thing even when nobody else is looking, and be willing to suffer for the gospel. Okay? So the first thing we see in verse 27 is this call to strive for unity with other believers. Why does Paul bring that up? Is he just sort of picking things out of thin air? No, there was a problem. There were problems in the church in uh Philippi. That's why he was Telling and encouraging them to strive for unity. Chapter 2 verse 14. He said, Do all things without grumbling or questioning. Chapter 4, verse 2 I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syndic to agree in the Lord. Well, they must have been butting heads, or else he would not have said that and he understood that uh conflict and divisions in the church completely discredit the witness that a church has for the gospel. One of the commentators, Gordon Fien Said the gospel is all about reconciliation, and unreconciled people do not advertise the gospel very well. We know people like that, right? Years ago, we had a fellow in our church, John and Brenda Kendall's son, Dan. He moved to Frederick. He was looking around for a church And uh he ended up here. It's funny how he ended up here. He got our church name mixed up with another church, but he ended up here, then after a couple weeks he realized it. Because somebody said go to uh New Hope and he got he got it mixed up. So he ended up with good news, and then his sister Katie come And now his parents, John and Brenda, are here. So it really changed the whole trajectory of our church because he couldn't remember the right name of the church. But anyway, he um He w he um went to this other church in town, he saw the other church search, and he says, I walked in that church. And even before the service started, I felt like something was amiss. Well I happened to hear a couple things about what's going on. I said, well here's what's going on in that church. There is a tremendous split in the church and this turmoil taking place And he said, I could smell it. You could smell it in the air when when there's a problem like that. And so it does discredit our witness. And you look at Paul's letters, I mean I could think of some off the top of my head, in the book of Romans, 1 Corinthians, Ephesians, here in Philippians. He talks about the importance of unity in our church. And there's all kind of reasons we should strive for unity. One reason is just a lot more pleasant, is it not? But what Paul says is that for the sake of our witness to an unbelieving world He says to the church and Philippi and churches down through the ages, we need to strive. We need to strive for unity. Look at the end of verse 27. Standing firm in one spirit. Standing firm in one spirit. Probably better to translate it, standing firm in the one spirit, a reference to the Holy Spirit. That's how that phrase is used in other parts of the or other of Paul's letters, striving firm in the one spirit, with one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel. So you have this word striving. Well, it just doesn't happen. We're all Christians, we're all nice people. Uh just as it happened? No. So that's why Paul says we need to make an effort to develop And to maintain unity in the church. So I'm what I'm saying, what he's saying, what I'm saying, we're on the same page. What we're saying It's we need to exert ourselves, think about some ways, right, to get to know other people. Uh you gotta branch out a little bit. If you're a private person or you You gotta branch out. You want to get to know other people in the church. One reason is it makes it you'll enjoy having more friends in the church. They'll enjoy it more. When there's a difference or a dispute or a conflict, if you have some kind of relationship, it's easier to go to that person to try to iron things out. And um and when they mess up, you know him, right? Give him the benefit of the doubt. I know he's a good hearted soul. Um he just says some things uh but I I know where he's coming from So we want to strive for unity by making an effort to get to know others. Certainly we want to refrain from gossiping, right? Matthew 18, 15, if you have a problem with somebody, what does it say? Go to that person one-on-one. Try to talk about it. Try to resolve it there. One-on-one. Don't tell other people about it. That's just going to stir up dissension. It's going to discourage people And so strive to get to know others, refrain from gossip. Then it says in Ephesians 4. 2, here's a third thing along these lines. Paul says, Bear with one another in love. And so You know, to bear with one another in love. I mean one thing that means, you don't write that person off the first time they do something that disappoints you, the first time they say something that offends you. These are my brothers. These are my sisters. We need to bear with each other. 1 Peter 4. Love covers a multitude of sins. And the church is a mixture of people, right? We're all angular in different ways. But Paul says you just need to you just need to. What is a better word? I can't think of a better one. Just need to bear with one another and be patient and uh let some let some things slide. So um you try to bear with me, I'll try to bear with you, and um you got the harder job But um but that's how that's how we make progress, okay? So ways that adorn the gospel, he says Strive for unity. Then he says in the end of verse 27, do the right thing even when other people aren't looking. And so he says, um He says, live in a way, conduct yourself in a way that's worthy of the gospel. What's it say? Whether I come to you or am absent. So we adorn the gospel when our private lives measure up to our public persona. Right? You conduct yourself in an upright way of whether or not you have an audience. That's I mean that's good for kids. That's good for all of us. Um you know kids when your parents don't know what you're doing Do you still seek to do the right thing? Well, that's what Paul's saying here, right? Whether I come to you or whether I'm absent You're doing the right thing. And that does have a witness to unbelievers. I remember when I was at seminary, Westminster Seminary. When I was at seminary in Philadelphia, of all places, UPS would come to Westminster Seminary to recruit part-time workers. Why would they why would they be recruiting guys to move boxes, a bunch of theological eggheads Why would that be? Well, because it was their experience. You get some guy from Westminster, probably any Christian, truly Christian seminary. Come work for ya. They're gonna work hard, right? They're gonna they're gonna work uh when they're not being supervised. And so that's why UPS would always come to Westminster Seminary to recruit staff or to recruit workers. And so that's what Paul says. Whether I come to see you or whether I'm absent, we want our lives to adorn the gospel. And people watch us right when we don't think they're watching. And when we're doing the right thing, that really gets a person's attention. Especially teenagers You want to impress an older person? Just do the right thing when nobody's watching. I mean they'll bow down and worship you. I mean that's that's that's what I've seen. It's so impressive What's going on? Then he says thirdly, you know, living lives at a door in the gospel. Paul says, be steadfast in the face of opposition. Now let's think about what's going on here in Philippi. Philippi was a Roman colony. The Romans had a couple beefs against the Christians. For starters, Their Lord, the Romans had crucified their Lord, Jesus Christ. And so the Romans looked at Jesus as an insurrectionist And as an as an enemy of the state. And these Christians they say Jesus is Lord, not Caesar So they saw the Christians as an enemy of the state. Then they would say things like, our primary citizenship isn't in Rome, it's in heaven. As Paul said in Philippians 3, verse 20. Well that again would be taken, was taken as an anti-Roman statement. And so for this reason, the churches in Macedonia, in this region, they were taking it out of chin for being Christians. So that's why in 2 Corinthians 8. 2 Paul wrote about the churches in Macedonia that are suffering, it says, a severe test of affliction and extreme poverty. Another church in Macedonia was the church in Thessalonica, 1 Thessalonians 1:6. Paul said that the Thessalonians were in much affliction. And so these churches in this region, including the church in Philippi, they had good reason to fear the terrors of the Romans. But what does Paul say in verse 28? Look down at verse 28. He exhorted them to not be frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation and that from God. So we've got to be clear, he's not saying don't be frightened because they can't harm you, because they could harm the Christians, and they did harm the Christians. And they could harm us, right? Talking a couple weeks ago about what's going on in Canada and how we see these same tendencies in our country, right? They could mock you They can take away your job, or you can lose opportunities for future jobs You can lose certainly in universities. It's really hard if you're an evangelical Christian in a secular university to get a position. They can imprison you, they can kill you. So Paul's saying Uh when he says don't be frightened, he's saying don't be frightened because they can't harm you, because they can harm you, but he's saying, don't be frightened. Because in the end of the day, you're going to prevail. The Church of Christ will prevail. There is a God He will judge the wicked. He will judge those who attack his church because the church is the apple of his eye. And he will vindicate his people. Now, what's interesting about this verse, we're still in verse 28, is that Paul writes that fearlessness in the face of persecution Serves as a sign. Was it what? Verse twenty-eight, second part. Let me see. Oh yeah. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation. Not from God. This sign's coming from God. Okay, let's let's try to understand that. First of all, the enemies of the gospel see fearlessness by Christians as a sign of God's coming judgment. What's that mean? Think about Christians in China or in the Muslim world that are attacked. And who knows what's to come, right? This is an important passage for our young people. We're going to be gone, but you guys are going to be here, and I think it's going to get worse in this nation. But anyway. When your persecutors see that you're standing for Jesus Christ, that you're standing for things that are eternal at great personal cost. That's going to get their attention. That's a sign for them. Like, people are superficial. They live for the moment, right? And then they happen upon this Christian who's willing to take it on the chin for the sake of what he or she believes. It gets them to think. It gets them to think about eternal things. It has a convicting power. Years ago when I lived in Philadelphia, I went down to 10th Presbyterian Church on a Sunday night And a Romanian pastor spoke. His name was Joseph Tan. Joseph Tan. And that guy was a tough character. He said Uh that when Romania this is what back in the eighties, when Romania was under communist rule, uh he had been thrown in prison many times. He was a Baptist pastor, but he kept preaching the gospel He was in prison many times. He was interrogated. He was beaten. And um when he got out, he went on preaching the gospel. Then he got a call uh one day from the local authorities and they said, listen, uh we w you need to meet you need to be at this place to meet with this communist leader And he met this guy in a a local restaurant on the secret police uh for the Communist Party. And um Joseph Tan said, you know what, I think this is the end. So he put his affairs in order. And then he met with this fellow at this restaurant, and uh this the guy from the secret police, he he made him an offer he couldn't refuse. He said, listen. If you give up preaching the gospel, we're going to give you a job, some kind of job, you'll be set for life, and your family will be set for life. If you don't quit preaching, we're either going to throw you in a prison camp or we're going to kill you. So which do you want to do? And Joseph Tan turned down the job. And he said, he had a great accent. I wish I could, I won't try to imitate it, but he said, he said, I'm ready to die. And then explained to this fella. He said, you said you're going to finish me as a preacher. I asked my God, and he wants me to continue as a preacher. Now I have to make one of you two angry, and I decided it's better to make you angry than God. But then he said, but I know you, sir. You cannot stand this kind of opposition, and you will kill me in one way or another. But I accepted that, and you should know that I have even put everything in order and am ready to die. But as long as I'm free, I'm going to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that stripped the guy Said you go on preaching. I don't think he was saying, I'm for ya. Do what you gotta do, but we're gonna get you. But they didn't get him in this case. Because Joseph Tan, he said later in his talk, he said, listen, if you he said to this guy, if you kill me That will only help the church in Romania to grow. That will only spread the gospel. Because I have all these tapes around one of his cassette tapes where he told the story He said, I have all these tapes and all these writings. And when Christians and others hear my tapes and read my writings, they're going to say, this guy really believed that. And the church will grow. So as it turned out, they didn't lay a hand on him. But anyway, So suffering is a sign to unbelievers of the coming judgment. It's a witness. We want people to turn to Christ and seeing that there's going to be a judgment gets their attention. Suffering is also a sign of assurance to Christians. That this stuff is true. How's that? Well, 2000 here's and I'm talking about Philip, I'm talking about Frederick. 2,000 years ago, the Bible said that if you follow Jesus Christ, you're going to suffer persecution. Hey, that's still happening. 2 Timothy 3. 12. Paul said, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Oh well. And what do you know? The Bible's true. And so we need to remember that. We see in our country Christianity marginalized, as we see, not merely indifference toward Christianity as it used to be, but now we're seeing hostility toward Christians and toward the Christian message. But Paul says, this has been given to you. It's been granted to you, verse 29, for Christ's sake. Right? God gives us the ability to believe. Face a gift from God. It's been granted to you to believe on Christ. But not only that, but it's also been given to us by God as a gift, you might say, to suffer. Really? Well think about Paul who wrote this. When Paul was converted on Damascus Road, after he was converted, remember God struck him blind And then the Lord spoke to this Christian by the name of Ananias, and he said to Ananias, You need to go to Paul and give him a message from me. And Ananias said, I don't want to go to him. He'll take my head off. He hates Christians. But the Lord told him to go, and so he went. What was the message? What was this message that Ananias was to give to Paul? It wasn't every day with Jesus, it's sweeter than the day before, but Acts 9. 16. God told the Ananias to say to Paul, I will show him how much he must suffer for my sake. And he did, right? Paul did suffer. Acts 18, 22 to 24 in Philippi. He was attacked by a mob. He was beaten by, was beaten with rods. He was thrown in jail. This is the environment that the Philippians lived in, right? That happened to Paul and Philippi. Paul's not in Philippi anymore, he's in Rome, but the Philippians are still there And it says in verse 30, you'll notice he speaks of their being engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had, and now here And now hear that I still have. So this what is what it was like for the Philippians. They were being persecuted But Paul says, listen, conduct yourself in a manner worthy of the gospel. This is a sign to them. And also it's a sign that will embolden other Christians. When we see other Christians standing up, speaking out, that emboldens us, doesn't it? And so we need to be the ones who embolden others. And um and it's a gift from God. And we say, I don't understand that, right? But this is this is this is biblical Christianity. And when you think about when you became a Christian, I mean when I think about when I became a Christian, I can't speak for you, but uh I was like, I didn't understand this. This isn't what I signed up for And um it's hard not to think that. But then when you think clearly about it, I recall Peter's words, I think it's John 6. 68. When Jesus told Peter the cost of discipleship, Peter responded, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And so what we have here then in this paragraph in Philippians is Paul saying we need to moderate our expectations about what life in this world is about. This life is short, but nonetheless, whatever comes our way, we need to conduct ourselves in a way that befits of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I would also add, it's not a bad deal, right? Because God is a good God. He will be no man's debtor. So the blessing is ours. We just have to see it through a scriptural lens. Let's bow our heads We do pray, Lord, that you'd help us to not be so uh spineless, uh so casual about following you. Help us to stand up, to speak out. Help us to be willing to take a couple shots because we're your followers. Help us not to worry so much. about the opinions of other people. We ask you to forgive us, Lord, for being too concerned about the applause of men. I pray for our young people especially. We don't know what's going to happen in this culture, but we know that you're sovereign and that you are working your good purposes. And so use our young people. And for anyone here who's not a Christian, help them, Lord, to see the cost of discipleship. but also to recognize that the benefits vastly outweigh any cost. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Others went before us. They suffered, but they were faithful in the calling in Hebrews, what, eleven, twelve? Is that we too a be faithful. We're gonna sing three fifty-eight