For those new to the Bible, you'll be ever for grateful, you'll be forever grateful because I'm going to tell you something, you'll never forget, how to find Philippians. You have Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, General Electric Power Company. Okay? No extra charge. That one's on me. Philippians chapter 1. We're going to read the first eight verses. Paul and Timothy, servants of servants of Christ Jesus. To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers and deacons, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all, making my prayer with joy. because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. And I'm sure of this. That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace. Both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, for God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. So we're starting Philippians this morning. I was thinking about this. I've been a pastor of 32 years. I never preached through Philippians But it's surprising uh I surprise myself. I surprise myself all the time, right? Uh surprising uh because Philippians is is like one of the favorite books of the Bible that many people have. And um if you think about all the memorable verses in Philippians. It's only four chapters, but I'd say there's more memorable verses per square inch than any other book of the Bible. Let me give you a few. We're going to look this morning at 1. 6. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. For me to live as Christ, to die as gain, do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility, can others more significant than yourselves Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. At the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess That Jesus Christ is Lord. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for God it's God who works in you, both to will and to act for his good pleasure. Paul says, but one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straying forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the effort call of God in Christ Jesus. Rejoice in the Lord always. I'll say it again. Rejoice. Do not be anxious about anything But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds. In Christ Jesus. And Paul says, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. That's one of the first verses ever learned as a new Christian. Well, it's interesting though that many many of these memorable verses, and uh I think we've all heard them and perhaps sometimes even use them as sentimental mottos, but once you see uh these verses in context, they're gonna attack a lot more punch. And so what I want to encourage you to do in the weeks to come is to immerse yourself in this book. Read it over and over. You know, underline words. There's a lot of themes that are repeated throughout Philippians. pray that you know God will work this into you. So I think this is going to be a very uh useful study. I want to start by just making some introductory comments about the book of Philippians. Who wrote the letter? The Apostle Paul wrote it in 61 A. D. If you look at chapter 1, verse 1. It reads, Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Philippi, but it was really Paul who wrote it He included Timothy because Timothy was his lieutenant. They had been together to Philippi. So Timothy was connected to these people. But Paul wrote it, you'll notice this in the first person, verse 3, he says, I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. Then in chapter 2, verse 19. He says to them, I hope in the Lord to send Timothy to you soon. So it's Paul writing in the first person. And notice how he describes himself. He doesn't describe himself as Paul. Paul the Apostle, Evangelistic Association? No, he says, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus. So that's how the great apostle saw himself. That certainly is instructive for us. And he wrote this letter from a prison, or from prison, not a prison, but from prison in Rome I didn't say a prison because he wasn't in a prison. He was under a house of w house arrest. In chapter one verse thirteen He speaks about his imprisonment for Christ. I think some translators, translations say he speaks about his chains But he lived in a rented house in Rome, and he was chained to a Roman soldier. But surprisingly, that's okay for Paul. He was okay with that because he was still able to receive visitors, he was still able to teach them about Jesus. And so Acts 28, verse 30 and 31 tells us what's going on. It says, He lived there, this is in Rome, he lived there two whole years. at his own expense and welcomed all who came to him, proclaiming the proclaiming the kingdom of God. And teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. So this is remarkable. He was okay with this. He was even joyful. At his situation, in fact, you find the word joy or rejoice in Philippians 16 times. There's a good word to underline. And so some of the commentators say the what's Philippians about? They say it's the epistle of joy. That's probably not the best way to describe it. I think uh it has a joyful mood, but what it's really about is Paul's single-minded devotion to Jesus Christ, no matter what happens In no matter what he does, he is devoted to Jesus Christ. He's been saved He knows God is accomplishing his purposes in his life, in ministry, and in history. And so he's happy. And in chapter 1 verse 21, he says, for me to live as Christ, to die is gain. So this is a remarkable man. So that's the author, Paul. The recipients, of course, were the Philippians. All right, kids, what city did they live in? Philippi, right? So that was a Roman colony. In fact, uh the father of Alexander the Great, Philip II of Macedon. Started this Roman colony in Philippi, and in a stroke of humility, he named it after himself. Philippi. Okay? And we have in Acts 16, which we just read, a record of when Paul, Timothy, Silas, and Luke, they first brought the gospel to Philippi. So this was the first incursion of the gospel into Europe, right? They had been in Asia Minor slash Turkey. But then the man of Macedonia, the man of Greece, called them, come over here. It was a vision that God gave to Paul. And we read in Acts 16 about the first converts in Philippi. So you had Lydia, so she was a merchant. and her family uh became believers and then this slave girl who was following Paul she was saved And then the Philippian jailer and his family. So that was the core group for the church in Philippi. The letter we're reading was written, Paul wrote, about 12 years later. So these first converts may still have been a part of that congregation. So I want you to notice though that when Paul, Silas, Luke, Timothy, when they went throughout the ancient Roman Empire, they were not merely doing evangelism. They were doing church planning, right? They were doing evangelism, and then they didn't say, hey. Best wishes for you and your Christian walk, but they were planting churches, they're putting these new converts in churches. In fact, the book of Acts says that they went back to Philippi twice. to encourage uh the believers in that town. And now Paul wrote this letter to encourage them and to instruct them. So this reminds us the most effective form of church planning is evangelism. That's why we want to be involved in church planting with our Presbytery. We tried years ago down in Charlestown, West Virginia, to plant the daughter church It didn't fly. We're going to try again though, because this is how the kingdom grows. Not merely through evangelism, though we should do that, but through the evangelism that leads to The planting of churches. A little more of the greeting there in the end of verse 1. He writes to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers and The deacons. So here you have this early church, and Paul addresses three distinct groups in the church. First of all, he says to the saints in Christ Jesus So that that's just another way of saying to the Christians. So it's not saying a saint, somebody who's on unusually spiritual or unusually holy. But rather, if you're a Christian, God regards you as a saint. The word just means you're set apart, right? Because you believe in Jesus Christ. He died for your sin God has clothed you in his righteousness. He's taken away your sin. And so in that sense, God has set you apart. And so you are a saint. And why are you a saint? It says in the saints in Christ Jesus is because you're connected to Jesus, because he's given you his righteousness. So we are, as God looks at us, he sees us as holy, he doesn't regard our sin, count our sin. against us. That's our position. That's our standing before God. Nonetheless, uh we want to become Excuse me, we want to become in practice, we want to become in character more and more of what we are in our position before God. And so that's why though Paul has called them the saints, you get down to verses 9 to 11, he prays for them That God will change them and they'll become more and more the people God made them to be. So it's addressed to the saints, in other words, to the believers in the church Then he also addresses the overseers, the Greek word episcopoi, from which we get bishop. What is that talking about? Well the Episcopalians and the Anglicans and the Catholics would Say there's a uh you have a bishop over a group of churches. That's not what it's saying. In fact, uh it's just another word for elder, okay? So in Acts 20, verse 17 and 28, Titus 1, verses 5 and 7 indicate that the word elder and the word overseer are interchangeable. So an elder is a spiritual leader in the church, one of the rulers of the church, and um that what do they do? They shepherd the flock of God. So 1 Peter chapter 5, uh I wrote it down, I think, somewhere. 1 Peter 5, 1 and 2. Peter exhorted the elders to shepherd the flock of God. And then he says, exercising oversight. So that's all an elder is. So there's not two classes You have elders and you have bishops above them. But no, churches have elders, okay? That's one of the things that makes a church a church And uh this idea about a bishop being above the churches or above a group of elders didn't really come about until after the first century. So you have the elders. Then it says also to the deacons. Acts 6. Deacons are servants who minister largely to uh physical needs and practical needs. Why am I saying all this? I see it in your eyes. Why are you saying all this? Because we see even at this early juncture in the church's history It had a structure. It had a uh biblically ordained form of government. You had the members You had the deacons. You had the overseers or the elders. That's one of the traits that makes a church a church. Uh just because, you know, some people they'll have a Sunday morning group at their house. I know the early church met in houses. I'm not against houses, but I'm saying just because you have a Sunday morning group in a house That's not a church. You need a government. You need officers, right? You need elders. You need deacons. You need men who are duly qualified. According to Scripture, that's one of the things and one of the traits of a biblical church. Okay? So we're looking at the recipients. Then finally, why did Paul write this letter? As we go through it, we'll see he wrote it for several reasons. One reason he wrote it was to thank them for a gift that they had sent to him. Paul's in prison in Rome. And in chapter 4 of verse 10, he thanks them for looking out for him. He says, I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at length you've revived your concern for me. Go down to verse 18. I've received full payment. In more I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. So they sent one of their church members from Philippi to Rome, this guy named Epaphroditus. And he was carrying uh some some money to give to Paul so that he could survive in this Roman under house of rest in Rome and he can continue It's interesting, chapter 2, verses 25 to 29. Paul says Epaphroditus got sick. He almost died, but he's recovered. So Paul sent Epaphroditus back from Rome, back to his home church in Philippi, carrying this letter to the Philippians. So he wrote this letter to thank them for the gift, for their partnership in the gospel. He wrote this letter to deal with division in the church. I said Paul was full of joy when he wrote this letter, but um it was only a partial joy, because if you look at chapter two, verse two He says to them, Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord with one mind. And then he wrote also for the purpose to encourage them to stand strong in the face of persecution, chapter 1, 27 to 30, in the face of false teaching, same passage. And to rejoice no matter what happens. Well, there you have something of an introduction to the book of Philippians, a little background. I just want you to notice now Two things in verses eight excuse me in verses three uh to verse eight What stands out, number one, is the affection that Paul had for the Christians And Philippi. This is a joyful letter. It's a warm letter. I don't think there's any New Testament letter written to a congregation That Paul speaks more fondly of than he does to the Christians in Philippi. You go home, read Galatians, read 1 Corinthians. They're stern. They're rebukes. There's nothing warm about the book of Galatians. But Paul was very affectionate to the Philippians. Look at verse 3. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. Then go down to verse seven It's right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace. Both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. He loved these people. And even when he prayed for them, he says, I delight in you. Look at verse 4. Always in every prayer of mine for you all, making my prayer with joy. So he he had a close, warm bond to the Philippians. That's instructive, is it not? First of all, for leaders in the church, right? For pastors, for for elders, for deacons, for Sunday school teachers, youth leaders You need to love the ch the sheep, right? It's not enough that you're a workhorse for the church. It's not enough that you're you're more theologically orthodox uh than John Calvin. It's not enough that you could teach with a uh oratorical view or ability like uh Cicero. But yeah most important you really need to you need to love the people And you know, distant, uninterested men, uh, they do not make good leaders in the church. You need you need to care for people Uh we've had a couple interns over the years. One thing I've said to them, two of these guys, is uh if you're going to become a pastor It's really important that you talk to people in your church. They sort of like to know that you like them. They want to know their pastor likes them. It's like, oh really? But yeah. Um and same for every Christian in the church, right? This is an example of affection. What is the church? How is it described? It's not a preaching station. Uh it's not a place to come and get your Sunday morning well of course not the way we do it, but some churches it's like a pep rally, Sunday morning pep rally. It's not a motivational thing. I mean, we should be motivated, but it's not just surface motivation. But the Bible describes the church as the family. Ephesians 2, verse 19, it's called the household of God or the family. Of God. How do you know you're a Christian? How do you know you're amongst Christians? 1 John 3:14. John says, we know we've passed out of death to life. How? Because we love the brothers. You read through the book of Acts. Luke refers to the Christians in the book of Acts as, quote, the brothers. 25 times. So there's this family language, right? We're to care for one another. We're to encourage one another. We're to look out for one another. Which is all to say Uh we need to make an effort. We need to make an effort to get to know those who are newer in the church. We need to make an effort to go who to become acquainted with whomever we don't know. Come early. Stick around after. Walk over to somebody you don't know. But I feel awkward. Well they feel awkward too, but somebody's got to break the ice. And uh that's what a church is. Uh Shoshi Myers was telling my wife, she said, Kyle and Shoshi, they were looking at this other church, a fine church. And they were coming to good news when they were looking for a church and they said they decided to come to good news. Why is that? Oh, because the preacher's a great no. No. It's bec she said because people were deliberate And becoming acquainted with them and reaching out with them. That means a lot. That means a lot. And it's not just let somebody else do it, but you need to be looking out and doing that. Okay? And so Paul's affection for the Philippians uh it grew, verse 5, because of their partnership in the gospel. They were partners in gospel ministry and Philippi. They supported Paul in his ministry back in Rome. And That's how affection grows, right? What's fellowship? Find that word koinania, forget where it is in this first section. Fellowship. It's not just chit-chatting after church, but it's being involved in gospel ministry together, right? The group that goes to Fairmont, West Virginia every summer, they come back, they have deepened friendships. How was that? They were sweaty, it was hot, there were mosquitoes, they were tired, but they were doing something useful for the Lord, and that's what builds And it's the same, anything we do as a church, right? If you're involved in serving in some manner, that's how friendships develop. And so we see first of all Paul's love for God's people. Secondly, and finally, we see Paul's confidence. That God finishes what he starts. So if you look at chapter 1, verse 6, Paul makes a remarkable claim. He says to these Christians, I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. So he's saying, if God has brought you to saving faith in Jesus Christ, you can be assured That no matter what happens in your life, God is going to shape you increasingly into the likeness of Jesus Christ until the day when you see Jesus Christ face to face. And on that day, his sanctifying work in you will be complete. And so, and the and the big qualification is if you're genuinely resting on Christ, not on your own merits, right, not on your own righteousness. But if you trust in Jesus Christ, if you repented of your sin, you can know that God will complete that work. You will spend eternity in God's presence. You're not going to fall away. So why did Paul have such confidence that this was the case for the Philippians? And the answer is because he saw the fruit of God's work in their lives. He saw they were partners of the gospel. Verse 5. From the first day until now. And uh you know, think about the first day He's referring back to Acts 16, these first converts, right? Just take one of them, Lydia, the seller of purple uh cloth, I think it was. Lydia was converted in Philippi. And it says in Acts 16, verse 14. I think this is interesting. It says, Lydia believed, quote, because the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. God opened her heart That's when God began his work in Lydia, right? He moved her to listen to the gospel. That's how people become Christians. Hey, I'm going along down the road, I'm doing my own thing, I'm just thinking about myself. I have no regard for God and the God of the Bible and his claims on my life And then something happens, and I'm interested, and I want to know. You might crack open the Bible, or you might say, I want to you know somebody who's a Christian, you talk to them, you might say, I want to start going to a church. And find out about this God. Well, that was the first day, right? That was when God began the good work in them. And so what I'm saying, and I think this is important, is that if you believe the gospel, what's the gospel? God makes sinners righteous. How do you receive the gospel? By taking hold of Christ by faith and repentance. So if you believe the gospel, genuinely believe it, you can be sure That God who began this good work in you will carry it on till the day when it's complete. Now that's important because some Christians have tender consciences and they question, they doubt the genuineness of their conversion. Right? Hey, I've been a Christian all these years and I've I don't I don't see much going on. And so what you need to do with yourself or with somebody who's having that struggle, you need to have a little conversation I've had conversations like this. You don't see any fruit. I see fruit. Then you go over like the list of character traits in Galatians 5 The fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. I see that in you. I see you're very selfless in some ways And then you read through the book of 1 John. It says, here are some examples some traits of somebody who's a follower of Christ. He loves the brothers. He loves God's word. He doesn't go on sinning. Well, w when you sin, do you feel bad about it? Yeah. Ask God's forgiveness. Do you have any interest in the Bible? Yeah. Did you have that interest before you're a Christian? Not at all. Do you like to worship God? Yeah, I'm not very engaged, but I certainly want to worship God. Did you were you like that before you became a Christian? No, it was tedious, painful. Had no interest in going to a church work church worship service. Then I'll say, well, it sounds like God's begin begun a good work in you, right? He's changed you. There's some fruit. I think you can be encouraged. And so if God brought oh by the way, the all the these things that you talk about, you're interested in worship and in God's word and you're feeling bad about sin, is this something that you worked in yourself? And they'll say, no, God. And then we look at Philippians 1 verse 6. Paul says, I'm sure of this. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. And so here you have it, right? God began working in us out of conversion. He's changing us, not as far along as we want to be, but God who began it, he's going to finish it. It's not up to us. Yeah, we're responsible to exert ourselves. You see that in chapter 2, verse 12 and 13. But nonetheless, you will persevere. And so the reformers called this the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints. Christians persevere. Why do we persevere? It's because God promises to preserve us. And in the beginning of the service, we read all those Bible verses. There's a lot of proof text right there for the doctrine of God's preservation of the true believer. So there you have it. Beginning of Philippians. Just two things. See, Paul loved. He loved God's people. That's a good question. Do I love God's people? Am I cultivating? relationships with others, other believers? Am I making an effort to become acquainted? Do I pray for other people? Do I care for these people with all their warts and their bent ways and whatnot? Do I love God's people? That's the first thing. That's what we want to cultivate. And we also see That Paul's Paul's confident that God he works in his people. And if you're a Christian, you can have this confidence. Confidence. If you're not a Christian, what do you do? Look to Jesus Christ, right? Look to Jesus Christ. You'll be saved. And you too can have such confidence Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you that you put us amongst this community in this family. Help us to make an effort to get out of our our comfortable ways and uh stretch ourselves a little bit. to become acquainted with others, to be encouragers of others, help us to bear with one another. Because we're a family. Help us, Lord, also to show more and more the fruit, the changes that come about from Christian conversion. We pray, Lord, that we would We would go on and on in our sanctification till the day we see you. Help us to be sure of that. For those who have a lack of assurance, but they are Christians. We do pray, Lord, that they would come to a full assurance. And then for those who are not believers, Because they're not trusting in you. We pray, Lord, that they would see that this is the only way and you are the only truth. Grant them faith and repentance. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's take our songbooks and we're going to sing 460. 460, Amazing Grace.