Four to five year olds who would like to go back to worship training with Miss Becky, you're welcome to go that way. Otherwise, let us turn our Bibles to Genesis chapter 13 Genesis 13. You'll remember we began last week a study of the life of Abraham. So this runs from Genesis 12 to Genesis chapter 25. And We saw in chapter twelve God's call to Abram, and then after that there was a famine in the land. And so Abram and his wife Sarai and his nephew Lot went down to Egypt, and things did not go well there. And now it says in chapter 13, verse 1, that they return up to the promised land of Canaan. So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and lot with him into the Neged. That is the desert in southern Israel. Now Abram was very rich in livestock, and silver, and in gold, and he journeyed on from the Nagob as far as Bethel to the place where his tent had been at the beginning between Bethel and Ai, to the place where he had made an altar at the first. And there Abram called upon the name of the Lord And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents, so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together. For their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock At that time the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land. Then Abram said to Lot, Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere, like the Garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt in the direction of Zoar. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled among the cities of the valley, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. The Lord said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward, and eastward and westward. For all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth so that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted. Arise, walk through the land. And the walk through the length and breadth of the land, for I will give it to you. So Abram moved his tent, and came and settled by the oaks of Namra Which are at Hebron, and there built an altar to the Lord. Now, probably everybody here knows that in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. Abraham is is looked to or regarded as says a man of faith. He was a man of faith. That's a great term. It's been abused in the popular uh religious uh culture. And when And people often say, I have great faith. You know, what what does that mean? It's a it's a squishy term, uh it's it's vague, uh, it's oftentimes uh sentimental, you know, faith. Well, faith in what? Um And some people for some people it's just faith and faith. They just have this ungrounded optimism. But in the Bible, the word faith has a very concrete meaning. And it means that basically you take God at His Word. And so it's faith in God, in His character, in His promises, and what He's done. And down through history and in uh Jesus Christ. And that's what Hebrews 11:6 is talking about when it says that by faith Abraham obeyed God when he was called to go out of the place where he was. to receive an inheritance. As I mentioned Luther's quote last week, Abraham, excuse me, Abram followed, Luther said, the naked voice of God. So he was this great man of faith. But as they saw even last week in the first chapter, right, chapter twelve, the end of the par uh that passage It wasn't a faith without blemish. And we're going to see that again when we get to chapter 16. And so he was a flawed man and he had an imperfect faith. But what we're going to discover Is that it was nonetheless a genuine faith. It wasn't nominal nominal, it wasn't superficial, it wasn't uh he wasn't a fair weather follower of the God of Israel. He wasn't wrapped up in just some religious sentimentality, but he indeed had a genuine trust in God and his promises To him. And that's evident even in the chapter before us. And what I want you to notice as we go through this chapter is that we find here instruction. as to what constitutes a genuine faith in God. And I gave you an outline in the bulletin. And we could say that those with genuine faith, number one, they persevere in their walk with God. Number two, they're magnanimous, they're generous, they're big-hearted, they're gracious. uh toward others. And then thirdly, those who truly have faith in God, they prefer God's way over temporary benefits. So let's look at this passage a little more closely now. So first of all, uh we can say not just from this from Abraham's example But from what we're taught throughout Scripture is that those with genuine faith persevere If we were to look at it through the lens of the New Testament, we would say, how do you know somebody's really a Christian? Well, it's not just what they say. It's not just uh their it's not just what they do for a season in their life, but if they persevere over the long haul, then we can have confidence That they were genuinely converted. Not to say that we don't stumble, not to say that at all, but there is this direction In which they're going. And that's what we see about Abraham. And so when famine came to the land of Canaan, as I said, Abram went down to Egypt. And um it was while he was in Egypt uh that he lapsed in his trust in God's promise. Remember, he told his wife Sarai to lie to Pharaoh. He was a Abram was afraid that Pharaoh would kill him. His wife was beautiful, and Abram was afraid that uh Pharaoh would kill him. If he if he knew that Abram was Sarah's uh husband, so he said to Sarah, just tell tell Pharaoh I'm your brother. Now, there was no need to lie because God had promised Abram, remember chapter 12, he said, you're going to have offspring. And from your offspring all the nations of the of the earth are going to be blessed. They didn't have any kids yet. And so but Abra Abraham or Abram, Abraham, his name changes chapter 17. So I I go back and forth. I don't think it through all this. But anyway, um he didn't need to do that. God would protect Abram in Egypt And as it turned out, uh this turned into a mess after Abram told Sarai to lie to Pharaoh. So it says in chapter twelve, verse seventeen But the Lord afflicted Pharaoh, because Pharaoh took Sarah as his wife. He didn't know, he thought she was single. But the Lord afflicted Pharaoh in his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. So Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this you've done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say she's my sister? So that I took her for my wife. Now then, here's your wife. Take her and go. And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. And so after this fiasco, Abram returns now to Canaan, a chastened man. If you look again at chapter 13 Uh verse one says Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had in lot with him into the Negab, the desert in southern Israel. So this just you know it seems like it's just a a geographical detail that uh Abram went up from Egypt uh back to Canaan But this marks not only a change in Abram's location, but also in his spiritual state. He left Egypt. The site of spiritual failure, and he went back to Bethel. And um back in chapter 12, verse 8, we looked at this last week. It was at Bethel, this town in Israel Now go to chapter thirteen verse three And he journeyed on from the Nagab as far as Bethel to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai. to the place where he had made an altar at the first. And there Abram called upon the name of the Lord. And so what's going on here? He w left Egypt. He came back to Israel. He went back to the very first place where he committed himself. to follow the God of Israel, and it was at Bethel that he reconsecrated himself to God. Now it's no accident. You get to the end of chapter 13 and verse 18. And at the end of the account, it says that Abram built an altar then at Hebron. And so chapter 13 is framed by these two altar events which convey Abram's allegiance to the God who called him. Now, let's look at this again now through the lens of the New Testament and what the New Testament confirms And what Abraham is an example of is that if you have a genuine faith in Jesus Christ after you stumble you will repent, you will turn back. And so a true Christian will not finally, will not fully and finally uh fall away. Uh but he'll come back, right? And and you see this we see this in people we know. If somebody's a true Christian There comes a day when they return. It could be years down the road. Where you think about in Scripture, you had Peter and you had Judas, who both denied Jesus Christ. But we look back and we realize Peter was really converted. He was really a Christian. Why do we know that? Because he repented. Judas never repented, and then he died. And so we know that he was a false convert. His conversion uh was counterfeit. But we only know that in hindsight, right? We'll never know until we're all in heaven who God's elect really are. And so this concept is referred to as the perseverance of the saints, the perseverance of Christians. And we might better state it, God's preservation of the saints, right? Why does any Christian persevere? Well, it's not because we're so spiritual, it's not because we have this great moral resolve, but it's because God preserves us in the faith. You have this in many scriptures. John 6. 39, Jesus said This is the will of Him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that He's given me, but raise it up at the last day. Why do we persevere? Because Jesus holds on to us, He enables us to. Same thing in Philippians 1. 6, Paul says to these Christians. He says, He who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 8, Paul asserts to these believers: God will sustain you to the end. That's a great comfort, right? God's going to preserve us. And so, but we see this in Abram. He he turned back. Somebody said a Christian, a true Christian may stumble on the deck, but will never fall overboard. And that's what that's what we say, God preserves his people. So that he had a genuine faith. Here's another mark of a genuine faith. Those with genuine faith, this is a great word for the kids, try this out at school tomorrow. Those with genuine faith are magnanimous. They're magnanimous. I'll explain what that means in a second. But that's not the world in which we live. We don't live in a world where many people are magnanimous, right? Uh we live in a world of pettiness. You wat you think about things that people write on the uh on their uh They're social uh media accounts, you think about things they're write about those who disagree with them. And uh people are always offended, even at even at the smallest thing, even at the hint of something that could be wrong. Uh people are always or are quickly up in arms and in the political world. Uh your opponents are not just people who have a different viewpoint or different convictions or principles, but they're evil. They're bad people and they need to be destroyed. They need to be canceled. I was thinking I was thinking about a fellow I talked to years ago, uh a man named Paul House. He's a professor at uh a college in Alabama, Beeson uh or Stanford University And um you think, you know, if you're a college professor, that'd be a pretty nice job. You're around all these really well-educated people and um They are they're mature, they're wise. He said it's not like that at all. And my brother's like this too. My brother's a professor. He said, You would not believe what what goes on on these college faculties. But anyway, Paul House I thought it was funny he said about these faculty meetings, he said the fights are so vicious because the stakes are so small. Or or I think of you know you think about you know wills and inheritances. Well my my Becky has a nephew. He won't talk to his mother because he felt like he was short changed in an inheritance. He won't show bring his child to see his grandma. So it's amazing uh you know how how we conduct ourselves But those with true faith are are magnanimous. In other words, they bear trouble calmly. Right? Everybody has troubles. Behind every door there's a broken heart. But those who are those who trust God's promises, who remember God's providence They bear trouble calmly. They're generous. They're big-hearted rather than being petty and territorial. They don't hold a grudge. Uh they give their opponents or their adversaries the benefit of the doubt, right? They don't always say what their motives were because nobody knows another person's motives. And they trust And I think this is the bedrock. They trust that in the long run, God will be glorified. God's purposes will prevail. And that is what we see in Abram's dealing with his nephew Lot. And so both Abram and Lot. And really this chapter is setting up a contrast between these two men. Abram and Lot both prospered in Egypt, and they did so well that when they returned to Canaan, there was not enough pasture land to feed the livestock of both these men if they stayed in proximity. So look at verse five. And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents, so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together For the for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsman of Lot's livestock. So Abram He had every right, you know, he he to say, you know, I'm the head hancho. I'm I'm the I'm the I'm the head of the clan here And so I'm going to take first Dibbs the land from my flocks and you can have other leftovers. But he didn't he didn't respond like that. You look at verses eight and nine Abram said to Lot, Let there be no strife between me and you, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me If you take the left hand, then I'll go to the right, or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left. Now Do you remember the Abram we saw in chapter 12? Scheming, calculating, telling Sarah to lie to Pharaoh? Because he was concerned for his survival. But now we see a different attitude. His attitude is I entrust this situation to the Lord. He promised me that to your offspring I'll give this land. And his promise is good. His promise is unassailable. I like what uh Kent Hughes, a pastor who was out in Illinois, said. He said Abram knew that even if he gave the land away a thousand times, it would go to his descendants. And so this is why I say those of great faith are magnanimous. He was persuaded that God's word is good. And so he didn't have to stoop and become petty. He didn't have to be territorial in dealing with Lot. Now, this is a huge thing. These are the kind of circumstances that we sometimes uh find ourselves in. Uh but when you trust the providence of God and you believe the promises of God, It enables you to be more gracious, to be more uh uh large-hearted uh when dealing with certain kinds of people And uh you think about, you know, I think on um from many conversations, many of us are concerned about what's happening in our country, right? We don't like it. We're gonna it it just seems like in the past five years there's just been this huge drop in the culture. Uh we're concerned about uh the government and its and its overreach. And uh we grieve what's going on. We we're concerned for our children, for the next generation. But despite that, uh that you know that those those thoughts and fears uh should be tempered By an awareness that God is still sovereign over history, right? His purposes will prevail. We shouldn't allow this to uh eat us up. We should speak out, we should stand up, we should do what is right, of course. Uh we we should make our voice known. Uh but at the same time, uh we should be we should be gracious Toward those with whom we disagree. And so there's something to be said for being a happy warrior, right? We rise above this stuff. We're not eaten up by it. And um in doing that. We make the gospel attractive because a lot of people live in fear. A lot of people have no hope. But if they see, you know, not that you're checked out or that you know that you're have no interest in the things of the world, I'm not saying that. But if you rise above that And you have a certain uh degree of joy, uh uh that's I think that's that's very powerful And people are looking for hope. And so those with great faith, those no, not great faith in the esoteric sense, but those who believe the promises of God They could be magnanimous in the face of conflict and difficulties. And here's a third thing we see. Those with genuine faith choose God's way over temporary benefits. And so we see this in Abram. He preferred God's way over the temporary benefits. That could have been his. So they're both in Bethel And Bethel sets up atop the hill that's almost 3,000 feet high, and there's a play a peak where you look out over the great vast Jordan Valley, and it says in verse 10. And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere, like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, in the direction of Zoar. This was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. And so it was like the land of Egypt. Well, Egypt was a lush place. But it was also a land of compromise, a land that Abram and Lot had just left. But Lot peered over this great valley And he saw a place like Egypt. It was an Eden like uh paradise, uh but it was also morally corrupt. And hence we have this uh ominous statement in the end of verse ten That this was the land before this was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Look at verse eleven So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east, thus they separated from each other. Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled among the cities of the valley, and then it says, And this isn't just a throw-in or an add-on. Then it says, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. Now Abra or Lot had this vast uh piece of real estate, but he chose To put his tent at the very border of Canaan, right next to the city of Sodom. Okay, that's in chapter 13 You scoot over to chapter 14 verse 12. There it says Lot was dwelling in Sodom. So he went over the border into Sodom. Then you move over to chapter move down to chapter 19 verse 1. We read Lot was setting in the gate of Sodom. Now who sets in the gates of the city or the gates of the town? The elders, right? The leaders of the city. And then chapter nineteen, verse fourteen, says that Lot's daughters were pledged To be married to men who were citizens of Sodom. And so lots of initial proximity to Sodom uh led to him soon becoming fully integrated into this depraved town. And that was not a wise decision. Verse thirteen. Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord. And in chapter nineteen something to look forward to, a little action there. We see the uh tragic outcome of Lot's uh choice to live in Sodom. And uh in time Lot became so morally compromised that he's willing to hand his daughters over to perverts and he lost his wife. Remember Lot's wife, right? She became the pillar of Saul. And so she suffered uh the uh she died, she was killed when God judged Sodom and Gomorrah. And so Lot, he saw this lush pasture land, but he didn't consider the depraved culture. Well that's a simple lesson, right? Don't pitch your tent too close to Sodom. And I think this is one for our young people, for our teens to think about, you know? Um when your peers try to get you to do the things that they do, and they're not really good things, they're not moral things. Don't don't go don't do it. Don't go near those kind of people. They're just gonna pull you in, they're gonna deceive you, and you're gonna get you're gonna get stewed in that kind of stuff. So say be careful about the things you read, especially on social media. A lot of it's it's it's it's intended to bring you down and even to alienate you from your parents Or just trying to do their best. Uh and the things you put before your eyes, they can they can destroy your mind and your heart. So don't be careful uh with these devices Don't don't isolate yourself. Where you know for our teens, you think about, you know, some of you think about going to college, that's that's good, but don't don't choose don't choose uh doctor Fu Man Chu uh don't choose a college um just based on you know It's a pretty campus or the the has a football team or it's prestigious. You know, some Christian young people are They're sturdy and they can thrive in those kind of colleges and there are usually Christian fellowships and that's great. But others you're just not you're just not ready for that So you need to be wise. You you need to think about you know what will these four years do to me? And when you go to college, you want to learn some things, right? You want to learn the classics of literature, you want to learn American history, you want to learn have a correct understanding of Western civilization. You don't want to go to a college that's going to indoctrinate you in Marxism, uh that in uh in the in the political or or the grievance politics, but you want you want to be taught truth. So these are important things to think about. So don't pitch your tent too close to Sodom And as I said earlier, so the Moses in writing this chapter sets up a contrast between Lot and Abram. Lot focused on worldly profit, but he gave no mind to his soul. Right? And what did Jesus say? What will it profit a man to gain the whole world and yet forfeit his soul? But Abram preferred God's way to these temporary benefits. And God's way was: I'll give Lot the choice, right? I'll treat him well, I'll treat him, I'll deal with him honorably. And God rewarded Abram's faithfulness. And we see in verses 14 and 18 that God renewed his promise to Abram To give him a land and to give him a people. So God's purposes for Abram would not be thwarted, even though Lot got first dibs on the pasture land. So what do we do with this? You know, you can't read the Old Testament just for moral lessons. You have to read the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. Remember Jesus and Luke 24, they're walking down the road to Emmaus, and Jesus said to his, says that Luke says that Jesus says to his disciples, or He explained to them all the scriptures. Referring to the Old Testament, he explained to them all the scriptures beginning with Moses and the prophets. and how they were about him. And so the question then is How is this passage, how does this passage point to Jesus Christ Because, you know, if you're a Christian, hey, I see something of myself in Abraham. There are times I don't I don't remember when it was, but there are times uh when I can be big-hearted. Or there are times when um you know I I trust God's way. Right? We see something of Abram, but we're still fallen. We also see a lot of lot. Sometimes we're petty, sometimes we're compromising, and so on. Well, what's the lesson then? The lesson, the primary lesson isn't you need to be more like Abram and not like Lot, although that's a lesson, right? We learn things by example in Scripture But the big lesson from this passage is that we need to be, excuse me, we need to look to Jesus Christ. Because Abram foreshadowed Jesus Christ. And so we read Matthew chapter 4, verses 1 to 11 earlier. And we saw there that Jesus always chose obedience to the Father over temporary benefits. So when Jesus was tempted in the wilderness, Matthew four verse eight says that the devil took him to a very high mountain. And showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. No, he was looking over this vast valley of kingdoms of the world, not merely pasture land. And the devil said to him, All these I will give you if you'll bow down and worship me. And Jesus said to him, Begone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. And so there's the one who was always obedient to the Father, even when offered a shortcut, even when offered glory, even when offered all the kingdoms of the world. Then when Jesus was nailed to the cross, right? He was magnanimous toward his enemies. What did he say? Father, forgive them. They know not what they're doing. And he was obedient to death, even death on the cross That we might be redeemed, and that we might receive the true kingdom, right, that God has purchased for us. And this, remember we said last week, this is the same kingdom That Abraham was looking forward to. Hebrews 11:10, Abraham was looking to a kingdom that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. So Abraham had his sights set on the same kingdom that we have should have our sights set upon. So he fulfilled all the commands. Then he turned around. He died on the cross that we can be forgiven and that we could inherit that kingdom. And we pray, Lord, until we enter into our inheritance, help us to trust you. Help our faith to grow. And help that faith to show us, to show itself. in our trust, our big-heartedness, and in having our priorities correctly ordered. So let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, that you'd help us to fix our eyes upon our coming inheritance Help us to persevere. Help us, Lord, to choose your way over temporary benefits. And help us not to be so petty, so territorial, but help us to rise above that and to have an engaging witness for those who aren't Christians, who aren't yet in the kingdom, Lord. And we pray that you would help them to see that they're sinners and they need Jesus Christ who died for sin. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.