As you know, we'll be looking at Martha's story, that sister of Mary, well known among us, most likely. And we'll be looking especially at her story as it appears in three scenes. Our first scene is found in Luke chapter 10, verses 38 to 42. Let's pray together before we read this scripture. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do pray that your Spirit would accompany both the hearing and reading and the preaching of your word. That we may have ears to hear what it is that you want us to hear this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 10, verses 38 to 42. Now as they, that is Jesus and the twelve, went on their way, Jesus entered the village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha. Martha was distracted. With much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. This is the first scene that we'll be looking at this morning. You may recall that recently Pastor Kimene has preached through John chapter 11, and we heard there about Mary and Martha, the sisters of Lazarus from Bethany. As the apostle describes them, we might say that they ran Bethany's bed and breakfast in the days of Jesus. Of the two sisters, as I alluded to earlier, we probably know Mary better, don't we? Mary's story like Martha's is told in three scenes also in the Gospels In each scene, she's the sister who chooses to take her place at the feet of Jesus. And that choice, Jesus says, was the good portion. Some translations bring out the sense as the better portion, the best, which shall not be taken away from her. No matter how many times we hear this story and read this text, we never tire of seeing Mary's story. But we also know that there's another sister in these scenes that we will look at this morning, not least the one we'll start off with. Martha was her name. We may never tire of Mary's story, but what about Martha's story? Next to Mary, we just don't know her story as well as we do Mary's, do we? So this morning we want to take a closer look at Martha's story as it unfolds in these three scenes that we'll look at this morning. So let's look especially initially at the scene that we see in Luke chapter 10. Martha's at home with her sister Mary and her brother Lazarus, they're in that little village that's two miles outside of Jerusalem to the east. It's called Bethany, as we read. Jesus and his twelve disciples have stopped in for a meal and a visit. And Martha's house. As we said, it's also known as the Bethany Bread and Breakfast. Hospitality is the all-consuming order of the day. The aromas of food are in the air. Maybe you can smell them now. Remember how cookies smell when they're being cooked or beef is being prepared. Chicken. Martha, the hostess Putting everything into this rare opportunity that she has to host Jesus and the Twelve. She's seizing the opportunity to serve Jesus a meal She would make today's celebrity cooks and chefs proud. But what about Mary? We see Mary first here, and the focus is on her and her choice. She sees another opportunity. She has quietly but deliberately taken off her apron. She left the kitchen and she's taken a seat at Jesus' feet, the seat of discipleship. She's there to listen and to learn from Jesus. What Mary does here is no small act in those days, in the first century. Though there were exceptions made, ordinarily a teacher did not receive a woman as his disciple. Jesus, however, sets custom aside Without a hint of disapproval, in fact, you'll notice with an explicit preference for Mary's choice, Jesus receives her as his disciple. But what about Martha? With all the household prep going on, Martha, we're told, is distracted from a place at Jesus' feet. So she turns to Jesus and demands his interference. We should hear the force of her complaint by translating verse 40 this way. You do care, don't you, that my sister has left me to do all the serving alone Then tell her to help me. Yes, there's some force in what she's saying. The implication is that she too wished to sit at Jesus' feet, but was pulled away, distracted from doing so by the pressure of providing hospitality And don't miss Jesus' reply to her there in verses 41 and 42. Martha, Martha. You are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, the better portion, which will not be taken away from her. Jesus shows sympathy for Martha's distress, but he shows a preference. But note that. He shows a preference for Mary's choice. He's telling Martha what a disciple's priority ought to be. Specifically, he's inviting her, guiding her, drawing her into a fuller knowledge of him, a deeper relationship with him at his feet. His point is, Martha, don't you see what you're missing? The issue isn't whether you're on your feet for me. The issue is whether you are first at my feet. Hospitality is not the priority. I am the priority, Jesus said. Take this time with me to get to know me and my teaching better. By getting her attention to more serving than was necessary, you see, Martha was depriving herself of the chief benefit of Jesus' teaching. The tyranny of what seemed urgent was actually distracting Martha from enjoying the better portion that Mary was enjoying. We shouldn't hesitate to look at Martha and to ask ourselves, what's our priority? As a disciple, what is our priority? On my feet or at his feet. Jesus said to Martha, the meal can wait Come sit at my feet first. You see, Jesus has a preference of his disciples. He set the priority for his disciples. Get on your feet to serve after you have first set at my feet. First sit, then serve. We leave this scene with Martha distracted and corrected, don't we? Jesus' words are doubtless ringing in her ears, but there's a second scene where we find Martha again, and we notice that she's on her feet again. Look at John chapter 11. If you turn there you'll be better off, although you can listen to the reading of John 11, 1 through 6 and then 17 through 27. This is what we find there Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus So, look at verse 6. When he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Now drop down to verse 17. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning her brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know That whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection of the last day. Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And whoever And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. As we all realize The scene in John 11 is very different, isn't it, from what we read about in Luke chapter 10. The Bethany bed and breakfast has become Bethany hospice, hasn't it? You see, Lazarus is now desperately sick, and Martha is there at the bedside with Mary. With their hearts sinking, their throats tightening up, their faces lined with grief. John tells us there in verse 3 that the sisters sent a plea to Jesus. Their message was simple. Lord, the one you love is ill. From those few words, we understand that they wanted their teacher and the great position to be there with them at the bedside. But ministry had taken Jesus across the Jordan River, which was twenty miles east of where they were there in Bethany. And you'll notice that Jesus received the message all right. But what happened? Completely contrary to our expectations, he stayed where he was for two more days before heading back to Bethany. Meanwhile, back at the Bethany hospice, Martha and Mary were still waiting for Jesus. Lazarus' condition worsened. And still, Jesus didn't come. Lazarus died And still, Jesus didn't arrive. Martha and Mary held his funeral. And still, Jesus was not there. Mary and Martha laid Lazarus to rest in his tomb. And still there was no sign of Jesus. Many of the Jews from Jerusalem had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother, but Jesus Whom we're told loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus did not come He did not come until, until Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. And the stench of death was in the air. No longer the aromas of food. Now the stench of death is in the air. As Jesus was coming to Bethany, you'll notice that Martha didn't wait anymore for him to come to her and to marry. She went out to meet him. And when she gets to Jesus, her words tell us how conflicted and confused she is by what has happened since they sent him that message. Listen again to her words there in 21 and 22. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. Here's Martha. Wounded with deep grief, isn't she? And she's faced with facts that are tearing her up inside, isn't she? Martha had buried her dead brother, and she's face to face with the one person who could have prevented his death. Bear in mind, this is the same Martha who had been on her feet and in his face about Mary. And in that scene, Jesus talked to her then about her priorities, the priority that he has for his disciples. But here we are in this scene. Martha is again on her feet and in his face about Lazarus now. And what does Jesus say to her? He doesn't say what we might expect, does he? There's no reminder of his beatitude for those who mourn. There are no condolences. There's no apology given either. Jesus knows she's in pain. He knows that she's hurting. Nonetheless, what does he do? He pushes her To face the very question that his timing of his arrival had raised. Notice what he says to her. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? Don't miss what's happening here. Unexpectedly, Jesus makes this a time to discuss her theology. Her convictions, her beliefs about him. He declares that he alone gives bodily life to the dead who trust in him. That he alone gives everlasting life to the living who trust in him. And he pointedly asked Martha, do you believe this? Jesus is pressing Martha to look him in the eye, in the face, if you will And to confess that he's more than the teacher that they submitted themselves to. He's even more than the great physician. He's the very Lord of life and death. He exercises his power to give life in the time and place of his choosing. He alone is trustworthy and good, even now, when her loss is so great and her pain is so fierce. And even when Jesus, who had the power to heal her brother's illness and to prevent his death, had chosen not to do so. And how does Martha respond to his question? She answered, you can read it. Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Now we ought to look closely at Martha's words here. They're a profound and powerful confession that Martha gives us in spite of her grief. She's confessing while she's grieving. Yes, Martha's sister Mary will later bear witness that Jesus will give his life as a ransom for many, but Did you know that Martha's the only woman in the Gospels who proclaims the true identity of Jesus? She's one of only six people in the New Testament who before Christ's resurrection affirmed that Jesus is the Son of God. In fact, Martha's confession of faith becomes part of John's stated purpose for his gospel in chapter 20. You see, Martha has evidently taken Jesus' correction to heart and has joined Mary at Jesus' feet to be discipled by him. And together with Mary, she had come to know Jesus, his person, his work, better than she had before. Let's think about how this applies to us. Someone has said that every grief is two-dimensional. The loss itself, along with the nagging thought that it could have been prevented if only God had acted. Sometimes we find ourselves where Martha and Mary did here, in the valley of the shadow of death. And Jesus doesn't come to heal sickness or to prevent death Some of us have sat at the bedside of a loved one, and our hopes for relief and help have faded as each breath is taken. Others have dealt with the death of a lifelong hope and dream. The pain of that loss is the type that just won't go away, will it? It keeps throbbing and it won't stop. It wakes us up in the middle of the night. And we just can't go back to sleep. In those times, the question that bothers us the most is not whether Jesus had the power to help. It's why he chooses not to use his power to spare us from all our misery. When those times come, don't forget Martha in this scene. Remember Jesus' words to her. I am the resurrection and the life. And then also remember Jesus' question to her. Do you believe this? Join Martha in the answer that she gives, Yes, Lord, I believe you are the Christ, the Son of God. Martha may be grieving, you see, but she's confessing her faith in Christ. No matter what else might happen next to Martha. She knows more fully than that she can trust Jesus even when her loss was so great And even when Jesus, who had the power to prevent her loss, had chosen not to do so. There's one last scene that we'll look at much more briefly. We find that in chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. Listen as I read those verses. Six days before the Passover Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha was serving, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. Mary therefore took a pound of extensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of perfume. Better than food. Better than the stench of death. Now we smell sweet perfume. We come to John 12, Martha, Mary, Lazarus, resurrected now, of course. All three of them, Jesus and the twelve, are all together back there in Bethany. It's now back to being Bethany, bed and breakfast. This time it's Passover, Bethany Passover, if you will. Six days from now, Passover will be celebrated. And we know that it's the last Passover from Mary's Act. We know that this is no ordinary Passover. This one will go down in history as the last Passover Supper, just days before the scene, however, in John's Gospel. The end of chapter 11 there, we read that the Jewish leaders had set their plot in place to kill Jesus. Jesus had tried to make it clear to the twelve that his death and resurrection were near, but they weren't able to understand it, were they? To make matters worse, one of the twelve was now an accomplice to those who conspired to kill him. Jesus' hour of trial was just days away. And the twelve whom Jesus should have been able to count on are either in denial Or deceiving others. For Martha, the scene is one that's familiar to us now. She's there in Mary's presence, but Mary's the one in the foreground, isn't she? She takes her place at Jesus' feet again, where we always see her in Scripture. And then she takes that perfume jar and breaks it. Pours its contents on Jesus, sacrifices her dignity to loosen her hair, and gently begins to wipe Jesus' feet. Martha has seen Mary at his feet at least twice before this scene, hasn't she? She had seen Mary at his feet when Jesus first visited back there in Luke 10. She had seen Mary fall at Jesus' feet in grief when Lazarus died. We didn't read that portion, but you can go back and find that she was at his feet again But this time she was there in gratitude when Lazarus was resurrected. Now Martha. Martha is seeing Mary again at Jesus' feet, this third time. In Mary's act of worship, Martha sees Mary bearing witness to all that they both had learned at Jesus' feet. That Jesus would give his life as a ransom for many. No doubt Martha watched all this. She was rejoicing in the witness of her sister. The original words there of verse 2 tell us not just that Martha served. but that she was serving. So again we're seeing Martha's at her on her feet again, all right, but She's not in Jesus' face this time. You see, she's already been on her feet and in his face at least twice. And she and Jesus had had a talk about her priorities. And she was corrected. She took the correction to heart. She and Jesus had had a talk about her beliefs, and she had come to know Jesus more fully and to trust him more completely. Martha appears before us here as a changed woman. She's at peace in and with Jesus. You'll notice that she's no longer critical of her sister she was back in Luke chapter ten And she doesn't join the twelve led by Judas in criticizing Mary for breaking that jar of perfume that would have served many of the poor. Rather, Martha is silent. And that silence tells us that she knew that this was Mary's time. Mary's time to worship and to witness to the coming death of Jesus, even as she had witnessed to the resurrection and the life that Jesus was and is. Furthermore, Martha's silence tells us that she knew that she had had her time to witness six days before this. When she confessed that Jesus is the resurrection and the life and the Christ, the Son of God, her silence tells us that she knew that this was Her time to serve. So she serves. Because she has already sat at his feet, she serves on her feet. This time without complaining, because she too had learned what Mary had learned at Jesus' feet. She's not only at peace in Jesus. She has a new purpose in Jesus. So in Scripture we have these three portraits of Martha, first distracted and corrected. Second, grieving and confessing, third at peace and with purpose in Jesus In each of these scenes, God is inviting us to meditate on Martha's story as Jesus discipled her. Maybe this morning you're here and you're distracted and complaining, like Martha did Be sure you hear Jesus' correction to her. Check your priorities. Or maybe you're grieving like Martha was. Be sure to hear Jesus' question to her and check your beliefs. about the sovereignty of Jesus. Would you be at peace? Would you have purpose in Jesus as Martha did? Be sure to check your priorities and your beliefs at his feet and before his face. And then Even in your deepest distress, Jesus will transform you. As he did, Martha, and you will know him more fully. Let's pray together.