And let's turn in our Bibles to Proverbs chapter 3. So we're marching through the first nine chapters of Proverbs in a sequential manner. And then once we get to chapter 10, the Proverbs proper, we're going to take them or group them into themes. So Proverbs chapter 3, verse 13. Just a little roadmap. So the first part of this section, verses 13 to 26, is another song of praise to wisdom. We've heard these before. So we're not going to cover the same territory. We're focusing on different aspects. Then you get to verse 27, and you have some practical points of human conduct. So Proverbs 3 Verse thirteen Blessed is the one who finds wisdom and the one who gets understanding. For the gain from her is better than gain from silver and her profit better than gold She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. Long life is in her right hand, and in her left hand are riches and honor Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Those who hold her fast are called blessed. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth, and by understanding he established the heavens. By his knowledge, the deeps broke open, and the clouds dropped and the clouds dropped down the dew. My son, do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom and discretion, and they will be light for your soul and adornment for your neck Then you will walk on your way securely and your foot will not stumble. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. Do not be afraid of sudden terror or the ruin of the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in your power to do it. Do not say to your neighbor, Go and come again, tomorrow I'll give it, when you have it with you. Do not plan evil against your neighbor who dwells trustingly beside you. Do not contend with a man for no reason when he has done you no harm Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways. For the devious person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright are his confidence The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Toward the scorners, he is scornful. But to the humble he gives favor. The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace. Do you remember back in grade school? Of course you kids better remember, when your teacher talks you about the great explorers. Think about the great explorers of the 15th century, Christopher Columbus and Amerigo, Vespucci, Ferdinand Magellan, and these other names, they still uh stick with me Well, they lived in a different world as far as navigation is concerned, right? They didn't have uh GPSs, they didn't have five-day weather forecasts, they didn't have sonar, uh, they didn't they didn't have radar. What'd they have? They had a compass, they had the moon and the sun and the stars, and they had charts and maps that were largely incomplete. And so there are vast stretches of the seas uh that were on unmapped, and as a result they would often uh head straight into storms or they would Some of them even crashed their ships against rocky coastlines. And that was the end. Because they didn't have the tools to navigate. And in a similar way Many people make horrible decisions because they don't have tools for navigating life in this fallen world. But it need not be so, right? And this is the claim of Christianity. The claim of Christ is that God has made himself known not only in creation. Not only in the person of Jesus Christ, but he has spoken with clarity in the Bible. This book is reliable. This book is God's inerrant and inspired word. And as the psalmist says in Psalm 119, it's a lamp for our feet and it's a light for our past. So he's given us the scripture to grow us in godliness, and part of that is growing in wisdom. That's what the book of Proverbs is about. He's given us wise, godly people. to whom we can seek counsel so we don't have to build you know start everything from scratch. We can learn from other people. And so we're continuing in Proverbs, and uh this passage, as I mentioned, the first uh well verses 13 to 26. It's a pep talk on the value of wisdom, and embedded in that pep talk, the writer sets forth wisdom's credentials. And then you get to verses 27 to 30 35. He offers counsel in dealing with three kinds of people. And it's interesting, this comes up again and again. The book of Proverbs is full of wisdom about how to deal with different kinds of people. And I think this is our first encounter. with this stream of thought. And so these are the No, there was something back in chapter one, come to think of it. But we're going to see three more kinds of people and how to deal with them. So first of all, the first point if you have the outline there, he speaks about wisdom's value. And in a nutshell, he says, listen. If you grow in your knowledge of God, right, chapter 1, verse 7, the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. If you grow in your knowledge of God, your fear of Him, your relationship with Him, And as a consequence, you grow in wisdom. Life's going to be a lot easier than it would otherwise be. And so verses 13 to 26, here we go again, Solomon, extolling the value of wisdom. And so he keeps hammering on this. So let's go through, just see a couple things he says. Verse 13 to 15. He says, look at He says this to his son, Wisdom is better than riches. Let's look at those verses again. Verse 13. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom and the one who gets understanding. For the gain from her is better than gain from silver and her profit better than gold She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. That's a remarkable claim. Right? If I were to say, write down five things you desire in life, you may have some of these things. But still, you write down those five things. Well, these are quite strong desires that each of us have. And yet Solomon says that if you gain wisdom That's even more valuable than that list. And wealth is a wonderful thing, right? There's no nothing spiritual about being poor. And in fact Proverbs, the book of Proverbs, speaks about wealth as a blessing from God. And it's interesting if as you're reading through the Proverbs, when it talks about the rich It puts them in a bad light because it speaks about the richest people who are self-centered and who find their satisfaction and their significance in riches. But when the book of Proverbs talks about wealth, it speaks of it as something good, something that is a blessing. But nonetheless, in this section, Solomon says, Hey, wisdom is even better than wealth. And I remember when I was a seminary student at one of my Old Testament professors, he was preaching in the uh, I don't know, I think it was Tuesday morning chapel service. And he said, Money can put food on a table, but it can't put fellowship around that table. Money can buy a house, but it can't make a home. Money can give a woman diamonds and furs, but it can't give her the love that she longs for. And I'm going to say to our young people, it's important to use your your youth wisely, right, to study. And to develop uh various skills in one reason, well yeah, you want to understand God's world, you want to be of use to him, you want to serve him. But also, if you make good money, life's just going to be a lot easier. You can have more options You'll be able to bless and care for your family, and you'll be able to bless others with your wealth. But Solomon says as important that as that is, and we don't want to denigrate it, as important as that is Don't forget, you have a soul, right? You are made by God. You are made to know him and to have a relationship. with Jesus Christ. And if you don't do that, even though you may one day be rich, you will live a very hollow and empty life. Then he goes on in verse sixteen to say what I what I've just been saying. Why'd I just say that? I should have read verse sixteen. Verse sixteen. Long life is in her right hand, and in her left hand are riches and honor. And so he says living wisely often does uh prosper you. Uh and uh why is that? Well because wisdom builds men and women of character, men and women who who work hard who make wise choices even in their youth because some of the choices you make between the ages of sixteen and twenty-four will determine the entire course of your life And so wise uh you make wise choices, and then you'll oftentimes reap the benefits of it. And so we talk about the Puritan work ethic. Did you ever hear that? The Puritan work ethic. Why did the Puritans prosper? Well, because they were godly, and part of godliness is hard work and treating others with integrity And these things tend to bring material benefits. And so that's why the cotton matter, the old Puritan or the Puritan patriot, he would say, piety begets prosperity. And so that's something that that's something that wisdom oftentimes brings. In it, wisdom he goes on, verse 23 to 26. If you live wisely, It'll give you a more peaceful life. It will give you a carefree life, right? Jesus said in this world, you'll have troubles, but nonetheless. If you live wisely, it will spare you a lot of affliction brought on by your own foolish decisions Where we are. Where are we? 23 to 26. Here we go again. Then you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. You hear the saying that the softest pillow is a clear conscience. That's what he's saying here. 25 Do not be afraid of sudden terror or the ruin of the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence, and he will keep your foot from being caught. And so he's just saying, hey, you live according to God's commands. Life's not going to be without trouble and affliction. But it's going to be a lot easier than it was otherwise. Remember, years ago, there was a fellow in our church. He had a hard life. He suffered with addictions. He had been in prison He got out, he became a Christian, and he was coming to the church, he was a member. We're eating lunch one day, and he shared something with me as if it was like this brilliant insight. He said, You know, when I try to live by God's commands, my life's a whole lot easier. He had a job, he had a girlfriend, he was going somewhere. I was like, whoa, that's brilliant. But that's what that's what that's what this section is saying. And there's also in verse 26 a promise. That God's going to care for you. Look at verse 26. The Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. And so this is a reminder, right? If you trust in Jesus Christ, the God of the universe is for you. He's going to help you. He's going to strengthen you. Well Think about, here's something for parents to think about. What do you want most for your children? You can think, uh, you know, I want my I want my kids to uh be well educated. I want them to have good opportunities and music and uh sports and whatever their interests may be. That's a they're good good ambitions for our kids. I want my kids to be able to grow up and get a decent job and get married and uh be happily married and And live fruitful lives. Well these are all good things. Nothing wrong with those ambitions for our kids. But preeminently This is what Solomon's saying, and he's a father talking to his son, right? Preeminently, we should want our children to grow wise. Becky and I pray that all the time. Lord. Well I won't tell you what I pray. I don't want to put my kids on the spot. But um we pray, we pro we want to pray for them. Right? As parents, we want to teach our kids God's word. We want to try to counsel them wisely. We want to try to be an example to them of the proper priorities because we know that our child uh this life isn't all there is our kids have souls right and what did jesus say what good will it be for here He what are we saying That's why he put some notes here as my crutch It's funny, we watched a movie about Alzheimer's the other day. So Becky keeps teasing me. We're driving down a possentown pike this morning. Honey, we're on a possum town pike. And I start drooling, where am I? Am I driving? But anyway. Um Jesus in Matthew 14, 1626, he said What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and yet forfeits his soul? That's something for our kids to think about, right? You have a soul. Don't just worry about fitting in. But worry about knowing Jesus Christ and as something for parents to remember of all the good things. that we want to nurture our children in, we want should preeminently want to nurture them in the knowledge of Jesus Christ We should pray for their salvation and we should train them in the things of God. Lord, give us the the strength. And the perseverance to do that, right? Because it gets so tiring at times Well, so here's Solomon making his case for the value of wisdom. Then he says, listen. Are you still not persuaded that wisdom is this valuable after all these chapters? He says, Let me show you something more of wisdom's credentials. Look at the universe that God in his wisdom created. And so in verse nineteen He says, The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. And so whenever the Bible talks about the earth and the heavens, it's just this and that which assumes everything else in between. So in other words, it's saying God made everything. And he says, open your eyes, right? You dwell on this earth. Can't you recognize the wisdom of the Creator God? in the vastness and the complexity of the universe. You walk into the planetarium at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and inscribed right above the entrance. Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God. The sky above proclaims his handiwork. And then you look at just a delightful spectrum, right, of flowers and foods and landscapes. And people, right? Even in this congregation. But then you can you you broaden that out to the entire world, all the different kinds of people. You think about the intricacy and the complexity of the human body. You consider our ability to reason and to reflect. to perceive things, to love, the moral compass, that Romans 2. 15 says that God has implanted in the heart of every man The sense of God's presence, spoken of in Ecclesiastes 3:11, God has put eternity in the hearts of men. How do we explain all these things Well, all these things are evidences of God's wisdom. And then he goes on in verse 20. He goes into a little more detail. By his knowledge the deeps broke open, and the clouds drop down the dew. Well that just seems like a throwaway line, right? The rain comes. Well think about that a little bit. This tremendously complex mechanism that God in his wisdom designed for watering the earth. Right, we take that for granted, but really it's a marvel. I read a nice description of the process by John Piper. He wrote Picture yourself a farmer in the Near East, far from any lake or stream. A few wells keep the family and animals supplied with water But the crop but if the crops are to grow and the family is to be fed from month to month, water has to come on the fields from another source. But you're in the Middle East. There is no water nearby. So where does it come from? Well, it comes from the sky. Well, wait a minute. How does water come from the sky? Well, it doesn't exactly come from the sky. Water will have to be carried to the sky, water will be have to have to be carried in the sky from the Mediterranean Sea over several hundred miles, then poured out onto your fields. Well, how do you carry water from the ski from the sk sea across the sky? Well the answer uh well if one inch of rain falls on one square mile of farmland during uh the night Um how much water is that? Well it's over 206 million gallons. So you have to take water out of the Mediterranean, transport it several hundred miles inland and then if you want to water your field over the night just to get one inch of rain You're gonna you're gonna need 206 million gallons of water, uh which is over a billion and a half pounds, just for that one acre. Okay? Well that's pretty heavy. Uh so how do you get the water? out of the sea up into the sky so it's not so heavy. Well the answer of course is it it it evaporates. What's evaporation? Well, it means that the water sort of stops being water for a while so that it can go up and not go down. Then you're like, uh okay. Um Uh well how does that all how does it get down then? Okay, so you got the water out of sea and it went up, but how does it go down now that it's up there It's evaporated. And they say, well he says, well condensation happens. What's what's that? Well the water starts becoming water again by gathering around little dust particles between one one thousandth and one ten thousandth of a centimeter wide. Oh, really? Well that's pretty small. That's how it works. But then you have the problem with the saw, right? Wait a minute. The Mediterranean Sea is full of salt, and salt will kill the crops. So what what about the salt then? He says, well, of course the salt has to be taken out of the water. So you say, okay, so the sky picks up the billion pounds of water from the sea, takes out the salt, and then carries it for 300 miles, and just dumps it on the farm. Well, it doesn't dump it. If it dumped a billion pounds of water on the farm, the wheat would get crushed. So the sky dribbles a billion pounds of water down and little drops Well there's a just a thumbnail sketch of this tremendously complicated process. So what is Solomon saying here? He's saying, hello, right? If God in his wisdom can create a universe Of such order and wonder, should you not seek to grow in the wisdom that he offers? And so Solomon has been talking about the value of wisdom, and now he makes a couple comments about his credentials. And now he gets down to the nitty-gritty, okay? Because you can trust God in what his word says. Ye should take heed to what it says about how to deal with other kinds of people. And in verses 27 to 32, he mentions three kinds of people. Those to whom good is due, those who are minding their own business, and those who are violent. Okay? So first of all, we'll focus on verses 27 to 28. The first group, he says, do good to those to whom it is due. So verse 27. And if there's a good verse discussed at lunch today, this might be it. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in your power to do it. Do not say to your neighbor, go and come again. Tomorrow I will give it when you have it with you. So what is this saying? It's saying don't be inconsiderate. Don't be selfish. Don't be self-centered. Right? If you hire somebody to work for you, then pay them properly. Don't make them uh keep uh asking you to for their payment. That's what Patrick read in James 5 verse 4. James wrote, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. So pay your workers, or if you have a business, right? Pay your suppliers. They need to pay their bills too. If you owe a medical bill, right, don't wait till you get the third pass due notice. Why waste their time? Why take their money? Pay them pay them. If you borrow money, pay them back. If you borrow a book, uh make a note of it. I borrow this book from so-and-so. It's my responsibility to get it back to them. I don't have to wait for them to track me down uh to get their book back. Verse 27, do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it's your power to do it. Right? This is one for the kids. If your mom or your dad asks you to do something, to clean your room or whatever it is, don't say I'll do it later when you could do it now. Don't withhold good from whom it's due. Leviticus 5 verse 1 is a really interesting verse. Hey, once you turn there, you'll say, I learned something in the Bible. I never knew what it was in there. Right? You feel like you got your money's worth this morning And you throw it out, you're at a cocktail party, you say, What about Leviticus five one? Well here you go. It says if anyone sins In that he hears a public adjuration to testify, that's a public call to testify And though he is a witness, whether he has seen or come to know the matter, yet does not speak, he shall bear his iniquity. What's that saying? Saying if you see something, if you witness a crime, if you witness a car accident, and somebody calls on you to speak, Then you should not withhold good from those to whom it's due. You should speak up. That's part of what this verse in Proverbs is commanding. Of course, it goes beyond financial and legal matters, the implications of the verse. Romans 13, verse 8 talks about something we owe other people. It says we owe others love. We owe others kindness. We owe them a word of encouragement. Somebody cooks your lunch. You should thank them. Thank you for the trouble you put into this meal. Somebody gives you a gift, you should write them a thank you note. Uh you see a new person, a church? Uh well it's hard to be new in a church, right? Well you want to oh I'll just somebody else will say hi to them. I'm a little shy. No, you need to walk over and stumble over your feet if you're shy or whatever you do, but you want to welcome them, make them feel welcome, right? Because you owe it to them You want to converse with unbelievers you meet and look for opportunities to share the gospel. So do not withhold good from those to whom it's due. Think about Jesus Christ. He didn't owe us anything. But Romans 5. 8 says, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us If he would do that for us, and we weren't due anything, then certainly we should look out to those for those to whom it is due. Here's something else, a little more briefly. Verses 29 and 30 says, do not harm those who are minding their own business. Do not plan evil against your neighbor who dwells trustingly beside you. Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm. So we were out visiting Becky's mom earlier this week and she was all upset because she gets all these uh scam phone calls and she doesn't know how to set her phone to stop them so she just Uh I don't know if it's somebody who's really from the Social Security Administration or if it's just a scammer. But anyway. She she get all flustered, right? Um those who engage in such maliciousness We'll one day have to answer to God, right? Do you know what's it? Do not plan evil against your neighbor who dwells trustingly beside you. Don't flirt with your friend's spouse or your coworker's spouse. Don't take financial advantage of someone just because they're gullible And then he goes on to third kind of people, violent people. And he says, avoid them. Verse 31. We're really 31 to 35, but we'll read verse 31. Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways. Why would we envy somebody who tramples others? Well there we may because we we we envy them for their power. They're powerful people and oftentimes the The wicked gather around the violent because they want a piece of that power as well. But it goes on to say in verses 32 to 35 that God opposes the man of violence, and one day he's going to break his teeth. So don't lose any sleep over him. And so we do live in a fallen world and there are many treacherous waters to navigate, but we're not we're not Navigating it without sufficient uh guidance. He's given us his word, he grows us in wisdom that we could think his thoughts after him He's given us the Holy Spirit to illumine the Word. He's given us others, wise people to give us advice and counsel. And um and I and I'd say to our young people It it's it's sad because there are so few wise people in positions of power in our day, political and the education establishment. It's just horrendous uh what's going on. But listen, you can grow wise, you can be useful to God, you can guide your not only your children, But you can guide others. And so use your, I said our young people, use your time well, right? Seek to know God, his word, and and also his world. And as I said earlier, what was the theme verse of Proverbs? It's chapter 1, verse 7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Jesus Christ, 1 Corinthians 1. 24, he is the wisdom of God incarnate. He is the ultimate wise man And we want to know him. So let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, that you would continue To help us to be more discerning, to understand