Okay, let us turn in the our Bibles to the book of Romans. Romans chapter 1. We're going to look at verses 8 to 17 this morning. So these are still the introductory verses in Romans. This is the longest introduction of any of Paul's letters, 17 verses. So beginning in verse eight, Paul continues. First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son. That without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. That is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, but thus far have been prevented, in order that I may reap some harvest among you, as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation, both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish. So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And so as Paul finishes out his words of introduction, He speaks of two things. First of all, in verses 8 to 15, he asserts his love for the Christians in Rome. And then in verses 16 to 17, he Expresses his unashamed confidence in the gospel of God Now, as we look at these verses, I have three goals. And really, I mean, this should always be the case. My goals are the goals of the text, okay? We were talking about this, I think, on Thursday night at our Bible study. You don't You don't read a a text and use it as a springboard just to go off, right? We need to figure out what is the purpose of this text. And then that purpose should be our purpose. And as I understand these verses, the purpose here, number one, is to enlarge our hearts for the people of God. As we see Paul expressing his love for the Romans. And then in verses 16 and 17, Paul talks about the gospel. So I certainly want to make sure that we all understand what the Bible means when it talks about the gospel. And I want to persuade you, as Paul was not ashamed of the gospel So we should not be ashamed of this gospel. And so first of all, verses 8 to 14, we read about Paul's love for the Christians and Rome. And this is rather striking because Paul had never been to Rome. He was acquainted with some of these people. We know that because in chapter 16. He sends personal greetings to some of the Christians there by name, but he had never met the majority of the Christians in the church in Rome. And so it's striking that he would have such concern for these strangers and that he would write to them uh with such affection. And so what I want you to do, and I have it marked out on the bulletin, I just want you to notice four marks of Paul's affection for these people. First of all, He thanks the Lord for them in verse 8. He says, First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. That's notable. Christianity began outside of the gates of Jerusalem around 33 A. D. Jesus was crucified there. So began in this backwater of the Roman Empire. Paul wrote sometime around the year 60 A. D. , so within a generation Within about thirty years, and it's in an age when transportation uh and uh means of communication were primitive Within 30 years, the gospel had expanded from this far corner of the Roman Empire all the way to the seat, to the capital of the Roman Empire to the city of Rome itself. And so Christians and other parts of the Roman of the Empire They were astounded. And so that's why he says in the end of verse 9, your faith is proclaimed in all the world. And so Paul's thankful for the Christians in Rome. Secondly, we see his affection in that he prays for them. Verses 9 and 10 again. For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of the Son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. And so he prayed for them. And again, he never met these people, right? They were they were in another far foreign land. They spoke uh they speak a different language, but they they were in a different culture. And yet if the apostle Paul says He's praying for you. It's just not some kind of religious nicety that he's starting out his letter with, but no, he was praying for them and in fact He invoked God as his witness, right? Verse 9: God is my witness that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers. And so on Sunday mornings at our prayer meetings and and certainly in private, we should be praying for our missionaries, we should be praying for Christians in other countries, right? Our missionaries send out These email prayer letters. If you're interested in getting them, let me know and I'll I'll send your name or your email address in. Because why? These are our people, right? The pastors in Rwanda that our missionaries are training, or in in Pakistan, or uh the the church in uh uh madrid that Juan Carlos and uh Ruth Bonilla are planting our our mission church up in Millbury, Massachusetts We've never met these people. But these are our people. These are Christians, right? And Adnan, you know, one of our own goes over to Pakistan. He's training Christians there in the churches. And so Of course, uh if we should have this kind of affection, we should be praying uh for these people. In one of our songs written by one time president of Yale, Timothy Dwight, I love thy kingdom, Lord. Now this Christian man spoke about his love for the Church of Christ. He said of her, For her my tears shall fall, for her my prayers ascend, to her my cares and toils be given, till toils and cares shall end. So he's saying, I am going to expend myself for the building up of God's people. Certainly are those whom we know And even those whom we don't know, but they are Jesus Christ's sheep. And so we want to care for them. And that's what we see in the Apostle Paul. Then also we see his love evident in that he says in verses 11 and 12, he says, I long to see you and to serve you. Verse 11 again He says, I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. Now that's a little confusing because it it can't be talking about the spiritual gifts mentioned in Romans twelve or first Corinthians twelve. Because those passages say that God is the one who gives Christians spiritual gifts And so he seems to be saying, I want to serve you by exercising my gifts in your presence, by teaching, by preaching, and whatever his other gifts may have uh been. And I want you to also notice in verse 12, Paul wants to go to Rome to serve them and to bless them. But it's not a one-way street. He's also going to be blessed by them. Verse 12. That is that we may be mutually encouraged. by each other's faith, both yours and mine. And so Paul was the great apostle, right? But there was a mutuality about his relationship with the believers. He wants to be encouraged by them, but he also needed their encouragement. And in a healthy relationship between Christians, there needs to be this mutuality, right? It needs to go uh both ways. The relationship between a pastor or between elders in the congregation, right? It's a two-way street. Elders, the pastor, the elders, the deacons. Third, we have our frailties, right? And so, yeah, we need to be encouraged too. And uh when somebody says to Becky or to me, you know, how are you doing? How we can pray for how can we pray for you That's encouraging. But that's that's scriptural. Then we also see Paul's love in verses thirteen and fifteen. And this is the most surprising at this point in Paul's life, because he says he yearns, he yearns to preach the gospel to them. Verse 13. I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, but thus far have been prevented, in order that I may reap some spiritual, some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles, I am under obligation, both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish Then he says, so I am eager to preach the gospel to you also, who are in Rome. So, would you have been eager? I mean, think about what Paul had been through, but he had just evangelized just about the whole of the Eastern Mediterranean and uh what was it like? He wasn't staying in five star hotels. I mean he wasn't been imprisoned, he had been whipped. He had been stoned. He had been beaten. This is from 2 Corinthians 11. He had been in shipwrecks. He lived in danger from those who wanted to kill him. He says in 2 Corinthians 11, he suffered hunger, exposure, uh thirst, chapter 11, verse 28, and apart from other things There is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches. So you think the guy would be saying I need a rest, but okay, I'll go to Rome. But he doesn't. He says in verse 15: I'm eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. And he said, go back to verse 14. He says, I'm under obligation. So there's a sense, I'm under obligation because God has called me to this. uh to preach to both Greeks and to barbarians. And so in other words, those within the Greek world, the Greek culture, and those outside the Greek uh world and language so the the Greeks didn't understand their language so they called them barbarians because we don't know what they're saying. Bar bar bar. And so that's where they got that But yeah, if you're a Christian, you have an obligation. You have a solemn obligation before God to use your gifts and your abilities and your strengths to build up the kids in this church, to encourage other people in this church. And also to try to be a light, a witness to those who don't know the gospel. But you get older, right? Your kids are raised, you worked in the nursery, you're on the committees, you did all that stuff. And now you're like, uh, I think I'll step back. I'm a little tired. I paid my dues. And um is should you do that? Well, no. Should you slow down? Yeah. Should you slow down your pace? Yeah. Can you be as involved as in many things as you once were involved in? No, you don't have the energy, you don't have the strength. But nonetheless, you don't just want to be a Sunday morning presence because if God has given you gifts and strength, which He has and opportunities, Uh you want to use it, right? We wanna we wanna we we w we wanna press on. I remember I think I told this story uh ARP church up the road in Manchester, I don't know, like fifteen years ago, they were having all kind of problems. And um there was a I mean there was a huge mess in that church. So the pastor asked this one fella who was 80 years old, Charlie Newton. He had been an elder in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Now he's coming to this church, this ARP church. And the pastor said, listen, we really need you to help with this what we're going through right now. Charlie Newton. He said, I got one good fight left in me. And uh so he came back on and he did what he could. But that's that's the spirit, right? If you love the people of God. And we certainly see that in the Apostle Paul. So we want to pray, Lord, uh, I don't want to be a consumer. I want to serve others for the sake of your name, for the edification of your people. Let's go on. We see not only Paul's love for the Romans, but we see he had an unashamed confidence. in the gospel. And so verses 16 to 17, this is a summary statement of the book of Romans. And really the rest of Romans is largely an exposition. uh these verses and he draws out some of the implications of these verses. So he says in verse 16 I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Now that word gospel occurs like a hundred times in the New Testament, right? Luke chapter 9, verse 6. says Jesus and his disciples, they went through the villages preaching the gospel. And so the most fundamental question that we have to answer or have to should be able to answer is. What is the gospel? Right? That's one of those religious terms. It's not always defined. Sometimes it's defined vaguely. Usually it's defined inaccurately. What is the gospel? And you know, people come up with different things. And if you know, what would you answer? And let's see if you nailed it. Um some people, and even pastors and churches, would say, well, the gospel is about God's love for us. Well that's true, but that's like defining a car by saying it goes down the road. I mean, can you be any more specific Um it's having a personal relationship with Jesus. Is that the gospel? Some will say, well, it's asking Jesus into your heart. That's not the language of Scripture, but that's what they'll say. And then some will say We're to live the gospel. That sounds really spiritual. We're to live the gospel. What do they mean by that? They're saying we're to love and serve others. But that's completely incorrect. The gospel is not something you do, nor is it a response. The gospel is not something to do, but rather it's a message to believe The word gospel just means good news, glad tidings. And it's good news about something that God has done. That's why back in verse 1 it's called what? The gospel of God. And so the gospel is this message that Christ died for sinners. He rose again, and God saves us by crediting, you might say, to our account. The righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's the gospel summarized in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 3 and 4. We just read it earlier. The gospel is a message of Christ's saving work on the cross to redeem sinners. And to receive the benefits of the gospel, the benefits of what Jesus did in living a perfect life and then dying for our sin involves a double exchange. You give Jesus all your sin, he gives you all his righteousness. And this idea of a double exchange is expressed very nicely in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. Where Paul writes, God made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. And so there you have it, right? So what is a Christian? A Christian is not a good person who's trying to become an even better person by being religious and by walking the straight and narrow. That's not what a Christian is But rather a Christian is someone who has received, as Paul puts it in Romans 5. 17, the free gift of righteousness. We're given Christ's righteousness. How? Not by doing a thing. There's nothing we can do to earn it. But God gives it to us by his grace, and we receive it merely by faith and repentance. And that's why Jesus said in Mark 115, repent and believe the gospel. So to repent is just to call your to acknowledge your sin, right? I'm a sinner. I have fallen short of the holiness of God. I want to, I grieve it and I want to turn from it. That's repentance. And then to believe is merely to rest on Jesus alone as your substitutionary sin bearer. So, if you didn't understand that before, what I just said should be a great relief. Like, oh, you don't have to jump through religious hoops. You don't have to reform yourself to be saved. All you have to do is to rest on Jesus Christ And that's why in Ephesians 2. 8, Paul said, it's by God's grace that you're saved through faith, by God's unmerited favor that you're saved through faith. And so, my question is, have you trusted in Christ? Have you received the gospel? Are you resting on Him for your salvation? Or are you resting on your efforts, your morality, your religion? Okay? It's not going to work. Jesus Christ is God's provision for man's salvation. And if you go on to verse 17, this is a key verse in clarifying, excuse me, in clarifying The nature of the gospel. And it's a tricky verse. So let's look, let's put our nose down there in verse 17. Or at least not if not you know, let's just look at it then. Okay. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And so that's a bit of a head scratcher. My question here is, what does Paul mean when he writes that the gospel reveals the righteousness of God? That's the question that Martin Luther was wrestling with. He was a Catholic monk, an Augustinian monk in the early 1500s, and as a monk, he was also a professor of Bible at the University of Wittenberg. And he was familiar with this text. He had taught Romans. He had taught Galatians. He had taught the book of Psalms as a Bible professor. And he didn't get it yet. He did not yet understand the meaning of Romans 1, verse 17, because he understood it when it said the gospel reveals the righteousness of God. He understood it to be saying, it reveals God's holiness, his personal righteousness, his moral perfection. And so he wrote, I took it to mean that righteousness whereby God is righteous and acts righteously in punishing The unrighteous. Well, that wasn't good news to Luther. How could it have been, right? Luther was already painfully aware of his sin. And so to read that the gospel reveals God's righteous character only added to his distress and his fear and his guilt. And then he he but he grappled with this and he read Augustine's comments on this verse, and the light went on, and he saw that what this verse is saying And listen carefully, the righteousness of God spoken on verse 17, that the gospel reveals is the righteousness of Christ which God gives to sinners when we rest on him as our substitutionary sin bearer. So he called it The alien righteousness of Christ, right? We're not righteous, but God clothes us in a righteousness that is not ours. It belongs to Christ. That's what Paul's talking about in verse 17 when he says the gospel reveals the righteousness of God, that is, God's righteousness in Jesus Christ, who died for our sin. Which is given to us when we trust in Jesus Christ. And so He um and so uh if I could just add in verse chapter three, verse twenty-two, it's even clearer. Paul writes about the righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. So Luther said, You know what? Night and day I pondered until I grasped the truth that the righteousness of God Is a righteousness whereby through grace and sheer mercy, God justifies us by faith. And then he said, Thereupon I felt myself to be reborn and to have gone through doors to paradise. The whole scripture took on a new meaning, and whereas before The righteousness of God had filled me with hate, it now became to me inexpressibly sweet and greater love. And so Luther understood the gospel, and that was the prompt or the impetus for the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century. Instead of verse 17. This righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. In other words, it begins with faith, it ends with faith. There's nothing you contribute to receiving this righteousness. All you have to do is to trust in Christ, to believe in, to believe on Jesus Christ. So that's why we say we're saved by faith alone. Works have nothing to do with our salvation. Religion has nothing to do with our salvation. It's rather a response, right? And if there are no works, your faith isn't genuine. But it's not a way to be saved, it's a response to receiving salvation from Jesus Christ. And then in the end of verse 17, Paul quotes from Habakkuk chapter 2, verse 4. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So that's the good news, and that's why the Apostle Paul This little guy, there's a about uh some years after he died, uh, in the ancient document, there's a description. of of the Apostle Paul. Who knows if it was accurate? But he's described as this little guy, beetle brows, bowed legs, Bald head, hooked nose, bad eyesight. We know from 1 Corinthians he was an unimpressive speaker And yet here he was going to Rome, the center of the empire, the capital of the empire, uh the the height of culture and sophistication and power And he would still say, I am not ashamed of the gospel, because the gospel is the power of God for salvation. And we live in a culture, right? Where we sometimes feel outgunned. Uh we live in a culture for those who are morally and intellectually confused, nonetheless come across as the sophisticated ones. They have most of the uh levers of power in our culture But they if they don't know Jesus Christ, they too are lost. They're as lost as can be. So we have to remind ourselves that there is a God, He reigns over all, He's entrusted His church with a message of salvation. And the most arrogant or the most disinterested unbeliever still needs the gospel because he or she will stand before God one day. And we have been privileged to be for God to have opened our eyes and now to be entrusted with this message of forgiveness. And of how we, forgiven sinners, were made right with God, and how others can be made right with God. And so that's why we want to remind ourselves Be not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is God's saving power. Let's bow our heads. We do thank you, Lord, that you have revealed this message of salvation. We thank you that you have acted to save us. We thank you, Lord, that it was all of what you've done, and we've made no contribution to our salvation. I do pray, Lord, for those who have who are just beginning to understand the gospel. I pray that they'll see and believe that this is Truth from God. This is the way of salvation. Help us, Lord, to be bold Help us not to be embarrassed because of our allegiance to you, but help us to be confident in you and what you've done. And to be more concerned about your evaluation of us than the world's evaluation of us And also, we pray, Lord, that you will enlarge our love for your church here and your people in other areas, even other areas of the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, let's sing. Our song is right in the bulletin. Oh yeah. So Oh yeah. Oh, just see the jail of the darkest day twice on the road to Tried by sinful man, torn and beaten yes to across the This part of the cross Christ begin sin for us took the blame For the west and forgiveness across the case. Oh, to see the pain risen on your face, bearing the awesome way. In proceed became sinful. Took the blame for the wrath with standard across. Now the daylight breeze, now the round beneath quicks as its maker bows his head. Curtain torn into death are raised to life Finn it the victory, Christ. This the path of the front. I became sent for us to the blame for the stand for. Given a cross Oh, to see my name waiting on your wounds for through your suffering I am. Death is crushed to death. Life is mine to live one through yourself. This the price of the cross to its became sin for us. Took the plane for the wrath wished and forgiven. Okay. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Amen. Um is there to be That's the second or third getting so I'm not sure if you want to get two years. Yeah, you'll talk to that. Well, that's like