And I'll ask you to turn in your Bible to the book of Romans. We're on Romans chapter three. We're doing a verses look we're doing verses one to eight. I thought we were gonna get up to verse twenty, but I It was too much, too much to bite off. Which may be just as well, 'cause verses um nine to twenty are on total depravity. Not a good Mother's Day theme. You're totally depraved. Happy happy Mother's Day, Mom. So no, we'll cover that next week. But verses one to eight. Paul writes, and I'll I'm gonna have to go back and sort of give you this setting, but I want to read it for now. So he's writing to the Jews, the Jews in his uh audience, and he says Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what's the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews are entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means, let God be true, who everyone were a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words, and prevail when you are judged But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? I speak in a human way. By no means For then how could God judge the world? But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come, as some people slanderously charge us with saying? Their condemnation is just. Like, whoa. Well, let me tell you this, okay? This is probably the hardest passage in the book of Romans. But don't turn me off. Don't be discouraged. We're just going to cut it. Three nice bite-sized pieces. They've got a nice outline there. We're going to get through it. We're going to apply it, okay? It's in the Bible, okay? If it were up to me, I'd say, let's just skip over this, okay? Let's get to something more immediately applicable But it's when we wrestle with these hard passages that sometimes we're surprised and we get this great benefit. So that's the benefit of marching through the Scripture Now you'll remember, you don't, you know, chapter 1, verse 16 and 17, Paul talks about the gospel. He introduces the theme of Romans. But he does not get to the gospel until chapter 3, verse 21. The gospel, again, is the good news that God saves sinners Through sending his Son, Jesus Christ, who died for our sins, and we take hold of what he did by faith. So that's the gospel. But it's two weeks until we get to the gospel really formally. So from chapter 1, verse 18 to chapter 3, verse 20. Uh Paul has assumed the r he's setting us up for the gospel and he's assumed the role of a prosecuting attorney. And he's making the case, everybody's a sinner. So chapter 1, verse 18 to verse 32, he looks at the Gentiles, those who are not Jews. He says, Gentiles are sinners. And then at that point, the Jews might say, Well that true words are never spoken. Those Gentiles are filthy sinners, and they deserve the judgment of God. I'm so thankful I'm a Jew, that I'm numbered amongst God's chosen people, that I was circumcised, that because I'm a Jew, even though I sin I enjoy a special favor from God. Thank you. I'm not like those Gentiles. Well, it's because of such smug presumption In chapter 2, you remember from last week we did the whole chapter in one shot, Paul turned his guns on the Jews. And he exposed their her their hypocrisy. Chapter 2, verse 1. He said, You condemn the Gentiles, excuse me, you who condemn the Gentiles Commit the same sins. And so in chapter 2, he goes after the Jews, and he says in a nutshell, Being Jewish won't get you anywhere if you don't submit to God and you don't obey His laws. Look at chapter 2, verse 28 and 29. He said, For no one is a Jew who's merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. Okay? And so there's a principle here For those who not only who grew up in Judaism in this in Jesus' day, but the principle carries over uh for for us, for those who live under or those who grew up under the umbrella of Christianity. Right? The ideas It's not enough that you grew up in a Christian home or that you grew up going to church or hearing the Bible or that you memorize Bible verses. or that you were baptized or that you were at some kind of Christian rally and you prayed a prayer to receive Jesus Christ. None of that is of any use. If you're not sincerely resting on Jesus for your salvation and as a consequence endeavoring To walk with him. Okay? So outward connections to Christianity, to the gospel, to Jesus, to the church are of no value if there really has been no genuine spiritual conversion And so if we we could almost take chapter two, verse twenty-eight and twenty-nine and just put it in terms that we could relate to. No one's a Christian who's merely went outwardly. Nor is baptism outward and physical, but a Christian is one inwardly, and baptism is a matter of the heart by the Spirit. So that's that's our that's our lead up, okay? So we got a running start. We had two. Now we're on chapter three, verses one to eight. And in this section, you think Paul would be done, but he does he's not done. Now he deals with objections raised by the Jews. And so he's a good preacher. He anticipates the objections and then he deals with them in a very, very clear, or nothing clear, but in a very decisive manner. It's not clear. Paul's argumentation is very intricate, okay? So we're going to look closely at the text, have your Bible open, have your outline there, just to clarify anything that's not clear And we're going to look at three objections that the Jews make when Paul said in chapter two, you guys are sinners. And you have no hope if you're just going to rest in your religion, if you're just going to rest in your circumcision, and so on, okay? We're going to spend most of our time on the first objection. And in a nutshell. Here it is. The objection the Jews would raise is if the Jews, like the Gentiles, are under God's wrath. Then what advantage is there to being a Jew? And the reason they ask this Is because the Old Testament speaks abundantly of the blessings and the privileges that God poured out on the nation of Israel. Just one example. Amos chapter 3, verse 2. God said to Israel, You only have I known of all the families of the earth. And so the nation of Israel was special. In the eyes of God. And so the Jewish, the Jew living in the first century They're thinking, you know, if we're under the wrath of God, look at chapter three, verse one. They ask Then what advantage has the Jew, or of what value is circumcision? In other words, if the Jews are judged by the same standard as the Gentiles, Then what about everything the Old Testament says about the blessings that God gave to the people of Israel? And the reason they ask this is because in chapter 2, you might conclude there's no advantage to being a Jew. There's no advantage to having received the law or having been circumcised. Because the Jews, like the Gentiles, are sinners and they stand under God's wrath. And so that's why they're asking in verse 1, then what advantage has the Jew? And Paul says, listen, yeah you're sinners. You need a savior, just like the Gentiles. But you enjoy a great advantage over those who are not of the people of Israel. Okay? So he overrules their objection. And he says, listen. If you're only a Jew outwardly, outwardly, then you will suffer God's wrath. But The Jews in general enjoy a great advantage over the Gentiles. Look at verse 1 again. Then what advantage has the Jew, or what value has circumcision? What's Paul say? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews are entrusted with the oracles of God. That's just a a state to say they've been given a word of God. They have received revelation from God. And so here Paul is recognizing the divine inspiration of the Old Testament. He calls the Old Testament, the Jewish scriptures, the oracles of God, right? So the Old Testament, here's how does the New Testament view the Old Testament? It doesn't view it merely as a compilation of ancient religious aspirations and wisdom. It doesn't view it as a chronicle of the exploits of the great wit men and women of God who lived way back then. It doesn't view it as a compendium of bizarre religious rituals and laws, but rather It views the New Testament, views the Old Testament as the very word of God. This is confirmed, for example, in 2 Peter 1, verse 20 and 21. Peter, referring to the Old Testament, says, no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. In other words, the writers, the prophets, they just make this stuff up. Rather, no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So in other words, what they wrote, what the prophets wrote, what the prophets spoke was God gave them these words by the Holy Spirit. And so Paul says, what advantage is there to being a Jew? Well, you have a tremendous advantage. God spoke to the people of Israel. You've been entrusted with the oracles of God. And in the same way, and this isn't a stretch, this is an immediate necessary implication, if you live under the umbrella of Christianity because you grew up in a Christian home or because you grew up going to church Or because uh, you know, you went to Sunday school and you have Christian friends and you have all these people encouraging you to follow Jesus. And then every week in church, you know, for eighteen years, you sang the great hymns of the faith, so the the truths of Scripture, uh you know, summarized in the hymns or the themes of Scripture They were pressed down deep into your consciousness and into your heart. So you have a great advantage. I mean in it you know, I think I didn't grow up in a Christian home, but we went to church some And I remember going to Vacation Bible School, and I knew who Jesus was. I didn't understand the gospel until later. But I was under the umbrella of Christianity. It's not so much in our in our culture today. I was reading a third of our population has no connection to or acquaintance with Christianity. And so you may have heard this term, they call these people or this segment of the population the nuns, N-O-N-E-S, as to say they have no religious affiliation. Right, it used to be that most people, if you didn't go to church, well you had an aunt who was a Christian, or you had grandparents who were Christians. But not so much anymore, right? It's a very secular culture. And so we when we engage people, we have to find out where they are because they a lot of people have no understanding and many misunderstandings of what Christianity is about. So which is to say that if you grew up in a Christian home, you grew up going to a church that teaches the Bible, it isn't just some social uh religious organization. Then you have a great advantage over those who did not. And no matter how flawed your parents were, Uh if they took you to church at least some of the time, you have a great advantage over those who were raised in purely uh secular homes, right? Because you were exposed to some extent uh to the word of God, right? You're being exposed. What what advantage is there to grow growing up in the Christian home, right? Well, you're going to worship, you're going to Sunday school. Hopefully your parents read the Bible after supper or before you go to bed. And they pray. And so you learn some of that. And anybody here, perfect parents? We're not talking about these parents, but if anybody here has parents who are not perfect, okay? We could still say despite their glaring flaws and inconsistencies, they still provide you something. of a model of a what a Christian marriage should be. Yeah, it might be not perfect, but hey, there's something. Hopefully you saw them ask for forgiveness. You saw what reconciliation should be, resolving conflict Um and uh kids, you know, many kids raised in non-Christian homes, they they don't see this at all. Okay? And you have Christian habits. If you grow up going to church, that's one thing. You don't wake up Sunday morning. What am I going to do? What should I do? Right? It's just a habit. It's just part of how you do things. It's wired into you. Or uh reading the Bible or praying. Uh these are things that are are har are hardwired into you If you grew up in a Christian home, when you become a Christian later in life, these are new habits you have to develop, right? And it takes a lot of exertion to develop, to break away from old habits and to develop new habits And so, yeah, uh we could say you have been entrusted with the oracles of God And I would say, and I'm I'm w saying a lot to young people, I just want to say one thing more. Well maybe a couple of things more, but uh one thing more I want to say. Is if you read some article on social media, hey, the Bible's full of contradictions, or the Bible has all these problems. You better read around a little bit, because there are a lot of really accomplished, educated people. who would dispute that. So don't just believe what you read on social media if you're mad at your parents and you're trying to separate yourself a little bit from their Christian faith. And I would say this, okay? I'm not a Bible scholar, but I would say this. I've been a Christian 45 years, and then I went to seminary for four years, and I've been a pastor for 32 years, so 32 plus 4. Let me get up my calculator. 36 years, right? I've been studying the Bible almost like a full-time book. Well not. I'd say like 15 to 20 hours a week. I've been studying the Bible And here's what I've discovered. My confidence in the truth of the Bible has not been lessened, but it's increased. How is that if the Bible has all these problems? No. I'm ready to take my life on the Bible. That's why I'm a pastor. That's why I'm still a Christian. I cannot explain away the Bible. And so I'm saying this to our young people, I'm saying to those who are newer to the Christian faith or those who are exploring. You have been given the oracles of God. How else do you account? Here's what I say to myself. When I look at our culture where there's so much unbelief, Why do I stay in the minority who believes the Bible? Here's why. I cannot account for its coherence in very intricate ways. I cannot account for the New Testament fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies and types and shadows. I cannot account for the wisdom of his teaching, which is often counterintuitive. It often goes against what we would come up with. And I can't account for the way it knows me and that it knows man in the way that we don't even understand ourselves. I can't account for these things apart from concluding that this book is revelation from God. Okay? So if you turn your back. On your exposure to Jesus Christ, to his people, to his word, to the prayers of your parents. Then these privileges that you have enjoyed will haunt you down through the years. That's why Jesus said in Luke 12, 48, Everyone to whom much is given, of him, much will be required. So the first objection the Jews make to Paul when he says the Jews are under God's wrath. Then they say, hey, then there's no benefit to being a Jew. Paul says, objection overruled. There's great benefit to being a Jew because you've been given the oracles of God. Let's be more brief. The second objection. Benigie would say, well Doesn't the fact that many Jews don't believe, doesn't that show God to be powerless? Okay? God's word to be powerless, right? Because if listen, if God promised the Jews that they were his people, remember in the Old Testament, you're my chosen people. If God made that promise to the Jews But many of them did not believe and did not walk in his ways. Isn't this proof then that God's word has failed, that God did not keep his promise. Okay? He did not bless Israel. If he said he was going to bless Israel, why don't they believe? Look at verse 3. So they ask the question, or Paul answers, deals with their question, what if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? In other words, if they were unfaithful, they're saying, Yeah, God did not really do anything. He did not work in the Jews. And Paul, in verse 4, he just says, by no means. He doesn't even answer this objection. He just dismisses it. He says, that's a ludicrous objection. He will deal with that objection when he gets to chapters 9 to 11 And he'll point out that though many Jews have not believed God's Old Testament promises to Israel were realized in those Jews who came to faith in Jesus Christ. Okay, chapter eleven, verse seven, verse five. Chapter eleven, verse five. Paul wrote, chosen by grace. So there are Jews. There is a remnant of Jews who do receive the promises of God. So God did not show himself powerless. He was working in them, in his remnant, in his people. Okay? It's the same in the Christian church, sure. There are people who are baptized who don't believe, there are people who become uh church members who are not genuine Christians, there are people who grew up in Christian homes Who spurn the faith, but their unbelief does not invalidate God's faithfulness up to his promises. And then in chapter verse four he quotes four again, by no means let God be true, though everyone were a liar, as it is written. Then he quotes Psalm 51, verse 4 that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. And so Paul's saying, and I want to I we could really tease that out, but I want to make some I I don't want to get wrapped up too much in the details. Paul saying God will be true to his promises, because God is true. God does not lie He'll be true to his promises in blessing those in the covenant community who have faith in Christ. And also encursing those within the covenant community who reject Jesus Christ So Paul says again, he's not just an attorney, he's a judge, and he says, objection overruled. Here's a third one. This one's really crazy. But it's funny that Paul deals with these crazy objections because if you've had conversations with friends who aren't Christians Sometimes they just throw anything they can at you. It's like, that's not a sincere objection. You're just trying to be argumentative. And that's what it seems like is going on in verses 5 to 8. In a nutshell, the third objection Has a Jew saying, if our faithlessness highlights God's faithfulness Then why should God condemn us? Alright, let's read it and then I'll we'll we'll sort it out. So verse 5 to 8. Verse 5 to 8. Okay. Adolescence. Okay. Alright. But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? I speak in a human way. By no means. For then how could God judge the world? But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come, as some people slanderously charge us with saying Their condemnation is just. Alright, let me try to summarize that. So the objection is if my sin and unrighteousness puts God's righteousness on display, why should he condemn me? Why should he get mad at me? It seems like God should be thanking me for providing a backdrop against which his righteousness Can be more brilliantly displayed. So look at verse 5 again, you'll see that. Where am I? Verse 5. If our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness righteousness of God, what shall we say? Okay? So that's what we're saying. Hey, my they're saying If I sin, that's helping God to look good. It's helping his glory to shine all the brighter. So it's not fair then for God to punish sinners for something that works to his advantage. And Paul's response is that's just so crazy, that's just so foolish. I'm not going to answer you. The only thing he says in verse 6 Is that if your objection were valid, he says, then how could God judge the world? But he is going to judge the world because he is a righteous God. Then it's like Paul throws his brief on the table and he walks away and he says in the end of verse 8, their condemnation is just And so what to make of this? This a ridiculous objection, Paul doesn't deal with it. Just because somebody asked a question, if it's not or somebody has an objection to Christianity, doesn't mean you have to stay up all night trying to find an answer. if you don't think it's a sincere objection. Sometimes uh these objections are just smoke screens because people do not want to bow before Jesus Christ. What Jesus said, don't throw your pearls to swine. No matter what you say, some people are going to argue with you. You'll never satisfy them because they don't want to believe there's a God. They don't want to believe that Jesus Christ has a claim on their lives. And so Paul just says, you know, forget about you guys. That is not to say that everybody who's an unbeliever is like that, right? Some people who are unbelievers, they have sincere questions. And that's what we want, right? That's what we live for. That's what I I would think if I were to make a list of the most enjoyable, satisfying things that I do as a pastor is it's that time once every blue moon there's the non-believer and they have questions. I remember I was talking to a chick guy Chick fil A about a month ago he's calling me up out of the blue. I hope he shows up at church one day. He had a whole list of questions. And we went through them. And it wasn't like it wasn't contentious. He just wanted to know. And I just said, here's my understanding. And it was a very fruitful conversation. That's what we want, right? That's what we pray for. Because we want to engage people. We want to have friends who are unbelievers so that some once in a while Are those conversations will come up and I say to our young people, invite your friends to youth group, invite your friends to Sunday school That's how they get introduced to Christianity. They see other Christian young people. Hey, these people are nice. They're not snooty like the other people I see. You could be a great witness. A new kid comes to church. Welcome him, right? And so this is what we want. But anyway. So the mistake that the Jews made was that they rested on their privileges of being circumcised, of being God's chosen people, of having received The oracles of God. Many professing Christians are the same way. Are they not? I trust in my baptism. I trust in my church membership. I trust in my knowledge of the Bible. I know the Bible inside out. I know the Bible better than you know it. And so I'm trusting in that, and that's going to get me to heaven. So my question is this is your security found in the fact that you live under the umbrella of Christianity, or is your security in Jesus Christ? You recognize He is God and that He died for your sin and you're genuinely resting on Him and um looking to him as your king and as your savior. And again, young people, you know, are you taking for granted The good things that you have, because you are in a Christian home or you are in the church and you've been exposed to the teaching of Christ. And to his people. Don't presume on those things. Take, you know, you're busy, there's a lot of distractions, right? But take advantage of this privilege that you enjoy by saying, I'm going to start reading this book on my own. Every day, even if it's just a chapter, I'm going to start reading this book on my own. I'll take five minutes, ten minutes a day, and I'm just going to focus on God. And I'm going to pray him pray to him. And I want to know him. I just don't want to be a consumer of benefits in my home. But I want to be a spiritual self-starter, and I want to grow to be a godly man or a godly woman. Well let's bow our heads and pray. Lord, we do acknowledge, we confess that uh we all all of us we presume on the privileges privileges that you've given us and being part of the church and and having your word and having so much information about the gospel Help us, Lord, to treasure these things and to be responsible with them. I pray, Lord, for anybody here who's not a Christian. Just sort of going along with things. We pray you'll awaken them and work in them, bring them to faith in you. Help us, Lord, who have been Christians for many years and were sort of slack and slothful in spiritual things. Help us to be more diligent. Certainly pray as well for our young people that they will be spiritual self-starters. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.