So let's turn let's turn to Romans chapter six. Romans chapter six So for those new here, we're making our way through Paul's letter to the Romans, and we had a very challenging passage last week. Uh this morning the text is more manageable. So Romans six verses fifteen to twenty-three Paul asked the question, what then are we to sin because we are not under law, but under grace? By no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness But thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin had become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and having been set free from sin. have become slaves of righteousness. I'm speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations. For just as ye once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, leading to sanctification. When you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification. And its end, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life. In Christ Jesus, our Lord. Let us bow our heads. Father in heaven, now we do pray that by your Spirit we will have a clear understanding of this text. And it will lift our spirits. It will give us confidence that you're still working in us. And you will continue that work. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So the message of the gospel, right? Romans is about the gospel, the message of the gospel. We want to be clear on. You're saved by God's grace alone, not by anything you do. And God's grace is for the worst of sinners, right? You have to be clear on that. And that's why in chapter 5, verse 20, Paul said, where sin increased, grace increased all the more. Now Romans is a very tightly argued book, and in chapter six, Paul deals with objections. that people would raise to this emphasis that salvation is only on account of God's grace and there's nothing we do to contribute to our salvation. Because so Paul's raising this because church leaders in his day, some church leaders, were saying, Listen, Paul, if you teach that Christians are saved by God's grace and they don't have to do anything, that's going to lead them to be morally lax. How are we going to keep the Christians in line? And y and there are church leaders in our day who are a little bit uptight about this too, right? Say, listen, if you say that you're only saved by grace, then it's gonna lead to moral anarchy. They'll be singing, you ever hear that song? Uh free from the law, oh happy condition Now I can sin and still have remission. That's the concern. Okay? This is the objection that Paul raises in chapter, Paul answers in chapter 6. And he answers it in two parts. So you'll notice in verse 1 and verse 15, he says basically the same thing. Whoops, I lost some page here. Verse 1. Paul says, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. And then again in verse 15. What then are we to sin because we're not under law, but under grace? By no means. And so Paul asked the question twice because he's giving a two-pronged answer. And we looked at the first prong of his answer last week. And the first prong, verses 1 and 14, is we will not continue to sin. It's impossible for a true Christian, for someone who's been genuinely regenerated by the Spirit of God to continue to sin because God's grace not only justifies us, it not only declares us righteous But God's grace brings us into union with Jesus Christ. And so I said last week, a Christian is someone who is in Christ. You are united to Jesus Christ by faith. Verse 5. If we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. Remember John 15, Jesus said, I'm the vine, you're the branches. And so We are spiritually united to Jesus Christ. And so we cannot but be changed by the Holy Spirit. So that's the first thing he says, okay? The second reason, we will not continue in sin. Well, of course we're always going to sin, I'm not saying that, but we will not continue in a deliberate rebellious uh orientation, walking away from the claims of Christ on our lives. The second reason is that when you become a Christian You come under a new master. That's what Paul is going to argue in verses fifteen to twenty-three. And so you read this passage, and this is what happened to me over the past couple weeks. The first time I read it, it's like a blur. There's so much in there. How does this all fit together? But you keep reading it. And it comes together, not every detail, but you discover that this passage is about sanctification, right? Sanctification is God's work of shaping us more into the likeness of Jesus Christ. You could call it the Christianizing of the Christian. And the contribution that chapter six makes to the uh quest for Christian growth Is that it teaches that sanctification doesn't start with something that you do. It starts with something that you understand. In other words, God grows us in holiness as we recognize who we are in Christ. And that we endeavor to live our lives accordingly. Right? So verses one to fifteen You're in union with Jesus Christ. You have this new identity, right? That's why in verse 11 Paul said, consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God. Why? Because you have this new identity And then in verses 15 to 23, so the first thing, recognize your union with Christ. The second thing, verses 15 and 23, Recognize that, yeah, though we still struggle with sin, if we're in Christ, we are no longer slaves of sin. We now have a new master, we are slaves of God. So if you notice the outline, I didn't break it up by paragraph, but I broke it up by three themes that are covered in this passage. It speaks about two masters Two kinds of freedom and two results. So Paul's saying to his hearers, his readers, to us, if you're a Christian, you have a new master And you have true freedom, and because of this, you also have a glorious future. Okay? So, first of all, two masters, right? The Bible teaches There are no free agents, there are no people who are truly independent, but rather every single person on the face of the earth Is either under the rule of God or under the rule of Satan. Look at verse 16. Paul said, Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey? Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. Maybe you know the old Bob Dylan song? I think it's titled You Gotta Serve Somebody. I won't sing it, but it goes like this. You're going to have to serve somebody. It may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're going to have to serve somebody. And Paul says. If you're a slave to sin, then your master is Satan. You are in bondage to Satan. Look at verse 17. He says to these Christians. You who were once slaves of sin, verse 19, you once presented yourselves as slaves to impurity And so, Jesus Christ, what did he accomplish on the cross? Well, he accomplished our justification, but he also delivered us. He also redeemed us. Not so that, as I said, we would be independent, but rather, verse 22, so that we would now become slaves of God, and thus verse 18, slaves of righteousness. And so if you're a Christian, you're under a new master, you now have the resources to make progress in the Christian life. You are in the spiritual union with Jesus Christ. He's giving you his word, which in verse 17, the end of verse, he says he calls it the standard of teaching. So now we can make some progress. In a school of holiness. We're still battered by temptation. We still stumble regularly. But what Paul is saying is that we're no longer under the rule of sin. We're no longer under the dominion of sin. And so the upshot, Paul says to us, is that we should live day by day as those who are slaves to Jesus Christ. Look at the end of verse 19. Umops, wrong track. Um here we go. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity And to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. So that's what he's saying. Remember, remind yourself, have a little talk about, have a little talk with yourself. I am now under the rule Jesus Christ. You get up in the morning, you go to bed at night You need to have a talk with yourself. You're walking down the street. You have an encounter with a difficult person. You have this talk and you remember, listen. I can't just uh now do what I want. I can't just now fall into my old habits and my own reac my old reactions. I need to remember That Jesus Christ is my master. And I need to conduct myself accordingly. And he's a good master. I need to tell myself that too, right? So remember the saying about talk to yourself, don't do it out loud, it'll take you crazy. But you say, you know, if you're if you're in public, just say say it to yourself quietly, I have a new master. He's gracious. Remember in Matthew eleven, Jesus said Take my yoke upon you, learn from me. I'm gentle and humble in heart. You'll find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light So we're all under some master. It's either Satan or it's the Lord, and Jesus Christ is a true, a good master, and it's under his rule that we come into true freedom. Okay? So two masters, two kinds of freedom. Okay Here's here's what I conclude about why people reject Christianity. I don't think The masses of people reject Christianity because they think it's untrue. It's not because they've sort of read they've read the gospels and they've thought it through and they've examined other philosophies and religions And they said, ah, you know, it doesn't stack up. It's not true. Not many people reject Christianity for that reason. Most people, I believe, you can correct me if you disagree, I think most people reject Christianity not because they've dismissed it as untrue. But because they find it to be constraining. It takes away their freedom. Well, in a sense it does. But it depends on what you call freedom, right? Like Christianity takes away a superficial kind of freedom, it provides the only basis For true freedom, right? And the world's conception of freedom and the Bible's conception of freedom, they're two different things. So I want our young people to listen, okay? And I want you to tell me what kind of freedom is truly freedom, okay? So the world defines freedom as the absence of moral restraint. And Paul alludes to that in the end of verse 2. where he talks about being being free in regard to righteousness. It's like, I don't need to worry about doing the right thing. I could do what I want, because I'm free, right? I could have sex outside of marriage with whomever I want and move on to the next conquest. I can use my time and my money however I desire because it's mine. And there's no God and it doesn't matter what I do. I'm just going to make sure that I'm happy. And I'm going to sin. Well, they call it sin. But when I sin, I'm not going to feel guilty about it. Because there is no God. Now. Here's something you could tell your parents and say, What did you learn in the sermon today? You could say, I learned that the Bible teaches That sin is pleasurable. The Bible teaches that sin is pleasurable. In fact, Hebrews 11:25 speaks about the fleeting pleasures of sin. Okay? And that's what people want, right? They want they want their freedom. But here's the problem Sure it is. Why why would any of us sin, right? We we do what we want, not just sensual pleasures, but the way we deal with other people and the way we use our time. We do what we do because there's a there's a payoff, a short-term payoff. The problem the Bible teaches Is that these pleasures, uh, these benefits are superficial and they're short lived And that's why Jesus said in John 8. 34, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. And if you keep going down the road in in particular varieties of sin, you discover you're no longer free, but you're in bondage and you're miserable And there is no such thing as sin without guilt. And the guilt is crushing. Give an example. In the nineteen sixties, the sexual revolution was hailed as a as a liberating step. against the r uh Victorian repressiveness and being too uptight about the all things sexual And so, well, we asked the question then. It was liberating, but for whom was it liberating? Was it liberating for those who were just started? By a former partner, like they were an old shoe, as that person moved on to other conquests. Was it liberating for the fatherless fatherless children? Uh for the teenage mothers For those who are ravaged by venereal disease? Was it liberating for the one and a half million children who are aborted each year? Was it is it liberating for the women who have been through so many men that when they finally do get married, they're not able to form a j uh a a strong emotional connection? To the man they end up marrying. Is it liberating for the adulterer or adulteress who's lost his or her looks and ages ages ravaged them? And now they sit alone in a nursing home. And they're not visited by the kids that they left decades ago. So Pro as Proverbs 5. 11 says, they end their life with a groan. So this is not liberation, this is not freedom, but this is the world's conception of freedom that it's the absence of moral restraint. And the Bible teaches, but also experience teaches, that this kind of freedom is an illusion And it's a short-lived freedom. Okay, so that's one conception of freedom, the world's conception. The Bible defines freedom. Not as the absence of moral restraint, but as living under the rule of Jesus Christ. And that's how God designed human beings to live. Verse 22, he said, Paul said, You've been set free from sin. And have become slaves of God. And so, in a sense, to be a Christian is to be enslaved. Well, no, it's a good slavery. Um to be under the Lordship of Jesus Christ and to live according to his word is a good slavery. Verse 17, thanks be to God. You who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. And so, yeah, it's constraining in a sense, but in other sense, in a deeper sense, it's liberating because this is how God made us, right? Think about a skydiver. Anybody ever skydive? Okay. Good not a good idea, right? But but um You know, a skydiver can say, I want to be free of my parachute. The way Bear w drags on me, the straps are uncomfortable and constricting. Well Some foolish skydiver can say that, but most sky skydivers prefer the bondage of a parachute uh to the bondage of gravity. They just they just weigh things out Um how about a train if trains could talk, right? And they're minute talking train, but if they could or if there's one out there Maybe there's some trainer there that says, I want to be free from the tracks. You know, I want to go I want to go where I want to go, not where the tracks send me. Well, they could talk like that. But um when you're a train and you're on the tracks, at least you're going somewhere because that's how you were designed to operate. So my question to young people is Which version of freedom will serve you better in the long run? Which type of freedom will get you farther in life? And what Paul's saying in Romans seven Romans 6 is that true freedom is only to be attained in slavery to Jesus Christ. And that's what he said in the end of verse 19. Present yourselves as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. Okay? So when I would endeavor to put myself under the rule of Jesus Christ and submit to him That leads to my growth in holiness. Okay? And he says, present yourselves. And so there is something we should do, right? We don't just we're not passive about it This is a call to self-denial and to personal exertion. I presented myself to Jesus Christ, and we don't want to do it just because we feel oppressed By guilt, but it has to be from the heart. And in fact, in the end of verse 17, Paul said, You've become obedient from the heart. to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. And so it's not just this outward conformity, but you understand who Jesus is, you recognize his goodness, his kindness, that he has your best interests at heart. And so you endeavor to know him and to follow him. And so two kinds of freedom. Which freedom's real, which freedom's true? Which freedom's useful in the long run? So G. K. Chesterton had this comment. He said, The more I consider Christianity The more I found that while it established rule and order, the chief aim of that order was to give room for good things to run wild. So that's brilliant. You think about how it applies to marriage, right? You restrain yourself before you married? Why So that you so that good things can run wild. Uh you work hard, your studies, and um in your job, why So that when you have a family, by God's grace, you can support them and you have a little bit of liberty. But you can apply it to every area of life. And so Christianity is not constricting. It's really freeing. Two results briefly. So this is the third point. The two results of these uh living under these two masters, um bondage to sin, right? And so disobedience is a downward spiral. Look, you see that in verse the end of verse 19. Paul speaks about Lawlessness leading to more lawlessness. Right? It's a downward spiral. The enslavement becomes more constricting As you rebel against Christ's claim on your life. And it's really merciless, right? As you get older and you see people and the choices they made, and you and a lot of people are really miserable Years ago I took a youth group when I was pastor from North Carolina up to Appalachia on a mission trip, went in this little country church, and I remember that Preacher in a sing song voice, he said, Sin will take you further than you want to go, and it'll cost you more than you want to pay, and it'll keep you longer than you want to stay. And that's the bitter fruit. So it'll lead to bondage in this life. And then Paul says, in the end, it will lead to death, to eternal damnation. So verse 21, but what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you're now ashamed? And then yeah. What kind of fruit? You know, how's that working out for you, he's saying? Then he says, The end of those things is death, damnation. And then in verse 23, well, we have a friend who uh she cleans houses some, and she cleans how the house of a lady who has Alzheimer's. She usually cleans her first floor And then one lady one one day the lady said, Well will you clean a second floor t uh this week as well? And she cleaned it. And then when our friend went to get paid The lady didn't pay her for the second floor because she'd forgotten she'd asked her to do that. And so she didn't pay the promised wages. But the Bible says sin will always pay its wages. It may not be today, it may not be tomorrow, but you can be certain. And what are the wages of sin? Verse 23. The wages of sin is death. And so the first result, or the result of following Satan as your master, Is bondage and death. If you submit yourself to Jesus Christ, the outcome is a freedom of holiness. And eternal life. And so in verse 16, he speaks about the slavery of obedience that leads to righteousness. Now, if I say, hey, you should follow Jesus Christ, because that's gonna make you to be a righteous person. Most Christians aren't salivating. Oh, I want to be a righteous person. I want to be happy. I want to be fulfilled. I want to be spiritual. But the Bible well, that's all good. But the Bible also says it's noble to want to be righteous, to want to be upright, to want to be holy. Well that sounds sort of stuffy. I don't want to be an old stuff shirt. Come across as one of those people are fooling themselves and well no, that's not biblical godliness. That's not true righteousness, right? You meet somebody who's truly righteous. They're humble, right? They're interested in you. They're not interested in how they come across. They're kind. They're gracious. They're pleasant to be around, right? They're they're not just all about themselves, they're not turning on themselves. That's what that's what biblical righteousness is. This is the kind of person We want we should aspire to be, Lord. So it's good to pray that. Lord, make me to be a righteous woman. Make me to be a righteous man. Robert Murray-McShane, the old or the pastor back in the eighteen hundreds. He prayed, Lord, make me as holy as a pardoned sinner can be made. So that's a great aspiration. Maybe we need to think about that a little more. I want to be upright. I want to be holy. I want to be righteous. And it calls for some exertion. The end of verse 19 present your members as slaves to righteousness, leading to sanctification. And then in the end, you enter into eternal life. Verse 22 But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end. eternal life. Okay? So excuse me, the wages of sin is death But salvation isn't something you earn. It's not a wage. Rather, it's a free gift from God. It's not a reward for what you did. But it's a gift that God grants to the undeserving. So in other words, if you're Christian All is well. You have a good future. This disappointments now, discouragements, discouragements now. Not to worry. In the end, you're good. And so We're constantly bombarded by temptations, we're constantly being deceived By the messages out there. And so Paul's saying, remind yourself of what it means to be a Christian. You are united to Jesus Christ. He is changing you. You cannot but change. And you have a new master. And so you have hope. We have hope. of now making progress, we still stumble, we fall, we succumb to temptation regularly. Nonetheless, now we can make some progress. And we want to use all the means that God's provided, right? You read Romans 6 this afternoon. You remind yourself who you are. So you stay in the Word. Pray, Lord, help me to remember who I am. Stay in fellowship with other Christians. So we use all the means that God's given us. And we will make progress. We will make we're not, you know Who knows how it'll turn out in the end, end of our lives, but we will make some progress. So I was reading about John Newton, many of you many of you are familiar with. But yeah, before his conversion, he blasphemed God, and he was involved in the atrocities of the African slave trade, a very vile, vile man. But then he was converted, he was saved, right? And he said, I never want to forget my redemption in Jesus Christ. And so in his study, he had a board And he printed on that board the words of Deuteronomy 15, verse 15. Thou shalt remember That thou wast a bondman. In other words, you were a slave. Thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeem thee. Yeah. If you're a Christian, remember that. You were once in bondage, but now you've been redeemed, and now you're under a new master, a good master. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you that you've come to us in your Son Jesus Christ. He's liberated us, He's given us the Holy Spirit. To work in us, to change us more and more into his likeness. Help us not to live as those who are still under Satan's rule. Help us to live as those who are under your rule. Help us to submit to your rule gladly. Help us, Lord, to remind ourselves that we can now make progress. You're with us. You're changing us. I pray for our young people that they won't be deceived by this superficial idea of what freedom is. But that they will endeavor to find true freedom that is in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.