Outline the focus of this psalm. Let's start right from the top and let me tip you off. What's the focus of Psalm 23? Well The focus of Psalm 23 is the focus of all the Psalms. And the focus of all the Psalms is Jesus Christ. How do we know that? Well, it's because Jesus teaches us how to read the Old Testament. For example, after Jesus rose from the grave in Luke 24, verse 44 Jesus is walking down the road with a couple disciples, and he says, and Luke says that every or excuse me, Jesus said Everything written about me in the law of Moses, that's the first five books of the Old Testament, and the prophets. And the Psalms must be fulfilled. Jesus said the Psalms are about Him. One of the great scholars of the Psalms, Derek Kidner, he provides a helpful insight in how to read the Psalms. He said, whenever David or the Davidic king appears in the Psalter, he foreshadows In some degree, the Messiah. David wrote many of the Psalms and other kings and whatnot. But You don't get Psalm 23 until you recognize that Psalm 23 is about the Messiah. Let me just say something else here by way of introduction. This becomes apparent when you see how the Psalms are connected. And I'm just going to give three Psalms, Psalm 22, 23, or sorry, yeah, 22, 23, and 24, okay? But really they're part of a larger set of Psalms, Psalms 20 to 24, are all Psalms about God's King. Okay? King David foreshadowing the greatest King, Jesus Christ. But I just want you to notice how Psalm 22 Psalm Psalm 23 and 24 are all about Jesus. Because I don't want you to think I'm making this up or that I'm reading into Psalm 23. So look at Psalm 22, for example. That's a psalm about David's affliction and his persecution, but really it points forward to Jesus' suffering and death, because things said of David in the Psalm were just figurative. But they were fulfilled literally in Jesus Christ. Psalm 22, verse 1. David says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Who said that, right? Jesus said it on the cross. Psalm 22, verse 7. All who see me mock me, they make mouths at me, they wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord, let him deliver him, let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Have we heard that somewhere else? Yeah, right? Matthew 27, when Jesus was on the cross, his enemies uh made those very comments about him. Psalm twenty-three, verse eighteen, or verse uh sixteen, the bottom of the verse They have pierced my hands and my feet. Did David ever have his hands and his feet pierced? No, it's pointing forward to Jesus. Verse 18 then They divide my garments among them, and from my clothing they cast lots, fulfilled in John chapter 19, verse 24. So, Psalm 22 is about Jesus. Let's go to Psalm 24, okay? That's a psalm about David being anointed king of Israel, but ultimately it again points to Jesus Christ. So Psalm 24, for example, verse 3. David asked the question, who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false. Alright. Who has clean hands and a pure heart? Anybody here? No. King David? No. There was only one, right? Jesus Christ. Psalm 24 is pointing forward to Jesus. And then in verses 7-8. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? Well again, it's pointing forward to the final king who is victorious over sin and Satan and death. The only reason I bring this up is because I'm trying to make a case that when you read Psalm 23, you need to recognize that first and foremost This psalm is also about Jesus Christ. David was the shepherd king of Israel, but he also had a shepherd God. Jesus was a shepherd, but he was also a lamb, right? Remember John the Baptist? The first time he saw Jesus, what did he say? Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And so we can look at Jesus as our shepherd. as is the case in John chapter 10. But Psalm 23 tells us we should also look at Jesus Christ as the Lamb who trusted his shepherd father. And so King David, in other words, was the type of King Jesus. That's the way the old 4th century, 5th century theologian Augustine called Jesus the singer of the Psalms. And so when David, here's where we're going. When David speaks in Psalm 23, he is voicing the words of Jesus. And so we're going to look at this psalm. I'm going to make comments here and there. And we're going to see that in this psalm it speaks about Jesus trusting his Father his good shepherd. And after we do that, after we make that simple connection on each point, we're going to proceed. To say, yay, here are ways where we need to trust our Father in heaven, who likewise is our shepherd. You with me? All right. Well here we go. So like I said, this psalm is Teaching us that we need to trust God. The first thing we learn here in the Psalm verse one is that our God will supply all of our needs. And so verse 1, David says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Okay? Well, how do we see that about Jesus? Well, his entire life was really a testimony that he trusted his father's will. Think about when he went out in the wilderness, right? Satan tempted him. He said, if you do this, you'll be okay. And Jesus said, No, I'm going to trust that my Father in heaven has the best course for me to follow. He will supply all my needs. And that's what we want to learn too. That's what we want to remind ourselves of, that our Father in heaven will care for the most minute concerns that we have. So in June, Becky and I uh we went to England, Scotland, and Ireland. It was a bus tour, two weeks on a bus with 50 strangers. But we got spent most of the time in Ireland, and it's fascinating, it's really green for those who've never been there, and there are these big mountains. And there are hardly any mountains that have trees. They were cut down hundreds of years ago. So you have these tall mountains and these beautiful hillsides, and they're all covered with grass Johnny Cash wrote a song titled Forty Shades of Green, because there's so many different shades of green in Ireland, it's so beautiful. And All just about every hillside and every mountain is populated by sheep And I thought, I think there's more sheep than people in Ireland. And then I Googled it. And I was right. I don't know why I Googled it, I'm always right. But um but I Googled it, and that's true. There are more sheep than people in Ireland. And all these sheep are under the care of shepherds. That's a lot of sheep. I think there's over five billion sheep in Ireland. And I scratch my head and I wonder, how could anybody dedicate their lives to caring for such stupid animals? But once Scotsman told me, he said, you know what? Shepherds just love their sheep. That's what makes a good shepherd. Shepherds just love their sheep. And this Psalm puts on display a God who is completely committed to his people. He takes care of all needs. Look at the Psalm. He makes me lie down. In other words, He offers us rest. He leads me. He restores my soul. He's with me through the dark valleys. He prepares a table before me What I want you to notice is oftentimes we say, hey, we're Christians. We need to be committed to God. Psalm 23 turns that around. And it goes on public record and says, sure, we need to be committed to God, but the bigger message of the Bible is that God is committed to his people. Romans 8. 32. How do we know he's committed? He who did not spare his own son. But gave him up for us all. How will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? And so, if the Lord is your shepherd Then you can be sure that He will supply all your needs. Here's a second thing this Psalm tells us in verses 2 and 3. Your shepherd God will restore you. So verse two He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leaves me beside still waters. He restores my soul. And when David says my soul, he's talking about myself, my life. Okay? Well We see that certainly in Jesus Christ. It says, for example, in Mark chapter 1, verse 35, very early in the morning while it's still dark, Jesus departed and went out to a desert place, a desolate place, and what did he do? He prayed. He recognized his dependence on his Father in heaven. And then you think about the crucifixion and the resurrection. What did the Father do? The Father restored Jesus life. Well, how does our Father in heaven restore us? Well, on the most fundamental level, we'd say He breathed spiritual life into us when we were dead, right? We were completely spiritually dormant. And it says in Ephesians 2, You were dead in your trespasses and sins, but God, being rich in mercy, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive in Jesus Christ. And so he brings us spiritual life. He restores us in that respect. But also, God, our shepherd father, restores us when we stray. David could speak on some authority about this, right? Remember what did he do? He committed adultery. with Bathsheba, and then he had her husband Uriah sent to the front lines of the war or of the battle so that he would be struck down and killed. That's exactly what happened And then in the year following that scandal, David tried to hide his sin, but he was miserable, right? You see that in Psalm 32. He kept up his appearances. It wasn't well with his soul. He said in Psalm 32, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. Why? For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, and my strength was dried up, as by the heat of summer. And David realized, This is miserable. This is never going to go away And so in Psalm 51, he prays this devastating prayer of repentance. And what happened? God forgave him, right? God restored him. And so here's a promise to every Christian that when you fall away Don't stay away. Acknowledge your sin to the Lord. Ask his forgiveness if you need to go to somebody, if you've offended them, deal with that as well. And God always promises to forgive. Um your conscience, uh where we're convicted, right? We have consciences and we have the scripture that really prods our consciences. And so that's good. That's from God, right? He's trying to get our attention that we might repent, that we might be made right with Him. But then also He's put us inside the church, He's put us within a community of believers And this too is good, right? It's awkward, it's embarrassing when we do something uh grievous, others find out about it. But it's part of God's process for helping us grow, for growing us not only individually, but growing us as a body of believers. It says Matthew 18, right, Matthew 18, 15, set to 17, it says, if your brother sins against you, what do you do? Call the pastor, let him take care of No. It says, um if your brother sins against you, you go to him one on one. If he won't listen, then you go two on one. And so our goal here is not to nail one another, but our goal is to help one another grow in in integrity. and in walking with Jesus Christ. Even church discipline, even the final step of church discipline, when someone's excommunicated from the church The goal is their restoration. And so that's why it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 4, you put this man out in the world, you hand him over to Satan. Why? It says So that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. And so even that drastic step of excommunication from the Church of Jesus Christ. has as its end the desire to get somebody's attention and to restore them to fellowship with Jesus Christ into fellowship with his people. And so the lesson here is if God's a good shepherd, he's looking out for us, he's seeking to restore us when we fall. then uh we need to we need to be humble uh before him. In at times uh we need to be humble before one another. And think about the Lord's table, right? What is a Lord's table but a feast, a banquet? By which restored sinners can come into fellowship with their host, their King, Jesus Christ. and sit in his presence. Not only his presence, right, but with one another. And that's what Jesus Christ is. He receives sinners and he eats with them. It says in Luke chapter 15. So here's something to think about. Is there an area where that excuse me that I'm not dealing with, but I should be dealing with, because I need to be restored to right fellowship with my God. Well, it should be easy for us to turn back because he promises to us that he will receive us He will restore us. And Jesus said himself in John 6, whoever comes to me, I'll never drive away. If you're not a Christian, right? Here's looking at it at a different level. If you're not a Christian, you can know that Jesus Christ will receive you. He receives sinners and he eats with them, right? And all of us at one point were outside the kingdom, but he's brought us to himself. He promised to restore us, and he has. Here's something else. And I think this is important for our young people because you have all kind of questions about your future. How will I know where to go to school or who to marry or what to do for a living? Okay? God's gone a public record, and He said, He will guide you throughout your life. Verse 3, the second part of the verse. David says about his shepherd God, he leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's shape, for his name's sake. Okay? We certainly see that in Jesus Christ. You think about John's gospel. Jesus had this sense that he would go to the cross in a couple years, okay? John chapter 2, when it was he thought people were pressing him to disclose his identity, and Jesus said, My time has not yet come. Then the same thing in John chapter fift uh thirteen. Jesus knew that his now that his hour had not yet come to depart this world. But there did come an hour that there cut there did come the day when Jesus knew this would be the hour when I will be arrested, when I will be crucified And so Jesus Christ trusted that his Father was a shepherd who would guide him in the right paths. And we can know. If you're a Christian, God promises He'll guide you. You see this throughout the book of Proverbs. If you are walking with God, if you're endeavoring to honor Him, You cannot go down the wrong path. You will go down difficult paths, but you will not go down the wrong path. And in verse 3, David says two things about the way that God guides us. First of all It says, or David says, He guides me in paths of righteousness. So God will never lead us to do something. That is out of conformity to his moral will. Okay? I've had Christians say, hey, I'm going to marry uh this guy or this gal. They're not a Christian, but I prayed about it, and the Lord's Lord's I know the Lord's leading me in that direction. No? God would never lead you to Mary, some of you is an unbeliever. God will never lead you to lie or to cheat or to steal But I'm going to tie the money to the building fund. That's a wonderful idea, but we know that God will never lead us in a path that is not righteous And so uh he guides us in paths not of comfort, not of ease, not to have all our desires met. But it guides us in paths of righteousness, and some of those paths, David says, are even through that dark valley of the shadow of death. The second thing about God's guidance Is that in the end of the day, God always guides us in paths paths in paths That are for his name's sake. In other words, for his honor, for his glory. And so God will lead us down different roads. He has his purposes. And in the end of the day It's not just so that we can feel good or that we can be happy or that we can be comfortable, but it's so that He will be honored by our following His guidance. So if the Lord's your shepherd, David says it right here, he's going to guide you. If the Lord's your shepherd David says, he'll always be with you, he'll never leave you, he'll never forsake you. Look at verse 4. And if you struggle with loneliness, this is a great verse. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Jesus could certainly say that, right? During his arrest, during his trial, his crucifixion. And we could say that as well. The valley of the shadow of death, you could also call that the valley of deep the valley of deep gloom, the valley of dense darkness. And people here can say, yeah, I remember that valley, or maybe you're in that valley, right? A marital struggle, a divorce. Death in the family, a chronic sickness in you, or in somebody you love, a wayward child, or just depression. That's the dark valley. And God says, I will be with you. Sometimes you feel alone, right? The Puritans call it the, what do they call it? The dark night, the dark night of the soul. Sometimes we feel alone, but God promises that He will be with us. And if you look back on your life, You could probably look back and say, yeah, you know what? That was that was a bitter experience. But even then, either during the trial or coming out of it, You might be able to say, yeah, I realize that God was with me. And I could think about like unexpected death when it came to our family, broken engagement. Uh she dropped me. I was crushed. But even during those times, it's like no There's this sense that God assured me of His presence and of His providence. It doesn't mean I was just whistling and skipping, but I had this sense. This is why I say to our young people, It's really good to memorize the Bible. Psalm 23. You say, I don't need it now. You don't need it now. But you're going to need it someday. And so weave it into your heart. And this will remind you: God is always with you. Here's the final thing, point five. If the Lord is your shepherd, he will invite you to his royal banquet. Verses five and six. So there the image sort of changes from shepherd to host. David says, You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You go to Revelation 19. Look at it this afternoon. There's this great banquet that Jesus Christ will be the head of, okay? God will make good on that promise to Jesus Christ. He will be at a royal banquet table, and his enemies will look on. And if you're a Christian, you are invited to that feast. In Revelation 19. 9 says, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Reckon I have a foretaste of that in the Lord's Supper. Doesn't seem like much of a banquet, right? A little plastic cup with some juice in it, a little some kind of uh bread material. Um It's like but it's just a token. It's just a it's just a foretaste. But in the ancient world People would have these meals together to seal an oath of friendship. And that's what the Lord's Supper is. For reenacting God's covenant commitment to us, where God says, I'll be your God, and we respond by saying, and I will be your one of your people. And so Jesus Christ, if you're a Christian, he invites you to this banquet table. In other words, he invites you to deeper fellowship with himself And at this table, he confirms his promises to us. So we see King David. He trusted the Lord would be his shepherd. Jesus Christ trusted that his Father would be his shepherd. They both trusted God to supply their needs, to restore them, to guide them, to abide with them. And to one day prepare a royal banquet for them. And the good news is that we have the same shepherd God. And so if you're a Christian, if you're not a Christian, you need to become a Christian, but if you're a Christian You can own the words of David in verse 6, where he affirms, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And so lift up your head. Be encouraged. God is for you. Let's bow our heads. We thank you, Lord, uh, for this familiar uh psalm. And we pray, Lord, that we would know the Psalm, but we'd also embrace all these great promises, and that you would teach us to trust you. I pray for our young people who live in a world where there's so many false messages, and they think they can think that they're alone in this world. I pray for them that they would trust in you, that you'll guide them, that you'll always be with them. I pray for those whose hearts are heavy. who are lonely, who are have faced various setbacks in their families and in other areas of their lives I pray for them that you'll sustain them, strengthen them, and build up our faith in you. And I pray, Lord, for those who are unbelievers and who have yet to bow before you, I pray, Lord, that they would Trust in you as their savior, as the as a savior of their souls, and find forgiveness. And also uh find the companionship of you as their shepherd. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.