So let us turn to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter four. So we just covered seven letters that Jesus uh gave as a prophecy. And that's what Revelation is. Well it's a it's a letter, it's an epistle, like the New Testament epistles, but it also says in chapter 1, the first two verses, that it's a prophecy. And prophecies don't merely foretell the future, but they foretell God's word to his people. And Revelation is a prophecy in both of those respects. So this morning we're in chapter four I'd ask you to turn there. We have to, you don't know what I'm talking about. If you can't refer to the text, so please keep your Bible open. If you don't have a Bible with you, pull it up on your phone, Revelation chapter 4. So John, to whom this revelation was given, writes in chapter four: After this I looked, and behold, the door standing open in heaven. And the first voice which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on a throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. And around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones. And seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads From the throne came flashes of lightning, and rumblings, and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind. The first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight And the four living creatures, each of each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within And day and night, they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever, the twenty-four elders fall down before him, who is seated on the throne, and worship him Who lives forever endeavor. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. Now let me remind you of something that I've mentioned a couple times along the way, because really I would say this is the interpretive key to understanding the book of Revelation. You need to remember that this book or this letter was written to assure oppressed and persecuted Christians in the first century that God does rule over history And in the end, Jesus Christ and his people will prevail. Right? These Christians were living in in Asia Minor. Asia Minor? Well it's not like I'm southern here. Asia Minor? Asia Minor. And um so this is present day uh Turkey. It was a pagan society. These people were or the culture in general was hostile toward Christians And as we noted, many of these Christians were now unable to make a living because they you had to be a part of a trade guild, and each guild had its pagan god or goddess that was sort of the patron of that guild and so they were losing their opportunities uh to make a livelihood. Some were being tortured And some were being, and this would ramp up in the years to come, would be martyred on account of their allegiance to Jesus Christ. And it was in the face of such persecution that these beleaguered Christians were asking and understandably asking the question Where is God in all of this? Are we not his people? Have we believed in Jesus Christ in vain? And in this revelation that Jesus delivered to the Apostle John And John himself was in exile, right? He was on a uh a penal colony, the island of Patmos, it says in the first chapter. John reminds us As he reminded them that God is where he's always been. He's on his throne, and he reigns, and he rules over all things And as the great king, God not only rules over history, but he is the center of history. And that's what chapters 4 and 5 are about. And so when you face temptation, when you encounter the hostility of an unbelieving world, which I suspect we will more and more in the years to come What we need more than anything is a fresh revelation of God's greatness and of God's glory. And the message here is that if we could begin to understand and fathom the greatness of God, if we could be reminded of his sovereign rule over history and over the events of our lives, then our problems Would take on an entirely new perspective. And so that is the value of the passage we're going to look at this morning, the next week, chapter 5. But as we begin, we look in verse 1, we see a summons to view God on his throne in heaven. We used to have church hikes. We should do that again, especially as it gets a little bit cooler. We would go up to Gambrel Park and whoever would come would come And imagine we're going on a church hike up the Gambrel Park, going up the hill, and then one of the teenagers runs, they see this uh stone uh perch That looks over the city of Frederick. And I could just picture one of our young people running up there. And here we are, the older people, we're sort of trudging along now, wiping our brow But one of the one of the teenage guys like a gazelle just jumps up there on that perch and he yells to the crowd, the rest of us trudging And he says, come up here. And so we come up here, we walk up on that concrete perch, and we look out over the city of Frederick, and because it's so high, we can see from miles. Well, that is akin to what Jesus summons the Apostle John to do in verse 1. Jesus says, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. So it's interesting. We were for a number of weeks in chapters 2 and 3, the letters to the seven churches in Asia Minor, and those letters concerned the present. Now you get to chapter 4, and really chapter 4 to just about the end of the book of Revelation concerns the future for God's people. Now when I say the future, I'm not talking merely about the remote future, the distant future, but the immediate future for these Christians in the first century. And really what we're going to see in Revelation. It's the same thing happens over and over, down through history. What happened to these Christians happens to Christians down through time. There is this conflict between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Satan. And so, but when John wrote to these first century Christians, He wasn't saying, hey, I'm going to show you what's going to happen 3,000 years down the road or however far the end the end of the end will be. But he's saying, I'm going to show you what is to come in your future and also down through history. And so what we have here Is an invitation to view history from the perspective of God's throne. And I want to point out that this is not the only place in Scripture that reveals God sitting on his throne. Right? We just read Ezekiel chapter 1. That was the call to Ezekiel. And then in Isaiah chapter 6, Isaiah's call to be a prophet. Both these prophets received the vision of God in his heavenly temple, of which the earthly temple was merely a shadowy replica. These prophets saw God in his heavenly temple, seated upon his throne, high and exalted. And so in verse 1 John is reminding us that God is indeed on that throne. And so what we're going to now look at for the brunt of our time We're going to ask the question, what does this chapter, what does this vision disclose to us about God? We'll make a couple applications along the way, and then we'll have two final applications. Okay? So what we have before us is a vision of God's greatness And I mentioned there are other apocalyptic uh type books in this scripture, Daniel, Ezekiel And one of the traits of apocalyptic, and I said this way back in May, is that it's full of vivid imagery and it uses numbers symbolically. And you want to remember this? Apocalyptic writing is more impressionistic than realistic, right? It's like looking at some painting by a wild uh artist More like that, then it would be like looking at a photograph. And so it's vivid. There's a lot of use of very powerful imagery And so when we read in chapter four about God on a throne, we should not picture a physical, material throne We should not picture 24 literal thrones around that throne, just as in chapter 5, when it describes Jesus Christ as a lamb With seven horns and seven eyes. We would have to say, well, that would have to be imagery. But Revelation uses imagery Because words are inadequate to describe to us God's glory. And so that's why it uses this kind of imagery. And now to say that it's using imagery is not to say that it's not telling us true things about God. It's telling us true things. We just have to recognize that this is not to be taken literalistically. It's to be taken uh literally, but according to the type of literature it is. What are some of the things that we learn about God in this passage? And even to do an exposition on this passage, this passage is like an honors lecture. at Harvard, and we're kindergartners trying to grasp what it says. Well what do we learn though? Well some of the contours are pretty clear. We learn about God's sovereignty. Look at verse 2. John writes that once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. Now it's interesting And I didn't count this up, I read this in a commentary by one of the great Revelation scholars, Leon Morris. He made the observation That the word throne is found in the New Testament 62 times. Forty-seven of those occurrences are found in the book of Revelation. And so there's only fifteen other occurrences of the word throne in the rest of the New Testament. And so this tells us that the concept or the theme of God on his throne is a central theme in the book of Revelation. Now, why is that? Why does Jesus put such emphasis when he discloses this to John that God is on his throne? Leon Morris, I think he nailed it. He said, John's readers were troubled by all that Caesar's throne meant. John will not let them forget that there is a throne above every throne. And you need to remember that too. The real center of power in the world is not in Washington. It's not in Beijing. It's not in Moscow. But the true center of power in the world resides where it has always resided And that is with God, who is on his throne and who reigns and rules over all. And it's no accident That chapters four to five describe God on his throne, and then when you get to chapter six, We're given a description of the trials and tribulations that God's people face and will face. And so this is to alert the reader that all things that happen, all the things that are going to happen in your life and down through history are according to God's sovereign plan. Look at the end of verse 1. Jesus doesn't say to John, notice, he doesn't say, I will show you what will take place. That he doesn't say what will take place. He says, I will show you what must take place. If he were saying to show you what will take place, that could be just taken as a statement of Jesus' foreknowledge. Here's what's going to happen. Well, foreknowledge isn't very helpful, but determination is very helpful. So John says, I will show you what must take place. So there's some comfort in that. It tells us God is working at all things in history according to his sovereign purpose. And that's why we could say, as we said when we read the uh Heidelberg Catechism, that because God rules over all We can be patient when things go against us, thankful when things go well, and for the future We can have good confidence in our faithful God and Father that nothing will separate us from his love. And so we see God on his throne. We see the statement of his sovereignty. Then here's something else. We see in this passage, or I should say we learn about his unfathomableness, his inscrutability. And the reason I say that is that John says, I saw God on his throne, but he doesn't describe God's features. He can. He words are uh like I said before, words are inadequate to convey the glory of God. So John The only thing in his arsenal is similes. And so in the end of verse 3, what is he saying not much he says about God He who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. And so isn't this interesting? And this is how how God is described throughout the Bible. Whenever somebody sees God, Moses, and I think it's Exodus 32 or 33, Isaiah 6:1. When Isaiah saw God, God disclosed himself to Isaiah in a vision. Isaiah just says, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up And the only thing he gives of his description, this is Isaiah 6. 1, is this. The train of his robe filled the temple. Why doesn't he say more? He's not capable of describing what he saw. Exodus 24, verses 9 and 10. Moses, Aaron, and the elders of Israel They saw God up on Mount Sinai. But the only detail or the only description that is given is that the pavement under God's feet was like sapphire. So God is inscrutable. That's a great word for the kids. God is inscrutable. We cannot fully comprehend his glory. Now that's different from saying we cannot comprehend anything about God. I'm not saying that. We can know true things about God. Not because we're s spiritual people and we have great insight, but because God has condescended, He has chosen to reveal Himself or to disclose Himself to us And so in the Bible, we're told true things about God. We're just not told everything about God. And so we have true knowledge, but not exhaustive knowledge. And so we see in Revelation 4 a picture of God's sovereignty, a picture of his unfathomableness. And perhaps more than anything else, we see a picture of God's holiness. His throne is guarded by four cherubim. Look at the end of verse 6. Around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. The first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight, and the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night. They never cease to say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Now it doesn't say in this text that these are cherubim, but we read Ezekiel 1, and then you go to Ezekiel 10, verse 20, and it tells us that these uh the the creatures similar To the creatures here were indeed angels or cherubim. And uh one of the commentators, William Hendrickson uh said that these creatures are these creatures are described as being in strength like the lion In ability to render service like an ox, in intelligence like man, and in swiftness like the eagle, ever ready to obey God's commandments and to render service. That's a reasonable interpretation, but it's just an interpretation, right? Because the Bible doesn't say man represents this and the ox represents that. But I think that's a reasonable interpretation, at least a tentative interpretation. And then these creatures were saying, verse 8, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Again, remember what I said? All the prophets rendezvous in the book of Revelation This is the quotation from Isaiah 6, verse 2, where the angels around God thrown in Isaiah's vision said the same thing, holy, holy, holies, Lord God Almighty. In the Hebrew language, they don't have superlatives. They can't say God is the greatest or the most holy of all. They can only repeat something for emphasis. And so in the Hebrew they would say, holy, holy, holy. And of all God's attributes, it's only his holiness that is raised to the power of three, to convey to us, I suspect, that we must recognize and respect Above all things, the fact that God is a holy God. And so we see He's holy, and also He's powerful In verse eight he's called the Lord God Almighty. Verse five, his throne is surrounded by flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, an illusion I suspect uh to God's uh the thunder and the lightning on Mount Sinai in Exodus chapter nineteen. A theme also conveying his justice, his judgment. And at the same time in verse 4, we read about a rainbow around his throne. Which which goes back to Genesis nine sixteen. Remember the rainbow after the flood, a statement of God's covenant mercy to his people. So God is just, he's holy, but he also shows his mercy to the repentant. Just a couple more details, and then we'll we'll uh we'll make a a couple final points. At the end of verse 5, there were seven torches of fire. Says, which are the seven spirits of God. We saw this in earlier chapters representing the Holy Spirit. Verse 4, let me see, verse 4, around the throne were 24 thrones, and on the throne twenty-four elders clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. Why 24? Again, we can only take a stab at it because the Revelation does not provide an interpretive key. to say why it's 24. Uh uh most commentators would say, well there were twelve patriarchs overseeing the twelve twelve tribes of Israel. Then you had the twelve apostles in the New Testament church. So it seems like the New Testament Church and the Old Testament Church are combined in these representatives, these elders clothed in white garments. representing the holiness that Jesus Christ clothed them in. The crowns represent The victory that Jesus Christ gives them. And then one more point about this portrait of God in Revelation 4 is we see something of God's triumph. foretold, even before the book of Revelation unfolds. And that is in the sea of glass. And this is not a speculative interpretive point, but in verse 6 It says, before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass as crystal. Now, what is that about? Well, in the scripture, The tumultuous sea, the roaring waters, always are there to convey the powers of chaos and evil and death. And so remember the waters of the Red Sea, where in Psalm 107, the sea is lifting up its billows. Same thing, Psalm 46. Jesus walked on the waters, and then he calmed the waters. And so the the raging sea in Scripture always represents the chaos and the evil of this world. But a huge theme in Revelation that we're going to see again and again is the sea of glass to say that God prevails over the powers of chaos and evil and destruction. And this is an image that again is rooted in the earlier prophets. Exodus 24. 10 spoke about a pavement. of sapphire stone. Ezekiel 122. There was beneath God's throne an expanse shining like an awe-inspiring crystal. And then in the end of verse 10 it says that 24 elders cast their thrones, sorry, cast their crowns before the throne. Apparently, to acknowledge that their victory was granted to them by Jesus Christ. And so really it's it's a wonderful portrait of God. You know, it's the kind of passage you want to read again and again in the Christian life because this reminds you of of the reality. that we don't always think about. So just two final lessons. And what was the first lesson? First lesson is the obvious one. This passage reminds us of the greatness of God. And the portrait given in this passage of God is of an entirely different order. Of the casual, sentimental, and even flippant descriptions of God portrayed in popular Christianity. I want to want you to listen to what A. A. W. Pink said some decades ago. The God of this century No more resembles the sovereign of holy writ than does the dim flickering of a candle, the glory of the midday sun The God who was talked about in the average pulpit, spoken of in the ordinary Sunday school, mentioned in much of the religious literature of the day, is a figment of the human imagination, an invention of Maudlin sentimentality And the lesson of Revelation 4, for John's readers in the first century, and for Christians down through time, is what I said at the get-go. Is that when we have a clearer recognition of God's greatness and of his glory than our setbacks and our hardships? are going to take on a different perspective. Years ago, one of the best biographies I ever read is the biography of Martin Lloyd Jones by Ian Murray. It's huge, but it's well worth it. And I remember there was some pass uh part of that uh his biography where the uh where Murray talked about after one of the church services A lady came up to Martin Lloyd Jones and she said, My marriage is in terrible trouble. But I didn't need to hear a sermon on marriage this morning. I needed to hear a sermon about God and His greatness and His glory. And that's what you gave me. And so she expressed her appreciation to him. And of course, the Bible talks, gives us how-to passages. It tells us about marriage and relationships. And these things are very important, and the Bible speaks of these things. But I think nonetheless so there is such an emphasis on that in Christian writing and even in Christian preaching. In our day, that oftentimes we would be better served by discovering what God is like as he's revealed in Scripture What he's like, study his names, study his attributes, right? Remember that book, Knowing God, by J. I. Packer, a wonderful book about the character and attributes of God Learn his ways as we learn of the as he reveals them in Scripture. Even studying his commandments, the Ten Commandments, what are they? It's just the character of God set forth in the form of precepts. And then, of course, study Jesus Christ as he's revealed in the Gospels. And as he is explained in the epistles. And this is what God is like, right? The word became flesh. And so that there's no greater study than this study of God, Charles Spurgeon, when he was just 20 years old He stood in his pulpit and he said, There is in contemplating Christ a bomb for every womb, every wound. In musing on the Father, there is a quietus for every grief. And in the influence of the Holy Ghost, there is a balsam for every sore. And so he goes on, I know nothing which can so comfort the soul as a devout musing on the subject of the Godhead. And so behold the greatness of God. Study God. Make that your great passion to learn God as He's revealed Himself to us. Then the second final application I want to point out is that we see in this passage the God-centered character of Christian worship, the God-centered character of Christian worship. And the focus and much worship in our day is on the congregation, its preferences, its needs, what do they like, what are their needs, what'll keep them coming back, what will attend to their felt needs. And the preferences of the congregation, and I would say, especially in the past thirty years, have become uh the can the governing principle that determines the style of the music, the content of the preaching in the programs of the church But the worship of heaven, and this is the worship in which we join when we gather together on Sundays The worship of heaven is centered on God. What he told us about himself. How does he call us to worship him? And so we see that in this passage. Look at the end of verse 8. They were singing to God, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty Verse 11. This was about God. God's on the center of the stage. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. And so one of the telltale signs of biblical religion is that God is in the center. If you read a Christian book about the Christian life and it doesn't point you toward Jesus Christ, something is askew. If you go to a church service, And you're fascinated with the music or the charisma of the preacher. Something is askew. Because biblical religion has God in the center, right? We're tipped off to that from the very first sentence of the Bible. In the beginning, God The Bible ends. How does it end? It ends with God being worshipped on the throne. What does the Bible teach? All things exist for the glory of God. Romans 11, 36. From him, through him, to him, are all things to him be glory forever and ever So that should elevate our view of what we do when we meet in this metal building on Sunday morning. We're not merely gathered here to to be encouraged spiritually and to see one another, and it's a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful thing, Christian fellowship. to be encouraged by the the singing and whatnot. But we have to remember, we're not singing to God above, but rather Verse 1. John saw a door standing open in heaven. We enter through that door. Now I'm not just being poetic or something. If you this is the last thing I'm going to say. Hebrews 12, 22 to 23. Listen carefully, look it up later. Hebrews 12, 22. The writer says to Christians, He says, You have come to Mount Zion. So he doesn't say these Christians You're going to come, you will come to Mount Zion one day. You're going to come before God's throne. But he says to the Christians in their worship, you have come to Mount Zion. to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festival gathering. and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And so that is what our worship is. We are in the presence of God, together with his people, down through the generations who are in his immediate presence in heaven, but by the Spirit we're lifted up, and that's why we're endeavoring. to make our worship centered on God. So take heart, right? These early Christians, they heard that. They had this letter written to them. I bet you they were encouraged no matter what was going to come. And we should be encouraged too. Let's bow our hands. We thank you, Lord, that you have Made yourself known, and where we can only come to the edges of your ways. I pray, Lord, for those who are discouraged, those who are anxious, those who have a sense of dread about their lives, that they would remember That you do rule over all. You're gracious. You're holy. You've made a way for us to be numbered amongst your children. We thank you that you, the great God of the universe, here for us. And I pray, Lord, for those who aren't yet Christians, for those who doubt. We pray for them that they would see that all the Bible teaches is true and that they would come to believe that Jesus Christ is God incarnate the Savior of sinners. He welcomes all to himself, and he forgives all who repent and trust in him as their Savior. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let us sing holy, holy, holy. Right in the bulletin, let's stand.