In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Curinius was governor of Syria. It all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up to Galilee, from the town of Nazareth to Judea. to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary his betrothed, who was with child And while they were there the time came for her to give birth, and she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the end. Now what's striking about this passage and really about the whole Christmas story is the inauspicious entry uh by which God came into The world. Here we are in a remote corner of the Roman Empire in an unwed peasant girl. gives birth to a son. And if we didn't know the rest of the story, we think, well, this is just an an event of little consequence. But God's ways are not our ways. And what I want to underline Is that the common dismal circumstances surrounding Jesus' birth tell us a couple things? They remind us about God's ways and history. They underline how low Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, stooped to save us And they also remind us of man's, I would, I guess I could say, man's innate attitude toward Jesus Christ. Excuse me. So the first thing we want to look at, and I think I'm going to be spending the most time on this, just because I have to explain a couple things. We want to consider is point one God's sovereignty over worldly rulers. Now, our tendency when we read this passage, and most of us have heard this text hundreds of times. Our tendency is to pass over the historical context too quickly, but it is well worth noting. We read in verse 1 That a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. So it's just saying a decree went out that a census was to be taken. Caesar Augustus, he ruled from 30 BC to 14 A. D. So he had a long reign, 44 years His reign was glorious. His authority was absolute. He oversaw the expansion of many building projects and Toward the end of his reign, he boasted that he found Rome built of brick and left it in marble. He also strengthened the army. He created a navy. He improved the system of government in Rome in hope that he would be called the author of the best possible government. Caesar Augustus, he was the first man declared the emperor of the entire Roman Empire. And uh his original name had been Octavian, but he was renamed Augustus, which means the revered one. And when he died in A. D. 14, the Roman Senate declared him a god to be worshipped by the Romans. And an ancient inscription refers to Augustus as the savior of the world. And so Caesar Augustus was the most probably the most powerful man in history Up to that point, and he was widely regarded as the God and the Savior of the Roman Empire. But even the God and Savior of the Roman Empire could not collect taxes very efficiently unless he knew how many people resided in his empire. And what they were worth. And so every several years the emperor would have a census taken. And all he had to do was call for a census And every man in every province or every man in the province would have to return to the town of his birth. Whether it was a mile away or whether it was a thousand miles away. So he'd return to his hometown, the town of his ancestors. And he would register his name, his occupation, his property, and his relatives into the public register. And it so happened that as Mary was expecting, Caesar issued a decree. that one of these senses be taken. So let's go back and read again again verses three to verse five It says in verse 3, and all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth to Judea, the city of David. which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary his betrothed, who was with child. Hey think of all the times uh when the emperor would call for uh a census, it had to be at this time, right? Of all the of all the years for there to be a coronavirus uh pandemic It would have to be uh this year. That's how it works. And Joseph, he was a descendant of David, so they're in Nazareth in the north. David was from where? Bethlehem, so they had to travel down to Bethlehem. Verse 4 is called the city of David. Joseph was a descendant of David, right? That wasn't an accident. Because the Messiah had to come from the line of David. I think it's 2 Samuel 714, where God promised Samuel, your dynasty, your kingdom, will be an everlasting kingdom Then when Jesus was born, Matthew 1 verse 1, it says Jesus was the descendant of Abraham and of David. But that's just an aside. So anyway Poor Joseph and his little peasant uh fiance, probably fourteen to sixteen years of age. We had to make the 80 mile journey south, a grueling trip for somebody who was ex for a woman who was expecting, right? They had to make that maybe by some kind of uh beast of burden or perhaps uh for more likely on foot. And uh she was in the latter stages of pregnancy And so, to the Jew living in the first century, it looked like Caesar's power was absolute. But as we look back on history, we see that the great and mighty Caesar, in calling this census, was just a pawn in the hands of the God of the universe. Because in calling for this census, Caesar unwittingly orchestrated the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. For example, Micah 5, verse 2 Designate it that when the Messiah would be born. I'll tell you where it's gonna be, Micah said. It's gonna be in Bethlehem And so the simple lesson for us, that was a lot of historical background, but the simple lesson for us is that when you see earthly rulers exercising their power for ill You need to remember their power is not absolute. Proverbs 21, verse 1. The writer says the king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. And we need to remember this at this time in history. We need to remember this as we see this in our country, the censorship of dissent. We need to see remember this when we see the government turn a blind eye to corruption, when we see it in various ways curtail religious freedom when we see it promote policies that violate biblical morality. We need to remember God's absolute sovereignty over the rulers of this earth. When we see the corruption, the worst corruption, In other countries like Venezuela and Cuba, Cameroon, and China. And when we hear about governments sanctioning the persecution of Christians, In places like Pakistan, where we had many missionaries, we read these stories of government-sanctioned persecution of Christians. In places like Turkey, where a missionaries had to leave several years ago. And we scratch our heads, we don't understand God's purposes. Why he allows his people to suffer so horribly, and yet Scripture tells us that this is exactly what will happen to God's people. And if you read the Book of Revelation, and here's how you should read the Book of Revelation, it's not so much the story of the end times to come. But it's the story of the last days or the end times in which we live. And Hebrews 1 verse 1 reminds us that the last days began when Jesus was born Says we're living in the last days, and the last days will be consummated when Jesus returns. So when you read the book of Revelation, And you read these vivid descriptions of the horrors that will come upon God's people down through history. Remember, God foretold this all ahead so that we would not be taken off guard. And we're reminded of this, of God's sovereignty over difficulties, because the very mother of our Savior suffered. And so we should not be surprised when we suffer difficulties. And it's interesting, just eight months earlier, back in chapter 1, verse 28, The angel came to Mary and announced her coming pregnancy. And the angel said to Mary, Greetings, O favored One, the Lord is with you. And that's a bit of a head scratcher now because if Mary was so favored, why'd she have to make this miserable journey down to Bethlehem? And then when they arrived there, why was there no suitable place for her to give birth to the savior of the world? And we can we can't answer those questions, but we can be assured there's going to be justice one day There will be justice to come. Psalm two, the psalmist speaking of Caesar Augustus In every ruler down through history, who has shaken his fist at God and spermed his rule over his governance Psalm 2 says, The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. But then the psalmist says to God, Ye shall break them. With a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. And so the message of Scripture Is that sometimes God allows a wicked to smile before he breaks their teeth. That's the lesson, one of the lessons We learn here, we see here of God's sovereignty over the world's rulers. Here's a second lesson. Perhaps more familiar? We read about in verse 7 the humiliation that Jesus underwent. Verse 7 says, Mary gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in squabbling cloths. and laid them in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn. So this inn, it wasn't some kind of public uh lodging facility, uh like you might think of an a little pub or something that has rooms above it. But rather um it may have been a a guest house where travelers would sleep in a common room. It could also, and I think more likely, have referred uh to the main room of a house What am I talking about? When you go to Israel, one of the things that's quite striking is that in the in the hills and the mountains You see so many caves. Remember the stories in the Gospels with the the crazed the the the man who was crazed he came out of a cave. Um well there are m many caves in Israel in these stone uh mountains. And in ancient times, uh people would build houses in front of a cave right there on the hill because that would provide a room in the back uh for their livestock And so it may when it says there was no room for them in the inn, it may have been saying that in the main part of the house at which they wanted to stay Uh there was not a place for them. And so they had to go into this back room, this cave, uh where the animals were kept. And um that interpretation is also supported by an early Christian tradition, goes back at least to the second century, because Justin Martyr, a Christian writer who lived back then He reported that since Mary had since Joseph had nowhere to lodge in that village, he lodged in a certain cave near the village. And while they were there, Mary brought forth the Messiah and laid him in a manger. So perhaps Jesus had been born in Uh not even in a stable but in a cave. Well we won't know until we see God face to face. But that seems like a reasonable uh way to understand that passage. So Mary placed Jesus, it says in verse 7, in a manger. That was a feeding trough, right? The manger is a feeding trough for livestock. Probably not made of wood because there's not much wood in Israel and there's even there was even less back in the ancient days. Now the government of Israel requires every family to plant one tree a year And so it was probably a a limestone feeding trough and uh then somebody say, well if there's no wood in Israel, why was Joseph called a carpenter? And um because um why was Jesus he w also did carpentry. Well it may have just uh meant that he was a skilled craftsman because that's what that word means. Uh Tect tecton It could be a carpenter or some kind of skilled craftsman. So we can go off on those little tangents. But what I want to underline Is the depth, the depth to which the God of glory, the God who had authority over all the world, over all the universe, the depth To which God stooped to redeem his people. Right? He came down. He was born in a cave. Hard ground, the cold air, and the stench of blood, and the odors of birth mingled uh with the smell of manure in animals. And then he had these strips of cloth wrapped around him to keep him warm. Now it's all a very touching story, but there's a reason that Jesus had to be born in a cave or a stable in Bethlehem rather than in a palace in Rome Uh there's a reason that he had as as his mother this peasant girl rather than a queen, and there's a reason that he was placed in a feeding trough Rather than in a gilded crib. And the reason is that our Savior had to stand in our place. God became man because only man could stand in the place of another man and bear the penalty for his sin. And so when theologians talk about the humiliation of Jesus Christ, they're referring to the low position that he assumed And the sufferings that he endured to redeem us. So Paul wrote in Philippians 2. That Jesus, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God. a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of man. So from the day that Jesus was born until the day he died, his life was characterized by loneliness, by deprivation By self by self um by self-denial and by suffering. And he wasn't numbered amongst the beautiful people. Can you think of any place in Scripture where Jesus, what he looked like, is described? Where does the Bible explain what Jesus looked like? Doesn't, but for one place. Isaiah 53, verse 2. And it's not a flattering description. Isaiah writes, He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. And so he humbled himself. So that we who trust in Him for salvation might be raised up to glory. That's our destiny, all who believe in Jesus Christ. J. C. Rile said Had Jesus come to save mankind with royal majesty, surrounded by his father's angels, it would have been an act of undeserved mercy. Had he chosen to dwell in a palace with power and great authority, we should have reason enough to wonder. But to become poor, as the very poorest of mankind And lowly, as the very lowliest, he said, Ryl said, this is love that passes knowledge. It's unspeakable, it's unsearchable So he says, let us never forget that through this humiliation, Jesus has purchased for us a title to glory. That's the fascinating thing about Jesus Christ in the circumstances of his birth. It's humiliation. that he took unwillingly. Here's something else briefly. Number three. We see in verse seven Something that's characteristic of man down through time. And that is man's capacity to ignore and to marginalize Jesus Christ. So he was born in a stable, it says in verse 7, because there was no place for him in the inn. And this portended the rejection that he would encounter throughout his earthly ministry, right? He was driven out of his hometown. Right? He was driven out of Nazareth. His own family thought he was crazy. I think this is in John 8. His own family thought he was crazy, and they practically disowned him. And then he was rejected again and again by the Jewish leaders. And in the end, they nailed him to a cross. Right in the beginning of John's Gospel, John 1, verse 11, John said, He came to his own. And his own people did not perceive him. That's how it's always been, even in our day, even within the visible community of believers We see a remarkable capacity to marginalize or to ignore Jesus Christ. So I want to close by thinking about that. How might you be marginalizing Jesus? Couple questions for your consideration. If you're in a conversation with somebody and an issue comes up and you you know you're thinking the Bible addresses this really helpfully But you don't want to bring the Bible into it. You don't want to bring Jesus' word into it. Because that could be awkward. But what are you doing? You're marginalizing Jesus. Now you have to have wisdom, it depends on the setting, I understand. But I think we're too quick to say I'm not gonna go there. That's uncomfortable. That's marginalizing Jesus Christ. You could spend hours in front of the TV or in front of an electronic device. But you don't have any time for the word or for prayer. Again, I mean that's how we marginalize a way that we marginalize Jesus. If you're not prepared for Sunday worship, if you're not present at Sunday worship, because you didn't order your week, you didn't order your time on Saturday, or you stayed up too late Saturday evening. Well then on Sunday morning Jesus gets the short end of the deal. That's marginalizing Jesus. And I want the young or young people consider this. If you attend church only because that's what your parents require of you, but you do not take personal initiative in cultivating your relationship with Jesus Christ. Is seeking to know Him and to serve Him, then you too are marginalizing Jesus. Years ago I was listening to a sermon by uh John Piper, the pastor up in Minnesota, and he made a very simple comment that struck me. He said God's an important person too. And he didn't like being ignored. So we need to remember that. Jesus Christ, he's an important person too. And we don't need we shouldn't be marginalizing them. We shouldn't be ignoring them. Isaiah forty-eight verse eleven God said, My glory I will not give to another. My glory I will not give to another. There you have it. You're familiar with this text? Just a little reminder. That this these common, excuse me, the common and dismal circumstances of Jesus' birth, they remind us, you know what? Be of good cheer. God is still sovereign over history. God is still sovereign no matter what you hear on the news, no matter how bleak things seem to you. God rules over all. And that's why we're saying, though the wrong seems often so strong, God is the ruler yet. So also reminds us of how God, in his grace and his mercy and love, humbled himself. He lowered himself so that we could be redeemed. Then we're also reminded we need to be vigilant about not putting Jesus Christ aside, about not marginalizing him. So let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for this uh scripture that you've given us. And we pray that uh we would trust you in all things, even when uh things seem Things are discouraging uh in our culture. We asked Lord that we would Have hearts that are thankful and that recognize your grace in coming to us and lowering yourself to redeem us. And we pray, Lord, that you would refresh us spiritually, give us the desire to know your word, help us to dig into it, not in a uh a uh mechanical fashion But we pray that you'd speak to us, help us to see new things, strengthen our faith for folks here who are discouraged. about their circumstances, remind them that they're not alone in this dark world, but there is a stay here. And we have a fellowship of believers also. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're gonna sing Song number two hundred thirteen. Two thirteen, what child is this? Let's stand, let us sing. The most of us places to prison just told where you still have this police. We just greet them first. You are not speaking through this fairly go so that the master Sur nos of three, we're exposed for two five. Do not be storms don't play the sun for the Receive now the benediction. Now with the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Amen. And then you define still. Probably on shine. So The time is when you don't see what it's got to do. That is what I'm saying.