And let's turn on our Bible to the book of Romans. So we're in the book of Romans. We're marching through Romans, and the first three chapters are quite a challenge. Because it talks about sin. So that's what we've been talking about for the past couple weeks now. We don't want to shortchange This book, though, as Paul sets us up to receive the good news of the gospel. And so I'm going to read it, then I'll give the context, and then we'll be off to the races. So Romans chapter 3. Verses 9 to 20, I encourage you to have your scripture open on your lap. And here Paul is concluding his argument. He says in chapter 3, verse 9 What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin As it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says to speak to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held to account may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. So here you have it. I mean we we read Isaiah fifty nine and now here in Romans chapter three. We have an explanation about what's wrong with the world, about what's wrong with people, about what's wrong with me, and about what's wrong with you. And it says, we are not what God originally intended us to be, right? We are fallen, and we have been corrupted by sin. Okay, so that's our happy thought uh for the day. Uh we are a depraved people. And I don't think there's a passage in Scripture uh that gives a more devastating assessment Of the condition of man than the verses that we've just read. And yes, negative. But listen, if you go to the doctor And you have this pain. And he does all kinds of tests and he does an MRI, and he comes back with a diagnosis. Do you want them to tell you the truth? Or do you say, no, let's not be negative, just tell me good things. You want to know the truth, right? You want to know what's going on. And then you're hoping that once you get the truth, he'll be able to treat you. And that's exactly what the Bible does. It diagnoses our condition, not to lead us to despair, but that so that we would recognize our need of the dramatic cure. That is provided in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so the Apostle Paul, he's almost been taking on the role of a prosecuting attorney, right? And he's been making the case. All people are sinners. And he has set forth his case in a very systematic and a very thorough manner. He began in chapter 1, verse 18 to verse 32, and he looked at the Gentiles, and he said, the Gentiles are sinners. And then Jews are nodding their heads. Yeah, the Gentiles are sinners. Chapter 2, all the way through up to chapter 3, verse 8, he turns his guns on the Jews. And he says, listen. You guys are God's chosen people. God disclosed himself to you by his law and his revelation. But you too are sinners, and you need a Savior. And so what? I think it's been three weeks. It took us three weeks to get up to where we are. So what have we been talking about? Our sin. Our need of a savior. And now chapter 3, verse 9 Paul caps off his argument. You'll notice chapter 3, verse 9, he asks the question, what then? Okay? So now he's going to make a concluding, summarizing statement. What then? Here it is. Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all, for we have already charts that all both Jews and Greeks are under sin. That's a key phrase there. He says that humanity is under sin. Okay? So you know, you're not listening to Joel Olstein this morning, right? Here is a true assessment of humanity. And we can't save ourselves by our own efforts. We can't clean ourselves up to make us fit to stand. Before a holy God, we can't earn our way to heaven by being religious He's saying, you need a savior. We need a savior. Okay? And so we're going to look in this passage. We're gonna look at what look at what this text says about mankind's moral corruption And that's going to set us up for next week, where Paul turns a corner when he gets to chapter 3, verse 21, and he talks about the gospel. And so then we'll also draw some implications about what this passage says about our corruption. So first of all, okay So bear with me. If you're if you don't like negative things, come on. We're looking at the Bible here. It's negative, but it's also positive. That's the backdrop, okay? So, first of all, the idea of this passage is that all people, Jews, Gentiles, in other words, religious and irreligious All people are under the dominion of sin. And in verses 10 to 18, Paul strings together seven or so quotes from the Old Testament uh to make his case uh to uh elaborate on the depth of our sin and on the breadth of our sin. And the reason he does this is that he is trying to get his Jewish readers to see that what he's saying is not novel. It's not something that he is introducing. But this is something that their very scriptures teach. Okay? So let's look at this in a little more detail. In his opening statement Is that everybody's corrupt, okay? Not just the Gentiles. So it's interesting. Last week we looked at chapter 3, verse 2, where he says Uh the Jews do have an advantage in that they have received the oracles of God, the revelation from God, God's Word. So they enjoyed an advantage in that department But in another way, they have no advantage, everybody, whether you're a Jew or a Gentile You are under sin and you stand under the condemnation of God. So chapter 3, verse 9. Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all, for we have already charged it all, both Jews and Greeks are under sin. And then here's the beginning of these quotes. Verse ten, as it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one Verse ten, none is righteous. No not one. None of us will be able to secure a favorable verdict before God on judgment day if we present to him the good things that we have done. And Paul was a Jew, right? He was the most upright of Jews. And yet what does he acknowledge about himself? At the end of verse 9. Are we Jews any better off? And he says, no. Not at all. The Jews and the Gentiles are both under sin. And in verse 12, no one does good, not even one. And you say, well, wait a minute. I do good things and I know people who do good things. And yes indeed we do good things, but when he says no one is good He's pointing out that whatever good things we do or whatever good things the most selfless people who've ever lived have done Their motives and our motives are not completely pure, right? We don't do these things purely to please and honor Jesus Christ. And so that's why he could say, no one does good. You go we're going on. He says, everyone has turned against God. Look at the end of verse 11 No one seeks God. Well, wait a minute You sought God at one point in your life, right, or you wouldn't be a Christian. Well, that's true But the only reason you sought God is because God, by his Spirit, worked in you, right? He changed your heart. He drew you to himself. But in our natural condition, no one seeks God. In fact, uh What did Adam do in the garden when he sinned? He hid from God. He wasn't out there looking for God saying, Hey, I want to know you. That wasn't Adam after he sinned. He was hiding from God. But what do people seek? We seek the outside of Jesus Christ, people seek the benefits that God brings, right? You wanna have peace of mind, you wanna you have things you're praying about, you're have concerns. So we pray to God uh to help us in uh this area. We seek to have a sense of purpose. We seek to have a relief from guilt. And these are all legitimate concerns But what Paul is saying is that, yeah, you can seek those things, but apart from God Changing your heart, uh, yeah, you'll seek those things, but you will not seek to know God. And so nobody seeks God unless God first converts that person, unless God by the Holy Spirit regenerates us. Then he says in verse 18, there is no fear of God before their eyes. And we certainly see that in our culture, do we not? There is no fear of God. Well, let's go on, okay? And it gets worse. So Paul goes on to say: sin has corrupted every aspect of our being. And this is well I don't know, I mean, it there was an optimism at one time in history. So you read history in the end it in the eighteen hundreds. There is this general optimism. Things are getting better. There's progress, right, technologically, in manufacturing, in agriculture, and medicine. There is this great optimism that w we can't imagine, but if you read history, you realize in the late 1800s People thought, hey, you know, we're evolving and we're improving not only materially or technologically, but morally. And there was a sense that this progress would continue unabated, right? Upward, onward, evil would recede Mankind would move closer and closer to moral perfection, and there would be unity. Amongst the nations. So an English thinker, Herbert Spencer, he said, evil and immorality must surely disappear. Man must surely become perfect. So that was the general outlook. So this is after the Civil War, some decades have passed. And then the century turned, right? In 1912. And this was almost like uh an omen for the rest of the century. The Titanic sunk. And the Titanic was seen as one of the great uh jewels of uh technological progress. In fact, people were saying, not even God can sink that ship. Well, it went down. In 1912, and then there was World War One, and then there was World War II and the Nazi death camps. And then there it was like there was this awakening in the world that no, man is rotten. Maybe you read The Lord of the Flies in high school, the the author of William Golding said that Of his perspective, he said, before the Second World War, I believed in the perfectibility of man. But after the war, I did not because I was unable to. I had discovered what one man could do to another. Then he said, man produces evil as a bee produces honey. Well that you listen You don't have to go through two world wars to discover that. All you have to do is look in your heart. All you have to do is look at what Scripture says. Verses 15 and 16. Paul says a man their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery. Right? So we can say, yeah. Sin has corrupted us in every way, our person, our mind, our emotions, our sexuality, our conscience, our will. And so the theologians use the word total depravity, right? We are totally corrupted. And by that, we're not saying that we're as bad as we can be. The total means or excuse me, the the total refers to the breadth of our sin, not the depth of our sin. And so you might take a a pitcher of water and put a couple drops of blue dye in it. And um, you know, you didn't put that much dye in it, but the whole pitcher now has been tainted uh by that die. And that is what the Bible means when it talks about our total depravity. God's image has been defaced in every way, although we're not as bad as we could be, right? Parents still make great sacrifices for their kids. Soldiers still lay down their lives for other people You meet people, strangers even, and they act nobly and they act selflessly, and uh they compose beautiful art and write beautiful music and so on But the idea of total depravity says that even the best people in their finest moments are tainted by sin. And um and you see this in yourself, do you not? I mean, you know, somebody said, we Calvinists not only believe in total depravity, we practice it. Right? You think about you go to church or you pray Uh you know, is there is there anything um more noble, I would think, or or since uh s is there a more sincere act of devotion to God? Then to go into your room, and nobody knows what you're doing, you read a psalm, and then you pray. Like, hey, that is a is a is a gesture of sincere devotion to Jesus Christ. But even then, we could be self-congratulatory, right? Hey, look at me. I'm a really sincere Christian. You know, Martin Lloyd Jones in in his uh one of his sermons going through the Sermon on the Mount he said, listen, you want to know what the total depravity is? Don't think about the drunk and the gutter. Think about the Christian who is in prayer or who's in worship. He's even then turned in on him or herself. There's this obsessive focus that we have with ourselves. So that's what we're talking about when we use the term total depravity. Sin has corrupted every aspect of our being. It's corrupted our minds. Look at the end of verse 11. No one understands, right? We don't understand spiritual things. We understand many facts, of course. But we don't understand spiritual things. In fact, Paul says the same thing in 1 Corinthians 2, 14. He said, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. For they are folly to him, he's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. How is it? I mean, if you're a Christian, if you became a Christian in your adult years, in fact, something just shared on this this morning. Uh one lady said, I grew up in the church, but the light went on when I was twenty-seven. What is that? Well, it's God by the Holy Spirit opened this woman's eyes to finally understand the gospel and recognize the truths, the scripture. And so, but apart from the work of God, nobody understands. So our minds are corrupted, our speech is corrupted. Look at verses 13 and 14. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Oops, I'm sorry, did I say thirteen? Yeah, thirteen. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to conceit, to do to deceive The venom of ass is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. And you hear it in the on the of course in the media, the entertainment Political discourse, but we also see this right in our personal and private conversations. Then he talks about our actions being corrupted. Verses 15 to 17 Their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. And so sin, in other words, sin has corrupted us in every way. It's interesting, Jonathan Edwards. He said, when wicked men come to be in hell There will be no new corruptions put into their heart, but only old ones will then break forth without restraint. Hear what he's saying? Everything in us is corrupt. And then in verses 18 and 19, Paul reminds the Jews: listen, you receive the law, you're God's chosen people But you two are sinners. You too need a Savior. Verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world be held accountable to God. So in other words, Paul is finishing up his prosecution, and the result, if you get it, should be your mouth should drop And you realize there's nothing I can say in my defense. I need a savior. And then verse 20. He talks about one of the purposes of God's law. By that term means God's commands, God's moral requirements. So verse 20. By works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. And so by being a do-gooder or a churchgoer That's not going to get you into God's favor. What's the purpose of all those commands and the Ten Commandments and so on? Well, the end of verse 20 says, Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. And so the purpose of the commands is to show us our sin. It's like a tracer chemical, right? You might have some kind of problem, you go to the doctor, he says, well I'm going to inject this in you and that'll make the invisible course of your disease visible That's what the law does, right? We look at it and we realize, hey, I think I'm doing all right. I'm sort of puffed up about myself But you look at God's commands as the moral perfection he requires and you realize, no, I fall short. I need a savior. So the purpose of the law is to get us to turn to Jesus Christ for salvation. And then once we receive that salvation The law, God's commands, provides the framework for how we're to walk, right? So it doesn't get us to heaven, but it shows us how to live once Jesus Christ, once we're trusting in Jesus Christ. So there you have that uh really dark and devastating assessment of human nature And hopefully you're punch-drunk uh by this time, but that means uh you're ready for the gospel. And we'll get that to that next week, verses 21 and 22. Where he proclaims the good news. And it took him a long time to get to it, but he says in verse 21, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law Although the law and prophets bear witness to it, in other words, although the scriptures bear witness to it, here it is, verse 22. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, whether you're Jew, whether you're Gentile, whether you're religious, whether you're not religious. God gives us the righteousness of Jesus Christ when we own up to our corruption and we say, I need a Savior. And so that's the good news of the gospel. That's what we'll talk about next week. Let's think about this now. Let's draw a couple implications just briefly. So we have this very sober assessment of human nature And that should affect us in a number of areas. Certainly, it should affect how we do evangelism, right? And sharing the gospel, oftentimes we want to say, hey, you know what? If you become a Christian, you're going to enjoy all these benefits. You're going to have a sense of purpose. You're going to know forgiveness. You're going to know God. That's all good. These are all wonderful benefits. Uh but a lot of people say, hey, you know what? If that's what you what how you found peace or joy, that's that's great. I'm happy for you. Uh but I'm pretty happy the way I'm living my life right now. And so Uh thanks, but no thanks. Well, this is where uh this assessment comes in. If we're going to share the gospel effectively We're going to have to help people see, and this is something that takes place in the conversation or over the course of many conversations. We're going to have to patiently help people see. that they do have a problem, they do have a need, just like we had a problem, and we had a need. And every person's problem is that outside of Christ, we are sinners, and we do stand under the condemnation of a holy God. And no matter what you do, no matter how uh sincerely you seek to obey God, your obedience will not be thorough enough. No matter how sincerely you seek to love God and to love other people, your love isn't pure enough and your church going and your acts of charity and all your efforts are in God's favor, they're really just futile efforts. And so You're gonna need a a savior. And that's at that point that we present Jesus Christ. He is the Savior of sinners. And so this the doctrine of our corruption, it's an important prelude for people to recognize their need of Jesus Christ. Another implication is for civil government, right? When our founding followers, when they set up civil government They recognize the sinfulness of man. That's why we have checks and balances. That's why we have a separation of power. That's why there is required that there be a supermajority in the in the houses of Congress before there's some vote on some issue of mon monumental import such as such as uh amending the Constitution. Uh John Adams He quoted Jeremiah 17:9. He says, here's why we have to have a separation of powers. Jeremiah 17:9. The heart's deceitful above all things and desperately sick. Who can understand it? Even in church government, right? How is the church ruled? 1 Peter 5 Peter doesn't say, Pastor, you make the decisions. What does he say? To the elders among you. And so there's a plurality of leadership in a church. Why? Because the heart is deceitful, the most noble person with the most noble ambitions can get crooked, can can do things that are self-serving, that can do things that are corrupt. And so we recognize uh the helpfulness of this uh doctrine for church government and certainly for uh civil government, there's otherwise ways that we recognize it, you know, understanding or dealing with mental illness. Yes, there is such a thing as mental illness. People have organic problems. Uh but Some people who have been diagnosed with mental illness are really people who have adopted sinful strategies for dealing with adversity or dealing with their lives. And they don't recognize you you just can't solve everything with a pill, right? There has to be hard work. We have to recognize our sin, our need of a savior. Sort of helpful for understanding marriage, right? Does anybody have a perfectly bliss blissful, happy marriage? No, you marry a sinner. And um and you are a sinner. Jason Rodland saying, Did I well maybe not Jason, but the rest of us, see if you make cracks to your wife during the sermon, uh I'll catch you. But at least you made your wife feel good. But anyway, um well yeah, we have we have this problem. This is why we have this constant conflicts, uh, because we're still being sanctified. And um or your your relationships with family members or whatever. And so yeah, this helps us to understand. This explains it. There's a problem God hasn't left us to wallow in this problem. He has come. He has sent his son that we could be forgiven. And he's given us the Spirit, right, so that we can be changed more into the lightness of Jesus Christ. So there you have this very, very grave assessment of our condition and uh but if we don't recognize our condition then we really have no hope. So it's interesting Because reading about uh British newspaper, the Times of London, I think this was the late late 1800s, they uh put out an essay contest they wrote to or they asked various famous authors in that day To write an essay answering the question, what is wrong with the world? And G. K. Chesterton, he gave the shortest answer. Uh with something to the effect. uh to whom it may concern what is wrong with the world. Concerning your question, what is wrong with the world? I am yours truly, G. K. Chesterton. And so he recognized, you know, what's wrong with the world? It's the sin in our hearts. But when we recognize This, then we can turn to Jesus Christ. And so finally, if you're still standing, next week we get to the good news. And Paul, from this point forward, sets forth the fact that we are justified by faith in Christ, not by what we do. God saves us by His grace. It's a gift. You don't deserve it. You can't earn it. All you can do is say, thank you, Lord. I want to receive that gift. with empty hands. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that uh you speak to us clearly. This explains what's going on. This explains what's going on in our hearts. Explains what's going on in our families, in our country, and down through history around the world. We're thankful for the good news that Jesus Christ has broken into history. He lived the perfect life where we fell short. And then he took the penalty that we deserve for our sin. I pray, Lord, for anybody here who's yet to see this and to believe, I pray that you would grant them faith and repentance And help us, Lord, to persevere, to press on, recognizing our fallenness, but also recognizing That you are shaping us more and more into your image. So help us not to be discouraged, but help us, Lord, to lift up our heads. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.