Is that the various parts of the Bible agree with one another? And so in the Bible you have sixty-six books written by 40 human authors over a span of some 1500 years. And yet It's coherent. You'll take the major themes, and you can take the minor themes, and you can trace them through the Bible. And they're in concert. They they fit together. There's Old Testament promise, New Testament fulfillment. And the reason I bring this up Is that the interconnectedness of the Old Testament and the New Testament is on display in the passage that we just read? And so what I want to do this morning is show how in the book of Matthew we see the fulfillment not only of predictions, predictive prophecies in the Old Testament. But we see the fulfillment of something else. We see the fulfillment of Old Testament patterns. So let me just uh make a couple more comments before we jump into our passage. So Matthew he wrote primarily to a Jewish audience. And he and because he did that, he was pointing out the various ways uh that the Old Testament was fulfilled in the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. And so we have these predictions that are fulfilled. Look at chapter 1 verse 1 Chapter 1, verse 17, it says, Jesus is the son of David and the son of Abraham. Then you have this long genealogy. You think, well, that's sort of a strange way to start a book of the Bible certainly doesn't get anybody's attention if you give a list of names. Well, it might not get your attention, but it certainly got the attention of Jews living in the first century Because they knew that the Messiah would be from the line of Abraham, and he would be from the line of David And in uh 2 Samuel 714 or 716, God promised David that a king would come from your line and he would rule on your throne forever. You turn over to chapter 1, verse 23, you have another prediction that it was fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14, written 700 years or so before Jesus was born. Said that the Savior would be born of a virgin. And that's in fact what took place in Matthew chapter 1, verse 23. Jesus is born of a virgin. Chapter 2, verse 6 makes reference to the fact that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. Well that's notable because in the Old Testament, the book of Micah, chapter 5, verse 2 said that this would be the place of the Messiah's birth. And so, okay. And we could go through Matthew. That'd be really interesting. And we could show how Old Testament predictions were fulfilled in Jesus Christ. But what I want to point out this morning from our text. uh is that uh not only were these predictions fulfilled, but there are also patterns in the Old Testament that are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And what am I talking about? I'll explain it. It'll become clearer in a couple minutes. But I want you to notice, just look at the passage. So we're in chapter 2 And uh you'll notice there's three scenes between verses 13 to uh 23, okay, three three vignettes or three scenes. And each scene ends by quoting an Old Testament verse or by referring to an Old Testament theme, okay? So you have that in verse 15, verses 17 and 18, and verse 23. And all these Old Testament references were fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And so we're going to take each of these uh scenes and I'm and I'm going to show you there's a pattern in the Old Testament that was fulfilled in Jesus Christ. So first of all, we're looking at verses 13 to 15 and these verses we see how Jesus early years, right, his early years fulfilled The Old Testament pattern of redemption. What am I talking about? Well, it began in the book of Genesis, right? And um But we'll go to the end of Genesis, and the Israelites were in the land of Canaan. There is a famine, and so they went down to Egypt. And within a couple generations, a Pharaoh arose who enslaved the Israelites. And they were enslaved in Egypt for 430 years. Okay. So the Israelites went down to Egypt. That's the first sort of piece of the puzzle here in this pattern. And then God called the Israelites out of Egypt. And so in Exodus chapter 4, verse 22, God instructed Moses. Now I want you to listen to the language here. He said You shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son. Israel is my firstborn son, and I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me. Okay? So they went down to Egypt. They were enslaved. God called Israel out of Egypt. And after the Israelites Escaped Egypt, they passed through the Red Sea, and interestingly enough, 1 Corinthians 10 verse 2 describes that passage as a baptism. And then after they made it through the Red Sea, their destination was the promised land of Canaan, but they traveled for forty years in the wilderness. They didn't make it to the promised land right away, and so they were on this wilderness journey. Okay? So redemption a baptism, uh redemption from Egypt, baptism, and then traveling through uh the wilderness. Okay. Now, this pattern is repeated in the early years of Jesus Christ, and that's what this passage is telling us, okay? Jesus too went down to Egypt, right? He was born in Israel, but he went down to Egypt, it says in verse 13. Now when the wise men had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Rise, take the child in his mother. And flee to Egypt and remain there until I tell you, for Herod's about to search for the child and to destroy him. Okay? Herod knew that Jesus was in the line of David, and so he rightly understood that as a threat to his claim to the throne as the king of that era of Judea. And uh so Joseph said, let's go let's get out of here. We're going to Egypt made perfect sense. There were many Jewish people in Israel, in in in um Egypt, in fact I read every city in Egypt at that time had a colony of Jews. So they were there for a while. Then in verse 15, we read that God called Jesus or Joseph out of Egypt. So it says in verse fifteen, they remained there until the death of Herod, and then we have this reference to an Old Testament fulfillment. This was to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. And that's Hosea chapter 1, verse 11. Okay? Jesus went down to Egypt like the Israelites. He came out of Egypt like the Israelites. The Israelites went through the Red Sea. That was their baptism. And so Jesus too, chapter 3, verse 13 to 17 was baptized. And after his baptism, chapter four, Jesus went into the wilderness where he was tempted. And so Matthew is presenting Jesus Christ as the true Israel, the Israel who was faithful. Okay? And so Matthew explains that Jesus returning from Egypt fulfills this prophecy that God spoke from Hosea chapter eleven, verse one, right? This was to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet, out of Egypt I called my son. But notice, and this is this is where I mentioned this already, Jesus fulfills this prophecy, not in the sense that he fulfilled a prediction of the Old Test that the Old Testament made about the Messiah uh but rather in the sense of fulfilling this pattern uh that Israel uh followed in the Old Testament And so we can even go so far as to say that God delivering the Israelites out of Egypt pointed forward to Jesus because Jesus uh was God's greater son, uh greater than Israel. A pastor, deceased pastor from Philadelphia, uh James Boyce wrote, Jesus is the ultimate embodiment of Israel, the one in whom is wrapped up the true character and destiny of the people. The fact that Jesus was taken to Egypt and returned from Egypt was one of God's ways of alerting us to how significant Christ's tie to his people really was. Let me just add one more thing before we go on. I'll be a little more brief with the rest of it. This pattern is repeated in the Christian life. What is Christian conversion? It's presented as liberation from bondage, not from bondage to the Egyptians, but from the greater bondage, sin and Satan and death. You're baptized when you become a Christian. And then what happens? You don't enter the promised land immediately. That would be heaven. But rather, the book of Hebrews in the New Testament presents the Christian life as a wilderness journey. That's the theme of the book of Hebrews. And so we are in the wilderness right now. So all I'm saying is we have this pattern in Scripture that points there's this isn't just some collection of writings by really spiritual people. But this book was written by God and reflects his design for history. And so let's go on, okay? Verses 16-18 We see that Herod's hostility fulfills the Old Testament pattern of opposition that the world had to the Messiah and to his people. Okay, so back in chapter two, verse eight Here it asked the Magi, these wise men from the east, these pagan men, but who were concerned and heard these things, and they want to discover the Messiah. He asked these wise men uh to go to Bethlehem to search uh for the Christ child. Then he says, I want you to do it because I want to go there and worship him too. Well, we know that was just a That wasn't true at all. And in verse twelve, uh God warned these magi in the dream, don't go back to Herod. And so it says they departed through their own country by another way. Now look at chapter two, verse sixteen Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious, and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem. and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men And then it goes on, Matthew, and so then Herod slaughtered these children, and Matthew recognizes that this is the fulfillment of an Old Testament pattern. Again, so verse 17 and 18 Oh so oh so so Herod killed all the k all the children under the age of two, all the boys under the age of two. Verse 17. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping in loud lamentation. Rachel, weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they were no more. And so Matthew recognizes that the slaughter of the children was again the fulfillment of an Old Testament template. And um so that's a quotation from Jeremiah verse thirteen or sorry, ver Jeremiah thirty-one verse fifteen. Now in the original context in Jeremiah 31, uh that's just a statement of of Judah's grief, the the Jews' grief, uh, when in 582 BC the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem and carted the Jewish uh ju uh the Jews over uh out into Babylon into exile. Uh it says a a voice was heard in Ramah. That's a little village five miles files five miles north of uh Jerusalem. Rachel was weeping. She was the wife of the patriarch Joseph, and so she was seen in a sense as the mother of Israel. And so there's this imagery of Rachel, who had been dead for centuries, weeping over the deportation of her people to Babylon. Okay? But we still have this pattern nonetheless. Matthew appropriates that to express the grief that the people of Israel had at this time at the slaughter of her sons. uh by Herod. Okay? And so again we see the fulfillment of this Old Testament pattern. And um And it also is a hostility that God's people in our day face. And so we're part of this, you might say, this uh this pattern, okay? And so in the Old Testament, Israel faced the hostility of the nations. And then in Jesus, he faced the hostility of Herod. He faced the hostility of Satan, right? Matthew 4 is his ordeal in the wilderness against Satan He faced the hostility of the religious leaders who nailed him to the cross And then, as I said, this is also a template for the Christian life. In fact, 2 Timothy 3. 12, Paul says to these believers, he says, All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Okay? So this and that's just as an aside, I think that's helpful. Because it seems like the hostility used used to be in our nation that people were indifferent about Christians and Christianity in the church, but now in many segments there is this hostility Don't be surprised, okay? This is all a part of God's plan. Well, one more, and then we'll then we'll wrap it up. So we're looking now at the third section. And what I want this is verses 19 to 23. And what I want to say here is that Jesus being called a Nazarene, fulfills the prediction in the Old Testament or the pattern in the Old Testament that the Messiah would be scorned. Okay? So Herod dies. That's good news. Herod's dead. And after he died, that kingdom, uh Judea, was uh broken or divided into three uh principalities and um or Judah. In the one area, Judea, uh, was under the rule of Herod's son. Verse 22, his name is Archelias. And he was as ruthless as his father. One of the New Testament commentators, Leon Morris, said, Archelius was noted for his cruelty even in an age When cruel men were not scarce. I mean th these people these people were barbaric. And so when uh Joseph and Mary returned to Israel They went, we're not going back to Judea. We're going to go up to the northern region because God warned them in a dream, don't go back to Judea And so they go up to the northern part known as Galilee and they settle in this little village, Nazareth. Okay? Nazareth. Now I grew up in New Jersey, Spartan, New Jersey. Now, as soon as I tell somebody I'm from New Jersey, I never nobody ever says, oh wow, that must be a really nice place. I think Sparta is a nice place. But when I was in high school There's a a little borough next to us, Ogmansburg. That was the place of scorn. So I mean it's one thing to be from New Jersey. But to be from Ogdensburg, I mean, that that was really shameful. And um the reason I bring this up Is that Nathaniel's response to Philip when he learned that Jesus was the Messiah? Well, Nathaniel heard that Jesus was from Nazareth. Well that was that was that was That was a terrible place. John 1. 46, he said, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Okay? Now I want you to look at chapter 2, verse 33. So, and he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, he shall be called a Nazarene. Now, that was a slur. We don't know the inside language and the customs and what people think about different places in Israel But that was a slur to say that someone was from Nazareth. In fact, you see this again in Acts chapter 24, verse 5. The Jewish leaders called Paul The ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. That was an insult. That was a slur And so again verse twenty-three says, uh that was to fulfill what was spoken of by the prophets, that he would be called a Nazarene. Does anybody know the verse in the Old Testament that says that the Messiah would come from Nazareth? If you can give me that verse, I'll give you a hundred dollar bill after the service. The reason I make such a generous offer, uh, which I'm not likely to do, unless I'm dead certain I'm not going to have to pay it. I'm not going to have to pay this because the Old Testament prophets don't mention, ever mention Nazareth, okay? However, they did foretell that the Messiah's origins would be humble, would even, you might say, be loathsome. Okay? And that's what Matthew seems to be referring to in verse 23 when he says what when he speaks of what was spoken by the prophets. Well, the prophets did not say explicitly that the Messiah would be born in Nazareth, but they did foretell that he would be despised. And you see this statement y this kind of language throughout the book of N Isaiah, one example, Isaiah chapter fifty-three. Verses 2 and 3, written 700 years before Jesus' birth, describes him. He had no former majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. And so that's all we have here. We have this pattern in the Old Testament foretold, and the New Testament fulfilled, that the Messiah would be despised And we want to connect it over again to the Christian life, right? And we we can also say, don't be surprised when it happens to you. But with that aside, I want you to just note my main the main point I'm making uh uh ad nauseum, I suppose, is that uh The account of Jesus' early years fulfills the pattern set forth in the Old Testament. So let me just r say one more thing and then we're done. So the other night, Becky and I were watching Miracle on 34th Street. It's a great movie. It's in black and white. I just want to tell our young people that's a great movie to watch, as well as it's it's a wonderful life. If you haven't seen it, you're a cultural Neanderflow. But um But there's one on silly, goofy, unfortunate line. One of the characters, Fred. He describes faith as believing in things when common sense tells you not to. Okay? That's the world's definition of faith too. I wish I had your faith. I wish I was so naive. That's the world's definition of faith. That's not how the Bible describes faith. Faith in Christ is based on historical events. and the reliability of the Bible. And all we've done in our little exercise this morning is to know one line of evidence pointing to the reliability of the Bible. And that is, again, the fulfillment in the New Testament of not only Old Testament prophecies, but Old Testament patterns. And as you read, you know, and if you're not a believer, I always say this, I say, just read the Bible, right? Just start wherever you want. But as you read the Old Testament and you see how there's this unfolding story that begins in Genesis It goes to the Old Testament and you see these tremendous fulfillments in the New Testament. You see the consummation in the book of Revelation. And you see how tight it is, how in concert uh every theme of the Bible is, it makes you wonder, right, how do I explain this book? And I'm one of the reasons I'm a Christian is because I can't explain it away, even in my most bitter discouragements. I can't explain this away. And so I'm like, I'm willing to stake my life on this. I am so persuaded that this is the Word of God because it is self-authenticating And we find these fulfillments in the most nuanced ways. And I hear something that G. K. Chesterton said. I've said it before, but I think it's a great summary. He said, if Christianity is right at all, it's elaborately right, then he gives an analogy. He said, a stick might fit a hole or a hollow by accident. But a key and a lock are both complex. And if the key fits a lock, you know it's the right key. And that's what we see here. Jesus Christ fulfills the credentials that were foretold in the Old Testament about who the Messiah would be. And so when the Scripture calls us to put our faith in Jesus Christ, it's not calling us to believe in things that go against common sense. But rather, it's God illumining our understanding through what we read in Scripture to be persuaded that there is a God And this book is from him, and it discloses how we can know him, how we can have a relationship with him, how we can be made right with him. Through trusting in Jesus Christ as the one who lived a perfect life and then died for our sin. And so, you know, there's a lot of things to be discouraged about, but God has spoken, He's spoken with clarity. And we can stake our lives on what this on this book. If you're not a believer, I encourage you to seek it out and let's talk also. So let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, uh thank you that you haven't left us to speculate, uh to guess, and uh to just wander in the dark, but you have spoken to us and we thank you for the clarity of Scripture, how it does uh have the ring of truth. I pray, Lord, for those who are still weighing these things out, that you'll guide them in their search and their investigation. And for the rest of us, Lord, we believe and yet we struggle with unbelief. And so help us, Lord, to have more confidence in all the promises that you give us in the Bible. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your song, but please