So let's take our Bibles. We're marching through Paul's letter to the Romans, and today we come to chapter five, Romans chapter five. We're going to look at the first two verses and then verses 9 and 11. So Romans chapter 5. Paul writes, Therefore, since we've been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through Him, we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And then you go down to verse nine. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were sinners we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by His life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. So it's been two weeks, uh two weeks, three weeks uh since we've been we were in Romans. You might remember, it's back a little bit now, but when we began Romans, I think we did the first section and two sermons, then you got to chapter one verse eighteen. All the way up to chapter three, verse twenty. We did that in four sections, four weeks, four sermons, and they were pretty much covering the same theme. Uh Paul laid out an extensive and a bulletproof case case that all men are sinners Not only the Gentiles, but also the Jews. So Gentile, Jew, religious, irreligious All men are guilty and stand condemned by a holy God And I remember after about week three, I could tell the sentiment of many was, when's Paul going to turn a corner? We get the message here When's the good news going to come? Well it came when we got to chapter three, uh verses twenty-one to thirty-one Where Paul unveils the glorious solution that God has made in justifying sinners by faith, right? So justification by faith, which means God declares us righteous, not because we've done anything, not because we have any virtue, but because we trust in Jesus Christ. As our Savior. He lived a perfect life where we fell short. And then he turned around and he took the penalty that we deserved for our sin. You get to chapter 4, and he says, Paul says to his Jewish readers, listen, you need to understand this is not some new doctrine. This is the only way anyone has ever been saved, including Abraham, the father of the Jews, right? God counted Abraham righteous, not because he was numbered as the father of God's chosen people, not because he kept the law, not because he was circumcised, but rather Paul refers to Genesis 15, 6. Abraham believed God, and on account of that, God counted Abraham as righteous. So there's the background, right? Now in chapter 5, we get to the payoff, okay? So in chapter 5, Paul lists some of the benefits. of justification by faith. One commentator referred to this list as the blissful consequences of justification. And that's why in verse one, Paul says, therefore, excuse me. Therefore, since we've been justified by faith, then he lists some of the consequences. Peace with God. We stand in grace. We rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Verses 3 to 8. We even rejoice in our sufferings. Verses 9 and 10. We shall be saved from the wrath of God. And so this morning we're going to look at the beginning of this list, verses 1 and 2. And then uh verses nine to eleven, which I might come back later, I'm not sure. But so first of all, so we have three benefits of justification by faith That Paul sets out in verses 1 and 2. And the first benefit is that we have peace with God. Back in 1736, Jonathan Edwards, right? Most of you have heard of Jonathan Edwards, right? He was a New England preacher, philosopher, theologian. I think and then uh oh somebody got hurt in the Encyclopedia for Tannica, I think it said That he's the greatest intellect ever produced on American soil. But anyway, he wrote a sermon. And the title of this sermon was Men Are Naturally God's Enemies That sounds like a Puritan sermon, right? I mean that's not the kind of sermon you're going to hear from some dude in skinny jeans sipping on a latte uh or from um some pasty Protestant cleric in his embroidered robe. Now this is a Puritan sermon. Men naturally are God's enemies. And you look it up in the uh internet It's a long sermon, but it's a fascinating piece of psychology describing the human heart. And In describing men, in describing us outside of Christ as naturally God's enemies, He exposes the truth about the unbelievers' disposition toward God. And most of us didn't recognize this about ourselves When we were unbelievers, right, most of us would have said, I didn't have any animus toward God. I just didn't give him much thought. I wasn't much interested in the God of the Bible. But the fact, and I find Edwards very convincing, and why should I? Because it's based, he's basing his argument on scripture. The fact is that the unbeliever's stance toward God is not one of neutral indifference, but rather it is one of enmity. Chapter 8, verse 7, Paul says, the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile toward God. Or verse ten, chapter five, verse ten. We were enemies. Colossians one twenty-one. There Paul wrote. to these people. You were alienated and hostile to and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds. And so one uh theologian, a guy named Richard Loveless, uh summarizes Edward's argument Although most human beings give the appearance at times of being confused seekers for truth with a naive respect for God, the reality Is that unless they're moved by the Spirit, they have a natural distaste for the real God, an uncontrollable desire to break his laws. in a constant and a constant tendency to set in judgment on him when they notice him at all Since his purposes cross theirs at every juncture, they really hate him. And this is clearly displayed in their treatment of his son. Right, think about it. When man had the one opportunity To get his hands on God, what'd he do to him? Right? He nailed him to a cross. Now this hatred that the unbeliever, and that we once, right, if we were unbelievers. Conscious unbelievers. Alright. I don't want to explain that one. But if you're a converting adult adulthood, right, you can think back when you're an unbeliever. Like, oh, I didn't hate God. Well yeah. The God though that you had you didn't hate was this sentimental imaginary concoction that you came up with But the God of Scripture, who has claims on each of us, who presents Himself as holy, who is sovereign over our lives Our instinct is to hate this God. And what makes things worse Is that the hostility goes both ways, right? The God of the Bible is not some grandfatherly figure But he's a holy God. And he does show a general benevolence toward all people, right? Acts fourteen, he sa he pours, he gives showers. on uh the righteous and on the wicked. It gives everybody uh fruitful seasons from heaven, even Romans chapter two verse four. Paul says to unbelievers, God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. So God has a general benevolence toward everybody, and this is meant To make them lift up their eyes and recognize that there is a God and He's a good God. Look how gracious He is. But at the same time All is not well between God and the unbeliever And if you're not a believer, all is not well between you and God. You might be a good guy, you might do good things, and you might you might alleviate your bad conscience by doing good things. or even by being religious. But no, things are not right between you and God at this moment. In verse 10, when Paul says, we were enemies, he's talking about an enity that goes in both directions. Isaiah 59, verse 2. The prophet says, your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And this hostility that God has is not only towards sin as some abstract commodity. But is toward the sinner, is toward us outside of Jesus Christ. 118, chapter 1, verse 18. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. Reading about Mark Twain in his autobiography, he had a sense of this hostility. He talked about when he was young, as a young man, his nights were filled with terror. Because and then one afternoon on the streets of Hannibal, Missouri, He saw a man uh shot right there in the middle of the street. And he wrote, After the man was killed He said, some thoughtful idiot placed a great family Bible spread open on the profane old man's breast. And this image haunted Mark Twain, and he would have nightmares where he saw himself as being crushed by this great book, this great book which was God's law. He had no peace, and the Bible says that, Isaiah 48, there is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. And people can sense this. I remember once I was talking to fell in his twenties. He wasn't a Christian. And he he wasn't real articulate. But I remember saying, I have this angst. What? I have this angst. And he's talking about this sense of dread, this sense of foreboding, this fear. Well what was at the bottom of it? Well he wasn't right with God. And so yeah, and if you don't have an angst or a sense of dread uh then you're whi you're whistling uh through the graveyard. And someone asked the question, how about you? Are you are you a Christian? Do you understand? that you're only right with God through faith in Jesus Christ. So that's the setup here, okay? But what's wrong, what did chapter 5, verse 1 say? It gives us good news. Paul says, therefore, since we've been justified by faith, we have peace with God. God has removed the enmity, right? God no longer has hostility toward us because his hostility toward our sin was poured out on Jesus Christ. So there's no longer this alienation. We have peace with God. And now we, instead of fearing God, can love God, right? Because we recognize, we're forgiven, we're right with God, He's favorable toward us. And he puts a spirit in our hearts by which we can now call upon him as Father. So this is a revolutionary thing. Jews never would call, I don't think uh or seldom would call upon God as Father, but a Christian calls upon the God of the universe as his father God calls us his friend. In in um James, uh James 223, James talks about Abraham. And he says, because Abraham was justified by faith, it says, quote, he was called a friend of God. So that's a remarkable change in our situation, right? Now that we're in Christ, the great holy sovereign of the universe. He calls us his friend. And so in a little bit we're going to sing this great hymn, Arise, my soul, arise. Shake off your guilty fears. Why? Because my God is reconciled, his pardoning voice I hear, right? God says, in Jesus Christ, you're forgiven. Excuse me. He owns me for his child. I can no longer fear. And so with confidence I now draw nigh, and I call the God of the universe Abba Father. And so do you have peace with God? Martin Luther said, you'll never find true peace until you find that Christ takes all your sins upon himself. And bestows all his righteousness upon you. So what a wonderful blessing is ours, right? We have peace with God. Secondly, and more briefly. Paul says in verse two, we can enter God's presence. Look at verse two. Through him We have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. Now let me set this up, right? Let's back up a little bit. Well, let's back up a lot All right, let's go all the way back to Genesis 3. What time is it here? Okay. Well we're going to go back to Genesis 3. In the garden. Everything was wonderful. And then Adam and Eve sinned against God, right? And it says in Genesis 3. 24 that God drove out the man. And at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed a cherubim and a flaming sword that turned in every way to guard the way of the tree of life. So God expelled Adam and Eve from the garden, and then there was this cherubim with a flaming sword prohibiting re-entry. And that's how it was basically throughout the Old Testament, right? Man was banned from coming into God's immediate presence. And so we read Exodus 19, right? Moses went up on Mount Sinai. He was the representative of the people, but the people could not go on that mountain. They couldn't even touch it with a finger or a foot, or they'd be executed Well that's not good. Then later there was the portable sanctuary in the wilderness, the tabernacle, and after that the temple, right? And this was where God's presence was localized amongst the people of Israel. Why you just couldn't go into the temple, into the most holy sanctuary in the temple Only the high priest could go in that room, and then only once a year, there was a curtain separating the holy room from the other rooms. And on that room were embroidered cherubim, right, to remind the people of that angel with the flaming sword. That kept men from coming into the presence of a holy God. Well, one of the great truths, one of the great accomplishments of Jesus Christ is that He's opened up the door, He's opened up the way for sinners to come into the presence of a holy God, right? And so that's why In the Gospels it says that after Jesus died on the cross, the temple, the sorry, the curtain in the temple was torn in two from top to the bottom to say this is something that God executed. And so that's why, you go back to Romans chapter 5, verse 2 now, we have this result. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith. Into this grace in which we stand. That's a vague phrase. What does he talk about when he says, we've obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand It could be maybe a different way to put it. We have we have obtained a state of grace Where one another commentator says, we have entered into the sphere of God's grace. And so in other words We're in a different situation now. We have access to the king of the universe. Ephesians 2 verse 18, Paul said. To the Ephesian Christians, he says, through Christ, we, and he says, and you know, both the Jews and the Gentiles, if you believe in Christ. We have access in one spirit to the Father. So this is a remarkable thing, right? Remember? When we I just read uh Exodus nineteen, it's like, oh my goodness, this is scary. Imagine living back then. You want you're trying to do the right thing, but It's just not easy. And God is God's a fearful God. But Paul's saying this this is revolutionary. The door has opened now. And though we're still struggling with our sin problem, we can come to God. Let me give you three quick implications, okay? Three-point sermon. Is there three implications for every point? No. But for this one, short implications. Okay? Alright. We have access to God. First implication when we come to worship, we come into the immediate presence of God. You don't think about that, right? You walk into this sanctuary. For twenty-three years we were in a cinder block cafeteria, right? And now we moved up. Well, sort of. Now we're into this pale sanctuary with too much fabric. But nonetheless The Bible says that we, when we come to our Father, when we come to God through Jesus Christ by the Holy Spirit. We have spiritual access to the immediate presence of God. So I read Exodus 19, Mount Sinai, fearful, right? Hebrews 12, 22 to 24 says, here's what it's like now for Christians. Ye have come to Mount Sinai, that dreadful mountain. With the lightning and the thunder and a cloud of God's glory, or the smoke of God's glory. But Hebrews 12:22 says But you have come to Mount Zion, right? Jerusalem. Well, not Jerusalem over there in the Middle East But the true Jerusalem, the the Jerusalem that's in heaven, of which the the the Jerusalem in the Middle East was just an object lesson. But you've come to Mount Zion into the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, into innumerable angels and festival gathering To the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, those who have gone before us. They're in before God's presence as well. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And so I just say this to remind you That to gather with God's people on a Sunday morning is no casual thing. It's no mundane exercise. It's a privilege, and we are standing right now before the king of the universe. And that should prompt us to prepare ourselves for the great act of worshiping God on Sunday morning. Get to bed. Put down whatever you're doing, organize your week, get to bed, read a psalm, read a psalm Sunday morning, or go over a song we're going to sing in worship. Prepare yourself and with then when you come, come ready to offer God sincere, heartfelt worship. Here's another implication of the fact that we have access to God. Whatever shameful things you've done You need not fear God's disfavor because Jesus Christ already bore that penalty. And so you have entered the sphere of God's grace, and your Father in heaven has nothing but favor towards you. And when you take the Lord's Supper, That's the confirmation. That's an object lesson from God. And he says, look at this. When you trust in Jesus Christ, you're welcome to sit at my table and feast before me. In fellowship with thee and in fellowship with my people. Here's another implication, a third one. Because we have this access, it would be foolish not to take advantage of it by praying. And so, of course, we should pray. I mean, this is what Christians do. And we're going to gather to pray this afternoon at 4 o'clock. I hope you'll come. So the benefits of justification We have peace with God. We can enter God's presence. And then the third one, ever so briefly. And I I changed the heading in the bulletin because there's debate about this, and I changed my position on it. So the bulletin says, we rejoice that we will see the glory of God. I want to change that, okay? I'm not going to stake my life in this interpretation, but um I'll bet you ten bucks though. Um The third point, we rejoice that we will one day be glorified. Why do I say that? Okay. Well I think it's talking about not so much we're going to see the glory of God. Maybe it is. I think it's saying what I should read the verse, shouldn't I? Wouldn't hurt to bring the Bible into this. The end of verse 2. He says, end of verse 2, we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. I don't think he's so much saying that we rejoice that we will one day behold God's glory, though that's certainly a truth. But I think here he's saying That you will be fully redeemed. You will be glorified. You will be made like Jesus Christ. All your sin will be taken away. Why do I say that? Well And Romans 5 to 8 is one section. And you're probably familiar with Romans 8 verse 30 Where Paul says, he speaks about in the end of verse, those whom God has justified, he has also glorified. Now there's things that take place between our justification and our glorification. We're sanctified, for example. But he just uses shorthand to say if you're justified One day you're going to be glorified. That's as good as done. That's his point. It's guaranteed. You don't have to worry about whether or not you're going to see God face to face and you'll be glorified. Because if you've been justified, you will be glorified. I think he's saying the same thing in verses 1 and 2, because in verse 1, Paul says, since we've been justified by faith, Then he lists three things. We have peace with God, we have access to God. But the third thing is since we've been justified by faith at the end of verse two, we rejoice and hope of the glory of God. In other words, we rejoice in the fact of the God. that we will be glorified. It is guaranteed. Why? Well, because we've been justified by faith. And that's what everything that follows is connected to that. I just say that to encourage you. Because we all have our hang ups, right? We all have our insecurities. We all have deeply entrenched sin patterns. That we've been struggling with for years. And it really messes up our relationships with people and our families and so on, right? We have all these problems. However Here's this promise. One day, all of these things will be removed and the image of God will be fully restored in us. Why is that? Well, because we've been justified by faith. It's a guaranteed thing. So that should be an encouragement. And so we've started chapter 5. This is the payoff, then, of the fact that God has justified us by faith in Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, help us to know that we're things are good, we're right with you. Help us to take advantage of the fact that we can come before you and that you favor us. Help us not to grow discouraged by our circumstances and our inner struggles. Continue your work in us. For those who aren't yet Christians, help them to see, Lord, things are not right between them and God, and they need to look to Jesus Christ as their Savior That they can be forgiven and they can have peace with God and a Father who looks out for them. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.