Got your Bible open? Hope you're not just sitting there. There you go. Alright, good. I'm just gonna look around, make sure you got the Bible open. Alright. Romans eight. My wife calls me control freak. I don't see it myself, but okay. Romans eight verse eighteen, Paul writes, For I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For he who hopes for what for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes with us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the Word of God. Now this is a remarkable passage, and right right up front uh I'll give you three reasons or three things it talks about. Number one It acknowledges the misery of living in a fallen world. Right? Things are not as they were meant to be. And this weighs upon us, and we groan. That's what the passage says. And yeah, we know it. We sense this. We long for relief. We long for liberation. We have this sense that there's something better. God has implanted it in us. Ecclesiastes 3 says, God has put eternity in the heart of men. So we groan about life in this fallen world. The second thing this passage talks about or acknowledges Is not only the misery of this present world, but it promises redemption, it promises a new creation, it promises a future glory. And remember who's writing and to whom he is writing is the Apostle Paul, who suffered miserably. He mentions a couple things about the ways he suffered in 2 Corinthians 11, 23 to 27. He speaks about being slandered, maligned, stoned, whipped, beaten in prison, shipwrecked. Deserted by his friends, and he is writing to the Christians in the belly of the beast, right in the heart of the Roman Empire, and they're suffering persecution. And basically he says, listen, this isn't the final chapter, so don't lose heart. And in verse 18, he makes this great declaration: the sufferings of the present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Okay? So number two, it talks about there's something better to come. And number three, Paul in this passage assures us that God, the third person of the Trinity, Is praying for you. You pray for yourself, you pray for your loved ones, you pray for others, and the Holy Spirit at the same time is praying for you and with you. Now, j if this is the first time you've read that passage in a long time, one thing that's stuck out you uh uh you you saw is this idea of groaning, even in natural world, is personified as groaning for its liberation Christians groan for our liberation. And then he says, even the Holy Spirit groans in prayer for us. Okay? So let's go through this. Number one, we'll look at the present groaning and the future glory of creation, of the created world. And we know that before the fall, life was lived in paradise, right? Marriage was characterized by harmony. Excuse me, complete mutual knowledge unhibited, intimacy and security. What a great invention. Then there is childbirth Which was as originally intended to be a breeze. Work was to be a delight. An example we have from Genesis chapter 3 is farming, a delightful endeavor, right? No weeds, no pestilence, no drought, no incompatibility between the plant and the soil. But then came the fall in Genesis chapter 3, and God not only cursed the serpent, but he cursed the man, he cursed the woman. And he cursed the earth itself. That's Genesis 3 verse 16 to 18. And some of the consequences, childbearing would now be painful. the marriage relationship would suffer strife and work would be now toilsome, not only farming, but all manner of labor. Genesis three seventeen God said, Cursed is the ground because of you, thorns and thistles it shall bring forth. Okay? And so you jump up now to Romans 8, verse 20. Paul Speaking of that says the creation was subjected to futility. Right? Despite the beauty of creation, despite the complexity of creation, it is not what it was intended. uh to be, right? There's now decline, disease, decay, death, decomposition. There are earthquakes, hurricanes, plagues, trout droughts crop failures and uh wild animals that live in a world of danger. Uh they're constantly in fear, most of them. And there's death, right? The poet said, nature is red in tooth and claw And that's not just some pleasant reflection, but it's a it's a reflection on the misery of living in the natural world for animals And so the creator of the order, Paul says it longs for this creation. Look at verse 19. The creation waits with eager longing. for the revealing of the sons of God. One one writer paraphrase it, nature itself, you know, it is personified Nature is standing on tiptoe, waiting for this revelation of the sons of God. It's craning at his neck. Think about a kid at a parade, and the parade he hears a band in the distance is about to come around the corner. He's the boy's craning at his neck, looking to see the parade come That's what Paul says here. Nature waits with eager longing for this liberation, for this revealing of the sons of God And at that time, verse 21, the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to the cave and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. And that's why Jason read from Isaiah 65, because even the Old Testament Looks forward to the consummation, to the return of Christ, to this final liberation. Isaiah 65, verse 17 God said, Behold, I create a new heaven, a new heavens, and a new earth. Isaiah 65, 25. He says, and this is very a lot of imagery here. He says, the wolf and the lamb shall graze together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, declares the Lord. Then in Isaiah 35, 1, it says, even the desert. is gonna bloom. Turn over to the New Testament. In Acts three twenty-one, Peter spoke about uh a time coming Where there will be the restoring of all things. Okay? Revelation 21, verse 1, John says in this vision, God gave him, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. Why am I going on and on and on? You're asking yourself, I see that look on your face. Here is why. Okay. Is to say that heaven Is not some ethereal, disembodied existence. It's a restored earth It's a physical place. That's what we have to remember. It's a lot more interesting when you remember what understand what the Bible says about heaven Now C. S. Lewis made this comment. God likes matter. He invented it. And that's what we see here. Okay? And not only Will we celebrate when Jesus comes to redeem his people, but the entire created order So that's why why we have this poetic language. For example, Isaiah 55, verse 12. Isaiah writes, The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing. And all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Same imagery in Psalm 98, verse 8 and 9. Let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord, for he comes. to judge the earth. And so there will be a day of liberation. You can't avoid it. It will come. We don't know when. We don't know all the details. But it will come. And so that's why Paul says, right now. The whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth. Something else I want to say before we move on. As you think about the entire creation longing for its redemption, This reminds us that Jesus came not merely to provide personal salvation. I think that's the the evangelical church has reduced the cosmic scale of Christ's work to just this opportunity to attain personal salvation, which we don't want to minimize uh the importance of that. But we must understand that Christ's work is to redeem the entire cosmic order. So we're going to sing joy to the world at the end of the service. Some of you are going to knit your brows and saying, Hey, it's September. I understand. But joy to the world is not only a song about Jesus' first coming, it's a song, it's a paraphrase of Psalm 98, which looks forward to Jesus' second coming. In Jesus Christ came to make God's blessings flow. How's it go? Far as the curse is found, right? It's not just me and my personal Jesus. Jesus' work is to redeem the entire created order as far as the curse is found, and everything has been tainted by sin. And so that's why Jesus says, I have come, I'm making all things new. Okay? So that's the first thing we see in this passage. The present groaning and the future glory of creation, the second thing we see is the present groaning And the future glory of God's children. So look at verse 23. I have several things I want you to notice there in verse 23. Let's see here. Okay, Paul says, and not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. So notice first of all Paul says to Christians that we have the first fruits of the Holy Spirit. That's it, so this idea of first fruits, right, that's from agriculture. So the first fruits, uh constitutes the first installment of the harvest, right? You plant when you plant your seeds in May. Sam? April, April, May. Okay. Um so you plant your seeds in April and May, you wait several months, and then it starts to come in, right? You you pick your first round of the harvest. But because you have that you know that first bushel of corn or whatever, that's the first fruits. But that basket of corn Is organically related to the rest of the harvest. So once you have the first fruits, that's a guarantee the rest of the harvest is not far behind. And so what Paul is saying to these Christians is that, and this was earlier in Romans chapter 8, God has given you the Holy Spirit. And that's like a down payment. That's a guarantee that there will be this final resurrection harvest. Until then, verse 23 We groan inwardly as we wait, right? We do groan. Some of us groan all the time, right? We we groan about our physical infirmities We groan about our moral failures. We groan over our fractured relationships. We groan when our kids struggle or things go against them or they're not very wise. We groan harb uh uh uh grievously over the passing of loved ones. And then we groan when we watch the news, right? We see the misery, the the foolishness in our culture, and we see the evil. around the world. So Paul himself, the great spiritual Paul, he says, we groan. Paul groaned, right? What's the lesson there? You're not a lousy Christian if you're not always walking around with a smile on your face. You recognize what it's like to live in a fallen world. And uh I've been in churches where there's this ex everybody's smiling. And uh they're not Presbyterian churches, I assure you of that. Uh Everybody's smiling and they assure uh they there's this this expectation, you need to be smiling because of all that Jesus has done, and we do. But there's also the other side of it that, you know what, we still live in a fallen world, we're still in our fallen bodies, we're still corrupted And yes, we're being redeemed. We've been redeemed, we're being redeemed, one day we'll be fully redeemed And even you know, even in song even in the songs in some churches, everything's happy. It's about peace in Jesus, joy in Jesus. Hey, there they're huge themes about what God has done But we need to see the whole picture, or else is a it's a distorted view of the Christian life, and we're going to have unreasonable expectations. And sooner or later, people will become uh disillusioned uh with uh life in the f in Jesus Christ Because there's too much expectation about the blessings now. Whereas the Bible says, listen We're still struggling and we're waiting for our full redemption. And that's why we sing all kinds of songs. You know, there's a God gave a hymn book to the church, right? The book of Psalms One-third of the Psalms are songs of lament, right? Psalms of distress. For the psalmist is praying for deliverance. Well the psalmist was a pretty spiritual guy, and he sang those kind of songs, and maybe we should sing them too. Maybe we'll become more spiritual. And so we're longing we're longing for the full manifestation of our sonship. Go back to verse twenty three again, one more thing I want to point out from it. He said, Paul wrote, We ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly. Then he says, as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons the redemption of our bodies. That's that's um a little confusing because back in verses fourteen excuse me verses fourteen and seventeen, which we looked at last week, I think It says we've already been adopted, right? We've already attained this sonship. But so when Paul says in twenty-three, we wait eagerly for our adoption He's saying we're waiting for the full manifestation of our adoption, which will come when Jesus returns, we're raised up and we're given a resurrection of the body. Okay? And that full bestowment of our adoption will not only include the redemption of our bodies, but in the end of verse twenty one It will include the freedom of the glory of the children of God. So we will be what God intended us to be. We'll be free We'll be relaxed, we won't be so worried, we won't be anxious. Like we can't imagine what it will be like. That's something of what is to come, okay? And so the world, the creation groans Christians groan. We don't want to groan all the time, but we understand. And then also it's really interesting, Paul carries over this language of groaning, even to the ministry of the Holy Spirit. So if you go to verse 26 and 27, The third point, the Holy Spirit grounds. Now it's interesting. So J. C. Ryle, you may have heard his name, you may have read his books. He was a British pastor back in the 1800s. He ha he preached a sermon once. With the title, What is Jesus doing now? What's he doing now? Right? Because he's ascended to heaven. He's at the right hand of the Father. What is Jesus doing now? And there are several things the Bible explains. Here's what Jesus is doing as the risen Christ reigning over all. One of the things that Jesus is doing is that he prays for his people Hebrews 7, verse 25, talks about Jesus as our high priest, and it says, He always lives to make intercession for us. So if you're Christian, Jesus Christ, who is fully God, is at the right hand of the Father. He's praying for you. You see that same thing in Romans 8, verse 34. Look down there. Paul said, Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. If you want some idea of what he might be praying for you, you can read his prayer that he prayed for his disciples in John chapter 17. There's some idea And um what's notable though about verses where am I verse twenty-six and twenty-seven is that This tells us there's another member of the Trinity who is also praying for his people. The Holy Spirit prays for God's people. Look at the end of verse 26. The Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And so we see the Trinitarian character of prayer, right? The Father invites us to pray. Then even as we pray, the Son and the Holy Spirit are praying for us. And um that's a great comfort, right? Hey, we we're called to pray, but sometimes You don't have it within yourself to pray, right? You're you're you're just so upset about some situation You're so grieved over some loss, you can't think coherently, let alone pray And the day might come when you're on some bed of illness and you're not able to pray. You're not conscious, you're just not coherent. What then? Well you can know as that day comes, the Holy Spirit is still interceding for you. The end of verse 26 again. The Spirit Himself intercedes with us for us with groanings too deep for words. Okay? And so the Holy Spirit, now we're groaning, and we see here the Holy Spirit identifies with us in our travail. Something else I want to add here. It's really interesting, I think, at the end of verse 26. He says, we do not know what to pray as we ought. I mean sometimes we know what to pray for, but oftentimes what do I pray? My child's having a struggle. Do I pray my child will learn from this experience and God will use it to shape his character, or do I pray, Lord, just take my child out of this situation? So he or she doesn't have to s suffer like that. We don't know how to pray, but so you pray, right? Use your best wisdom and you pray, and we know God will accomplish his purposes But the Holy Spirit knows, or you might be thinking about changing jobs. You're a little discontent. So what do I pray? Do I pray that I get a new job Might entail me moving, or do I pray that I just learned to be content here and that God will use me in this situation and even shape my character through the experience? We don't know what to pray. So we pray as best as we uh think we should pray. Um but you just don't know. Even the Apostle Paul, there were times when he didn't know. Second Corinthians um twelve. He talked about having this affliction. He called it a thorn in the flesh. He said, three times I prayed for the Lord to take it away. He didn't do it. God had another purpose. And God said, my grace is sufficient for you. Paul, I'm going to use this in your life. The great apostle Paul did not always know how to pray. However, the Holy Spirit always knows how to pray. Look at the end of verse 27. He writes, the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God So he knows exactly how to pray. The Holy Spirit prays for us in accordance with the Father's will. And then verse 27, the first part, talks about God the Father. He who searches the hearts knows the mind of the Spirit. So very interesting, huh? The Father searches our hearts, and in our hearts, the Holy Spirit prays for us with a perfect knowledge of the Father's will. That should be an encouragement. The Holy Spirit, right? The member of the third member of the Trinity It's praying for you if you're a Christian in accordance with the Father's will. And don't worry, the Father knows the mind of the Spirit. And so prayer is very important. Sometimes we underestimate it. Oh, that's something really religious people do. No. If you're a Christian, you need to pray. That's how God moves things forward. God is sovereign, but he chooses to act in response to his people's prayers. So that's why we want to be people who pray individually, in our families, and of course in the church. So, alright. So it's okay to groan. That's what one thing this is saying. And in fact, the entire creation groans. But Paul says, you've got to keep things in perspective here, right? You go back to verse 18. The sufferings of the present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. He said there's something similar in 2 Corinthians 4. 17. This light and momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comprehension. So that's the bottom line here. You want to keep things in perspective. The Puritans would say, when writing to your coronation, don't mind if it rains. We need to remember that. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, we do thank you for these promises. We thank you that Jesus and the Holy Spirit are praying for us in perfect accordance with your will Help us, Lord, to recognize that you use our prayers. Help us to be a praying people. I pray, Lord, for those who are heavy-hearted. that they would find comfort, encouragement in your promises that you are with them. And we pray, Lord, that we would persevere, we'd lift up our chins, we'd march on. And the many things that discourage us, that we would, yeah, we struggle with these things, but we would also be able to see the bigger picture. For those who are not yet Christians, I pray, Lord, that they would recognize that right now they're your enemies and they're in life on their own. But you've made a provision in Jesus Christ by which they can be reconciled to you and have your presence And favor and guidance. So I pray you'll bring them to trust in Jesus Christ as their Savior. We ask this in His name. Amen. Amen.