The disciples came to Jesus saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin. It would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe to the world for temptations to sin, for it is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptations come. And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet. To be thrown into the eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out, throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. So this is a quite a challenging passage not to understand, but to apply it to our hearts. There's five discourses or blocks of teaching in the Gospel of Matthew. The first one's the Sermon on the Mount, chapter 5-7. The last one is the Olivet Discourse, chapters 24 to 25 And then you have in chapter 10 a Jesus teaching block where Jesus instructs his disciples as he sends them out. Chapter 13, another teaching block on the parables. And now in chapter 18, we have this teaching block, and this chapter is largely about dealing with other people. He says in verses 5 to 6, be careful, he says this to followers, be careful not to be a bad influence on other Christians. Verses 10 to 20, he says, when a believer goes astray, go after him, pursue him, bring him back. And then in verses 21 to 25, Jesus talks about forgiving others So Jesus is saying, here's how you need to deal with others as one of my disciples. But what's more painful is that in this chapter, Jesus also says, here's how you need to deal with yourself. The verse first four verses, he talks about the need that we need to humble ourselves Verses 7 to 9. We need to be vigilant. We must avoid sin at all cost. So this morning, we're looking at the first nine verses. We're taking really three different sections of this passage. And so the first section, verses one to four, is about the need For humbling, to humble ourselves. And so remember last week I said this was about a month before the crucifixion? Uh there was a tip In the previous passage, the end of chapter 17, the temple tax, they know that that tax was collected about a month before Passover. So we know it's about a month away from when Jesus would be going to the cross. And Jesus told his disciples in the chapter 17 verse 22 and 23 he said I am be crucified I'm going to Jerusalem they're going to nail me to a cross in his disciples it says in the end of verse 23 They were greatly distressed. But this distress apparently was short-lived because you get to chapter 18. And they're getting into this debate with each other about who will be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. I don't know what prompted this. It says in the parallel passage in Luke 9, they were arguing about this. Peter, James, and John had just been with Jesus in the mountain, they witnessed his transfiguration. Maybe they were sort of gloating, maybe feeling sort of special. Maybe the other disciples were feeling like they were uh on the outs there, but they had this discussion amongst themselves about Who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? This is understandable. In the ancient world there was a great awareness of rank, every meal you attended, every social gathering that you were a part of, you constantly had to be looking around sizing people up, estimating their their position in society. Is this individual beneath me or is this individual above me? Should I expect deference from that person or should I uh show honor to that person? And so it was a very rank conscious society. American society is not as uh conscious of social position But we're not unaware of it, right? Every kid who goes to a high school or a middle school knows where they stand in the pecking order And we all know where our vacation our vocation is in terms of social prestige. And in fact, if you're not sure, or if you want to get the press, Just Google, I did this last week, the social prestige of various occupations, and you find where you land. It's interesting. I remember reading a long time ago. Back in like the 17 and 1800s pastors were highly esteemed, like lawyers, pastors, doctors. But now I didn't see I didn't even see the pastors in that social ranking Because uh what uh what are pastors in our day? But anyway, boys ranking people, right? We we we size people up uh according to their looks, according to their intelligence, according to their income, the kind of car they drive, the kind of house they live in. excuse me if you're a teenager maybe their clothes are uh the the sneakers they wear and so this does speak to us And Jesus takes this occasion to instruct his disciples about true greatness. And here's something, or here's a verse, this is a good verse to take with you this week. Keep it in the back of your mind. Play it back because Most of us all the time are measuring ourselves next to other people. Are we not always measuring ourselves Next to other people. But Jesus says in verse 4, whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven And so here's why I said we should take this verse with us through the week. When these thoughts cross your mind, And they will, right, in the next five minutes. You need to ask yourself whose opinion really matters in the end of the day? Whose opinion Counts when we're talking about who am I? What makes me valuable? And Jesus says in God's eyes It's the humble person. It's the person who's not consumed about his position. It's the person who takes an interest in others And builds them up. This is the person whom God counts as great. I think that's something good for our young people to think about. Because all the time you're wondering, do I measure up? God says, here's what makes a person measure up if you're truly a humble person. But it's interesting, the disciples are having this argument about rank And Jesus changes the sub about rank in the kingdom of heaven. Jesus turns the conversation He says, let's not talk about rank in the kingdom of heaven. Let's talk about entrance in the kingdom of heaven. You guys are worried about what your position will be. And it seems like he's saying I'm starting to wonder if you're even going to get in. And so in verse 3, Jesus says, Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you'll never enter. the kingdom of heaven. And so here is just another place in the gospel where Jesus says, if you're self-righteous, if you're full of yourself, If you don't have any humility before God, then you will not enter the kingdom, right? Remember back in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Or think about the parable, Luke 18. The parable, the Pharisee, the tax collector. Remember the Pharisee? He strutted while he prayed. He prayed, I thank you that I'm not like other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. Then there was a tax collector, right? He beat his breast. God have mercy on me, a sinner. And so Jesus says, where was I verse uh verse three? He said, unless you turn and become like children the King James and then the uh New American Standard translates it, unless you're converted and become like children, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. And so this is the most basic instruction about what you have to do to become a Christian, right? You have to humble yourself before God. You have to say, I'm a sinner. And not just in some general way that's sort of comfortable, but acknowledge specific sins, remembering I contribute nothing to my salvation But rather I look only to Jesus Christ. We're going to sing in a at the end of the service, Rock of Ages. It's interesting the guy who wrote that, a 18th century Anglican pastor, Augustus Toplady Here's what he really wanted to title that song. A Living and Dying Prayer for the Holiest Believer in the World. So he was saying, how should the most godly man or woman who ever lived pray to God? And it's this song we're going to sing. Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Naked, I come to you for dress, helpless, I look to you for grace, fowl I to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die And so those who are great in God's eyes, Jesus says first of all, are those who humble themselves. What makes us great in God's eyes when we lower ourselves before Him? and before others. Verses five to seven. Jesus instructs us in a nutshell to welcome children, or maybe we should say welcome Jesus disciples. I'll talk about that in a minute. And he says, he warns us, don't tempt them to sin. Do not tempt them to sin. And so in verse five And let me see there, verse five. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. And so There's this debate amongst the uh the interpreters. Uh is Jesus talking about a literal child, and maybe he is, right? He held before them a physical child. Then he says Whoever receives a child like this receives me. But then there's others who point out that Jesus often referred to his followers as children. In fact, in verse 10 and verse 14 of this chapter, he talks about followers who go astray. He says, they're little ones. Other places, Mark 10, 24, Luke 10. 21, Jesus there speaks about his disciples as children. So how should we understand this? I don't think in the end of the day, as far as applying it, it matters that much. I think we should perhaps take it more broadly as referring to any follower of Jesus. But it's certainly we can make application to how we treat children. And Jesus says, you know, just talking there first about how we treat children, he says, we can welcome them Or we can wound them. And this is this is instructive, this is a warning. Again, verse 5, whoever receives one such child in my name receives me to receive a child is to welcome a child, to draw him in, to encourage him, uh toward Jesus Christ and in the things of God. And that's why, hey, you know what? To teach children Sunday school That's an eminently noble endeavor. That's not a waste of time. I'm not teaching adults. No. This is honorable. This is so important in God's eyes. It's so important to have our children in Sunday school. To take time after dinner or in the evening to read the Bible to your kids. to pray with your kids. Uh this is this is time well spent. And even just at the lunch or before church or after church. You see some kid running around, just a little guy or a little girl, just take some time to notice them, to say, hey, how are you? And to just ask them a question or two. We want kids, we want children to love the church. We want them to know this is my family. This is a place that loves me. And that's what Jesus is saying in verse 5, right? Whoever welcomes one such child in my name welcomes me. And then there's a warning in verse 6 about wounding them. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck. And to be drowned in the depth of the sea. And so that too is instructive. Do we point children to Christ? Are we pointing our children to Christ? Or are we stumbling blocks? I remember this was a long time ago, I was talking to a lady, just a stranger, we got into a conversation, and somehow I mentioned I'm a pastor, and then that perked her up a little bit And she said, My son, he's an adult now, but he was going to be a pastor when he was in high school. He started going to a church, he professed faith in Christ, and um he loved the church But then he started uh they had a children's Christmas program. He was a high schooler, so he was helping uh with the directing and there was a group of ladies who were in charge of it And she said that her son got so turned off the church by that uh event because the ladies who were running this program, they were so vicious in the way they talked about people in the church But also they were vicious in the way they just shredded that pastor. And this was a man that this uh this young fella looked up to And she said after that, he was done with the church. And so they became a stumbling block to him. But causing little ones to sin, really, this is not only just to say w causing children to sin, but as I said any of Jesus' disciples, we have this this burden that we should be cautious about uh leading others to sin. Uh there are many ways we can do it regularly, right? Just the way we talk and Our example, a young guy, young gal, you have a boyfriend or a girlfriend, if you entice them to sexual immorality, uh You're you're you're doing you're doing exactly what Jesus warned against. Goes on in verse, the end of verse 7, Jesus says, you know what? There's always going to be temptation It is necessary that temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes. And then you go back to verse 6. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe me to sin, it'd be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck. And to be drowned in the depth of the sea. You ever see a millstone, these these flat, round stones with a hole in the middle? Jesus saying, you're better off if you take one of those stones and tie it around your neck And you're thrown into the sea. And you think about, and he's not just telling the Christians, he says, whoever Whoever causes one of these children are one of my followers to sin. The purveyors of pornography, abortion, sexually explicit TV, advertising, music Jesus says their future is not good. And it says something to us as parents, right? We can be very casual about what we watch or how we speak to our spouse or just how how we use our time. Don't underestimate the effect of that. Don't underestimate the commitment that you have to public worship, excuse me, worship. has on your children. Are you teaching your children that public worship is your second priority? They're going to get that message and they're going to live that out probably the rest of their lives, typically. And Jesus is also warning us who are leaders in the church, pastors, elders, deacons, teachers, leaders, we need to be careful And I've often thought, because you read through the the uh epistles, there are all these warnings to leaders to be examples. And I understand that I don't pretend I'm something I'm not. I'm not I hope I come across like that But there is the sense that a Christian in the church, any Christian, and certainly in the epistles, Christian leaders. We better be careful. But anyway, I've always often not always often thought, if I ever commit adultery Or if I'm ever attempted to do that, I pray, Lord, just take me out before I do that. Just take me out before I do that. Because I understand what is happening in the American Church. when you have very visible Christian leaders denying the faith or getting involved in some kind of scandal. And then you discover the tremendous fallout from their lives, whether it's some highly visible Christian leader or just a regular pastor or elder in the church. You hear stories here and there. Lord, take me out. We should all pray for that. We should all pray for the elders, the deacons, and really every person in this church. that we will not bring disrepute to the name of Jesus Christ. Yes, we're sinners, we understand that, but Lord protect me Because, says James James 4, those who teach will be judged more strictly. So here's a good prayer. Write this one down, uh Psalm 69, verse 6. Not just for the leaders, but for all of us. David prayed. Let those who hope in you, excuse me, let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me Let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me. Lord, protect us. Allow us as a church to give Christianity a credibility. that our society does not see at the moment. Going on, verses eight to nine, here's the hard part, right? I thought that was the hard part. Verses eight to nine. Jesus says or instructs us to deal ruthlessly with indwelling sin. Verse eight, where am I? Okay. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It's better for you to enter life crippled or lame. Then with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out, throw it away. It's better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. Now, Jesus isn't speaking of physical amputation, although some have taken it in that sense. In fact, Origen, one of the early church fathers, castrated himself. Because he took this literally. Well at least he took the ser the scripture seriously. But there is such a thing as hyperbole. And that's what Jesus is using here. He says, he's saying we should take radical measures in our struggle against indwelling sin. Well why? We're saved by grace. Well why why take this that seriously? Well we say, well, because God's a holy God. He saved us by his grace, but still he calls us the holiness. Leviticus 19 verse 2, God says to his people, you shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. Well, that's Leviticus. Well, no, Peter quotes that verse in 1 Peter. I forget what where it is. So, of course, it's the same God, and yes, the Israelites were saved by grace. But God calls us to holiness. And so when Jesus says rather than succumb to temptation, cut out your eyes or cut off your hands. He's just saying, do whatever is necessary to keep yourself from sinning. John Scott referred to this as a root, we should have a ruthless moral self-denial. How can I say that in the American Church? A ruthless moral self-denial. We're supposed to be happy. We're supposed to say Jesus helps us through all these things. We're saved by grace. We're saved by grace, but again God calls us to mortify our sin. You've heard that word mortification. Mortification just means to put it to death. To put it to death. Sinclair Ferguson, here's how he describes mortification. He describes it as the constant battle. Now there's a that's a mouthful right there. Our lives are a constant battle against indwelling sin, right? We never get to the place, hey, I made it. Now it's easy Mortification of sin is the constant battle against sin, which we fight daily The refusal to allow the eye to wander, the mind to contemplate, the affection to run after anything that would draw us from Christ. It is the deliberate rejection of any sinful thought, suggestion, desire, aspiration, deed, circumstance, or provocation at the moment we become aware of its existence. And so he's saying we can't be passive And expect to make progress. We don't let go and let God. But the Bible uses the language of personal exertion. It uses the language of self-denial. The Bible is concerned about holiness. Colossians 3. 5, Paul says, put to death. Therefore, what's earthly in you, sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, covetousness And so again, this is the this is the language of effort. We have to make an effort. But it's God who works in us. Indeed it is, right? God who began this good work in you will carry it on to completion Until the day of Christ Jesus, Paul says in Philippians 1. So God works in us to will and to act according to his good pleasure. But at the same time, Paul says in Philippians 2, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. So God works in us as we work for ourselves. How does that all fit together? I have no idea. Nobody has any idea. But the Bible affirms those things simultaneously. So we're going to hold on to the fact that God sanctifies us, and yet we have to make an effort. We have to deny ourselves. We have to be vigilant. You look at the Bible, you say, I see three strategies for dealing with temptation. Number one is the best strategy. Avoid it. Avoid temptation when you can. That's what Paul said in Ephesians 5. 11. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness. And it's true. Charles Bridges, an old Puritan pastor back or English pastor in 1800, said It is far easier to shun the occasion of sin than to shun the sin when the occasion presents it For sure. So dealing with indwelling sin, dealing with temptation, avoid it. Don't go down that road. Don't be with those people. Don't watch that show, right? But if you can't avoid everything, so then the Bible says that which you can't avoid, he said, the Bible says, flee it First 1 Corinthians six eighteen, Paul said, flee from sexual immorality. But what if you can't flee it? Then the third plan is resist it. Hebrews 12, 4. The writer says, in your struggle against sin, you've not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood. So there's the strategy. Avoid it when you can't avoid it, flee it when you can't flee it. Endeavor. by God's grace to resist it. How can I have the motivation when it's right in front of me? Well I need to remember the holiness of God and also, yeah, we're saved by grace. I'm not I'm Don't say I'm a legalist or this or that, but look how Jesus speaks. Okay, Jesus taught you're saved by grace too. He says, consider the consequences. Consider the consequences. So in other words, don't dwell on the object of your temptation. You're going to fall. Rather consider the consequences of giving in. Look at verse 8. Verse 8. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It's better for you to enter life crippled or lame. Then with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire So it's interesting. The Bible refers to hell as the eternal fire, one of the old Reformed theologians, Alexander Archibald Hodge. said the word used of eternal when coupled with the word hell is the one that's most emphatic to speak about this is forever Same thing, Jesus in Mark 9. 48, he speaks about the fire that is not quenched. How do you like that? The Bible. And we're gonna we're gonna see more of this. You see it talking about hell. Again, and again, it's interesting. There was a commercial on TV last week. It was put on by an atheistic group called the Freedom from Religion Foundation. The Freedom from Religion Foundation. Ronald Reagan's son, Ron Reagan Jr. , did this commercial, and in the end of the commercial, he said, I'm a lifelong atheist, and I'm not afraid of burning in hell. And he had sort of a smug look on his face. And the the lesson was that if you believe this stuff, you're a hayseed, you're a rube, you're completely out of it. You y you need to come into the twenty-first century. But this is the uniform testimony of the New Testament that there is such a place as hell. And so we have to decide, do I believe this book or do I not? I was having a conversation with a guy who went to a local church yesterday, it was at Hood College, and um He said the only part that matters about the Bible is God is love. Everything else is irrelevant. How is that? How can you say this part is God's word and this part is not? It's just it's just It's just completely arbitrary, but um Jesus speaks about it. He holds it forth as a um as an incentive to pursue holiness. So it's interesting. Some people only talk about God's grace. You're saved by grace, and so that should be enough to motivate you to live for Christ. It should be But for most of us it's not. And so Jesus also holds out consequences. So we should take God's holiness seriously. So anybody here feeling good about themselves? No, not not entirely. And so we we should end By going back to the gospel and reminding ourselves, you know what? When you fall, when you fall today or tomorrow, you know, you just You do something that was entirely wicked, scandalous. If anybody else knew, you'd be embarrassed for them to know. So what do you do then? Don't, as many sensitive Christians do, they do penance. They're not Catholic, but they do penance I need to feel guilty for a while here. I need to beat up on myself, and then I'll ask for forgiveness. Or don't absent yourself. from public worship and the fellowship of God's people. So of course we're the community of the redeemed. Of course we're struggling. We want to help each other along. Of course we shouldn't pretend we're not something that that we shouldn't pretend we're something that we're not. Of course. And so we should be quick to acknowledge our sins, not to publish it to everybody, but to a uh uh to another Christian, and then of course the other Christian Will be gracious and humble because they have their own struggles, they understand completely. And so what I'm saying is as as you in this ongoing struggle With indwelling sin that will not end until we see Christ face to face. And we want to pray the prayer that Augustus Toplady prayed. Fow like to the fountain fly. Wash me Savior or I die. And John said in 1 John 1 9, excuse me, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you save us by your mercy, by your grace. Thank you that you are Calling us to live holy lives, we do pray that you would continue changing us. Help us, Lord. Some of our sin patterns are very deeply ingrained, but we do pray, Lord, you continue working us. Help us to be an example to fellow Christians. Help us to be compassionate, encouraging to them. Help us not to be so self-promoting. And also help us to have a credible witness to the unbelievers that we meet and associate with. Help them to see something different. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're gonna sing four ninety-nine Rock of Age as let's stand and sing it. Same life was my things before. No, I suppose the better uh I rather you can go Yeah, um higher than a lot of people. Very good. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. We're gonna sing this uh little verse. This is gonna be our song of thanksgiving for the meal.