So we finished Sean's Gospel, we're gonna start the book of Nahim, I don't know next week or the week after. We'll see how it goes But this morning we're doing a one-off sermon, 1 Corinthians chapter 5, and then we'll look at Matthew chapter 18. So 1 Corinthians chapter 5 Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, First Corinthians. Paul writes to the church in Corinth, It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you. And of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife And you're arrogant. Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you. For though absent in body, I am present in spirit, and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you're assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my Spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan. for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Your boasting's not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, as you really are, unleavened. For Christ our Passover lamb has been sacrificed Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. I wrote to you my letter not to associate with the sexually with sexually immoral people Not at all, meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers, or idolaters. Since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I'm writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of immorality or greed. Or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one For what have I to do with judging outsiders? It is not those, is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. Purge the evil person from among you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we pray that you'll give us a clear understanding of this passage. and of its implications for us as a church, for us in our personal lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So here's the question. What should the church do uh when a church member commits gross sin? Right? We're always sinning all the time, right? We do it regularly. But when a church member commits a gross sin or a set of gross sins, sexual immorality, assault financial crimes, and this is the important part. The important part, and uh does not repent, uh does not turn back from that. What should the church do when a church member persistently neglects some of his most fundamental responsibilities? I think years ago Way back we had a fella who was gambling and he would not hold a job. He would not support his family. And so the time came uh when the elders had to confront him about that. He would not turn from it, and so the church uh Finally excommunicated him from it. But many would say, Well, the church should ignore those things because We have our private lives and we have our spirituality and the church is more a place to come just to have your spiritual pick-me-up on Sunday morning. So many would say that's none of the church's business. And well-meaning Christians will say that what do we do? Well, we need to love those people. They'll say We need to show them grace. We're all sinners, right? We are all sinners. And so they'll say, we have no grounds to confront another person or to hold another person accountability accountable. And I would say, well, of course, uh the church, we should show grace to one another. We acknowledge that we are all sinners and uh we all have our struggles. But the question is, what does it mean to genuinely love Another Christian when they go astray. And the Bible says that God grows us not only by our personal Bible study Not only by prayer, not only by the encouragement that we receive from fellow Christians But the Bible teaches that God grows his people when we lovingly and humbly and caringly Try to confront one another on issues that require confrontation. And I would say one of the chief benefits of joining a church, rather than just being a regular uh attendee. is that when you join a church, you voluntarily vow to make yourself accountable to other Christians And many people say, well that's a that's a really good reason not to join a church. Um but no, yeah, not in the long run. Not in the long run. Um because we need others to spur us on. We need others to hold us accountable. Because we're weak, we stumble, and we want to walk with Jesus Christ. And sometimes We need whatever it takes to get us back on track. Now, most churches in our day don't practice church discipline And so to some, this discussion will be foreign. It'll sound like something out of uh some very fundamentalist group from the 1920s. But really, down through church history, church discipline has been recognized as one of the distinguishing marks of the true church. So the Protestant Reformers Back in the 1500s, they had to boil down what are the marks of a church. In other words, how bad can a church be before I should leave it? And they said, well, if the church has these three traits, then it's a true church, according to Scripture. The three traits are or were that they noted The faithful preaching of God's Word, the right administration of the sacraments, and the exercise of church discipline. Okay? And so that's why we come to this passage this morning in 1 Corinthians 5. It's a key passage on church discipline. So let's look at what's going on. And then we're going to draw a lot of uh principles and applications. So back in verse one, Paul wrote to the these Corinthians, he said, It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you and of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife. And so Paul says, first of all, he speaks with astonishment. He writes, it's actually reported. Now, Paul was astonished, not because there was sexual immorality in the church in Corinth. No, you look at chapter uh six, verse nine to eleven, you realize, no, these people were converted out of a very vile pagan culture in chapter six verse nine to eleven lists the types of sexual sins uh that they came out of. So he wasn't astonished that there would be sexual sin in the church in Corinth. And um but what he was astonished about uh was rather the particular nature of the sin. First of all, he wrote in verse 1, a man has his father's wife. And so here was a guy, he was sleeping with his stepmother, and Paul says, this is the end of verse one This is a manner of sin that even the pagans in Corinth uh do not tolerate. And so that's the first reason he was astonished in that there was this particularly vile sin in the church But secondly, Paul was astonished at the church's reaction to it. And so in verse 2, he says to these people, and you are arrogant. They are proud about it. They were um they thought it was a sign of their super spirituality because the background to the church in Corinth is that a heresy had come into the church that taught that a higher spirituality could be attained by acquiring philosophical wisdom and by entering into some kind of religious ecstasy. And as a result, they viewed the body as a shell, and they said, it's the spirit that matters, so it doesn't matter what you do with your body, you can be sleeping around in whatever manner And that's fine because the body's evil anyway, but it's the spirit in our connection with God spiritually that matters. And um so that's why Paul's astonished. And um he says in the end of verse 2, you guys got it all wrong in your reaction. You're proud about this? Rather, verse two, he says, ought you not rather to mourn. Then, he says, let him who has done this among you, excuse me, let who let him who has done this be removed from among you, which basically boils down to saying they shouldn't be taking communion Because communion is for a certain kind of sinner. It's for a repentant sinner. And so the term that we use for this to say You shouldn't take communion until you repent is excommunication. And so our church has been around for over 25 years. I think there have been five occasions uh where we've excommunicated a member. So we don't do it casually and we recognize we all have struggles, but there does come There are occasions when that is the right uh right response. Uh a commentator on First Corinthians Gordon Fee wrote There are always some who see this action as harsh and unloving, but such criticism comes from those who do not appreciate the biblical view of God's holiness. and the deep revulsion to sin that holiness entails. And so there is such a thing as excommunication in the church. And I want to talk about more broadly the purposes of church discipline. Sometimes when you talk about church discipline, some people say, oh, excommunication. No. There are There are various ways that church discipline is practiced, but um I just want to go start with with with talking about the purposes of church discipline And the first purpose, and certainly one of the preeminent purposes, is to restore the individual So for example, in Revelation chapter 3, verse 19, God says, Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Then he says to these people, so be zealous and repent. And so discipline isn't a sign of God's vindictiveness. Discipline is a sign of God's fatherly love, and the church is merely an agent for administering God's discipline. And when a church fails to exercise discipline, you can look up 1 Corinthians eleven, twenty-eight to thirty-two later. When a church fails to exercise discipline There are occasions when God steps in and exercises the discipline. And I'd rather be disciplined by a fellow believer than be disciplined by God. Now look at verses four and five. So I said the purpose of discipline, one purpose, is to restore the fellow believer who has gone astray. You see that in verses four and five. Where Paul says to these people, when you're assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus, and so in other words, when the church is gathered And my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus. You are to deliver this man to Satan. for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Now that's quite a that's quite a difficult text there But what it's saying in a nutshell is that to put a church member outside of the membership of the church to say, you should not take communion again. is to put him out in the world. It's to put him out under the sway, the realm over which Satan holds sway. And so he's no longer under the umbrella of the church, so to speak. But what I want you to notice, first of all, is the goal. The goal is that that individual's experience out in the world might serve as a wake-up call to bring him or her to repentance. It's a way of saying Okay, we have we've sought to appeal to you, but after all this time You've you haven't turned. We see you still want to go your own way and do your own thing. And so we're going to put you out of the church. And we're going to let you take a drink out of a big tall glass out of that. And we're hoping you're going to see how that sets with you, that it doesn't set so well And we hope that in time, either in the short term or in the long term, this will serve to bring you to your senses. So that you'll be restored, right? Isn't that what it says in verse 5? So that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Now that's a hard love, but the Bible says this is the ordinary means that God uses to awaken someone. who is har to a to a prof to awaken a professing Christian who is hardened in his or her rebellion. We're praying that tasting the bitterness of the world will bring that individual to repentance. And so even when the process of church discipline goes out, it's drawn out to the final step Excommunication, the goal is to reclaim the offender. Because when we excommunicate somebody, and I've seen this, When you excommunicate somebody and they're really a Christian, that oftentimes awakens them because what you're saying to them is By not by your sin, but by your lack of repentance, it doesn't seem like you're a Christian. And if you're not a Christian You're going to hell. Now we don't know, right? Only God knows the heart. But when we excommunicate somebody, we're saying by your ongoing lack of repentance You don't seem to be a Christian. We can't take an x-ray of your heart, but Jesus did say in Matthew 7, by their fruits you'll recognize them. By their fruits you'll recognize them And so from what we see, we think you better take stock about your standing before the Lord Jesus Christ. So we're not saying you're not a Christian because we don't know, but we're saying by your lack of repentance, it's not look it's not looking good, okay? And um so that's why we're going to treat you as an unbeliever until you do repent. So how do you like that? Now it's for our kids. This might sound a little bit weird, all this talk about excommunication, right? What is this, the scarlet letter? No? No, I'm just opening up the Bible And I'm trying to say that church discipline is an act of love because the goal is to reclaim the fellow believer who stumbled and has not yet turned around. So I've told I wrote this story in our New Members booklet, but um there's a Baptist pastor in California by the name of Earl Blackburn, and he wrote or he told a story about a particular Sunday They excommunicated a man from his church. This man had beaten his wife and was not repentant. And so they announced the excommunication during the worship service And as it turns out, and this happened in our church, as it turns out, of course, that was a Sunday when there was a new family visiting the church. And uh w that ha that happened to us one time, one one Sunday when we excommunicated somebody. They were out of here. But but out of the there was another time a guy said, Hey You guys are doing this right. But anyway, but that's what happened with Earl Blackburn that Sunday. They excommunicated this uh church member. The fella, this new guy walked up to him in tears. And he said, I want to become a member of this church. I need to become a member of this church. And uh Pastor Earl Blackburn asked him, well, why? How's that? And he said, Well, let me tell you my story. I've never seen anything like this But I believe it's so right. Then he told the story. He said, I I'm on a I'm on the worship team at the mega church down the road. And I committed adultery on my wife twice. The senior pastor knew it. The church staff knew about it. They didn't do a thing about it. They didn't like it, but they didn't do a thing about it. Then I committed adultery a second time on my wife. Everybody on the worship team knew about it. They didn't like it. They didn't say a thing. Yeah, they thought, I guess they thought that's not a loving thing for us to talk about. So he said, I had two affairs with two different women. And he said, I had no fear of God. After they did nothing the first time I committed adultery. It was easier to commit adultery the second time. The church knew about it, and the church condoned it. They didn't like it, but they didn't do anything about it. Nobody came to me He said, it was this guy I worked with who was a Christian. He confronted me with Scripture, and that's what led to my repentance. So I said earlier, why join a church? You should join a church because you are weak. I'm weak. We need to be accountable to other Christians. And there's no true accountability unless you put yourself under authority. You can say, oh yeah, I'm accountable, I'm part of the church. No. Unless you voluntarily vow to say, I submit to the government of discipline of this church. There's really no true accountability. So the first purpose of church discipline is to restore That's what we pray for. A second purpose is to maintain the health of the church. And so, right, when a professing Christian who's a member of the church Engages in ongoing and unrepentant immorality, it does affect the church. And that's what Paul says in verse 6. Don't you know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump, right? Suppose uh church member Billy Bob's having an affair and um People know what's going on. Billy Bob might even sing in the choir. He's having an affair with some other woman in the choir. Everybody knows what's going on, but you know we we want to be loving. Well, how's that work out? Well then there's this other guy in the pew. He says, you know what? Billy Bob's having an affair, and that's fine with everybody. I guess it doesn't hurt me if I flirt with my secretary Then there's some teenage boy who says, well, he's married. And he's sleeping with another woman, so I guess it's not so bad that I sleep with my girlfriend. That's what Paul's saying. Do you not know That a little leaven leavens the whole lump. So, what are the purposes of church discipline? It is to restore the individual, it is to maintain the health of the church And is to protect the witness of the church. Look at chapter 5, verse 1, right? He says, it's actually reported that there's sexual immorality among you So, Paul's in Ephesus, 250 miles from Corinth. This is before the telephone. This is before the internet. This is before the tabloid newspapers. But Paul got word of what was going on, what was being celebrated in the church of Corinth, right? News of church scandal spreads quickly. Paul was concerned about protecting the reputation of that church. So when I pastored in North Carolina, I went out to lunch with a guy, a guy who worked at a car dealership, and uh during our course of our conversation, I invited him to church. He said, I would never go to your church. So wh wh how's that? Then he told well, there was a guy in our church, he died of a heart attack at the age of fifty. But there was a guy in our church who worked at his dealership and he was having an affair. He was sleeping with this woman. It was an ongoing thing. We didn't know about it, but he knew about it, and it really harmed the reputation of the church. He thought the church was full of hypocrites and um that we were ignoring his sin. But no, uh a church must practice discipline to say Uh we we're in we're we are sinners, but we're endeavoring to walk in a way that honors Jesus Christ. Now I put some other uh uh scriptures scriptures in the bulletin other purposes of discipline to vindicate the honor of Jesus Christ To deter others from like offenses. It's interesting in Acts 5, when God struck down Ananias and Sapphira, members of the early church, for lying, it says in Acts 5. 11 great fear came upon the whole church. It gets my attention, right? We should be so noble. We should love God so much that we want to do things out of love and out of thanksgiving. But we're fallen, and so these various incentives help keep us in line, help bring us to repentance Then, of course, we want to practice uh discipline to prevent the wrath of God from being poured out on the church. That's what we saw in Joshua chapter 7. So anyway, just I'm taking a lot here. Let's just move along. Number three, the process of discipline. And so it's interesting if you turn to Matthew 18 Some people uh say that it's unloving to practice church discipline, but then uh they're setting themselves up as being more loving than Jesus himself. Because he instructed the church about the process of discipline. So Matthew 18, beginning at verse 15, we see there's various stages to go through. The first stage is in verse 15 Jesus said, if your brother sins against you, go tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. Okay? And so if you discover that a fellow Christian is involved in some kind of ongoing and flagrant sin, don't call me, because that would be violating this passage. Rather, you go to that person And um you go to you go in humility and uh you try to handle it. You want to Check your own attitude, right? Jesus said in Matthew seven, one, take the log out of your own eye before you take the speck out of your brother's eye. And it says in Galatians 6 verse 1, if anybody's in sin, you who are spiritual should restore him, he says, in a spirit of gentleness, right? So you want to be gentle, you want to accuse, you want to rather go and just seek clarification for this apparent discrepancy that you see. But just go. And um in that if they repent, it says in verse 15, that's the end of it. So another story from way back, like this is over 20 years ago, so I could share it There was a woman in our congregation, a member of our church, who was cheating on her husband. And my wife and another lady in the church went to her. The only reason I know about it, because my wife asked me, how should I approach this? And I said, well here's what I would suggest. So they went to her And she heard what they had to say and she acknowledged her sin. She went to her husband and uh her marriage survived. Her marriage was restored. Doesn't mean it's easy, right? But they're still married today. And so that's what you do. But the important part is nobody knew about that. We don't we don't want to embarrass people, right? If it's a private sin, we want to keep it private There's no benefit to making people embarrassed. We understand that. But if they don't listen, then in verse 16 it gets more complicated. Jesus said, if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. So you take somebody else along To help them see, you know what, this is important. We're not gonna I'm not gonna ignore this. And also so that someone, uh that individual can't accuse you of being mean spirited or whatnot, but you had somebody else with you And um then the third stage, if they still don't listen, it says in verse seventeen, the third stage, if he refuses to listen to them Tell it to the church. And in our form of government, we would say, bring it to the elders and let them appeal to the to that individual. And then the fourth stage, the end of verse 17, if he doesn't listen, then it says, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax collector. So Jesus is saying, treat that professing Christian as an unbeliever. How do you treat unbelievers? Well, we should love them, right? But we w but we understand uh that they're outside the kingdom. And in fact, my take is unless they're causing some kind of division or influencing others They should be in church. We had a fellow who was coming to church once after he was excommunicated because he wanted to come to be with his kids. So we were glad But it wasn't business as usual. You know, we'd ask ask him a question every once in a while, how's it going? Have you thought about this? You know. So we treat him as an unbeliever, but we certainly want him to uh hear the gospel And by the way, just so there's no confusion, there's only one sin for which a person can be excommunicated. Write down which one you think it is, and if you get it right, I'll give you a dollar at the door. Uh it's not being an axe murderer, it's not being an adulterer, it's not being a prostitute. Um but rather the one sin is on repentance, right? We're all sinners. The only sin for which a person is excommunicated is a failure to repent after uh after he's been confronted over a long time But when the individual does repent and shows forth the fruit of repentance, then we rejoice and we say like uh the writer Hebrew says Their sins and lawless acts I'll remember no more. We put that out of our mind. And it's interesting, going back to Matthew 18, 15 to 18, If you'll notice the context, that teaching follows right after the parable of the lost sheep. The shepherd had a hundred sheep, one went astray. And uh when he found that, he looked high and low, when he found that that strange sheep, he rejoiced, he celebrated. And he Jesus said there's more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents. And so that's the goal for that kind of uh restoration. It could take a long time. That's what we continue to pray for. It's got a little bit long. Let's finish this out though, okay? Just so you know you got your money's worth. Uh verses nine to you're like, yeah I I I'm good. But nine to thirteen. Uh where am I back on First Corinthians? Where Paul talks about the posture that we should have toward unbelievers, or should I say, toward the unrepentant, inside and outside the church. So in a previous letter, Paul commanded the Corinthians not to associate with those who are sexually immoral. And Paul thought, or excuse me, they thought that Paul was advising them to withdraw from the world. And so Paul says, whoa, wait a minute here, let me put the brakes on and let me clarify this, verses nine and ten. He said, I wrote to you my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexually immoral people of this world. or the greedy and swindlers or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. Okay? So Paul said, of course, Christians should be associating with all kinds of people because we want to be a witness to them, right? We want to point them to Jesus Christ. So that is good. Okay? And if you have a friend who's involved in some kind of scandalous sin, invite him to church because our disposition shouldn't be Well, you really need to work on this this area in your life. No, if somebody's a Christian not a Christian, our disposition would be, we want you to come to know Jesus Christ. And then you would We don't want to put the cart before the horse. So somebody said Jesus catches his fish before he cleans them. And that's what Paul's talking about here But he goes on, once a person becomes a Christian, then we need to hold one another accountable. And so in verses eleven thirteen, eleven to thirteen He says, but now I'm writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed. Or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler not even to eat with such a one? For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you're to judge? God judges those outside, purge the evil person from among you. So there you have this very hard teaching. But it this is uh this is part of the Christian life, and we recognize uh nobody's more gracious, nobody's more loving, uh, nobody's more merciful than God. But we also know that the Lord disciplines those he loves, and so we should do Likewise, out of out of zeal for God's honor and out of love for God's straying sheep. And we trust Uh we don't always thread the needle exactly right, but it's our ambition to try to do it as faithfully uh to Scripture as we can. Because we believe that we when we do God's work in God's way, God's people will be blessed and those individuals will be blessed. So let's pray. Father in heaven