Bible to Titus chapter one. And so we've been going through the book of Revelation. We're going to take a two-week interlude. And we do this when we go through Through long sections of scripture. Once in a while we'll do something different. And this is a timely study. We're going to talk in Titus 1 about elders and something also about deacons in the church. And I'll I It should be obvious why we're doing that. We have a need for more elders. Uh but also it's uh this passage is about Christian character, so it's instructive for all of us. Uh before I read the passage, type Chapter one. I Bob and Darlene Brown, they have been hunkered down because of the coronavirus for over a year. They're back. pillars of the church. We're glad you're here. We're running out of steam, but now the Browns are back And so I think we'll make it. And um is anybody else back for the first time? No? Okay, good. Well we have a couple visitors here too. I don't want to put visitors on the spot. That was always awkward. You'd visit a church and make the visitor stand up. And then I went to a church once, uh Calvary Baptist Church and went to salem when I was in college and they had all the newcomers all the visitors set and it was worse they had all the people of church team Stand up. And you weren't allowed to stand. You had to just look up at everybody shaking their hand. And so we're not gonna do that. I'm just gonna make you stand up and tell us a short biography No. We're not gonna do that either. But um but for those who are here, I know a lot of people are new. Look around, right? You don't know who's new and who's not. Meet people after the service. Don't just talk to those people you already know. Talk to them after a little bit. But um try to look out to meet some new people. The wind's blowing here, so if my notes blow away We'll just quit early. Let's turn to Titus chapter 1, uh verse 5 to 9. So this is Paul giving qualifications for elders in the church We're going to take this over the course of two weeks. So we're just going to take the first part of it this week, but I want to read the entire chunk versus five So Paul said, writes uh to Titus, this is why I left you in Creed, so that you You might put what remained into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. If anyone is above reproach The husband of one wife and his children are believers, and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. For an overseer. For an overseer as God's steward must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick tempered or drunkard or violent or grief. Greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. He must hold firm to the trust of God Trustworthy word is taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. reason we're I chose this text this morning is that we're in a season uh where we're short on elders. Uh we have just one ruling elder and me. So I'm an elder in the church, and Andy Lud Ludlum's an elder. And we have we you know usually have about four or so, but we're short right now. And so uh the next for the next two seconds Sundays. I want to explain the offices of elder and also the uh the office of deacon. We have four sturdy deacons. We could always use more there too, right? And how many deacons should a church have? Uh some churches have quotas. That's not right. In fact, when I passed in North Carolina, they had a quota and that was That doesn't work because if you don't have the right men, you have to stick men in there to fulfill the quota. That doesn't work. What if you have many qualified men? Well then they should also be serving So you think what we want is those whom God has called to serve as elders and deacons in the church, as many as God would call. So we're looking at this text to orient our prospective elders and deacons about one aspect of the qualification, the character qualifications for office. There are other qualifications qualifications. Doctrinal. Do you agree with our view of Scripture and the doctrines of the Christian faith as summarized in the Westminster Confession? Now people say, well I just go by the Bible. We just go by the Bible too. But we have a little summary that says here's what we mean when we say what we believe. We use that as the word Westminster Confession of Faith. In fact, this uh Friday at the Men's Breakfast, we're going to start a study of that. It's a good primer on biblical doctrine. I mean, I invite all our men to come uh to that Friday uh breakfast each week. And so the purpose of our discussion this morning is to orient perspective elbow to the character qualifications, and also to orient the congregation as to what we should be seeking in church leaders. And Um this is important. You know, m most churches show great interest things like buildings and hiring a pastor who has a a winning personality and an entrepreneur Spirit and I must commend you on an excellent choice for this church. Not exactly right. But also, you know, having these big programs. to to draw people in. Well, all those things uh have their place as long as it's done in proportion. But what's notable is that most churches overlooked overlooked the most essential element in what makes a church Solid and mature and godly, and that is the character of its leaders A church really stands or falls on whether or not it has biblically qualified leaders. I pastor a church for ten years. I learned about that. We had some exceptional elders, but there were also elders that should not have been elderly elders and that had that typically or oftentimes Armstrong of the church. And so leadership's important. And that's why after Paul and Titus evangelized the island of Cree. They got some churches started. Paul had Titus remain in Cree together So look at verse 5 again. This is why he says to Titus, I left you a creed, so that you might put what remained into order. says and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. Verses six to nine is a sketch of the kind of trait That we should be looking for in elders, their character, their doctrinal commitments, their disposition toward others. This passage Goes hand in hand with 1 Timothy chapter 3. And notice that passage gives qualifications for elders and deacons. And basically the qualifications are the same, and the qualifications given Scripture aren't exhaustive, it's sort of just a sketch. And then here's the kind of things you look for uh in in a in a Christian uh leader. And these traits also apply to deacons, and that's obvious because in First Timothy three verse eight, after he gave the qualifications for elders, he says in Timothy three eight, deacons likewise. Then he gives them traits that should deacon that deacons should have in a And so uh again we want prospective elders to listen. And if you're a young man You're a teenage boy. We want you to listen to this. And I was saying to my son last night, I hope you'll grow up and you'll want to serve the church because the church needs uh Men who are committed to serving. And if you want to serve, that's a good thing. You know, we don't want leaders Who say, well, I really want to be a leader, but if God's calling me, I'll do it. The church doesn't want reluctant leaders. Imagine hiring a pastor and that you're interviewing And we say, Well, uh we'd like you to pastor our church and the guy said, Well all shucks, I don't know if I really want Want to do that, but if you really want to do it, want me to do it, I'll do it. Well, that doesn't work for a pastor, it doesn't work for an elder. And that's why in 1 Timothy chapter 3, verse 1, Paul wrote, If anyone aspires To the office of elder, he desires a noble task. So Paul says leadership in the church, any kind of leadership, is something that A Christian should aspire to. Not because you want to be recognized, but because you have a burden for Christ's church, right? You want to see it strengthened. You want to serve It's people. When I was a seminary student, I had an internship in an Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Hackestown, New Jersey for two summers. I remember asking the pastor, how'd you decide to become a pastor? He said, well my first my initial desire was to become But I looked at all the struggles and the weaknesses in the Church of Christ and I thought You know what? The Church of Christ needs pastors who will teach the Scripture. And I remember there's an ARP church The ARP is our denomination for those who are new. Up in Manchester, Maryland, they were struggling years ago, and there was an older man Charlie Newton in his late 70s, he had been an elder, and then he was going to become an elder again. And um, when his pastor asked him, hey Charlie, we really need you As an elder. And Charlie's answer was, uh, I got one good fight left of me. I'm going to do it. He was concerned for his church, and he stepped up and he and he s and he stepped in because they needed him at that time in this place. And so let's look uh at verses five to nine. Well actually we're not going to look yet I want to make a couple orienting remarks, okay? So this isn't the introduction to the sermon. This is a sermon. This is the this is the meat of it. The first part of the meat is just uh explaining, you know, what What is an elder in the church? What do they do? And the first thing I want to say, and this is on the bullet in the bulletin, is that the elders are the spiritual leaders in the shepherds Of the congregation. So in verse 5, Titus 1, you see the word elder, that's the Greek word presbyter, from which we get the word presbyter. So that wasn't too smart, but they named our denomination after a form of government. But that's where we are, right? We're a Presbyterian church and it means rule by elders. And uh the by the word elder, they don't mean necessarily age, but just maturity, okay? So we want rules by mature men. Now you'll notice in Verse seven, this uh I just want to explain this before you jump in. He talks about an overseer. So verse five, he's talking about Talks about elders, and then in verse 7, he uses the word overseer. That's the Greek word episcopas, right? From which we get episcopalian, which is also translated bishop. And so the The Episcopalians, the Catholics, the Methodists, and some others, they had bit the office of bishop in their church. And I think everybody recognizes now that that was a misunderstanding of scripture. Because overseer is not a word for elder, it just describes what the elder does. He oversees the flock. That's why We don't have bishops in the Presbyterian church. We just have elders and uh deacons. And so Presbyter or Elder describes the the office and overseer describes the function. He oversees the flock. Can you find this also, for example, these words are used interchangeably in Acts chapter 20 Look at Acts chapter twenty, verse seventeen. Paul says, From my leaders he, Paul, sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church Flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the church of God. And so the elders' job is to oversee. The flock by serving as pastors. 1 Peter 5, verse 2. Paul said, Shepherd the flock of God, exercising Oversight. So an elder is a pastor or a shepherd, and it's his job to rule the church, right? We elect our leaders, then they lead. That's why first Timothy five seven Says to elders that they should rule well so they do have a governing function in the life of the church. So two offices in the church, you have elders They're the spiritual leaders, they're the pastors, the shepherds. Then you have deacons. For example, in Acts 7, you see deacons appointed. Why? To deal with physical needs, to oversee the property of the church, the finances of the church, and so on. And so there's a blueprint uh for church government. Elders are the shepherds and the leaders And then here's something else I want to point out. Churches should led, excuse me, churches should be led by a plurality of elders. Right? And so you don't just have one pastor in a church, but you have a group of pastors or a group of shepherds, one guy, or you might have an associate capacity have a couple guys, it's their full-time job to do that. And so they're paid. Then you have other elders, we call them ruling elders, where they still They're the shepherds of the church, but they have their other jobs and whatnot, and so they're not full time at it. So the Bible teaches a representative form of government You notice that in verse 5 of Titus 1, Paul said to Titus, don't appoint a single elder or pastor in each church, but rather he said, appoint elders. Plural. Again, Acts fourteen, twenty-three. It says that they appointed elders in every church. And so the pastor uh it's just one elder amongst others. He's not the head Hancho. He's just one elder amongst others. And that's good. That's good for me because if something goes wrong I'm not the only one who gets blamed. It's the elder's decision. But also, more seriously, there's wisdom in many counselors And I've learned much over the years from our other elders. A couple super smart, uh really uh been wise, guided me, and it's not written You might find this hard to believe, but it's not rare that we'll sit down at an elders' meeting and I'll have an idea and I'll have this big suggestion of an what to do or which way to course of action to take. Then after this after discussion uh one or two of the elders will say, well that's not wise for these reasons and I come up with a completely different uh uh uh idea about the direction we should be going. But if I had just been making those decisions on my own, uh we would we it would not have been wise. And so I'm very thankful uh that we have a plurality of elders. Again, we're just sort of introducing the office an elder. Here's another question in the bulletin. Who calls a man to the office of the elder? This is the same with the pastor, right? Because the pastor is an elder. You know, sometimes people say to pastors, how do you know God's calling you to do that as if it's something esoteric. It's not esoteric, uh it's the same way that God calls you uh to your vocation. How were elders called initially in a church? Well the apostles and their associate the their associates Appointed elders, right? Verse 5 again. Paul told Titus. This wind. Paul told Titus in verse 5 To appoint elders. And that's what they did also in Acts 1423. So initially the apostles and their associates appointed elders in each church But you'll notice as the generation the generations that followed the early church, the entire church became involved in the selection of its leaders. And later on you might look at Acts chapter six, verses three to six, and you'll see that the people chose the deacons. So it wasn't just the apostles saying this this this this and this guy but they said we suggest these they put them before the people and the people chose the deacons in the church. And that's why we elect our leaders, right? We want our people to affirm The leadership and the church. And anybody can nominate a man to serve as an elder or deacon in the church, and then that man will be examined by the elders in regards to Their character, their doctrinal commitments, in their willingness to serve as an elder or deacon. And then they're put up for election to the congregation. But I want to understand Underline one thing: we do not call men to the office of elder or deacon. The church doesn't call a man The elders do not call a man, but rather it is God who calls a man to leadership In the church. And that's why when Paul spoke to the uh elders in Ephesus, this is in Acts chapter 20, verse 28 He said to these elders, It was the Holy Spirit who made you overseers. Our job is merely to recognize those whom God has called. Well, how do we do that? It's not mystical, it's not esoteric, but rather scripture gives us guidelines By which we can recognize those whom we believe whom God is calling. We look for men who fulfill the character qualifications And the doctrinal qualifications in Scripture, and then men who are willing to serve, and they're already demonstrating That they're shepherds or elderlike people, right? They care for others. Or they're demonstrating that they're deacons because they helped out willingly with practical needs in the congregation So we're just recognizing those whom God has made obvious that He's calling them. Now we're about to look at the uh truth traits that God looks for, the character traits, uh in in Titus chapter one, verse five to nine. And one thing I want to underline, this is important because there are many In the church, who would say, I shouldn't be an elder, I shouldn't be a deacon, that's exceptional. If you look at the traits listed, the one thing that's striking is the unexceptional, the unexceptional character of these qualifications. Now what are the qualifications for being an elder in church? Well if you look here And Titus, alright, you should get drunk, you should be committed to your wife, you should manage your family well. Well is pretty run of the you know run of the mill. That's what any Christian should be uh seeking to do, right? There's only one uh trait that's sort of uh out of the ordinary is that it says to be an elder you have to be able to teach. You have to know scripture and be able to communicate it. And so yeah that that's that's the That's about the only thing. Everything else is what we should expect in ourselves, right? These are just the basics that we should be striving for. And so what are the qualifications for elders and deacons? Well, I put them in some categories. We'll look at this week and next week. And the first category is personal Personal integrity. Okay? And I don't know where you've gone to church, but I'll tell you what, when I was a young Christian, where I went to church, uh, it wasn't personal integrity, it was your leadership skills. It was if you had a big personality. It was if you were very successful in your career. And they were like the obvious ones that were chosen as elders You don't see that in Scripture. The preeminent trait the scripture looks for is character. Look at verse 7. Paul writes, An overseer is God's steward, must be of steer. Above reproach. Now that's not doesn't mean you're faultless, and there are men who should be elders, but they realize there is sin in their heart, so they say, I can't be an elder, because I see the sin in my heart. Well, I mean if that was the standard, you shouldn't have any sin in your heart Then we're done for, right? Because no one would ever serve as an elder in a church. When Paul says you must be above reproach, he's not talking talking about sinless Perfection, but rather he means a blameless reputation. There is no great inconsistency that has been in that has been seen in your conduct That would bring you into reproach. That's what it means. You're not going to scandalize the church because of your rank hypocrisy. No? Um it just means you're a person of integrity. You're not perfect, you're a sinner, but you're a person of integrity. And if everybody knew everything about you, they would say Yeah, he's a sinner, but he's an honest sinner, he's a repentant sinner, and there's no great uh law in his life That disqualifies him from serving as leadership in the church. So it's interesting, just as a side note, you know, Paul's concern That leaders in the church have a good reputation with outsiders. Look at ver, you see that It's another place. It's first Timothy three verse seven. Paul says he must be well thought of by outsiders, talking about elders, so that he may not fall into disgrace into the snare of the devil. A couple places in the New Testament where Paul says to Christians or to leaders in the church, you should be really concerned about what people outside the church Think about you. Now I heard sometimes you hear people say, I don't care what people think about me. God knows my heart. Well, you're more spiritual than the Bible. Because God's really concerned about what people think about you. He's concerned about our witness to young people in the church and also Also to a watching world. And the credibility of the American Church has all but been destroyed because a pastor And church leaders who have behaved in hypocritical and scandalous ways. We don't want that. So we need to pray Lord, protect our church. Pray for your pastors. Pray for your leaders. Lord, protect us from bringing disrepute on the Name of Christ. So that's the first category, personal integrity. Not are you without sin, but are you a man who is upright and you're honest With God. Second trait, and there are a lot of aspects of this second one, so that's why we're only doing two. The second trait is To have a properly ordered family life. That's a big category, but it captures a lot. A properly ordered family life. Okay, let's look at a couple. What's that mean? Well, verse this says he must be the husband of one wife. In other words, he You can translate that literally. He's a one woman man. Your wife occupies your full horizon, right? You're not looking over the fence. Who else is out there? You're faithful to your marriage vows. He must be the husband of one wife It does not mean that you have to be married to be an elder. But if you are married, you should be faithful. And if the it says you have to be married to be an elder, then also it means saying you have to be have kids to be an elder. And so no we need to understand uh the context and thank Paul and Timothy most likely were single. So a one-woman man, which raises the question that many have, well, what about divorce? And that's a that's a lengthy subject, but I could give a put a couple stakes in the ground. The Bible says there are two grounds for divorce. Matthew nineteen nine says adultery is grounds for divorce. If you were divorced because your wife committed adultery, then you have legitimate biblical grounds. If you're divorced, uh 1 Corinthians 7:15 because your wife deserted you And that's a biblical ground for divorce. And so you're not necessarily disqualified for being an elder, if that's your situation. Well, I was Divorced on unbiblical grounds before I became a Christian. What about me? Well, there are many things that unbelievers do before they became Christians, that would disqualify them for being elders. But you know, 2 Corinthians 5. 17, Paul wrote, If anyone's in Christ He's a new creation. The old has gone. The new has come. And so the way that Presbyterians look at that, the way that even Job of Presbyterians look at that, is we say that was a chapter in your life before you were redeemed by Jesus Christ. What we're looking at is from your conversion forward. And so you're not necessarily disqualified. So okay, so a properly ordered family life, he must be the husband of one wife. B, he must have his Children under control, it says in verse 6, and elders' children must be believers. Now we talked about this a couple years ago. This requires some explanation Explanation. Because by this translation, it's saying that if you're an elder or a deacon in the church, and the pastor's an elder Your children must be Christians. And there are people who say you cannot serve as an elder, pastor, deacon, or whatever, if you have a child who is not a Christian. And so if you or your kids aren't Christians, or if you have kids who are not yet Christians, or if you have a child Who has fallen away from the faith, then you're disqualified from church from serving in church office. Well, let's look at this more carefully Because that's what verse 6 says, believers. So if I'm going to challenge a translation of the Bible, I better have a pretty convincing argument. And I do. It's not my argument, but it's an argument, a well-worn argument. So that word in verse 6 translated believers, it's a Greek word, pistos. It can also be translated faithful. And some translations of the Bible, in fact, have a footnote, and it indicates this. It could also be translated faithful. only believer. Same words used in 2 Timothy 2 verse 2. And there it's translated faithful as in faithful men. And so So my understanding is Paul's merely saying that our children should be faithful. They should walk in an upright way And the end of verse 7 in Titus 1 explains what it means for our children to be faithful. It means that they're not open to the charge of Debauchery or insubordination. Debauchery, just indulging the flesh, drugs, sex, uh alcohol and and so on There's a good book on the office of elders called Biblical Eldership by a man named Alexander Strauss. S-T-R-A-U-C-H. Alexander Strauss I'd like saying that. But um in his book, he explains about this verse, uh verse five or verse six. He writes the contrast is Made not between believing and unbelieving children, but between obedient, respectful children, and lawless, uncontrollable children Children. That makes a lot of sense because it's the Holy Spirit who brings anybody, including our children, to faith in Christ We can seek to influence them for Christ, but we don't have final control over that. And here's another dilemma. We say that verse 6 is saying that our children must be believers before you can serve in church office. What if you have seven kids? Six are believers And one is not. Does that mean you're disqualified? Seems like you did a pretty good job there with the sixth. What happened with the seventh? Well, nope, something's wrong. You're disqualified. So these are the kind of conundrums that you're going to run into if you translate verse 6 to say that an elder's children must be believers. So the point that Paul's making, more basically in verse 6 Is that a leader in the church must show himself first to be capable as a leader in a home? That's consistent with what Paul wrote in 1 Timothy 3. 4. He said of elders, he must manage his own household well, with all dignity, keeping his children submissive. So there Paul says he just needs to manage his household and keep his children in line. He's not saying that he has to convert them. And you can't, right? God converts them and so and again talking about managing your family first timothy three five he explains why it's important for an elder To manage his household. He said, if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? And so there's an irrefutable logic in that, right? The church is the household of God. If you can't manage your own own household, how are you going to be able to manage the household of God? Howard Hendricks, a professor at Dallas Seminary years ago, he said If your Christianity doesn't work at home, don't export it. We don't want that. We have enough troubles in the church. And so that that's that's pretty good wisdom. Here's something else. And um it says um where am I verse six? Titus chapter one verse six Talking about the spot the final point. When it says the husband of one wife. Now that's one of the statements That leads us to conclude that the office of the elder is only open to men. It says he should be the husband of one wife Now I know there are young people, and there are probably some older people too. So that's chauvinistic, uh that's narrow-minded. Uh uh what you just call out of from a rock uh in the seventeenth century? And I say no. Uh I was dragged kicking and screaming into into the eighteenth century. I'm more of a modernist But um the husband the Bible teaches, you know, and everybody agreed on this until about nineteen sixty when the feminist movement took uh took root, then all of a sudden all the mainline positive positive denominations had a new insight into scripture and they said oh yeah You know what? After two thousand years we see something new that nobody ever saw. The Bible teaches that women should be elders in the church. So many of the Protestants And they said, Everybody else, you guys are narrow-minded, and if you don't have that, it must be because you're a chauvinist and you want to oppress women Not at all. As a new Christian, I was in a mainline Protestant church that had women elders. And then in college started And learn the Bible, I remember asking the pastor, you know, it seems like the Bible says that only men should be elders. And he said, Oh, that's is just cultural. And I said, well, where is that? And he said, Galatians 3. 28. In Christ there's neither male nor female. I was only in college, I'd only been a Christian for a couple years, but I understood in Galatians three twenty-eight, it was saying that as far as our access to God, there's no Difference. Jew, Gentile, male, female, slave, or free, it doesn't matter. It had nothing to do with office in the church. God's order and the church reflects God's order in the home. I think most of most of us would agree that the Bible teaches that the husband Should be the head of the home. See that in Ephesians 5. The church is the family of God. The home is a microcosm of the church. And so what the church has understood down through history, up until the 1960s, was the correct interpretation. Biblically qualified men Should lead in the church. Now, that's not the only qualification for being an elder, that you're a man, right? But that's one of the qualifications. And then we look at the others too. And so that's uh that's the first chunk of this discussion. Uh next week we'll finish out this passage, other traits uh uh that Titus teaches about elders in the church We'll pull in some other traits we see in the rest of uh the New Testament. And as I said, you know, these are not just traits that we're looking for in elders and deacons. These are traits traits we're looking for in ourselves. We just want to grow to be godly. We want to glorify God by our character. And we all have our struggles. And as I said, you know, elders and pastors and deacons they're not perfect. We all have our flaws and there's areas in the that we've mentioned where we're still struggling. But what is the basic orientation of the direction of your life? Where are you going? This is what we're looking for in elders and deacons. So we want to pray, Lord, give us some more elders. Give us some more deacons. Men who are leaders And men who want to serve and who will serve gladly. And may we have the wisdom to recognize us. Let's bow our heads.