We're looking at the uh uh the Book of Titus. Just for last week and this week we took a little interlude. We were um we were uh going through the book of Revelation, we'll pick up next week on Revelation chapter 3. But I thought it timely to talk about officers in the church since we do have a need for a couple more elders. And so we're looking at Titus chapter 1 verse 2 7 to 9. Titus 1 along with 1 Timothy 3 are key texts that talk about the qualifications for church office Basically they talk about the moral qualifications. There are doctrinal qualifications and also you need to be on board with the vision. or the ministry of the church that you're involved in. And so we're looking at Titus chapter 1, verses, well we're focused this morning on verses 7 and 9, but I'm going to read again beginning at verse 7 Verse 5, because we started this last week. Paul writes to Titus, he says, This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into water. He ended pointing. Elders in every town as I directed you. If anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers, ye are not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. For an overseer as God's steward must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick tempered or a drunkard or violent Or greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. Firm to the trustworthy word is taught, so that he may be able to give instruction and sound drop sound doctrine, and also to rebuke those whose contradict it. So this is about elders. So I became a Christian late in high school, went off to college, and then I started working with the youth group in the church where I became a Christian uh two summers during college and I had the opportunity to become acquainted with a board of elders. I didn't know how churches were structured. This happened happened to be a Presbyterian church after that I was in a Baptist church and I ended up back in a Presbyterian church. But this was a different this was a mainline Presbyterian church and they had a different approach to uh leadership. Uh they had fifteen elders, that I thought that was quite a few, uh, but they had a quota that they had to fill, and so they would try to find men uh to fit those uh slots. And I would teach me month I went to the elders meeting and it became apparent looking back that they viewed their shift their job not as being shepherds of the flock because there was I don't think there was any discussion of any pastoral issues or needs and people, but rather uh this group viewed themselves as the church's board of directors, and so they would uh approve or disapprove various proposals that were brought to them. And it was a very efficient meeting. Uh the elders were cordial, professional to one another. But looking back, I realized this was a church business meeting. And I don't think these people were aware of this job description for elders, nor was the church aware of the qualifications for the office of elder. Because the primary qualification to be an elder or a deacon in the church isn't that you're a nice guy or that you have a sharp mind or that you're successful in your career But the qualifications have to do with character, doctrinal commitments, and your commitment to Jesus Christ and to His people. So as I mentioned last Sunday we began our glance at Titus chapter 1. We did chapter verses 5, 6, and the beginning of verse 7 And we're going to finish this out. And as I mentioned last week, in Titus 1 and in 1 Timothy 3, you have these qualifications for action Elder, but they're also the quali qualifications for deacons, and I think uh I think it's first Timothy three eight. It says something like deacons also. So he's talking to elders and deacons in And even these qualifications, you can't write down, you know, if you wrote them down, you might find a list of 20 qualifications. Well that's not exhaustive. That's not the last word. I think Paul is Just saying, for instance, you know, here here's the kind of things you should be looking for in someone who is a leader in the church. So last week we looked at verses 6 7 where Paul says he must be above reproach. And I tried to explain, it doesn't mean sinless Perfection. But rather it means there's no glaring inconsistency in your life for someone, if this were disclosed, some consistent say you're not qualified to serve in a leadership position in the Church of Christ. That's what above reproach means. Then also at the end of verse six It says he should have a well-ordered family life. Not perfect, but well-ordered, faithful to his wife, his children, are under control. This morning we're going to finish out uh the middle of verse 7 to verse 9. And we can lump these traits into two categories. The first category with be mastery over yourself in maturity in relating to others, and that's on the outline. The second category, verse 9, is doctrinally sound And able to teach. And after that, I'm going to point out a few other scriptures from the New Testament. Just to say, you know, these two passages aren't the last word On the traits for elders. And so, first of all, beginning in the middle of verse 7, the steam of mastery over yourself Immaturity in the way that you relate to other people. It was said of Oliver Cromwell that the reason he governed England so effectively was that he was first able to govern himself. And that makes sense, right? How are you going to rule over other people if you can't even control yourself. And so that's why it says in the middle of verse 8, an elder must be self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined Okay? And so we have in verses seven to nine five vices, seven virtues, uh, that should be very So the middle of verse 7. Uh I have I'm using the ESV, the English Standard Version. I know some have different translations Translations. My version says he must not be arrogant. The NIV would state it as overbearing King James in the New American Standard says he's not self-willed. And so the gist of it is he's not full of himself, he's not a know-it-all He doesn't have to get his way on every issue. He's not undeferential and headstrong toward others. And uh if he there I go again, parking big I I did this a couple weeks ago. I need to watch quit watching those cartoons on Sunday morning. Um it'd be the Greek How about if he differs with somebody? If he differs with somebody on some issue, he doesn't treat you and talk to you like you're an idiot or that you're theologically compromised. So great book on the eldership and the There's a lot of deacons too. Alexander Strauss wrote two books, the New Testament, the Biblical Deacon, but this one's called Biblical Eldership. He says concerning this, a self-willed man will scatter God. Cheap because he's unyielding, overbearing, and blind to the feelings and opinions of others. And so he must not be self-willed. He must not be an arrogant man. And usually you pick up on stuff like that in your first couple minutes of your encounter. That is not a that is not that Does not fit someone for the office of elder. Then it goes on in verse 7. He must not be quick-tempered or violent. And that's brilliant for you, right? Because In the church sometimes you you wouldn't know it, but in the church sometimes you have to deal with difficult people and you meet with the other elders elders or the other deacons, right? A monthly usually a monthly meeting. Can you deliberate on matters concerning the welfare of the church? And some of these matters can be done with. So you don't want somebody who has this work to somebody who's quick temper. I saw this and when I was pastor in North Carolina. There was an elder. And one thing I learned, and there's a guy in our church, Mark Jones, who was in that church, one thing I learned when I came here, and most important thing for a church for the help of the church is having biblical standards for church leadership. So there was a guy there. Mark could probably think of who it was, but he His temper went from zero to sixty. In ten seconds, somebody would say something at an elders meeting, and they just see this guy's head. It would start bulging. And then there would be threats. He would say blow a staff, he would stomp out of the room, he would threaten to leave the church. Oh, I would pray for that day to finally come. Um it it didn't And I'm not I like to win I like everybody to win, but this this man was so destructive and he finally did leave uh years later. But what we're saying here Is somebody who can't listen to others, someone who can't disagree respectfully, someone who can't appreciate the men of good Will can have a different take on an issue, not saying they're both right, but just maybe some lack of understanding, but still a man of good will. That person wouldn't Not be suitable as an elder or a deacon in the church. The end of verse 7. Not violent, not necessarily Physically violent, but they're not bullies. Again, Alexander Strauss said, because the pugnacious man will treat the sheep roughly And even hurt them, he cannot be one of Christ under shepherds. It goes on, the end of verse seven, not in drunkard. We all I think we all understand the Bible does not condemn the modern use of alcohol, but it does condemn Drunkenness. So an elder or a deacon should be a fellow who can control his appetite. End of verse 7. Not reading for gain. And uh here's what Paul's talking about uh in the church in Crete. Uh false teachers, teachers that infiltrated the church. Yeah, we're doing just this. You look down at verse 11. Paul said they must be silenced since they are upsetting whole families by teaching. What'd you say? For shameful gain. But they ought not to teach. And so they were teaching certain things because this would redound uh uh to them financially. I won't bring up the TV preachers. But um you know is that a problem in our church? I don't think that's a problem in our church I mean there are certainly prestigious churches where uh men in a community want to be recognized because there's a lot of Other shakers and movers there. This is not the church. This would not be uh that kind of church, right? So that that's not our biggest worry. How about the beginning of verse 8 he goes on? He should be hospitable Hospitable. Here's a Greek word uh behind that. It's called Philo Xenia. So phyllo, I think of Philadelphia, love, right? The city of Brotherly, love. So Philo, love, and then Xenia strangers. And so this is a person who is loving towards strangers So you think about what is hospitality? It has to do with the relation between a host and a guest. And so an elder something who's hospitable. He he he has this mindset that uh he's a host. You know, you're after church and you're talking to somebody, the person is new or might be somebody you know and they're they're single and you say, Hey, you know, you realize they're not doing anything for that afternoon, hey, why don't you come over for lunch at our house we'd we'd love to have you and so that that's the kind of mindset that we would have we want to have in our leaders of course that's the kind of mindset we want to have in everybody in the church who want to be hospitable. And I've said to our leaders and I've said on other occasions There'd be all the difference in our church is if the regular folks, if the members came to church, not with the mindset that I'm an attendee, I'm going to walk in, I'm going to grab a seat, if I see somebody want to chat with, I'll jump and chat with them. the mindset of an attendee. What if we all had the mindset of a host if we were hospitable? We're looking around. Hey, who's new? Who do I see over here that needs to be encouraged? folks that I know, someone who might need a good word, uh, or if there is a new person, you know, how can I direct them where the bulletins are, where the where the the restrooms are, uh things like that. Hey, can I set with you? Things like that, just little just little uh ways to encourage people and say that they're noticed. Uh that's that would be a a sign of uh hospit ho hospitality. And so when it talks about hospitality, I think it is saying you should be willing to open your home if you're able. Sometimes people you're just not able because of the situation we're in. But it's also a disposition, right? self-absorbed men uh do not make good elders. If you if you say hi to somebody every week and they can barely look you in the eye or if they just That's probably not someone who's uh ready uh to serve as an elder or a deacon in the church. But then you go on uh the end of or beginning of verse 8 Paul says he's a lover of good. That has to do with doing what's good and what's kind. One of the commentators, William William Hendrixon, said he's ready to do what is best Beneficial to others. He's just a good soul, right? He cares for people. And I remember sharing this story a couple years ago, and I thought it was a great illustration. Kevin Raleigh was telling me that when his son, Brendan, applied to be a police officer in Rockville, what did they do? They called up his neighbors and they asked the neighbors questions is Brendan a helpful guy? You know, like you know the old lady next door. Uh yeah he helps me shovel my sidewalk in a wintertime. Well that's what What they're looking for, somebody who's a who's a lover of the good. And that's that's that's what we're looking for, right? And and leaders of the church. He's self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. So again, this is just talking about self-mastery. And all these traits, of course, are not just for elders or deacons But they're for everyone. So he has self-control. His life isn't the victim of his emotions, John said. Or John Scott said. His life isn't the victim of his emotions, but the servant of his will. That's what it means to be self-controlled. He's a holy man. Ye, right? He's a holy what am I doing standing up here? And yes This is the disposition that God is calling us to. The great Scottish pastor in the 1800s, Robert Murray McShane He said, the greatest need of my people is my personal holiness. And you think about that, that is so true in the cult In which we live. There the church has so little credibility in our culture. And you think about young people in the church and the effect that it has on them when a pastor or another leader in the church violates some basic moral principles and how that leads He needs the sheep to scatter. And so that's why Paul says this is really important. He must have this disposition where he's aspiring. To grow in godliness. The end of verse 8, he must be disciplined, right? He has uh a good bit of self-control over his physical appetites, over his temper, and over his work ethic. And so that's the first category there. mastery over yourself, maturity in relating to others by the grace of God. And then we go on in verse nine and read that He must be doctrinally sound and able to teach. Okay? Verse 9, Paul says, He must be able to give instruction and Sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. So he has the whole to Biblical doctrine. He he doesn't have to be a Bible scholar, and we certainly had elders who are Bible scholars, but he He has to know the word, the basic contours of Christian theology. And that's why we're having a class, we run this class every couple years on the Westminster Confession of Faith. Here is what we believe. Here is why we believe it. And if you're not familiar with that, that's a document or a summary statement of what the Bible teaches that was written back in the 6th 1640s never improved upon. You can find it on the internet, the Westminster Confession of Faith. And um the reason we do that is that You know, everybody can say, I believe the Bible. We could examine a Jehovah's Witness to be an elder, and he would say, I believe the Bible is the word of God God. So what we do is we have under the Bible a summary statement which says, here's what we understand the Bible to teach. And so we say, do you believe in God? leave Scripture as summarized by the Westminster Confession of Faith. And so he must hold to sound doctrine. Then it says in verse 9 He must be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also rebuke those who contradict it, right? Because it's the elders' job To guard the teaching of the church. That's why when the ladies' group or young adults or the Thursday night group or whatever has an idea about doing a book study, we first run it by the elders. Say, is this is this sound? That's good. We want we don't want people in the church to be taught things that are not scriptural. That's why the elders examine teachers in the church, Sunday school teachers, Bible study leaders. That's why all the prick Are approved by the elders. Why? Because it's their job to guard the teaching of the church. Remember the story I tell. I have a good story, I tend to repeat them if you're new to this church. So just uh lower your expectations. When I was in seminary, I had this um I did an internship for a year in a church in Savannah. They had a pulpit, it was one story above the floor. It's called a prose nest pulpit. And there were six chairs under the pulpit. Why was that? Well back in the 1800s, the elders sat in that those chairs by the pastor is preaching the Bible and they weren't checking their smartphones. They had the Bible open and they were following it and they were making sure that guy, whatever he said That it was in conformity to Scripture. And if he strayed from the way, then there would be a conversation that week. And I don't imagine there were many conversations with elders who were that scripture curious about the scripture. And then it says, and you know we look at we're looking at the qualifications, all the qualifications so far have to do with the person's character character or disposition. But then there's one skill that's mentioned in relation to elders. Paul says he must be able to teach. Verse 9 He says he must be able to give sound instruct excuse me, he must be able to give instruction. Same thing, 1 Timothy 3. 2, just says he must be able to teach Okay? And that makes sense because an elder is a pastor. So our church does not have one pastor, should not have one pastor Should have a plurality of pastors. They are the shepherds of the flock, and the chief way a shepherd feeds his sheep is by opening up to them The Word of God. So he says positively, he must be able to teach correct doctrine. Negatively, he must reprove false teachers. John Calvin said, a pastor needs two voices, one for gathering the sheep, and another for driving away wolves and thieves. What's happened to the mainline Protestant Church? The elders have failed in that duty So that's the end of Titus. Let's just pick up throw out a couple more traits you see in the New Testament. I think these are important. Um James five, verse fourteen. It implies That elders should be men of prayer. James 5:14, James says, Is anyone among you sick? Let him call the elders of the church. What's going on there? Why call the elders? Why not call anybody? Well, you can call anybody in church, but he the first thing that comes to his mind is called the elders why because above all elders should be men of prayer so of course call the elders if you're sick if you have a need right you call the elders they're the shepherds And they should be men of prayer. We want to get we need to get our prayer meeting going again. It just occurred to me we would have a first Sunday prayer meeting and then the play kit and we stopped that, but I think it's time we need to figure out a way to do that. If you want to come to the first Sunday prayer meeting and you come at 4 o'clock, let me know. It's probably too hot. We used to do it after church. We have to figure that out, okay? Let's start thinking about that. He must be a man of prayer. He needs to care about people. He needs to care for the sheep. If you can uh explain the finer points of reform theology With an eloquence that would be John Calvin envious. That's not enough. You have to care for these people. You see that in John 10, 3. Jesus, who Is the Good Shepherd, the Chief Shepherd? It says Jesus, the Good Shepherd, calls his own sheep by name, so an elder knows the sheep. He knows the people. He's acquainted with them. He takes time with them. That's a huge thing. And in a church our size, elders and deacons should be able to know everybody after several months. So that's what we want. Then here's another one. This is obvious, but this is something I had to deal with in past church Elders must be present amongst God's people. It says in 1 Peter 5, verse 3, shepherds are to be examples to the block. And there's nothing more discouraging to a church member than absentee leadership. And so we want our elders in our our deacons to be present of course on Sunday morning at the stated worship services of the church and and to be amongst God's people. We want our leaders to be involved in the prayer meetings once we start these up again. And um in generally we don't take attendance and we shouldn't because we don't know what everybody's doing and some of our leaders are Have very busy schedules and many responsibilities, but we want to see a disposition where they can be at church events. Not every single one, but they're making a good-hearted effort to get to know people and to be amongst the people. And so there you have it. So upon that, I'm going to resign. Now this is this is what this is what we're uh this is what we're aiming for. But it it's humbling, right? It's humbling. Uh this is this is what we're looking for. And So pray, pray God, pray for our elders and deacons, pray that God will give us more. And also, we need to pray for our young men or young women that they would aspire to these traits that we would more and more reflect this portrait of godliness that Paul sets before us. Let's bow our heads.