I said, uh let's put that off. We went back to Matthew's gospel, but now we're going to take a break from Matthew, and we're in Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament Or as I like to say for you Italians out there, this would be the book of Malachi, if that helps. So Malachi chapter 2. I'm going to explain the context in a minute Chapter 2, verse 17. And Malachi is laid out as a dispute, a dispute between the people of Israel, and then God's response to the people of Israel. So chapter 2, verse 17. This is God speaking. He says to the people of Israel. You have wearied the Lord with your words, but you say, How have we wearied him? By saying, everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them. Or by asking, where is the God of justice? Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek. will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap He will set as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them, like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings and righteousness to the Lord Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless. against those who thrust aside the sojourner and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. So, Malachi 2. 17 starts with God reiterating a complaint that the Israelites had against him, and the complaint is that God is unjust. Now, the Bible teaches that God is patient. It teaches that God is long-suffering. It teaches that God is slow to anger. But there are some things apparently That even try God's patience, there are some things that weary even God. And one of those things is when one of his people, or I should say, when his people call into question his goodness and they call into question his justice. And that's precisely what the people of Israel were doing before God. And so back in chapter 2, verse 17, let's read that again a little more closely now, now that you know the setting This is God saying, you have wearied the Lord with your words. Then he jumps over to the other side of the table. And he says, But you say, How have we wearied him? Then he answers by saying, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them So that was the first problem. They said that God delights in those who do evil. God does not distinguish between good and evil. And the second thing, or the second charge they had against God was that he is unjust. So, and you can understand, or we I guess we can understand why these people had some gripes Against their father in heaven. It was 450 BC. The Israelites, about 90 years earlier, they had been in captivity in Babylon The Persians conquered the Babylonians, and as a consequence, the Persian king, he said to the Israelites who were exiled in Babylon, He said it, any of you who want to go back to Jerusalem and rebuild, you can rebuild your walls around the city, you can rebuild the temple, go ahead and do it. And a group of Jews went back, they repopulated Jerusalem, and they got off to a slow start, but finally they rebuilt the walls around the city. You might know that from the book of Nehemiah, and they rebuilt the temple. And they expected that once this took place, that things would go swimmingly for Israel, because the earlier prophets, prophets even before the Babylonian captivity, they had promised That when God's people returned to Jerusalem, he would bless them. There would be a coming golden age. to the people of Israel. The land would ab would would yield abundant crops and uh there would be this supernatural manifestation of God's presence once this temple uh was re-established. And then all the nations would come to Jerusalem for worship. But that did not happen. And we can understand why they had this expectation, but we understand also that this prophecy had a greater endpoint down the road that even has not come fully in our time. And so they looked at what was going on. People were hungry. There was a spiritual deadness amongst the people. They'd been back in the land now for about ninety years, and none of the promises that the earlier prophets had given had yet to come to pass. They did not see God dealing with evil. And so because of these and many other circumstances, disillusionment and discouragement uh set in. And they complained that God did not differentiate between good and evil, and he wasn't concerned about justice. And um that's not something that's unique to the Jews in the fifth century BC, because when things do not work, you see you you endeavor to be a faithful Christian But when things do not work out as you hope, then all of a sudden uh you too and I too were questioning, you know, is there really a God And then I have all these promises in the Bible. Why is he not making good on these promises? One of Malachi's contemporaries, I don't know if it's just exactly the same sort of time when Malachi lived, but Habakkuk, and then he was before Malachi. Habakkuk looked at injustice in the world And he said to God, Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me, strife and contention arise The law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. And so why does not God come and judge the world? Why this delay? Why is he allowing evil to go unanswered. And God has an answer. And the answer he gives to Malachi is the same answer that he gives to us. And his answer in a nutshell is, I'm right here. That's what he answers. Look at verse um chapter three now, verse one. And in the Hebrew Well my version says, behold, but in the Hebrew it could be translated literally, I am right here. And in these verses in chapter 3, prom God promises He will come, and when He does come, Interestingly, his first order of business will not be to deal with injustice in the world When God comes, he says, his first order of business will be to refine his people. So the end of verse 1, he says, the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And then in verse five, you read, then, so after that, then I will draw near to you for judgment. So we're going to focus on the first four verses here where God says He's going to come to refine his people. Now when God comes He's going to be preceded by a messenger. Chapter 3, verse 1. God says, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. Now I want to ask the kids. There's not many kids here this morning. Who is that messenger? Who do you think that's speaking of? When God says, I'm going to send my messenger. Want to take a shot at it? Anybody? God? Well you can't go wrong with that. But actually you did this time. Appreciate you're speaking up. John the Baptist. Right. So this is Malachi written four hundred years before uh Jesus coming And he foretells the coming of John the Baptist. Isaiah 40, verse 3 spoke similarly. Now how do I know for sure it's John the Baptist? Well, because in Matthew 10 verse 11, Jesus quotes Malachi 3. 1 In talking about John the Baptist. So this is Matthew 11, verse 10. I'm sorry, Matthew 11, verse 10, Jesus said of John, This is he of whom it is written. Then he quotes Malachi three, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you And so Jesus said, that's precisely who Malachi was speaking of. Then look at Malachi chapter 4, verse 5, another prediction of John the Baptist. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. Again, Jesus, referring to this verse, this is in Matthew 11, verse 13 and 14. Jesus said, All the prophets in the law prophesied until John And if you're willing to accept it, he is the Elijah who is to come. So Jesus said, hey, you want to know what Think about Jesus on the road uh what was it? Road to Damascus. No, after the resurrection. Emmaus, okay. Emmaus Road. It says in Luke 24, he explained to his disciples everything said in the law and the prophets and how they are about him. And this is just one example. Jesus said, yeah, that guy Elijah in Malachi chapter 4, verse 5, that's talking about John the Baptist. He is the Elijah who is to come. Okay. So I said, after Malachi there was 400 years of silence. And so Malachi chapter four, these prophecies about John the Baptist coming to uh be the advanced man on the m of the Messiah, uh John the Baptist is the next prophetic voice who spoke after Malachi. So there's 400 years of silence. Malachi says, or God says through Malachi I'm going to send my messenger. He's going to prepare the way. John the Baptist shows up, right, dressed in camel hair, eating honey. He walks out of the wilderness. He says, Repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. Well that's all an aside really in in Malachi's uh what's going on in Malachi And then Malachi says that when the preparations are completed, the Lord Himself will come. Chapter 3, we're in chapter 3, verse 1, the second part of the verse. We read, the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple. And that happened Several times during Jesus' time on earth, right? Mary and Joseph brought baby Jesus to the temple to be circumcised. And then Jesus, it looks like a couple encounters in the temple in John 2, and then in Matthew chapter 21, he drove the money changers from the temple, and so he cleansed uh the temple just as was promised. Are right here. But more broadly, one of the reasons Jesus came was to purify the worship of his people. Chapter 3 Verses 2 to 4. Let's look again because this is a little bit detailed, and then we're going to get into some uh some applications. So this is the part where you really want to concentrate for a little bit. Chapter 3, verse 2. God says, and this is about the Messiah, but who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's stove. He will set as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord As in the days of old and as in former years. So I've got a little bit of explaining to do here, right? Because uh the sons of Levi, so they were the priests who served in the temple And God says, I'm going to purify their worship because the worship that they offered to God on behalf of the people was perfunctor and it was corrupt. And I know it's been months. Since we've been in Malachi, but let me just review chapter 1, verse 6. God condemned the priests for their lack of reverence. Chapter 1 verse 8, he condemned them for offering animals for sacrifice that were blind and lame and sick. Chapter 1 verse 13, he condemned them for the apathy that characterized their ministry. And so they moaned, what a weariness this is. And so Jesus came to purify the worship of God. And let's take a little let's make take a little pause here. And I want to make another note because this is this is a little bit confusing, but I want to try to give you the big picture here, okay? Look at verse 2. This is an aside, but it's going to help you understand Old Testament prophecy. Verse 2. God says, who can endure the day of his coming? The day that the Messiah comes? Now the Old Testament prophets used the phrase, the day of the Lord, and this was a coming day when God would come, he would Judge sin, he would redeem his people. And as you read the Old Testament prophets, it appears to be a single decisive event that's going to come But now we have the New Testament and we realize that it wasn't a one-time thing, but rather it's a it's a one event that unfolds in two steps. And here's what the day of the Lord is. When Jesus came the first time, he inaugurated the day of the Lord. And in many ways he purified the worship of his people. We're going to talk about that in a minute. But it hasn't been purified completely. And so the day of the Lord, the day of the Messiah's coming, will be consummated when Jesus Christ returns. And so that's why we say we live in this interim period between the first coming and the second coming, what the New Testament refers to as the last days. But Jesus Christ came to purify the worship of his people. Now Malachi explains this in terms that the Jews in his day could understand. And that was in terms of purifying the priesthood and bringing righteous offerings. You see that in verse 3, right? He will set, this is talking about the Messiah. He will set as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver. Well, uh that's what God is doing to his people. That's what he when Jesus Christ came, that's why he cleansed the temple. But that was really just a token act, right? But he continued to purify the worship of his people. And the way he does it, the way he purifies their worship, you can put under two headings. And please stay with me, and then we're going to, it's going to be easier to follow. He did it through his work for us, and then he purifies our worship secondly by his work in us. Okay? So there's really two aspects of this Jesus Christ purified our worship, number one, by his work for us. And that's the message. The book of Hebrews. In fact, this afternoon you might turn to Hebrews chapter 7 to verse 9. And it presents Jesus Christ as the great priest, as the final high priest, and the only priest. Who was ever without sin. And Hebrews 9 also presents him not only as the final priest, it presents Jesus Christ as the final sacrifice for our sin. And it's a sacrifice that atones for sin once and for all. And so how did Jesus Christ purify the worship of his people? Well, one aspect of it is that he is a qualified priest, and he is a sufficient sacrifice for our sin. And so when we trust in him, we are now made fit to come before God. So you might want to turn to Hebrews 9. I'm going to read a couple verses there. Hebrews 9, verse 24 to 26. And if I can make it e show it show another dimension of this, where what was the temple Where Jesus offered the sacrifice. It wasn't the temple in Jerusalem. He was crucified outside the city. The temple in which Jesus Christ offered this final sacrifice was the true temple, heaven itself. And the temple in Jerusalem was just a replica of that temple, which is heaven itself. Okay? And so Jesus is the final priest, he's the final sacrifice, he's the final temple. And also we see how all these Old Testament themes are fulfilled in Jesus Christ in the New Testament. So this comes together in Hebrews 9, chapter chapter 9, verse 24. The writer says that Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands Which are copies of the true things, right? He didn't go into the holy place in the temple which was made by hand. No. He went into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf, nor was it to offer Himself repeatedly as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world But as it is, he has appeared once and for all at the end of the ages to put away with sin by the sacrifice of himself. And so Jesus, by his atoning work, has once for all purified us in our position before God. And so because our sins have been taken away and we've been clothed in his righteousness. Now we can offer him acceptable worship. That's our position before God But Jesus Christ not only is doing a work did not only did a work for us, but he's doing a work in us. And so what we are in position By his word and spirit, he's making us more and more in our practice. Okay? And so God is bringing this about by refining us and by shaping us into a holy people. Okay, take a breath. And um I'll send you my notes. I I hope I've been confused been confused things But what I want to talk about now, by way of application, is four instruments that God uses to refine us. And to grow us in holiness, okay? Because that's what he's still doing, what he promised to Malachi. I'm going to purify the worship of my people. Our worship is acceptable because we come to God in the name of Jesus Christ, but nonetheless, God is still going to change us to be more and more like Jesus so that in one day we'll be just like him when we see him face to face. One way that God refines us, one way that God grows us in holiness is he refines us by his word. He refines us by the scripture. Jesus himself said that in John chapter 17, verse 17. He prayed for his followers and he said, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is the truth. So in other words, God's word is an instrument by which He sanctifies us, by which He grows us in holiness. And this is why we have such a fixation on the Bible. This is why we say, read the Bible, right? Read the Bible. What's the answer to everything? Read the Bible. That's not the answer to everything. But nonetheless, that that's that's a significant answer though, to n to reflect on this book, to understand it, and then to thoughtfully consider how it applies to our words and our thoughts and our actions. and our aspirations. And it's the Holy Spirit who makes the Word of God effective in changing us and shaping us. And if you read through Psalm 119, I'm not going to do that this morning, that's the longest uh chapter in the whole Bible. But if you read through Psalm 19, the psalmist talks about his love for God's word. And one reason he loves it is because of its sanctifying effect. Let me give you a couple examples. Psalm 119, verse 9. He says that God's word can keep you from sinning. Psalm 119, verse 9. How can a young man keep his way pure? And the answer? By guarding it according to your word. And so God's word, you know, when we when we reflect on this book, this message, it instructs us But it also prods us, and it even helps us to be restrain ourselves. And so God's word can keep us from sinning by instructing us Psalm 119 verse 24, he says that God's word is an ever-present counselor. It's great to have a counselor, a friend, or some kind of mentor. We all need counselors. This psalmist says God's word also assumes that role. 11924, your testimonies are my delight. They are my counselors They give us wisdom. That's a good counselor. Verse 99. I have more understanding than my teachers. To your testimonies are my meditation. God's word gives us peace. 119 verse 165. Great peace have those who love your law. Nothing can make them stumble. Are you fretful? Are you anxious? You need to get some perspective, right? You need to get into the word, and it reminds you of certain realities, certain on scene. God's word gives hope to those who are discouraged. Verse 43. He says, Take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. So these are some of the things that God's Word does to refine us and to sanctify us. The second way that God refines us is through our relationships, right? We know that. Proverbs 27 verse 17. It says, iron sharpens iron And one man sharpens another. That's why we're in the church. That's why the Bible does not commend Lone Ranger Christians. Because you cannot grow as a Christian if you're on your own. Yeah, you might have your podcast library, you might have your theological books. And you might just be a great theologue, but that's not enough. You need to be in the gymnasium, and the gymnasium is in the world and in the church Where we bump with one another and we challenge one another, we encourage one another, and we exhort one another. Marriage, too, right? Marriage is wonderful. Well, except when your wife tells you uh what a sinner you are and humbles you, right? Or your husband points out to you the same things you've been doing for the past twenty years And uh he wonders, are you ever going to change? And then you can answer, yeah, I can change because I'm a Christian. God's given me his word and his spirit, and he can change me. And so God is refining his people through his word, through relationships, through Christian relationships. God refines us thirdly through afflictions. Malcolm Muggerich, a great British journalist who later in life became a Christian, he was interviewed by National Review. I cut this out in the 1990s. And he was asked about his life and what he learned, and he said, as a believer, well he was a believer now, he said, as an old man, looking back on one's life. He said, one of the things that strikes you most forcibly is that the only thing that teaches when anything is toughering. He said, not success, not happiness, not anything like that. The only thing that really teaches one what life is about is suffering. It's affliction. And that's true. All right. We can it it's it's a miserable experience. There there are losses But we understand certain things better. And I think this is good for young people to hear, right? Because there are going to be many disappointments in your life There are going to be many setbacks and losses in your life. And it's not we don't pursue affliction, we don't pursue trials. But we can know in the end of the day that God is sovereign and he will use even these events to shape us more and more into his image. And perhaps hopefully teach us to lean more and more upon him. Isaiah forty-eight verse ten says this precisely. God says, Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver. I have tried you in the furnace of affliction. Psalm 119, verse 67, the psalmist says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. So he said, you know what? I learned a couple things here. And so we want to see our trials as part of God's gymnasium. They're going to teach us to look to Christ. They're going to teach us not to depend on our resources. They're going to remind us that List Life is not all there is. So we have to moderate our expectations. Because this life is not your best life now. There's something more to come. So God refines us by His Word. He refines us through our relationships. He refines us through affliction. And I could make a longer list, but I just want to say one more way that God refines us, and this is in Scripture. God refines us through self-denial. Now that's not a popular Christian message in our day. The Christian message is very therapeutic in the American Church. And Jesus is presented as the one who will help us to overcome all of our obstacles and will help us to become all that we're intended to be. And there I don't want to downplay that too much because Jesus says, right, I'm the living water, I satisfy your thirst. He says, I'm the bread of life, I satisfy the hunger in your soul. So yes, we don't want to discount that completely, but we want to put it into context. And an overemphasis on fulfillment will lead to a distorted view of the Christian life, and that will lead to Christians abandoning the Christian life when they discover that life is not as they've been taught. But Jesus said, no, self-denial is part of the school discipleship. Matthew 16, 24. He said, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself And take up his cross and follow me. That's the message of Christian discipleship. Or how about the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 9 27? Paul says, I discipline my body and keep it under control. Now what is that? That requires exertion on our part. That requires self-denial on our part. And then Paul in Romans 8. 13 says put to death, excuse me, put to death the deeds of the body. And so there's this basic Christian exhortation. There are times when you must deny your impulses to slaughter To lust, to living just for the moment. And this is a message that is not sounded clearly enough in the Christian church, but this is how God builds sturdy disciples. Douglas Freeman in his uh biography of Robert E. Lee said that self-denial Prepared Lee for the hardships of the war and more for the dark destitution that followed it And so after the war, Robert E. Lee, this is in this uh story, this biography, he was in Northern Virginia, and a young mother brought her infant to Lee to be blessed. And uh Freeman wrote that Lee took the infant in his arms and he looked at it. And then he looked at his mother and he said, Teach him that he must deny himself. Wow, that you don't get that advice very often, right? Teach him that he must deny himself But that's how we're going to influence the next generation. That's how I should say that's how the next generation is going to influence our culture. It's not about you, right? It's about giving up your life. In following Jesus Christ. So God refines us through His Word, He refines us through relationships, through affliction, and through self-denial, amongst other things. So Jesus has purified our worship and he's purifying us in our practice. That's why he said, that's the first, my first order of business is to deal with my people. Okay? And then he says, there will be judgment. And he's coming like a fire. So it's interesting. Verses 1, 2, 4 He speaks of the coming Messiah as a refining fire, but in verse five, the Messiah is spoken of not as a refining fire but as a consuming fire. Verse 5, then, so after I refine my people, then I will draw near to you for judgment I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker and his wages The widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. And again, chapter 4, verse 1. Behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all the evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts. so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. Now that is what we call a telescope prophecy It had its first fulfillment in Jesus' first coming. And then after that, the destruction of Jerusalem. That was God's judgment on the corrupt Jewish worship system. Never to be rebuilt. The temple was never rebuilt. 70 A. D. it was destroyed by the Romans. But that's not the final judgment. So like you look out on a mountain and you think okay it's fulfilled you're w driving out toward that mountain then once you get there 70 ADE the destruction of Jerusalem you're going down the road and you see another mountain Down the road, further. And that's the consummation. Okay, so we call this a telescoped prophecy. It was fulfilled in Jesus' first coming. It'll be fulfilled finally in his second coming. But those whom God will judge will notice, or I should point out, are not are not only the pagan nations But it's also the Jewish people who have turned from him. Because the sins listed in verse five are sins being committed in Judah. And so that's a warning for us, 1 Peter 4. 17. It says that judgment's going to begin with the house of God. That's what happened in Judah. And that's what will happen in the church. Well Jesus, remember the parables in the church, where Jesus separates the wheat from the chaff, when he separates the merely those who profess Christ from those who truly possess Jesus Christ. Well there we are. There's a lot there. I know this is Malachi is challenging because there's a lot more explaining that's required. So I hope I hope you hope you bore with me But what I want to just say that you know what we see the relevance of this. Um The people in Malachi's day were bitterly discouraged. And they were asking the question that we ask at times, where is the God of justice? And his answers Let not your heart be troubled. He's going to come. He's going to come. He's going to refine his people. And he's going to administer judgment. So the important thing for us is to trust him and also to make sure that we're right with Jesus Christ, that we're resting on him alone for our salvation as our righteousness. And then also to consider and embrace the instruments that He has given us to refine us, right? His word, His people And also his providence over our afflictions and this call to self-denial. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, uh we bow before you. We thank you for the scripture that speaks even today. We pray, Lord, that we will hear this message of encouragement to us that reminds us That you're still at work, you still have your purposes in history, and you are at work in us individually, as families, and as a body of believers in this congregation. And so help us, Lord, by your Spirit to accept your providence over our lives, your work in us, whether it be difficult or whether it be pleasant. And for those who are not Christians, open their eyes, Lord, to see and to believe and to recognize the call of discipleship that requires death to self Nonetheless, it is the road that you've called people to who would know the truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's sing. It's number 94. We're going to sing four verses. Have permit foundation. And this song was almost written for this passage, number 94. Let's stand.