Let us turn in our Bible to Romans chapter five. Romans chapter five. So it's good to have some new folks here. We're marching through Paul's letter to the Romans. And last week we looked at chapter 5, verses 1 and 2 and 9 and 10. And now we're going to take that section in between. Our focus is verses 3 to 8. But I'm going to begin at verse 1 and read up to verse 8. And so Paul writes, therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Okay, just a quick review. I know I've been doing a lot of reviewing each week, but you really have to see where the the text falls into his argument because the book of Romans is a very careful argument that God makes. After the pointing out in the first couple chapters, everybody's a sinner, everybody falls short of the glory of God He unveiled in chapter three this this grand message that we are made right with God. Not by our efforts to earn God's favor, by our religion, or by our moral striving. But rather we're saved by trusting in Christ alone for our salvation, right? And so in chapter 3, chapter 4, he unveils this grand doctrine justification by faith. And I just want to say it one more time so that everybody's clear. Justification by faith It's a legal declaration that God makes when he looks at a sinner who has trusted in Jesus Christ. for his salvation. And God says, I declare you guilty. I declare you forgiven, I should say, or I declare you not guilty. Okay? So it's a legal declaration. Justification by faith. And now having set forth this wonderful message in chapter 5 Paul lists some of the benefits of justification by faith, okay? And so everything really is tied to it. And in chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, which we looked at last week, he said, the big thing is that once we were alienated and we were enemies from of God, but now in Jesus Christ We have peace with the God of the universe. His wrath is no longer set against us, but we have nothing but his favor. Then in verse 2, he said, We have access to God because we're now clothed in Christ's righteousness. We can come before God without fear, without shame And then in verse three, he said, because you've been justified by faith, you can be certain that one day You will be glorified. In other words, you will reflect the perfect image of Jesus Christ. We struggle now with indwelling sin, but God promises that one day All the remnants of our sin will be removed. We will see God face to face, and we will be able to lift up our heads because there will be no uh uh taint Okay? So having said that much Paul says, I'm not done. Look at verse 3. He says, more than that. Okay? Now this is interesting because this one's a little hard to swallow. He says, more than that, we rejoice in our sufferings. Is that you can even rejoice in your afflictions. So we're going to have to take some time on that one, right? Why would he say that? We're going to try to understand it. Especially because you know people who've been treated in horrible ways. You may have been treated in horrible ways. You read history, and it's hard to comprehend the magnitude of human wickedness And yet, Paul makes this stupendous claim that the Christian can even rejoice in his tribulations. Okay? And here's why Paul says this, and this is this is our outline. He says, We can rejoice in our sufferings, number one, because God uses affliction to shape us more into the image of Jesus Christ. And the second reason Is that we have to see it against the backdrop of the great accomplishment of Jesus Christ that he has redeemed us. And this confirms God's love for us, regardless of our afflictions. Okay? And so the first thing we see here about affliction, there's just two things. God uses affliction to shape us into the image of Jesus Christ. And the word that Paul uses is not a word that refers to suffering in general, but it refers to the affliction that's a result of persecution. In fact, Paul used the same not Paul, the Bible uses the same word. In John 16, 33, Jesus said, in this world you will have Tribulation, the same word translated, tribulation. Acts 14, 22, Paul says, through many tribulations We must enter the kingdom of God. And so when Paul speaks here of rejoicing in our sufferings, he's specifically referring to the persecution that a Christian will suffer because he's not going along. He or she is not going along with the world. Well this is helpful to the Christians in Rome. Seven years after Paul wrote this letter to the Romans, uh the citizens of Rome, or the Christians in Rome, uh terrible persecution. uh broke out against them. And even before that, uh the Roman one of the Roman historians, uh Tacitus said that uh the citizens the citizens of Rome considered Christians to be enemies of the state One reason is they would not bow down before Caesar and say he's Lord, right? They would say, I can't do that. Jesus is my Lord. And then seven years after Paul wrote this letter, as I said There was this great fire in Rome. The people in Rome suspected that Nero set the fire. Nobody knows whether he did or not, but that was the suspicion, and so Nero to take the uh to to redirect the people's ire He scapegoated the Christians and said that they they're the ones who probably or they're the ones who start the fire. And then this historian Tacitus wrote that Nero punished the Christians with quote the most utmost excuse me, with the utmost refinements of cruelty. And you may have heard this kind of stuff. He wrote, they were covered with wild beast skins And torn to death by dogs. Some were fastened to crosses. Then it says, he wrote, When daylight failed They were burned to serve as lamps by night. And Nero offered his gardens for the spectacle. And so it's in this environment that Paul writes to these Christians, and he says to them, You can rejoice even in your suffering Since you have been justified by faith. And so what Paul is doing, he's giving these persecuted Christians a theology of suffering. You see this in a couple places in Romans. In Romans chapter 8, verse 17 and 18, he wrote to them, We are fellow heirs with Christ. provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Then he says, I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. So he's saying you have to have a sense of perspective in which to place your sufferings. Chapter 8 verse 35, Paul said We're asked the question, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? Now these aren't not just little poetic musings of Paul. He recognizes this is what Christians were facing in first century Rome. And he says, listen. This is miserable. It's a horrible fallen world. Evil is rampant. But remember, nothing will separate you from the love of Jesus Christ. And so, as I looked at, I thought about this passage, and it seems like you would say, he should say, we suffer terribly in this life. But knowing what Christ has done, it helps us to put in perspective. But he doesn't say merely that. But he goes so far as to say that we should rejoice in our sufferings. And that's difficult. And why would you do that? Because you have a yen for misery? I I don't understand that But he's saying we would rejoice in our sufferings because God in his providence uses our sufferings. To shape us into the image of Jesus Christ. So let's look, let's focus in on verses 3 and 4. Then we're going to look at it in a little detail. I want to read those verses again. So he says, more than that we rejoice in our sufferings. And then there's this chain. Knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope. Okay, so let's go through these chains. So first of all Suffering produces endurance. And that's reasonable, right? You'll never learn to persevere without adversity, right? Because there's nothing to endure, and you become soft, you become weak. That's one of the sad things about our culture. People can't stand any kind of affliction or suffering. My brother works at Grove City College. That's a college north of Pennsylvania or north of Pittsburgh. And um he's a dean. He gets calls from parents. Now their kids are adults, right? They're in college. They're nineteen. 20, 22 years old, he gets calls from parents. A mom, my son's upset. He got a C on his calculus exam. And he wants my brother to get to the bottom of it. He got a call from one mom. He she wanted him to help this fellow and his roommate to resolve a conflict. What was their conflict? They couldn't agree on what temperature to set the thermostat in their room. And so Hey, if you're an adult and you can't work that out with your roommate, you need to call the college dean to help you solve that problem. You're not going to learn resilience. And so we want our kids to learn resilience, right? We don't want to be a helicopter parent. We don't want to hover over them. We should not rescue them every time. We want them to see, you know what? Sometimes there's going to be friction with others. There will be conflict. There will be disappointment. Others may do you dirt. However, you're not going to learn resilience. If your mom or dad or whoever always rescues you, or if you just quit. And so suffering produces endurance And it's a sign of the work of God in a person's life when you see that person persevering. Let me just make up some names here. Now Mary Ellen. Do we have a Mary Ellen here this morning? I'll get a visitor card. It says Mary Ellen. Right. But um so Mary Allen, she goes, she loves to come to church, she goes home after church. Her husband's not a believer. He ridicules her. And she goes to work Monday morning and she gets little uh snarky remarks from some of her co-workers about something that has to do uh with her Christian commitments. But despite that, she stays in the Word. She continues on the Christian life. She's back in church next week That's a sign of the work of God. Or you'll have a couple and they're struggling in their marriage. But they stay at it. They continue to, you know. Good days, bad days, but they persevere. They're still in church. They're still seeking to grow in Jesus Christ. That's a good sign, right? Suffering produces endurance and this is what we the kind of people we want to be. Or you'll have a fellow who has an addiction. He falls off the wagon. Every once in a while. But he's still coming to church. He's still seeking to follow Jesus Christ. He's still in the Word of God. And so somebody said A Christian may stumble on the deck, but he doesn't fall overboard. This is what we want to want our lives to be like, right? We are persevering in the Christian life And suffering produces this kind of uh endurance. Then he goes on in verse four. He says endurance produces character. And that's true, right? I mean character develops in the oven. Malcolm Muggerich, great British journalist, toward the end of his life he became a Christian. And uh he wrote it, he reflected on his life, and he said, and this he was seventy-five years old, he said, he looking back on his life, he said I can say with complete truthfulness that everything I have learned in my seventy five years in this world Everything that has enhanced and enlightened my existence has been through affliction. And not through happiness, whether pursued or attained. Right? You look back on your life and you don't understand everything about why this happened and that happened But you do see some things, and you realize that God uses even these setbacks, even these afflictions. to shape us into the image of Jesus Christ. Now the next phrase, the last one, the end of verse 4, this is more difficult. He said, character produces hope. So that's confusing because I can see how endurance produces character, but how does character Produce hope. Well that's a head scratcher. Um it may be, and I'm not sure because Paul doesn't explain it, but it may be That suffering forces us to really consider the claims of this Bible. You know, do I really believe this? Or have I just been going along with the program? When you suffer, it forces you to consider the claims of Jesus Christ and You come out and saying, you know what? I believe this stuff. Even this trial is an opportunity for me to say, yeah. I'm going to follow Jesus Christ regardless. It's a wonderful opportunity. And I'm learning, I'm growing more confident that God is faithful to his promises. And so in this passage we see that the Christian, excuse me, the Christian is called to share. in the sufferings of Jesus Christ, not only from without out in the world, but also inside the church. And I I say that because I read a really good article last week, a little magazine called The Banner of Truth. And this pastor, he's a pastor in Finland, and he lamented the fact that every year thousands of ministers leave the ministry. They're just worn out, they're beaten up. And um he he said the causes are the unreasonableness, the ingratitude, and the gossip that come from people inside their churches But I'll tell you what, a pastor of church for ten years, I understand what he's talking about. Things are pleasant here generally. So but I'll tell you what, some churches, it's it's there are problems They leave the ministry. And so in this article, and there's a point to this for you, I'm not just talking about pastors. In this article He says, if you're going to survive, if you're going to persevere in a church over the long term, you need to have the right mindset and you need to recognize that even inside the church where there's conflict and tribulation, uh misrepresentation and so on You need to just embrace it as sharing in the sufferings of Jesus Christ. Look at the Apostle Paul, right? Look at the church in Corinth. How they treated that guy. They maligned him. There was a party spirit. They accused him of this and that and other letters accused him of being in it for the money and everything. So Paul, he pressed on, right? In the end of his life, he he can he could say, I finished the race, I kept the faith. And um my point Is that for every servant in the Church of Jesus Christ, and I want kids to hear this too, because we want you to grow up And get involved in a church wherever, if you move somewhere else or if you're still here, that's great. We want you to be faithful servants in the church of Christ. But don't be deluded. There will always you'll always face some manner of conflict. You might try to do something. It takes a lot of effort There'll be people who don't appreciate your efforts. But you want to have this mindset that, hey, I'm not doing this for everybody to pat me on the back. But I want to serve Jesus Christ. I want to build up his people. And if I get a few sheep bites along the way, then that's to be expected. But I need to I need to continue to serve. I don't want to give up. And so the first song we sang, I love thy kingdom, Lord. So Timothy Dwight wrote of his love for the church and he said about his love for her. He said, For her my tears shall fall, for her my prayers ascend. To her my cares and toils be given, till toils and cares shall end. And so we want to produce men and women who yes have a commitment to Jesus Christ. but also a commitment to his church and are willing to press on seeking to resolve these issues as they come up, but also recognizing everything's not going to be resolved. So Paul says we can rejoice in our sufferings. Number one, God uses affliction To mold us more into the image of Jesus Christ. And then second, and more briefly than the first point, is we want to persevere or rejoice in our sufferings. Because God has already confirmed his love for us. And so this is a bit of a difficult passage, but if you look at verses 3 and 4, he said There's this change, tribulation leads to endurance, endurance produces character, and character produces hope. Then he says in verse 5, That this hope doesn't disappoint us because it's grounded in the love of God. And so let's look at verses 5 to 8 a little more carefully. Where Paul explains two ways that God assures Christians that He loves them. Here's how God shows us He loves us. And the first way is in verse five, where he says, the Holy Spirit convinces the Christian of God's love. Now for those who are newer to the Bible, the Holy Spirit isn't an it, it's not some power, but it's a person, it's God, the third person of the Trinity, okay? And Paul here says that the Holy Spirit convinces us that God loves us. So I'm going to read verse 5. Hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. And so, how did how were we given the Holy Spirit? Well, well, I'll get to that in a minute, actually. Okay. So the Holy Spirit Helps us to recognize, persuades us, convinces us that yeah, God loves me. I'm not under I don't stand under his disfavor, under his displeasure, under his wrath. The God of the universe loves me. He's forgiven my sin. He's for me. And He'll never forsake me. Paul speaks similarly in chapter 8, verse 16. He says, the Spirit himself beareth, excuse me, the Spirit Himself. Bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. Before you're a Christian? I don't know. You think you're going to heaven? I don't know. Is God happy with you? I don't know. I just have this sense of foreboding When you become a Christian, when you understand what Jesus Christ did to die for your sin, it's not merely an intellectual transaction, but God, the Holy Spirit Takes the word of God and he impresses it upon you and you recognize, yeah, I am forgiven. God does love me, he is for me. John Calvin wrote, When we've received the Spirit of God, his promises are confirmed to us. And no dread is felt that they could ever be provoke be revoked. And so let's go back here. I want to make this other comment. So, remember Paul saying about here are the consequences of being justified by faith. One of the consequences Is that you've been given the Holy Spirit? Okay? God is with you. The personal Holy Spirit is with you, shaping you. uh confirming, assuring you uh that all is well between you and God. I mention that Because I don't know what your experience is, but here's my experience. I've run into other Christians, especially when I was a newer Christian, Pentecostal, charismatic background. And I'd say, I'm a Christian. And they'd say, Well that's great, but there's a second experience to be had. There's a second blessing to be had. You need to still be baptized in the Holy Spirit. Well anybody who says that is biblically illiterate because right here we're told That once you're justified by faith, the Holy Spirit has been poured into your heart. You have received the Holy Spirit. And so if you're a Christian, you've been baptized in the Holy Spirit. Titus chapter 3, verse 5 to 8, if you're not sure, does it says the same thing, okay? And so when you are converted, do you receive the Holy Spirit? If you haven't received the Holy Spirit, then you're not a Christian. But the lesson in verse five then is that the Holy Spirit confirms God's love for the Christian. So you go home, you know, you're having struggles, you know, why is all this happening to me? You read your Bible, you read Psalm 42, you read Romans, And you read these promises and you inst excuse me, you instinctively conclude Yeah, this is for me. Yeah, God, this this applies to me because God is my Father. He has forgiven me. I really have been regenerated by the Spirit of God. I believe this stuff And so the Holy Spirit confirms God's love for us. And secondly, in verses 6 to 8, here's the second way we know about God's love. Christ, when you look at the cross of Christ, Christ's sacrificial death for us convinces us of God's love And why shouldn't right why shouldn't it, right? Why should not it? I I can't get my words out. Uh why wouldn't it be? How about that? Okay. And so Here's what Paul says. Hey, look at the death of his son. That proves his love. Verses 6 to 8 For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person One would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And so God has proved his love. We need never question it again. God has confirmed his love In that he sent his son to redeem us. Right? How do you know God loves me? You read the promises of the Bible, right? God so loved the world. He gave his only son. Okay. Galatians 2. 20 Paul writes, the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. 1 John 4:10, the same idea. And this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us. and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. That's how we know. Okay? So Christianity is not just is not Well, pastel colors and flowers and hearts and little sentimental uh embroidered Bible verses. But it's this it's this raw uh act of God in history that God sent his son to die on the cross for our sins. That's how we know. So this is the doctrine A penal substitution. You like that? Penal substitution. Doesn't sound real flowery. It doesn't warm my heart. But um this is this is really at the heart of this concept of justification by faith, right? You see it in verse, the end of verse six. Christ died for the ungodly, okay? So, in other words, he stood in my place. Penal substitution. He took the penalty. uh in my place. Uh the end of verse eight, again. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Okay? End of verse 9. If he stood in our place and bore the penalty that we deserve for our sin, then look at the end of verse 9. How much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? And so it's this this this statement of what Christ accomplished on the cross That proves that God loves us, right? He satisfied divine justice. He reconciled us to a holy God. And uh I bring this up because in many Protestant pulpits in the mainline Protestant church, They would never talk about the work of Christ like that. They say that makes God sound like a a monster. It's primitive To say that a holy God has to be placated by having his son die for our sin. They say this is primitive, this language of sacrifice. But this is what it is, and they don't understand the holiness of God, that it does have to be satisfied. And so they they they look at these verses about Jesus dying for our sin and they say, well. The reason that Jesus died is not that somebody really had to die for our sin. God just forgives people because he's loving and he's gracious. Uh but the reason God sent his son is he wanted to convince you just how much he loves you. And so Christ went to the cross. It was just a gesture on God's part to try to persuade you of just how much God loves you, how valuable you are. And that, you know, he's gonna he's gonna take everybody. Uh we don't have to worry about the wrath of God or the holiness of God. But no We don't see that in these verses, okay? And to speak about the work of Christ in such a sentimental way is to ignore uh the holiness of God and the righteous wrath of God. And so in verse ten, which we looked at last week Paul said, If while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son Much more, now that we've been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? Now You might find that a little difficult, but that's what the Bible says. So you'll have to deal with that. But certainly What I'm saying is true to the scripture. You might not like it, you might not accept it, but this is the claim of the Bible. So then we move back a step and we say, hey Is this Bible trustworthy? Is it true? Is it from God? Well, that's another discussion. But just going back to the what we're talking about, I got off on a couple tangents there. But Paul recognizes we will always struggle, we will always face tribulation. In fact Paul is in prison, 2 Timothy 3. 12, he said, All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And so faithful Christians will always face some kind of opposition. We don't want to go out looking for it, right? It's nice to be a Christian in America Who knows what what'll what it'll be like in the future. We don't know. Okay. It's not not that it's perfect now, especially those for those in the workplace. But nonetheless, here's something we need to remind ourselves of. You know, God is using even these circumstances, even these trials. to shape us to be men and women of God, and we always want to look at the cross of Christ to be reminded of what he did for us. So let's bow our heads. Our Lord, we do thank you for the great love with which you've loved us. We sometimes forget that because we're so bound up by difficult circumstances But help us to remember the great cross of Christ and also to trust that amidst Affliction, you're still shaping us, you're sanctifying us, and you will accomplish your good purposes in history. I pray for our young people that they will grow to be muscular Christians, that they will stand against the lies of the world. And that they will be faithful to you and you'll bless them, grow them, use them for your glory. We pray that for each of us, for those who are not Christians We pray, Lord, that they can swallow these hard sayings we see in this passage, and they will become convinced that this is truth from God, and that they will turn to Jesus Christ for salvation. In whose name we praise, Amen. Amen will