With Mrs. Barnwell and Miss Cosy or Miss Corey. Let's turn to John chapter eleven. John chapter eleven, beginning at verse forty five. John eleven, verse forty five Good to have some new folks with us. And um so eleven forty-five to forty-seven. I should turn there myself. Okay, here we go. So Jesus had just raised Lazarus from the grave, this tremendous miracle. And he explained the meaning of that miracle in verses um twenty-five and twenty-six where he said, I'm the resurrection and the life, whoever believes in me uh will live even though he dies. This is a tremendous thing. What is the response? Surprisingly, this response was mixed. So we're at verse 45. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the counsel and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that is that it is better for you. that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year He prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one nation. excuse me, to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they made plans to put him to death. Therefore, Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with his disciples. Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest them. Arrest him. Here's a verse that we can hang this whole uh passage on, Proverbs 21, verse 30. No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the Lord. Make a note of that. Proverbs 21, verse 30. Psalm 2, which we just read, is also an apt commentary, where it tells us God laughs at the rulers who take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Well, Caiaphas, the high priest, and the Jewish council, were no doubt familiar with those texts, but they failed to heed them. Here's my goal as we look at this passage. First of all, I want you to walk away saying, Why am I fretting? when evil people prosper, when evil people are working against the church and against just decent uh the decent population. Why should I threat And then the second thing I want you to take from this is a warning that those who reject God's claim against their lives. Their designs will not prevail. they in fact will be broken. So this is a sober passage. And it's uh so last week we looked at the first 45 verses of chapter 11. Jesus raised Lazarus. The point of that resurrection was really clear This is a harder passage, but I think I have a handle on it. I think I can convey it to you. And the first thing we see in this passage. is, and this is something I want our young people to listen to, this is something I want everyone to hear. The first thing we see is we're taught or shown The foolishness of rejecting Jesus Christ just to avoid some some manner of disruption in our lives. And so, just going back, Jesus has demonstrated in a very convincing way that he is the promised Messiah. We see it in his teaching. We see it in his miracles in chapter 6. He multiplied the loaves in chapter 9 He um he healed the man who was born blind. And now in chapter eleven, he raised Lazarus from the grave. And having witnessed these miracles, many responded in a reasonable way. It says in verse 45 that many put their faith in him. Remarkably, verse 46 Others did not put their faith in him. It says, some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. How do we explain that? They had they had witnessed the miracles, they had heard his teaching. But their hearts were hard. Somebody said, the same sun that softens wax hardens clay. And that's what we see in this mixed response that Jesus received to his miracles. And so when the chief priests and Pharisees heard of Jesus raising Lazarus, you would think, these are the religious leaders of Israel, right? You would think they'd be rejoicing. You would think, hey They would recognize this is the Messiah. He has come. Back in Isaiah 35, verses 5 and 6, Isaiah, God through Isaiah explained, when the Messiah comes, here's how you'll identify him. He'll make the lane to walk, he'll make the blind to see. Well, Jesus fit that description But instead of rejoicing, the religious leaders were distraught. And so go back to verse 47. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. That's miracles. So they recognized that he was performing these miracles. This counsel uh was also known as the Sa the Sanhedrin. This was the Jewish High Court, and so Israel was under Roman authority. But as far as the Jewish internal affairs were concerned, that was taken care of by this group of 70 Jewish religious leaders, the Sanhedrin. And so they're saying, what are we to do? They were concerned about their status, about their position, about their power. And if you look with me at verse 48, they rightly understood. If we let him go like this, everyone will believe in him, and they say The Romans will come and take away both our place, which is a reference to the temple, our place. And our nation. And so the Jewish religious leaders correctly understood That if the masses recognized that Jesus was doing these things, they would look to him as the Messiah. He came as a spiritual messiah, but they understood that they would look to him not only as a spiritual messiah, but as a political deliverer And they were afraid that this would cause an uprising against the Romans and in response The Roman army would come in and just crush the people of Israel and exercise complete control over the nation And then uh these religious leaders would lose their place and their nation. One of the commentators, Gordon Ketty, put it like this. He said God and Scripture did not figure at all in their reasoning. There was no spiritual appeal to truth. No evidence of spiritual commitment to God, to the God of their fathers. Their only interest was politics, power, and position. And so we see again and again in Scripture that Jesus Christ is the great disruptor. You're going along in life, you don't believe this stuff, and then you hear or you read the scripture, you become acquainted with Jesus Christ and his claims And it has the ring of truth. It fits together. There's a coherence to this message. There's a correspondence between what this book says and your life. And you're persuaded by the Spirit of God that Jesus Christ is true. And when that happens, if you're not a Christian That does disrupt your life. I remember when I started out as a pastor, I was single and I was living in an apartment across the hallway where Tony and Paige. They weren't married, they were living together And then they both became Christians. That disrupted them. They separated. She moved out. That was hard. Two can live cheaper than one. Now two places to live. They knew the the pleasure of physical intimacy. They separated. They went on for a number of months. They became engaged. They got married and they they started their life together on a solid Christian foundation. But that was disrupting mu many people in their position are persuaded by the truth of Christianity, but they're not willing to be disrupted in that way. We hear stories about Christians and Muslim countries. Victor was talking about believers in Nigeria. who are martyred for their faith. And if not martyred, uh Christi Muslims who become Christians can be disowned, they can lose their opportunity to make a living And so, but many are willing to give up their lives. And then, you know, you talk to your neighbors, you invite them to church. They don't want to give up their weekends uh to even if they if they're think they're if they think there's something to uh Christianity And so when you become a Christian, it will uh disrupt your family relationships, right? Many of us became believers, your parents were Christians, or your spouse wasn't a Christian And uh that was difficult. And there is now a tension. There's attention in family gatherings at times, right? Well that's what happens. That's what we want our young people in particular to understand. As you follow Jesus Christ, your peers and your uh schoolmates and whatnot, they might not look at you the same way. Well, that's okay. That's part of the cost of following Jesus Christ. Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin were unwilling to allow Jesus Christ to disrupt their power and their position. And what I want you to notice is that it did not work out too well for them. Remember Paul in Acts 26 he was saying that he was persecuting Christians and then God told him it is foolish to kick against the goats. That's that pointed stick that a farmer would use to poke an ox to make it go in the right direction. And when that ox would kick against that sharp stick, he was only hurting himself And so there's a warning, it's foolish to kick against the goads. And I would say, if you're weighing this stuff out, you know, you've been in this church a long time, you've heard this stuff You're not so sure about it. What do you do? Well, for a young person, of course you don't just go along with it because that's what your parents believe. But either do you just go along living your life as you've been all along, but rather this afternoon you go home, you open up the Bible, and you say, you know what, I'm going to start reading through this book. I'll start with the Gospel of John or the Gospel of Matthew, and maybe I'll start going through Genesis too. Start reading this book, you start out, you have to muscle through it, right? Because a lot of it doesn't make sense and it doesn't make you feel all warm and uh stirred up inside. Some of it's just like, uh, I don't know, why why is this here? The longer you're a Christian, the more you see how it all fits together. But you have to start out sometime. You have to own the Christian faith for yourself and just not be going along because that's what your parents are doing. And so the first lesson in this passage is that it's foolish to reject Jesus Christ to avoid disrupting your life. Here's the second thing we see. We see the gospel unwittingly spoken by an unbeliever. Now that's not the first time. In Numbers 22, remember there was this pagan prophet named Balaam who had a donkey? And the donkey spoke the words of God, God spoke prophetically through Balaam's donkey. And so we shouldn't be surprised that Caiaphas, this high priest, spoke forth the word of God. He was called a high priest, but this guy wasn't religious at all. He was a Sadducee. The Sadducees did not believe in the afterlife, so they didn't believe in any kind of resurrection. Uh they were the religious liberals of their day. The Sadducees were only concerned about maintaining their power, so they collaborated with the Roman authorities. One of the ancient historians who lived in that day, Josephus, he was a Pharisee, okay? He was no f because he was a Pharisee, he was no fan of the Sadducees, but what he wrote was true. He said that the Sadducees were rude and crude. And that was certainly true of Caiaphas, because there's the counsel they're agonizing. What am I going to do about Jesus Christ? And Caiaphas interjects in verse 49. He said, he said to his people, he said, You know nothing at all. Nor do you understand that it's better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. And so Caiaphas was a realist. He said, listen, whatever is necessary to maintain our position and our power That's what we have to do. So this is Caiaphas. He's he's not a he sounds more like a godfather than the high priest, but uh so he said It's better that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He spoke better than he knew. He was speaking prophetically because Jesus did die for the people, uh, not to get them out of the way and preserve uh the nation. But he died for the people in the sense that he was a substitute. He died in the place of his people. In fact, Here I go, again make making note of a Greek term. He will die for the people. That Greek word translated for means on behalf of And some people say that's the most important that's the most important word in the Bible, uh, that word hooper. Uh Jesus died for his people. He died on behalf of his people. And so the idea is the is a penal substitution, right? He stood in our place, and he took the penalty for our sin, the penalty that we deserve. So Paul could use that same word in 1 Corinthians 15, 3, when he wrote Christ died for our sins. Christ died, in other words, on our behalf because of our sins. Or think about in the book of Isaiah, chapter 53. Seven hundred years before Jesus was born, Isaiah spoke about this concept of God's man dying in the place of his people. This is Isaiah 53, verses 5 and 6, where he writes about Jesus prophetically He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace and with his wounds we are healed That's really clear, I think. Is it clear? I mean, what's Christianity about? I mean it's it's amazing that you can or not you, because I know you you you see this, but uh People out there, they read this and they think, yeah, well, yeah, what's a Christian do? Well, somebody who becomes religious and somebody who strives to be a better person. You don't see that at all in the Bible, right? The Bible is very clear. We're spiritually bankrupt, we're morally bankrupt, but Jesus died in our place for our sin. And so Caiaphas, of all people, spoke prophetically of Jesus dying for his people. And not only his people in the nation of Israel, but his people in all nations. So let's go back then 51 and 52 Where John writes, he did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. and not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So that's interesting. What am I talking about? What's this guy talking about? Well, it's interesting because in chapter one verse twelve Uh John says something to the effect to all who believed, to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Okay? So you become a children, a child of God when you believe in Jesus Christ. Alright. But then now in verse 52. These people, even before they believe, are called children of God. So how's that? Even though they do not believe, even though they have not yet received Christ, even though they're not yet saved, God has marked them as his children. Here we go again down that terrible road. Same thing in similar thing in chapter 10, verse 16. Jesus said, I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they'll listen to my voice. Jesus called them sheep before they were saved. I think about Paul's words in Acts 18. 10. Or not Paul's words, what God said to Paul in Acts 18. 10. I have many in this city who are my people. They weren't saved yet, but God had designated them as his people And so this kind of language supports the idea that God has his elect, even before people believe God has his people And the upshot is that this should give us confidence in sharing the gospel in this post-Christian culture because God still has his people out there And so we should be reckless. We should be indiscriminate in engaging people in conversations about Jesus Christ. Because God has his people and they will hear the gospel message and maybe through many encounters. Maybe it'll be their first encounter. But down the road, people become Christians. Think about all the people in this church who became Christians in their adult years. And so salvation is a work of God. So we have confidence in evangelism. But getting back to the thing I want to say about Caiaphas, he demonstrates the truth of Psalm seventy-six ten Surely the wrath of man shall praise you. So even the religious Godfather, you know, he's probably chewing on his pistachios and He said, who's going to die? You know, he knocked over the bowl with all the shells. But even in doing that in his wrath, he was still bringing praise to God. Here's a third lesson. And this is the this is, I think, the big lesson from this passage is the purposes of God always prevail. Against man's schemes. Those who oppose Jesus Christ will be broken. That's a warning there. Look at verse 53. So from that day on they made plans to put him to death And so like let's get let's get rid of Jesus Christ, then we'll secure uh Jerusalem's survival. Well, that's what he thought he was doing, but in fact, uh he was sealing Jerusalem's destruction. And the very threats, the very threat of the Roman army that Caiaphas so much feared came to pass. In A. D. 70 the Roman army came in, they crushed the Jewish uprising and they decimated the city of Jerusalem. They burned the temple to the ground. It has never been rebuilt. This ancient historian mentioned Josephus. He wrote, Everywhere was slaughter and flight. Most of the victims were peaceful citizens, weak and unarmed. And he talked about corpses. being piled up around the altar of the temple. And um so there's this mass slaughter of Jews and others were uh taken into captivity. And that was the end of the nation. it ceased to exist and in fact he went on to write that after the destruction a pow no a uh a plough was drawn across uh the temple area uh just just to stress And so the Jewish leaders they succeeded in crucifying Jesus Christ. But that only served to accomplish God's greater purposes. They were responsible. They crucified Jesus, but God still used that to bring out to bring about the salvation of many in Israel and many in the nations, the children of God who are scattered abroad. This would be a great passage to read at the uh whenever some political leader is put into office, right? The mayor, the governor. Congressmen, presidents. This would be a great passage. And then after I read this passage, I might read them Psalm 2. Now there it says, Now therefore, O kings, be wise, be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. And Psalm 2 is not only a warning for the rule the world's rulers, not only political, but also ecclesiastical. It's a warning to us. Kiss the son lest he be angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. And so we see, as we look back on this passage, we see the what happened in A. D. 70, the destruction of uh Jerusalem, we see the the brilliance, the wisdom of the cross of Jesus Christ. And we can conclude that the machinations of Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin only served uh to bring about the salvation of God's people. And they thought they were thwarting God they were thwarting Jesus Christ. No. They advanced his purposes Another proverb, Proverbs 21, verse 1. The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. And so uh whenever you see earthly rulers or even those in the the business world or uh corrupt uh uh religionists uh shaking their fists at God. Uh don't be c don't be too upset. Uh just think about how God reacts. Uh Psalm 2 verse 4 He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. And so, you know, many of us we watch too much news, we listen to too much news, we get too anxious about things. Hey, you got to put that in perspective. Fret not, the psalmist said, right? God is still ruling all things. One of the Puritans, uh Richard Sibbs, wrote back in the 1600s. And uh this was a this was a time when the church was being persecuted uh by the Church of England. And uh he wasn't dispirited Because he recognized God's sovereign rule over earthly authorities. I want to read this to you, what he said. He wrote, A Christian is a person that can never be conquered. The sun shall not shine, the wind shall not blow till the church is hurt. For the church's head rules over all things and has all things in subjection. Therefore, let the nations consult together this king and that power. There is a council in heaven which will disturb and dash all their counsels. Emmanuel in heaven laughs them to scorn. And then he said, as Luther said, shall we weep when God laughs? And so fret not. God is in control of all things. And then just to see how the passage uh ends, you look in verse 54. I believe this foreshadows God's ultimate withdrawal from Israel. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews. But went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim. And so the glory has departed from Israel. They didn't realize it yet, but the glory has departed. So in the beginning I I I I set this up by quoting Psalm 21 verse 30. The psalmist said, No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the Lord. And so our lessons are, yeah, fret not. But the second lesson is if you're at odds with God's purposes, if you have not submitted to Jesus Christ, then you too will be destroyed. And so this very stern warning comes with a promise of safety. Psalm two twelve says, Blessed are all who take refuge in him And so flee to Christ, find him your righteousness, find in him your forgiveness, find in him your security for eternity. So let's bow our heads. We thank you, Lord, that uh this world is not uh at the uh At the behest of um evil forces who have all power, but rather you are sovereign over all that's going on in our nation and in this world And so help us, Lord, to trust you in all things. And also help us to remember that this life isn't all there is. The most important thing is that we know you We trust in you as our Savior, and we live our lives under your rule. I pray for those who have been spurning your claim on their life that you would bring them to bow before you and that they might find that your yoke is easy, your burden is light. And you provide the joy for which they have been searching. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.