We're on chapter five, Proverbs chapter five. So let's turn there. Very interesting passage. In fact this comes up again in chapter seven, so buckle your seat belts. Let me read chapter five, okay? And you'll know why I s made that comment. So the father, speaking to his son, says, My son, be attentive to my wisdom, incline your ear to my understanding. that you may keep discretion, and your lips may guard knowledge. For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil But in the end, she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death, her steps follow the path to Sheol. She does not ponder the path of life, her ways wander, and she does not know it. And now, O sons, listen to me and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Keep your way far from her. And do not go near the door of her house, lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the merciless. Lest strangers take their fill of your strength and your labors go to the house of a foreigner, and at the end of your life You groan when your flesh and body are consumed, and you say how I hated discipline, and my heart despised reproof. I did not listen to the voice of my teachers or incline my ear to my instructors. I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation. Drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well. Should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth A lovely deer, a graceful doe. Let her breast fill you at all times with delight. Be intoxicated always in her love. Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman, and embrace the bosom of an adulteress? For a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. The iniquities of the wicked will ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of his sin. He dies for lack of discipline. Because of his great folly, he is led astray. I tell you what, if you don't know it, mixed company, I didn't get real excited about talking about the subject of sex. Um but nonetheless, this is why it's good to preach to the Bible. It makes me do it. And we talk about it because the Bible talks about it. And we should talk about it because the world inundates us and it inundates our children with a twisted message about what sex is about. And so we do have to step up as a church and present the scriptural view, which is the view which brings true joy. And this, if you want to talk about the scriptural view of sex, what we should do is go back to the doctrine of creation. God created all things, right? When he made the world, he made it with physical laws and physical processes, and so you have processes like photosynthesis photos photosynthesis and plants, that's easier for me to say. And uh the water cycle. Uh there are also laws, right? The law of couple we have a couple physicists here. They could probably name probably several laws. The law of motion. The law of gravity. And uh if you break those physical laws, things don't work out, right? You can't say I'm gonna jump off, I'm gonna break the law of gravity, I'm gonna jump off a ten-story building Well no, you're not going to break the law of gravity. The law of gravity is going to break you. And so it is, when God made the world, he also made uh made it within a moral order. And that moral order includes regulations about the expression of sexual intimacy And when we violate those regulations, things go awry. We see in our culture, we see the breakdown of families and so on. We see many, many wounded people. We know wounds. in our own hearts. And um so we discover uh you can't break God's moral laws either. Uh they break you. And most of us we're believers and we see that. We still struggle uh with our with our sinful uh nature that remains. Uh but nonetheless, uh we're endeavoring uh to walk in a way that pleases God, sure we stumble along the way. But we see what is going on in our world. Uh we some see it uh particularly in their own hearts and their how things have turned out And we see it in the culture, right? We see the myriads of the walking wounded, uh people who feel used, feel dis who have been discarded. Uh we read about young husbands who cannot uh get excited in the marriage bed about the wonder of their wives' body uh because they've been desensitized. by pornography, uh we see the the crushing guilt that premarital uh liaisons. Bring into the marriage bed. And of course we see the millions of children who are raised without fathers in the home and the millions more orphans. In the world. And so, yeah, sure, the world foolishly criticizes Christians and the church for being repressive about sexual freedom But that's not really the case at all. And I think G. K. Chesterton uh made a good comment. And I want our kids especially to listen to me. And I'll tell you what, if you're a middle school boy and you don't find this sermon interesting, you're not going to find anything interesting. And so uh and so listen up. So G. K. Chesterton, and here's here's what I want our young people especially to recognize. Chesterton said The more I considered Christianity, the more that I found that while it did establish rule and order The chief aim of that order was to give room for good things to run wild. And so that is God's purpose. He gives us a gift, and then he says, here's how it is to be used. And if you don't use it in that way You may enjoy things in the short term, but in the long run, uh you're gonna hurt yourself and you're gonna hurt other people. And so the Bible has a very positive view of sex, and the most attractive aspect of a truly biblical sexuality Is that it provides the basis for a deep and a lasting intimacy. An intimacy that's characterized by joy, by security. By freedom from guilt and also by realism. And so that is what God offers all men and all women. And so I want to persuade particularly our young people, and of course all of us, because we all struggle in this area, or most of us do. I want our young people to recognize that God is the giver of all good gifts. Sexual intimacy is one of his best gifts. But if you want to enjoy it, not only when you're young, or not only in your young adult years, but for the next 50 or 60 years, then you must recognize that there's a way for it to be rightly entered into. So I say I've said before You know, fire is good, but if it gets outside the fireplace, there's all kind of destruction. And so it is with physical intimacy. And so in Proverbs 5 The father instructs his son to avoid the promiscuous woman, and rather than uh pursuing illegitimate sources of sexual satisfaction, he says, direct that to your wife. You're not married yet? Well then direct that to your wife to be by the grace of God. And the same advice, of course, applies to young women. Proverbs just happens to be written from a father to his the son, but we can of course Flip the flip the advice and say here girls uh watch out uh for the smooth talking guy because in the end he'll break your heart and he'll leave you shattered And so one of the good one of the great commentaries I found in Proverbs is by Trumper Longman, and it's a very scholarly commentary. But nonetheless, it's super clear, and he boils down this chapter into one sentence. And if you get this sentence, you'll know what the whole chapter is about. And love your wife. So that's all he has to say. Avoid the promiscuous woman and love your wife, or the promiscuous man and love your husband, and so on. So let's let's look at this. Open up your Bible if you don't have it open. Let's go down it, okay? So number one The father recognizes the alluring nature of promiscuous women, and in fact, he devotes a huge amount of space to warning men to avoid immoral women. You have chapter 5, then chapter 6 beginning in verse 20, all the way to the end of chapter 6. And then all the way through chapter seven, plus there's several uh shorter warnings, and so you have to ask yourself Why does he devote so much space to this topic of sexual immorality and adultery? Anybody? Is Captain Obvious in the room here? Can anybody figure that one out? It's like, oh yeah, of course. Because it's such a huge temptation, right, for us mortals. And that's what he says. He begins pointing out. Of course the promiscuous women woman is alluring. Look at her speech. This is in verse 3. She's flattering, she's seductive. Verse 3 The lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil. Back in chapter 2, verse 16, we saw the same thing. He said the adul he spoke about the adulteress with her smooth words. seductive talk and moral behavior are often closely connected. Thus we should be careful, right, about the music we listen to. of the things we watch on TV or at the movies, because this is feeding us a viewpoint that we could easily uh fall for. And she not only speaks seductively, she's physically alluring. Chapter 7, verse 10 it says she's dressed as a prostitute And so Proverbs does not deny the sexual appeal of this kind of woman. And it recognizes that an intimate relationship with such a woman, or ladies with such a man, can be thrilling For a season? In fact, chapter 9, verse 17, he says, stolen water is sweet. And so of course But the father says you need to look down the road and recognize that in the long run, this will destroy you. And so after setting up the passage, saying, you know, here's what this woman is like, he then says, here's how you resist temptation. And so I have three points under this. How Proverbs instructs us. To resist temptation. And the first thing is that it says don't contemplate the object of your temptation, but rather contemplate the consequences of giving in. For example, verses three and four The lips of the forbidden women drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil, but in the end. She is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. So he's saying, of course, she's tempting, but in the end If you fall for her temptations, in the end, you'll sit down to a banquet of consequences Guilt, loneliness. Women particularly feel used. If you're married, you'll drive a stake through your children's hearts And you'll have broken the covenant that you made with the wife of your youth. The second consequence, verse 9. He says, you'll give your honor to others on two occasions I walked a young lady down the aisle on her wedding day and gave her away, and not her father. Because of the resentments that had been built between these young ladies and their father on account of his unfaithfulness to his mother. He gave his honor to me on that day. Third consequence: financial hardship. The end of verse 10: Your labors will go. To the house of a stranger. Divorce is financially crushing. Two could live cheaper than one. Out of wedlock pregnancy, you end up paying child support. You can end up being a a single mom, working, trying to raise your kids. I want a fellow who was a welfare advisor for the White House, a guy named Ron Haskins, he said, listen, young people You can om I can almost guarantee that you'll avoid a life of poverty if you do these three simple things. If you do these three, you'll never be poor. What are they? Finish high school, get a full time job. And don't have children until you're married. You'll never be poor. You'll be fine. Another consequence: bitter regrets Many an adulterer has died alone and unloved. Verse eleven. At the end of your life You groan when your flesh and body are consumed. And I can think of occasions 32 years as a pastor going into nursing homes and visit with visiting with people and meeting people. And some of these older men, some of these older women Had no loyalty from their children because they had left them, they had left their spouse for another And they're there they are, alone, bitter, full of remorse, full of regret Here's a fifth consequence to consider. Disgrace amongst God's people. Look at verse 14. He says, I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation. This is a sobering warning to all of us who are adults. Because in the American church, there's so much infidelity. Young people look at what's going on? And they're saying, listen, I don't think I could trust anybody in the church. I don't think anybody's credible. It's hard to be a minister because so many pastors, especially these uh celebrity pastors, so-called celebrity pastors, There's so much uh they have such a lack of credibility that is tarnished of what it means to be a minister in the Church of God. But for any pastor, for any leader, for any adult in the church, we need to weigh out the consequences there. Because we're going to disillusion young people. And Jesus warns us in Matthew 18, 6, he said, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe me to sin, It would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and be drowned in the depth of the sea. We're all sinners. None of us is beyond moral failure. We know that God forgives. The church should forgive and forget. When somebody stumbles, you know, we should say, there but for the grace go I But we also have to recognize and we should be a forgiving church and I think we are. We are a forgiving church, so that's not a problem. Uh we're nobody looks down their nose at others for their failures because we know that we have our own problems. But nonetheless We have to weigh the consequences when we're thinking about what's on the other side of the fence because of all the collateral damage that we're going to leave in our wake. And I've said this before. You know, I said, you know, I've said, Lord, just take me out before I discredit the gospel. What will happen? uh to others in the church, new Christians and young people, if I fail, and I know none of us will go on but for the grace of God But still, we need to be having these conversations with ourselves. So that's the first thing. How does the book how does Proverbs five Challenge us in this area. And it says, number one, consider the consequences. Number two, rec oh I'm sorry, I have one more consequence. Sorry. Sorry. Here we go. Number six. Okay, I'm like A six. Another consequence, you'll become enslaved. Verse 22. The iniquities of the wicked ensnare them, and he is held fast in the cords of his sin. And many marriages have been destroyed by sexual addictions that started when you were young And so this is a warning, right, to young people. Be careful about what you look at on your phone, in the privacy of your room. Sure, it's very fascinating right now But it'll get you. It'll it'll destroy you, it'll crush you with guilt, it will destroy, it could well destroy your marriage. unless God's evil by his grace and power to deliver you from that. And so here we go now summarizing how to resist temptation Well, don't contemplate the object of your temptation, but rather contemplate the consequences of giving in. Here's a second, here's a second buttress against temptation, and that is remember that God sees. So in in F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel, The Great Gatsby, one character, maybe you saw the movie, maybe you read the book, one character, Tom Buchanan, he's having an affair uh with a woman who herself is married, set in the nineteen twenties up in Long Island in one dark a summer evening he's driving across the Long Island Sound, just this desolate barren landscape. And as he's driving out to see his mistress whom he thinks he will see in the privacy of the night, uh his car passes a billboard. Advertising an optician, Dr. TJ Eckleberg, two big eyeballs on this billboard looking through these spectacles. And it's a haunting picture, but Fitzgerald uses it to symbolize God's knowledge of everything we do. Right? So there's not a computer screen so secluded, uh, there's not a bedroom so dark. That it escapes the gaze of God. And that's what verse 21 says: A man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. That's an important reminder, right? That's an important restraint on our hearts when we're alone and we're contemplating things. Then here's a third way to resist temptation, or the third thing to consider, and that is to love your wife, or for women, to love your husband, right? Because the best defense is a strong offense, and so we want to nurture our relationships with our spouses And the imagery in verses 15 to 20 is highly charged, but it would have been recognized by ancient Near Eastern readers. Let's read verses 15 and 19 again. So the writer says, drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well. He's referring to the man's wife. Should your springs be scattered abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice in the wife of your youth, a lovely doe, a graceful a lovely deer, a graceful doe. Let her breast fill you at all times with delight, be intoxicated always in her love And so when you get married, what this is saying, and this is something for young people to to look forward to, you get by the grace of God you're gonna meet the right person, you're gonna get married one day Proverbs 5, guys, you know, guys always say, I'm looking for Proverbs 31 women. Um, Proverbs 5 women, they're pretty good to look for too. Um But when you get married one day, you're going to have your own private kingdom. So something to look forward to, something you're going to enjoy. Those of us who are married, we say, well it sounds easy, but you know, marriage is complicated, right? Husbands and wives, we hurt each other, we let each other down. Resentments build up For some there are past indiscretions, uh which make it very difficult. So it's not so easy. So what do you do? Well, you just have to take incremental steps, right, to try to restore things, pray Lord. Help us to make progress, help me to make progress. My wife, my husband, is very resentful to me for the way I've treated her or my neglect, my self-centeredness or whatever, uh if there's some some indiscretion in the past. So what do you do? Well, you're on a downward spiral. What do you do? You try to try to change the spiral to going upward. Maybe slowly. Could take months. Could take years. I'm gonna serve my spouse no matter what. If she doesn't acknowledge it, if she doesn't appreciate it, I'm gonna try to serve my spouse and turn things around. I'm going to talk to friends. I'm going to talk to friends in the church confidentially. Seek their encouragement. Seek their counsel. Every autumn we have a marriage course for those new here. It's called Re-Engage. It's going to be 14 weeks. They have a new curriculum. It's about the best thing I've seen as a pastor for strengthening marriages, strengthening healthy marriages. and restoring uh damaged marriages. So consider that for this fall. And I would also add, um To those who withhold intimacy from their spouses because of resentments or because of just disinterest The Bible teaches husbands and wives have a mutual obligation to each other in a marriage bed. And so we read in 1 Corinthians 7, and I'm going to read those verses again, 1 Corinthians 7, verse 2 to 5. Paul writes, because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband. The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband, for the wife does not have authority over her own body But the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Do not deprive one another Except perhaps, and he doesn't say except, but he says, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time that you may devote yourselves to prayer. But then come together again. So that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Now, husbands can't use this verse to manipulate their wives because Paul's Emphasis in this passage, if you look at it, it's not on the recipient's rights, but it's on the givers responsibilities. But nonetheless, this passage does say to the disinterested spouse, you are the only legitimate person that God has given uh to your mate to satisfy that desire. Excuse me. So it's interesting I was reading about the Puritans, uh in this late. I was reading about the Puritans, uh Leland Rikener, he's a retired professor at a Whe Wheaton College He wrote a book about the Puritans called Worldly Saints. And you know, the Puritans always get land-based for being prudish, right? In fact, we use the word puritanical But the Puritans for anything but Puritanical in the marriage bed. And uh Ly Riken uh recounts the story of one New England wife Who complained first to her pastor and then to the whole congregation that her husband was failing to be physically intimate with her. And the church removed a husband as a member. And so I'm not recommending that as a course or a policy for our church. But it does put the Puritans in a different light. What about singles? It's hard to be a single man. It's hard to be a single woman. What do you do with all that sexual energy Well the Bible answer is you get married. Oh that's easy to say, right? Easier said than done. But the Bible says you know that's one that's one of the purposes of marriage. That's not the only reason you should get married if you get only married married only for that purpose, things are not going to work out well. But nonetheless, 1 Corinthians 7-9, Paul says it's better to marry than to be aflame with passion And so if you're single, the right person hasn't come along, well then what do you do? You exercise self-control. You have to pray. You have to exercise self-control. God will give it to you. You'll make it. And you'll be a testimony to your children. In eighteen, chapter eighteen, verse twenty-two, a good wife is something that only the Lord can provide. So we pray. I was single to I was 34. I know. That was my big prayer request. Lord, uh give me DG. I was always saying, praying for DG, and they say, and then in fact, uh if I haven't haven't heard this story I met Becky on a Friday. Saturday we're out for dinner, and a lady in our church walks up and she says, Who's this? I said, This is Dee Gee. She said, Who's Dee Gee? I said dream girl. The lady thought it Becky must have thought it was a complete w whack job But anyway, um so yeah, see pray for DG, pray for D for Dream Girl to come along. We need to be on the lookout too for our single brothers and sisters, right? You maybe you'll know somebody If uh not everybody likes to get set up, uh I think it I think it's helpful. In the meantime, uh for our singles, for our young young younger folks, you want to avoid those situations Where you're tempted to compromise, verse 8. Keep your way far from her. Do not go near the door of her house. Right? If you're tempted. by pornography, if you're tempted by a certain uh other person, if you're tempted by being a parties or whatnot, where there's a lot of uh uh uh loose loose behavior Just don't go near it. Like I said last week, it's easier to avoid the occasion of sin than it is to avoid the sin when it's right there in front of your face. And so you want to save yourself You want to be faithful to your spouse before you get married, and then your spouse will feel highly honored. And so in the end. In chapter 5, the writer says in verse 20, You have a decision to make. Look at verse 20. Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with a forbidden woman, and embrace the bosom of an adulteress? So yeah, i it's it's utter foolishness. It does not pan out in the end. So there you have it. We've all sinned in some manner. or degree in this area. And what's really disturbing is that even Solomon in the end of his life failed miserably In this area. And so we say, yeah, we need guidance in the area of our sexual uh life, right? We need guidance. Uh but We also need forgiveness, and we also need a savior. That's who Jesus Christ is, right? He's the Savior. He forgives us. He cleanses us. He clothes us in his righteousness. And that's why in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, Paul says, if anyone's in Christ, He's a new creation. The old is gone. The new has come. And for married people, you may be saddled with guilt from past things. You need to understand that God forgives, God cleanses you, and God forgets, and you need to humble yourself And receive that forgiveness and just let that thing go and then enjoy the spouse that the Lord's given you. And so, and I say, and again to our young people, this is a wonderful thing, this is a wonderful gift that God's given his people, he's given humanity in general And uh it's one of his best gifts and you'll enjoy it for a long time if you do it, if you engage in it the way that he has instructed us to engage in it. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you that you cleanse us, you forgive us, you make us white as snow. I pray for those who feel a sense of guilt and shame for past things. I pray that they would know your forgiveness. I pray for those who are who are bound up by temptations in this area, wicked temptations. I pray, Lord, that they take steps to avoid those things which bring such destruction in the guilt. That results. I pray for our marriages that we learn to love one another, to serve one another, to put away resentments. I pray, Lord, our marriages would be secure. We think about all the temptations with which we're confronted. Every day I pray, Lord, that you preserve us. Help us to be upright witnesses to our children. and to others in the church. Preserve the leaders in our church. Purify us as a people. And I pray, Lord, for our singles who desire to marry, that you would provide them the the the their greatest wish here and also for our young people. Help them, Lord, not to be succored by the world's lies, but to see the better thing that you offer. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.