And we're going to take a break from our study of John's Gospel, and we're going to turn to, I'll ask you to turn to First Peter. Chapter five, a passage that speaks about the work of the elder in the church. So 1 Peter Chapter 5, the first five verses, a very dense passage. We're not going to touch on every detail, but we are going to touch on quite a bit. So Peter writes, So I exhort the elders among you as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the onfading crown of glory. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Let's bow our heads Our Father in heaven, we ask that we would humble ourselves before this your holy word, the rule of life that you've given us. Help us to conform to it. Help us to see the wisdom of it. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. And so the discussion of elders falls under the uh broader topic of uh church government. And I'm sure that's something that's going to make you feel all warm inside. I'm going to talk about uh church government this morning. And but I imagine there are some here who say, Ooh, this is good. And I know why you're saying that. Because you had been a part of a church that was really messed up. and it did not have a biblical form of government, including uh leaders who were biblically qualified. You may have been part of a church where there was a dictatorial pastor. where there were power struggles, where there were unfit leaders, the elder board or whatever the board of that church It was called or where there was political maneuvering and things were not dealt with in a proper manner. And so we're gonna we we we wanna appreciate this stuff provides a really helpful framework for the life of the church and it precludes a lot of problems from arising. Now We could go on for weeks talking about the various things the Bible says about church government. We're looking particularly at just this passage. in the office of elder, and we're going to answer four questions. So why do we have elders? What is an elder? What are the traits of good elders? And What responsibilities do church members have toward their elders? So, first of all, why do we have elders? We have elders because the Bible teaches a representative form of church government. And so, yeah, the church is a living organism, but it's also an organization. It has a structure. It has a form of government. And some people will say, Well, no, the church is just a spiritual organism And and I say, look at the Bible. Here's an example. Philippians 1, verse 1. Paul writing to the church in Philippi writes to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers, an overseer is an elder, with the overseers and the deacon. So Paul recognizes three categories of people in the church in Philippi, elders, deacons, and members, the saints who are in Philippi, and um so an elder is an overseer. We'll talk about that more in a minute. And then he says the deacons, we read about deacons, for example, in Acts chapter 6 Deacons are servants. They deal with physical, practical needs, the church budget and people's uh physical needs and whatnot. So you have elders and deacons in a church And so that's just to say that any little group of Christians getting together for some kind of Bible study, that's not necessarily a church. Does it have a government? Does it exercise discipline? Does it administer the sacraments? Does it have a doctrinal statement and whatnot? These are the components that make up what the Bible refers to as a local church. And so elders are the shepherds, deacons are the servants, and what am I saying? It's representative. Okay? So We have representative rule by elders, and we would distinguish that from a I mean we could distinguish it from a few forms of church government. The two I want to mention. Number one is a church that is ruled by the pastor, okay? A one-man rule. Now they might say we have a congregational form of government. But the pastor in practice turns out to be the guy who calls all the shots, and uh there's an attractiveness to that. Because you can get a lot done quickly uh if the pastor's calling all the shots, if he's calling them well. Uh however, uh there are problems, right? Because every pastor has his blind spots, every pastor has his besetting sins, and every pastor uh needs to be under others to whom he is accountable. And this is one of the problems in the American church that there are many entrepreneurial pastors very gifted and skilled and and they can draw a crowd, but they're accountable to nobody. Now some churches do fine under a one-man rule because the pastor's a good guy and he he has some wiz he has a good measure of wisdom. And so a church can survive like that. Uh I don't think it's biblical, but if a church has a self-serving pastor, uh sooner or later becomes a parent uh that this is really a disaster. So that's one extreme, the one man rule. The other extreme is a pure democracy, right? We're all Christians. We believe in a priesthood of all believers. And so this would be a congregational form of government where every member deliberates and decides on every issue. That too has problems because not everybody in the church has the experience or the biblical grounding, or the wisdom, or the discretion to guide the church. Well now we come to the Bible The Bible teaches a represent as I said a representative form of government. Let me give you a couple examples. In Acts chapter 14, verse 23 Paul it says Paul and Barnabas appointed elders, plural, in every church. Titus one verse five. Paul instructed Titus, appoint elders, plural, in every town. And so we elect our elders. We look for men who have the scriptural scriptural qualifications. who have the character, who have the commitment to the ministry of the church, we examine them, we elect them, and then we allow them to lead. And this word elder is uh from the Greek word presbyter. So we're a Presbyterian church, which means we have rule by elders, but It's not just Presbyterian churches. Many churches have rule by elders. Baptists typically have congregational forms of government. My son-in-law is a Baptist pastor And they have elders. They switched from a congregational form of government to elders. You know why they did that? They started reading the Bible. They saw it right there. Um so and many churches have this I this uh form of government. And uh so we see the church should not be led uh by one man but by a plurality of elders. Look at verse 1 of 1 Peter 5. What Peter say? To the elders plural among you. So this is great. This is brilliant. This system works. We have now we have elders. One man is not left to make all the decisions, right? If that happens, he's gonna miss the mark uh more often than he does. Uh we have a plurality of leaders and that has worked well in our church. I remember years ago when we were writing our bylaws. So we were for those new, we were a church plant back in 2001. We had to write bylaws and I had I had some good ideas about about a couple things and I said no we should do this like this and this like that In a couple of our elders, Randy Livingston and Tom Fortney, they pushed back and they said, Show me that in the scripture. And I'm like, Well I'm not so sure where that is. And so that saved our church a lot of problems, these little things. And that that's not just going back then, but regularly. I consider myself rather brilliant and insightful, uh but nonetheless, uh there are times when the elders said no. And these guys are not push-overs, I'll tell you that Uh y I gotta I gotta take a deep breath before I go into these elders meetings. Um but it but it's helpful, okay Uh Proverbs eleven fourteen, and an abundance of counselors there is safety. So why do we have elders? Because the Bible teaches a plurality of leaders should lead the church. And leads to the what I should maybe have asked first. What is an elder? Well you read 1 Peter 5, it should stick out. What is an elder? An elder is a shepherd. And I say that because many churches have a managerial model of leadership. The pastor is looked at, the pastor sees himself oftentimes as the CEO, as the visionary, as the motivator in chief. And he has a church board, and they're they see themselves as the board of directors. And it's their job so they think only to make policy decisions. Excuse me. Various Proposals are brought to them either by the pastor or by somebody in the church or one of their own. Proposals made And this board deliberates and says, yep, we're going to go with it, or no, we're not going to go with that. So that's, and of course there's management involved in a church leadership. But the Bible doesn't teach a managerial model of leadership, but rather a shepherding model of leadership. I'm seeing if I have water down here. It's all right. Don't worry about it. I'm fine But anyway, um so verse four speaks about Jesus, the chief shepherd as having appointed under shepherds elders. And so verse 2, Peter commands the elders, Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. So you see the logic of it, right? This Jesus one of the he um prominent images of Jesus in the Bible is that he is a shepherd, right? Psalm 23, the Lord's my shepherd. Thanks, brother. And so that's huge. Jesus has ascended to heaven, but he has appointed in his church under shepherds. And so it's interesting, after Jesus rose from the grave, this is in John chapter 21, verse 15 to 17, Jesus charged Peter, he said, Feed my sheep. And he said, tend my sheep. Okay, so that's Jesus, the great shepherd, speaking to the Apostle Peter Now you get to 1 Peter 5, verse 1. What's Peter say? I exhort the elders among you as an apostle. Is that what he says? Look at verse 1 I exhort the elders among you as a fellow elder. So he was recognizing I'm not only an apostle, I'm an elder. So he's speaking to them as peers. And then he says in verse 2, Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight. Acts 20, verse 28 Paul there exhorts the elders in the church in Ephesus. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock. in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God. And so an elder is a shepherd, right? He guards the sheep by guarding the church's teaching. And by guarding those who are leading in the church, guarding the church from uh false shepherds, from wolves, uh he cares, he's a shepherd. So he cares about the people in the church. I think about one of my relatives. He said, our pastor wor he has a nine to five job. He works from nine to five. And if you need to meet with him, you need to be there during the day to meet with him. Because he wants to have a perfect work-life balance. And um he's he's not approachable. And the people in his church don't know who the elders are That's absurd, right? Because no, an elder is a shepherd. He needs to know the people, he needs to care about the people, he needs to encourage those who are struggling, comfort those who are distressed and exhort and uh rebuke those who are straying. Pardon. And um and I'd say this. Some men want to be elders because they want to influence the direction of the church. And that can be good. I think it's 1 Timothy 3:1. It says, if anybody aspires to be an elder, that's a noble ambition. So it's good to aspire to be an elder If your desire is to build up the church, to extend the glory of Jesus Christ, because you care about people, that's a good motive But if just because you think you're so smart and you want to control things, that's not a good motive where others will they want to be an elder because they love to teach. Well, that's a gift that God gives Christians, certain Christians, and that's good. But if it's if you just want to teach and there are pa it's funny in seminary Seminaries are full of guys. They love theology. They love the Bible. And they love to teach. And they want to get up there and they want to preach. But they have to deal with these people and the church and all the problems and that's just like that's an encumbrance But no, that's the very heart of the ministry, right? This is part of what it means to be an elder. So let's go on and uh ask the third question. Excuse me What are the traits of good elders, of good shepherds? So let's go through this. What do I have on there? Five things, four things, five things. Five things. Okay, here we go Number one, good elders know their sheep. And so, like I said in verse 4, Jesus Peter referred to Jesus as the chief shepherd, okay? What was the chief shepherd's disposition toward his sheep? John 10, verse 3. He said, the true shepherd calls his own sheep by name. Now there are a lot of people in this church. I think we have 170 members, but then a couple months ago I counted up the phone list. I think there's like two hundred and thirty people who are regulars if you count the members and the regulars. That's a lot of people. to become well acquainted with, that's why we have elders, right? And so hopefully we'll connect with everybody But we do want to know uh the people in the church. And to be an elder, you gotta like people, right? Um I remember some years back we had so we had an ARP church. We have one out in western Pennsylvania, and I was at a presbytery meeting and one of the elders There he their pastor had left or there was a big conflict and he left under this problem. But this elder, an older man, he said He just didn't like us. And he said, um, like we'd have a church lunch. And he and his wife were always the first to leave. They just didn't like us. Well, uh, that fellow's no longer in the ministry. Let me read something on David Dixon. He was a Scottish pastor in the 17th century. Here's what he wrote. He said, an elder must know his people. He must be acquainted with them all, old and young, their history, their occupations, their habits, their ways of thinking. They and their children should be their personal friends, so that they naturally turn to him as to one on whom they can depend as a kind and sympathizing friend and a faithful counselor. So that's our ambition. Like I said, there are a lot of people here, so it's hard to get to know everybody, but you sure try your best, right? In the pastor, this is my full time job and so I have more time, but certainly we want our elders to be doing what they can. Now that Victor is on board, we're gonna re-establish Breaking the Church membership Into four different flocks so that each elder can focus on one sector of the church. It doesn't mean that there's not crossover, of course. Which means That if good old me or one of the good old elders pokes you in the corn on the arm after church or calls you up or sends you a text and says, Hey Can I come by? It's not like the Inquisition, uh, chapter three, uh, but it's just like let's become acquainted. Let's establish a friendship so that we can have more rapport and so that we can be more connected. So that's what elders want to do. I appreciate those who have uh you know we I had this I have this note in a bulletin if you can take a visit from the pastor or the elder or one of the other elders Let us know. I really appreciate those who said, hey yeah, come by Tuesday night. So look at your calendar and talk to me or talk to one of the elders. Because we want to we want to do that more and more. We want to try to visit everybody over the course of the year. And so uh talking about Trace of Good Shepherds, good shepherds know their sheep Good shepherds willingly serve. Look at the end of verse 2. Peter tells these elders they should be exercising oversight, not under compulsion. But willingly, as God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly, right? We don't want reluctant leaders We don't want leaders who act like they're doing you a favor by serving. We don't want leaders who need to be reminded and dragged along. uh to do uh their job, but we wanna we want leaders who are ambitious to serve and who want to uh build up God's people. And so they have to have the right spirit. Peter says They serve willingly. And uh saying in verse um where am I verse two? They have to have the right motive. in that they do this not for shameful gain. Some of these TV evangelists, right? Fleecing the flock or even uh an elder in the church who uh in not no I don't think this happens in a church that meets in a school with folding chairs, but in a big steeple church downtown Uh some people, some men would want to be an elder, be a leader because it's a position of status. And um they can Maybe and they can make business contacts in that church. No, that's not the right motive, not for shameful gain. So good shepherds know their sheep, good shepherds willingly serve Good shepherds, uh, the end of verse two, or uh verse three, are not domineering over those in your charge. This is a huge problem in churches. When I came here in 2001 I was convinced the most important thing in our church was to have biblically qualified elders and deacons. We went for five years, I think, before we had our first class of elders, because we had to have three to become a particular church. Five years. I remember this lady saying to me When we started out, yeah, you don't have elders because you want to hold all the power. It's like, what do you mean there's forty of us here? This isn't exactly like some great perch uh of of of power. Um So but I what I learned, getting back to why I brought this up, when I passed through North Carolina There were good old guys, some good old guys who weren't really qualified. They were nice guys, they were elders, but there were a couple, there was one fellow in particular, that was just mean It seems like he hated half the people in the church, but the way they did these elections in that church, it was just so scandalous. So he would be elected as an elder and he wasn't fit. And he would have he would blow up at elders' meetings. He would talk about people in the most vicious ways He was threatening to leave the church. And I was praying, oh, please follow through. He never did. Um But that's wrong. Even if you're right, Peter says, don't be domineering. 1 Timothy 3. 3. Paul said of an elder's disposition Not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome. You can't be a contentious person. You can't be a pedantic person, always picking out where the T's aren't crossed and the I's aren't dotted. And I'm thankful for our elders and our deacons. They're reasonable men. They're they don't impugn people's motives just because they disagree. But that's what we want. Good shepherds are not domineering. Good shepherds, the end of verse 3 are examples. Peter writes, being examples to the flock. Paul similarly in First Timothy four twelve wrote To the elders, set the belie wrote to Timothy, set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity. And so we need to be an example. Not now of course we all have our glaring sins, but we're saying, what's the guy's disposition? Uh is it toward wanting to conduct himself in a Christian manner? Is he interested in others? Is an example in his love for God's word and his kindness and his humility? And showing up. That's a huge example. I remember sometimes people say, we're so-and-so. Well, uh, yeah That's a problem. So no elder is perfect, but you know, church members should be able to look at the elders. The elders are under a uh a more stringent scope. And the pastor's an elder should be able to say, you know what, he has his faults, but he is endeavoring to live under the rule of Jesus Christ. Number five, traits of good elders. Good elders guard their sheep. It's not stated in that passage, but that's what a shepherd does, right? He guards his sheep. And the elders in our church guard the teaching of the church. They they review the curriculums and approve them. They examine those who teach in the church. And uh when elders don't do that, uh churches can go off the road. And what happen what happened to the mainline Protestant denominations? Let me let me tell you. These seminaries uh were infiltrated by liberal theologians They began teaching this in their classes, and these fellows would graduate, and they would be ordained in the mainline Presbyterian Church and the Methodist Church, United Church of Christ But they didn't believe historic Christian doctrine anymore. They use the same terminology And so people in the pews didn't know. It just seemed a little bit more vague what they were talking about. Where were the elders? Where were the leaders in the church? They didn't know scripture, they weren't guarding the teaching, and so within a few decades the liberal, the theological liberals took hold of these once great Protestant denominations. And so that's why Paul says in Titus 1. 9 that an elder must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. So that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine. So that's positive, right? He must be able to teach sound doctrine. But negatively, Paul writes in also to rebuke those who contradict it So you don't have to be a theologian to be an elder in the church, but you need to be grounded in the Bible. You need to be a student in the Bible because good shepherds protect the sheep from wolves and from false teaching. So there's some traits of good elders. Well let's talk about you. Okay. Number four What responsibilities the church members have toward their elders? Look at verse five. There's a lot in verse five. I just want to pull up this one comment. Where Peter commands those who are younger, be subject to your elders And so, to the extent that what the elders ask you to do is biblically grounded, you should obey them. That's a huge qualification because sometimes elders overstep their bounds, and that's another problem. But Peter's exhortation to be subject to the elders. Says there is such a thing as authority in the church. The church isn't just a place where we come to worship, it's not just a place where we come to learn the Bible and have fellowship. But the church is a place where or is a is an organization, an organism where we put ourselves under the authority of Jesus Christ through his appointed leaders. And I read earlier, Hebrews 13, 17, says, speaks similarly. The writer says to these Christians, obey your leaders and submit to them. For they're keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning For that would be of no benefit to you. And I know that feeling, that groaning feeling, where how am I going to handle this situation or this individual? They're so intractable Now many Christians bristle at the thought of putting themselves under authority. But without authority There's no true accountability. And to grow as a Christian is not you don't only need to be listening to R. C. Sprohl or John MacArthur and coming to church and going to science school and uh listen to the sermon, but we need to be accountable to other Christians, including to fellow Christians and to the leaders in the church. And if you don't like the idea of being under authority and being accountable, then don't join the church. Because that just makes it miserable for the church's leaders. It leads them, it will lead them to groan. But I would also say if you're one of those people say I'm never going to join a church 'cause I got burned in my former church or uh I don't trust these people Well, you're putting yourself in a position where you cannot obey that very clear command in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17. And we would say the authority of elders is not absolute There's there are qu if the elders are wrong, then you appeal that so you go to the other elders, the session. If they're blind then you appeal to the presbytery. If the presbytery is blind then you appeal to the synod, the national uh church, the denomination. But we would say the elders' authority, two things. It's ministerial and it's declarative. What does that mean? Ministerial means we're just servants of Jesus Christ, okay? He's the chief shepherd. It's declarative That's to say, we can't add things to the Bible. We can't say, you have to come to Thursday night Bible study That's the rule. No. The Bible doesn't command you to come to Thursday Night Bible study. So we can never say that. We can say, hey, it'd be great. It'd be helpful to come to Third Zen Bible study, but we can't say you're a bad Christian or you're erring if you don't. We can say, if you're a Christian, you should be at Sunday morning worship unless you're hindered by some necessity or act of mercy. But um we can't make up things, okay? So that's why we say uh the j the elders authority is is not legislative, we don't make things add rules to the Bible. It's just declaring What the Bible says. And sometimes honest people differ on that, and that's that's worth the conversation. And there should be uh understanding on the elders' part. But anyway, I mean we can talk about all the qualifications, but Hebrews 13, 17 does make a clear statement. It says, obey your leaders and submit to them. And so I ask, how about you in that department? When I exhort you from something clearly taught in the Bible. Not one of those things that honest people differ over, but something that's super clear. The Sabbath, the importance of prayer The importance of going to someone when there's a problem and not gossiping. When you hear that from the Bible Do you heed it or do you bow and submit to it? And so the elders have this great responsibility, but so do the sheep, right? The shepherds have a great responsibility, so do the sheep. And so we're thankful uh our church over the past uh almost twenty five years, good, sturdy leaders, certainly flawed, but w it's that's been a real blessing. It's helped prevent a lot of problems in the church has been on on common harmony in this church has been a great church to pastor That's because God's given us reasonable men, uh wise men, men who are fundamentally kind and uh committed to uh Jesus Christ. And so we want to pray for our elders and our deacons. We also want to examine ourselves, right? How am I doing? Am I do I recognize that This is a body of believers, and I have obligations to God, to God's word and to God's people. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do pray for our elders and our deacons that you would equip them, strengthen them, give them wisdom. Help them to navigate various situations wisely. And for each of our members we pray uh for uh a deepening a relationship uh with the elders. Help us to be more faithful and attentive uh to every person in the church uh that each of us uh might grow up in the likeness of jesus christ. In his name we pray. Amen