You may go back that way with Mrs. Yan, I believe. And let's turn in our Bibles to Matthew chapter 16. Matthew 16. as we continue our uh march through Matthew's gospel. And it's just the first four verses, so it's nice and succinct. Jesus is in northern Galilee or northern part of Israel, Galilee. He's been performing miracles and healing people for many months now. And this delegation comes up from the south, from Jerusalem, to challenge him. Matthew 16, verse 1. And the Pharisees and Sadducees came in to test him. They asked him to show them a sign from heaven. He answered them. When it is evening, you say, it will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning, it will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening. You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil, an adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except a sign of Jonah. So he left them and departed. Now there's a lesson here for all of us. There's a lesson here for Christians when we struggle with doubts. And for those who are not yet Christians, but you're here and you're inquiring and you're You're curious about Scripture and the claims of Christ. And the lesson has to do uh with what you should do and what you should not do to assuage those doubts? How how do I how do I approach um the questions I have and the doubts with which I struggle? And there's also a warning here for hardened skeptics of Christianity. And so it's four short verses. We're going to spend most of the time The sermon's top heavy on the first point, uh second and third points. We're gonna uh less time on those. But I think this uh first point, the demand for a sign It is something that is common in all ages and is even common in our own hearts. And so it's something we want to give some consideration to. We read in verse 1 The Pharisees and Sadducees came. Now if you know anything about the Pharisees and the Sadducees, you should be stopping right there and say, wait a minute. Something's rotten in Denmark. Something's fishy about this, that the Pharisees and the Sadducees would get together and and go after Jesus Christ because they were adversaries of the most bitter sort. The Pharisees were the religious or the Jewish conservatives. Uh they believed in the supernatural or the uh the miracles of the Old Testament They believe that Scripture was supernatural revelation from God. They looked forward to a literal coming of Messiah. Okay? So there's the Pharisees But the Sadducees, they were more the modernists amongst the Jews. They weren't so much concerned about holiness. They were concerned about uh worldly prosperity and power. They were politically connected. to the Roman leaders and they were interested in helping uh to make the Jewish religion uh fit in uh with the Greco Roman culture. They didn't believe the miracles of the Old Testament And they viewed any talk about a coming Messiah as being just a great political leader who would liberate Israel. But as they say, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. And they were both enemies of Jesus. And so they were now fast friends, at least for this uh little uh uh thing they were gonna deal with. And so they made common cause in challenging uh Jesus Christ. And it says in the end of verse 1 They came to him to test him, so they weren't genuinely curious about Jesus, his identity, and his claims, but they came to test him, and it says they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. Now this is remarkable if you're following the timeline in the Gospel of Matthew, because for I think almost two years now Jesus has been demonstrating who he was by way of signs. He healed sick people. He calmed the storms at sea. He cast out demons. He miraculously fed the multitudes. He even raised the dead. Remember Jair's daughter? He raised the dead. And so surely there were occasions When Pharisees and Sadducees had witnessed these miracles and many other times, they had heard reports. And so there was his miraculous works that were not done behind a bush And also his teaching, that was a sign. Remember after Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount Matthew makes a comment in the end of chapter seven that he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes And so there was something about Jesus, the way he conducted himself, not only uh his person, but what he taught, and then there were these signs, these miraculous works. that he performed. And he so he had given these people plenty of signs, and yet they refused stubbornly to believe. How can that be? And the only thing we can conclude is that they didn't want to believe. That's why they would not believe. because they had something to lose, right? They would then have to submit to him. They would have to abandon their position. They would have to lose the este of the masses who looked at them as religious leaders. And so I said in the beginning that this passage is instructive for Christians But we have doubts, right? And we do, right, to one degree or another. Is this stuff all true? Why doesn't anybody else believe this stuff? Have I been faked out? We're kids. You might be thinking, you know what? A lot of the people I know aren't Christians. They don't go to church. Maybe it's just because my parents are that I believe. I haven't owned this for myself yet. And so, how do you figure this out? This passage is instructive for Christians. We're sincere, and yet sometimes we have these doubts, right? And it's also instructive for unbelievers who have honest questions about Christianity. And the question this answers is, where should you seek evidence to assuage your doubts? Where do you look? Do you say, God, show me a sign? You know, I remember as a as a young Christian. Uh thinking like that, I don't know if I've ever asked for a particular sign, but across my mind, uh heal my uncle who has cancer. That I'll take that as a sign or Uh give me a a burning feeling in my heart. I don't feel much. You know, just give give me this burning in my heart to confirm this. Or maybe, you know, you're just saying, you know, you're Lord, is this true? I'm going to open my Bible and I'm going to put my finger down on a verse and I'm going to take that as a word from you. Uh gimme give me some kind of sign. And it's usually some you know, you ended up pointing to the Mildew law in the book of Leviticus or something, it didn't work. And so and thankfully, right, because if you if you if it was some kind of coincidence and it worked, you you might might figure this is the way that we're supposed to uh interpret life. But um what we're learn what we learn here Is that there is no need for further signs to be displayed. And the point that this text is making is that during Jesus' earthly ministry, He provided ample evidence of his messianic deity. And so it is in our day. We have ample evidence that this stuff is true, that Jesus Christ is the God man, that he is the Savior, and that the message of Scripture Although the masses of people are unacquainted with it, misunderstand it, and have thus dismissed it, nonetheless. There's ample testimony in God's two books, his big book and his little book, that Christianity is true And when I speak about God's big book and his little book, I'm taking that from Psalm 19, which talks about the two ways that God has disclosed himself. His big book, the psalmist says, is nature, creation. His little book is the Word of God, the Scripture. So let's think about that. We're going to go down a little path here and uh just discuss this a little bit, and then we'll quickly knock out the second and third point of the sermon. But I want to talk about us now. Lord, show me a sign. Strengthen my faith. Confirm my conviction, my persuasion that Christianity is true And so, and this is familiar territory, you know, for many. But the first thing I say, and I want to say this certainly to our kids, so I want our kids to look at me and listen. God has revealed Himself number one through his big book, Creation. I lived used we used to live in Burlington, North Carolina, over there at University of North Carolina on Chapel Hill. Right above the entrance of the planetarium, you find the words of Psalm 19, verse 1. The heavens declare the glory of God. The skies proclaim the work of his hands. Everything gives testimony, everything in this world gives testimony to the fact that The God of Scripture is the creator. There's no other way to account for life. And we understand that skeptics are quick to dismiss Christianity. Christianity, they say, well, you know, time plus chance plus matter. Given enough time, given enough, given an infinite number of universes out there in the cosmos, That yes, uh life can come from nothing and there can be such complexity and beauty and vastness in the world. Um and that's the way they explain it. And then you say, well, wait a minute. That doesn't, when you get down to the details, it's nice to make that a sweeping statement like that And it sounds sophisticated and open-minded, but when you get down to the nitty-gritty details, it doesn't work. And I'm not a scientist, I understand. But nonetheless, I'm going to speak like one. There is an extremely complex balance of and sensitive balance of conditions But there had to be in place for life to come into existence and for life to continue to exist. I've done some reading over the years. So one one fellow I read years ago, a guy named Michael Beehe. I know some here have read this fellow. He was a he's a bi a biochemist at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania. He wrote a book called Darwin's Black Box, and he talks about the cell. You know, people always talk about the evolution, about evolution on on the on the macro level. But he says, as a biochemist, when you get down to the cellular level, evolution does not explain the complexity of the cells. He writes, the cell, the very basis of life, is staggeringly complex. But doesn't science have answers or partial answers for how these systems originated? He says, no. Then he quotes another uh scientist, uh James Shapiro, biochemist at the University of Chicago. Shapiro wrote, there are no detailed Darwinian accounts For the evolution of any fundamental biochemical or cellular system, only a variety of wishful speculations. Or think about the eye. That's amazing. I bet you think about that once in a while. How is it that our eye works? I had uh retina surgery a couple weeks ago He showed me a picture of inside my eyeball on the wall. How does that work? I'm so thankful. uh for for for how how God created this. I how do you how do you understand this? But Behe wrote that biologists in Darwin's day were aware, they were aware back then that the eye was a very complex structure containing many components, such as a lens, retina, tear ducts, ocular muscles, and so forth, so forth. They knew that if an animal were so unfortunate as to be born without one of the components, the result would be severe loss of vision or outright blindness. And so they doubted that such a system could be put together in the many steps required by natural selection. And that's Beehee's argument that some systems the eye or the cell. It's irreducibly complex. You need a certain set of components uh to have it or else it's just not going to evolve according to uh the evolutionary theory. But Beehe said, you know what, Darwin was aware Of the problem that the eye posed for the theory of evolution. And he wrote in a letter. Darwin wrote to a friend in a letter. He said, the eye to this day gives me a cold shudder. And so all I'm doing, I'm just giving it a couple examples to say there's no way to explain the complexity and the beauty of creation. on neither a macro level or on a micro level, apart from the assumption, apart from the presupposition that there's a creator God in the statement of creation and God's providence in Scripture is true. In other words, how can we account for the present state of affairs in this world, in creation, in human relationships? Is there a satisfying way to truly account for all the details apart from the scriptural account? And the answer is no. There is not. There's speculation. There's assertions that can be made But they cannot account for them. So God's revealed Himself in His big book. And so what I'm saying is, talk to yourself. Think about things, right? Most of us aren't scientists, but we can think things through a little bit And we realize, how do I explain this? How do you explain the love between a man or a w and a woman? And uh between a parent and a child. Is this just some kind of biochemical reaction? We say no, there there's freedom, there's choice, there there's a component that goes beyond the physical So God's big book's creation, and then we lower ourselves or lower our heads a little bit, and we want to study God's little book. And this is what I want to say is uh to our kids. You need to learn this book, you need to become persuaded of its truth, and you're not going to become persuaded of it uh just by sitting under it. It's teaching on Sunday morning or just by listening to your parents even uh talk about it or read it to you. But you want to become a spiritual self-starter, you want to start reading the Bible on your own and thinking about it And the reason I say that, not only to the kids, but all of us, when we have doubts, we want to expose ourselves, we want to open up to Scripture because the Bible is self-authenticating It strengthens us uh during our time of doubts. And Ali's going to be in Bulgaria. You may not meet many Christians. I don't know who what it's like over there. Hey! All these people don't believe? Why do I believe? Maybe it's just that I grew up in America and there was a Christian subculture there. Maybe that no You go you go back home, you you open the Bible, you read this book, and you're reminded, no, I can't explain this book Apart from this being written, apart from this being given by God. You know, you read through the Old Testament, you see these prophecies, Isaiah 53, or Psalm 22 or shorter prophecies that point to the coming of Christ. How can that be? How can such detail be given? Well, because This book is written by God. How is it that the Bible is consistent within itself? It was written over 15 hundred years uh by some forty different human writers from various cultures and ways of life, and yet there's a consistency to its message That big message that goes from Genesis to Revelation. It's a straight line. It's one unfolding story of God's plan of salvation for his people. Then you you could take up hundreds of subtopics and you discover that something in uh Jeremiah agrees with what Paul writes in 2 Timothy. There's a unity. The authors speak uh united. And so w any one topic, it's a system. It's it's there's n there are no internal contradictions. Then this topic fits nicely with that topic. And so that's why there's the uh discipline of systematic theology. You could see how the the The different themes in the Bible are interrelated and are arranged. Why is that? Because God is the author of the Bible. This isn't just some religious men writing down their thoughts with some kind of agenda. And then The Bible is so authentic self-authenticating in that when you put its principles into action, you, as sinner, you with your struggles, nonetheless They work not perfectly, right, because of our sin, but they work a lot better than when we don't endeavor to put those principles in action. And Jesus said in John 7:17. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether my teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my my own authority. So you just can't be a theorist, but if you put yourself under the authority of this book and you endeavor to know Christ and walk in his ways, then what's going to happen? God's going to sneak up behind you and he's going to say He's going to confirm in your mind and heart, yeah, this stuff is true. There's something about this. And we understand that this is a work of the Holy Spirit, but God uses me. means the means w we want to engage in is a is a submissive engagement With his word, the Bible. And just go on, I'm just talking about the self-authenticating character of the Bible, right? We're saying, how can I have my doubts assuaged? Well Then I look at not only what the Bible says, but I look at what it says about me. How is it that these guys from 2,000 years ago, some from 3,000 years ago, How is it that they know me so well? They can explain the corruption in my heart? They can explain that man is not what we were meant to be. They explain that though we're fallen, we retain something of a moral conscience, right? Man men across cultures down through time all have a sense of right and wrong. How is that? Oh, just look at the draw. No, it's because God made man in his image. And Romans 2. 15 says he has placed within us a conscience. That's why there's a universal sense of morality, and there's an innate sense that we have. This life is not all there is. Why is that? Well, Ecclesiastes 3. 11 says God has set eternity in the heart of men. C. S. Lewis said, you know what? There's within us an echo of a tune we've never heard. There's within us a longing for a city we've never visited. Why is that? Because God placed this component within us that says, this life is not all that there is. The grave is not the end. And so the Bible knows you better than you know yourself. Read the book of Proverbs. Read Matthew 5-7, a Sermon on the Mount. Yeah, Jesus has my number. How is that? Well, he's our maker. He knows our aspirations. He exposes our motives. And so that was a long digression, but all to say is that we need not be like the Sadducees and Pharisees. We need not say, Lord, show me a sign. But rather, we need to open our eyes and contemplate the signs that He's given in creation and in the Scripture. Faith comes from hearing the Word of God. Romans 10, 17. If there's any verse I've quoted ad nauseum, it is that verse, but it's helpful in the Christian life. And so God opens our eyes, but he uses the means, right? 1 Corinthians 2. 14, Paul said The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. Why do people reject it? Well, it's a spiritual thing. God has to open the person's eyes. And so that too, you know, we're trying to say, how do we account for the present state of events? affairs. Well the Bible even accounts for that. Okay? Well we could stop, but I have two more points and so I feel like you're not getting your money's worth. Point two, the problem with asking for a sign Jesus says two things. Number one, he says, if that's your mentality, show me a sign, show me a sign after after Christ has displayed sufficient evidence. of his deity and of his work. He says, you guys are really inconsistent. So that's the first problem. When you ask for a sign, Jesus says to these guys, it reveals that you are inconsistent. Go back to verse 2. He answered them, When it is evening, you say, it will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning it will be stormy today. For the sky is red and threatening. You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. Now the signs of the times He's not talking about the signs of the end times. He's talking about the signs of the times during his earthly ministry. He's saying, you can't interpret the signs of the times times in which you live that I'm displaying before you and so the analogy is simple, right? You guys are he says to these uh religious guys, you guys are theologians not meteorologists, and yet you can look at the sky and you can pro prognosticate about the weather, right? You can draw deductions just by looking at the sky about what the weather is likely to be tomorrow And it's the same with us, right? We make all kinds of predictions and deductions based not on exhaustive data, but on sufficient data, right? Should I carry my umbrella today? When I walked out this morning, I didn't take the umbrella. I'm not a I I don't have any weather charts or anything, but I was just able to draw that conclusion. School's going to start in a couple weeks. I think I better a lot, a little more time to get to work. I don't have any traffic data before me, but I have some data from experience And so I'm going to make a decision based on that. How much insurance should I buy? I don't have a I don't have a crystal ball. I don't know what the future holds But I do know I have this many kids and I'm this old now and my income's this, so I need to figure it up. Okay? I don't have exhaustive data, but I have sufficient data, and I'm gonna make a decision. I'm not just going to say, I'm agnostic about how much insurance I should buy. I don't know. No, there's enough data before me with which I can with which I I can make A decision. And so it's interesting that people who are capable of drawing conclusions and coming to decisions and acting On data from this area or that area of life, they're going to say, Well, I'm undecisive about Jesus Christ. I'm undecisive About Christianity. I'm agnostic. I don't have yet enough information. And Jesus is just saying that's an inconsistent position. You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. So Jesus is just saying Connect the dots. Connect the dots and you should be able to get off the fence and make A heartfelt commitment to Jesus Christ and submit your life to His Word. And so Jesus says, first of all, to these guys who are asking for signs, always asking for signs. You're inconsistent. And then he says Your request for further signs has a moral dimension. It reveals that you're unfaithful. And so it's interesting when these fellas ask for signs, show me um show show us a sign that you're the uh you're the Messiah. Uh Jesus didn't say, well, you know, uh we're all on different roads and I have a tolerance bumper stricker on my car, in fact. That's okay. You just keep your keep on certain. But rather, he says, no, that's evil. That's wrong. He calls them adulterous, an evil, he calls them an evil, verse four, an adulterous generation. They were adulterous because they, these Jewish leaders, broke the covenant, their covenant with God. and they walked away and into the arms of the evil one. And he's saying, you know, when someone is confronted with the evidence, and the evidence is all about, right, all creation bears testimony. To God's glory. And then we have the Scripture. And many are exposed to the Scripture. But to walk away from that evidence, to reject Jesus Christ When confronted with the evidence, it's not just a moral issue. It's not just a I'm sorry, it's not just an an intellectual issue, but rather it's a moral issue And Jesus says, it is morally evil and spiritually adulterous to reject Jesus Christ, his having provided ample evidence. of his claims. And then finally, Jesus says in the end of verse 4, he says, there will be one final sign. The end of verse 4 No sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. So what was this sign? The sign of the prophet Jonah. And this is a reference to Jesus' death and resurrection. Jesus had this conversation earlier in chapter 12, verse 40. And there he explained, just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man Be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. And so his point is Jonah's emerging from the belly of this great fish, you know, being spat up on dry land. That was a sign to the Ninevites. He's a prophet sent from God. He spent three nights There are three days and nights in this fish, and he's still alive? We're gonna listen to him. He's a prophet from God And so Jesus says, you know what? That foreshadowed my three days in the tomb. That signified my resurrection. Romans 1:4. By his resurrection, Jesus was declared to be the Son of God by His resurrection from the dead. And so there's the final sign, and that's something worth studying itself, right? The resurrection Of Jesus Christ. But I want to say we live in a culture where on belief is in the very air we breathe. And of course, we have doubts and we become discouraged. Or if you're not a Christian, you know, why should I believe this stuff when so few others are truly uh engaged uh with with the claims of Christ. And um so what we do, we want to look at God's his his two books, the big book of course, creation, we want to reflect on that But we also want to use all the means he's provided, right? His word, the sacraments, prayer. We understand it's not just an intellectual thing. But we have to use the means that God's provided. And it says in Hebrews 10, 24 and 25, don't neglect meeting together. as is the habit of some, but stay in fellowship with each other because you need to see spiritual reality in other people, right? If you're just off on your own and you're the only believer, maybe this stuff isn't true, but then you run other Christians and you see their character, you see the change that has come In their lives, after you hear their conversion stories, and you're reminded: no, uh this is true. So all the world deny Jesus Christ. I'm persuaded in my heart uh this is true. And then this passage again is a warning for those who are hardened skeptics. And um You know, as the writer Hebrew says today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Look what happened to the Sadducees and the Pharisees It says in the end of verse 4, He left them and departed. Their hearts were hard to them. They had been exposed to His claims and His works. And yet they remained hardened toward Jesus Christ. And so he abandoned them, and they awaited a horrible fate. Let's bow our heads. We acknowledge, Lord, that we have doubts and struggles, and we acknowledge the sin in our hearts that uh keeps us from Being bold for you and trusting your promises and affirming and agreeing with all your claims. And so we do pray that by the Holy Spirit that you'd open our eyes to be more consistent in our belief, fully persuade our hearts. And give us a joy, because we know that you are the King, and one day everybody is going to bow before you. I pray for our kids that they won't be succored by the messages they hear in the world, but that they will rise above that and they will have clear spiritual vision. I pray for those who aren't yet Christians that you would move them to immerse themselves in the Bible, to wrestle. uh with its claims and that you would draw them to yourself. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.