Turn, let's turn to Genesis chapter 19. This is one of the longer uh chapters in our series. We're gonna read it. So I encourage you to stick with the storyline. It'll help you follow what's going on. Keep your Bible open Remember God last week in chapter 18 he told Abraham that he was going to judge Sodom and Gomorrah. The Lord came and two of his angels, and we pick up in chapter 19. The two angels came to Sodom in the evening and Lot was sitting, that's Abraham's nephew, Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth, and said, My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house And spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way. They said, No, we will spend the night in the town square. But he pressed them strongly, so they turned aside to him and entered his house And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man surrounded the house. And they called to Lot, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them. Lot went out to the men at the entrance, shut the door after him, and said, I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly Behold, I have two daughters who have not known any man. Let me bring them out to you, and do them at do to them as you please. Only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the shelter of my roof But they said, Stand back, and they said, This fellow came to sojourn and has become a d has become the judge. Now we will deal worse with you than with them. Then they pressed hard against the man La and drew near to break the door down. But the men reached out their hands and brought La into the house with them and shut the door. And they struck with blindness the men who were at the entrance of the house, both small and great, so that they wore themselves out, groping for the door Then the men said to Lot, Have you anyone else here, sons-in-law, sons, daughters, or any anyone you have in the city, bring them out of the place, for we are about to destroy this place Because the outcry against his people has become great before the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. So Lot went out and said to his sons in law, who were to marry his daughters, Up, get out of this place, for the Lord is about to destroy the city. But he seemed to his sons-in-law to be jesting As the morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, Up, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city. But he lingered. So the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, the Lord being merciful to him. And they brought him out and set him outside the city. And as they brought them out, one said, Escape for your life. Do not look back or stop anywhere in the valley. Escape to the hills, lest you be swept away. And Lot said to them, Oh, no, my lords, behold, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have shown me great kindness in saving my life. But I cannot escape to the hills, lest the disaster lest the disaster overtake me, and I die. Behold, this city is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one Let me escape there. Is it not a little one, and my life will be saved? He said to him, Behold, I grant this favor Behold, I grant you this favor also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken. Escape there quickly, for I can do nothing till you arrive there Therefore, the name of the city was called Zoar. The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zoar. Then the Lord rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulphur and fire from the Lord out of heaven, and he overthrew those cities and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground But Lot's wife behind him looked back, and she became the pillar of Saul. And Abraham went early in the morning to a place where he had stood before the Lord. And he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the valley, and he looked, and behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace So it was that when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of his midst, out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived. Now Lot went up out of Zoar and lived in the hills with his two daughters, for he was afraid to live in Zoar. So he lived in a cave with his two daughters. And the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come into us after the manner of all the earth Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve offspring from our Father So they made their father drink wine that night, and the firstborn went in and lay with her father. He did not know when she lay down or when she arose The next day, the firstborn said to the younger, Behold, I lay last night with my father. Let us make him drink wine tonight also. Then you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve offspring from our Father. So they made their father drink wine that night also And the younger arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. Thus both of the daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father The firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab. He is the father of the Moabites to this day. The younger also bore a son and called his name Ben Ami He is the father of the Ammonites to this day. So this is a this is a troubling passage. It is part of scripture And it has to do uh with judgment. It's really a precursor uh to the final judgment. And it's it's it's strange, it's bizarre. that many churches uh deny uh that God is going to judge the world. Uh but if you take the Bible seriously, you can't avoid it. The Bible does speak about God's mercy, his love, his grace, his redemption of sinners and Jesus Christ. But J. Packer said a half-truth masquerading is a whole truth. is a complete untruth. And the other half of it that makes it a whole truth is that we must talk about God's holiness. His righteousness in the fact that he will judge the unrepentant. Psalm 58, the psalmist says, surely there is a God who judges the earth. And God's judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah is a precursor, is a preview of the final judgment. And as such, it serves as a warning, it serves as a plea, and it serves as a caution. To people in our day, to us. And we're going to see there's several New Testament passages that refer to Genesis 19 And they say this is instructive for people down through time. So let's look at the big part of it. I'm going to spend most of time, my time on the first point. Then we'll look at uh a couple other things. So this passage is not just a history lesson about what God did 4,000 years ago, but it's a warning. to all the nations, because all people, like the people of Sodom, are sinners. And so it is relevant. In fact, remember last week one of the key verses in chapter 18 was verse 20. For the Lord said, the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great. Then he said, and their sin is very grave. And so their sin was heinous in the sight of God. And we discovered that their sin was homosexuality, sexual perversion. And if you look in Leviticus, you don't have to just note it down, but Leviticus 18, verse 22 and 24. Then chapter 20, verse 13 and 23, says that homosexu reflects the fact that homosexuality had become one of the common perversions of the Canaanites In fact, in the New Testament, the book of Jude, that little letter in the end of the New Testament, verse 7 of Jude, Jude comments that Sodom and Gomorrah And the surrounding cities indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire. So this is not this is not pleasing I also mentioned last week that sexual morality was not Sodom's only sin. I looked, we pointed out in Ezekiel 16. Verse 49, God condemned the people of Sodom and Gomorrah, quote, for their self-indulgence, I'm sorry, not quote yet, but for their self-indulgence and their lack of concern for the poor. Here's the verse. God says, she and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but she did not aid the poor and the needy. And so that's the problem in Sodom and Gomorrah. Now let's review this uh defiled encounter That unfolds in the first nine verses. The God sends these two angels to Sodom. And it says in verse 1, whoops, chapter 19, verse 1. The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was setting in the gate of Sodom. So the gate would be the town square, that's where the leaders of the people would gather. They would conduct business. I imagine in the evening they'd just come out to congregate, to uh have company, uh to gossip and to talk about different things. And uh Lot, so this is Abraham's nephew, right? He was a he he was now in Sodom. He had moved to Sodom some years uh earlier. And so Lot had made a name for himself. He was now apparently one of the town leaders. We know he had great wealth before he went to Sodom, and now he was one of the town leaders. And it says in the end of verse 1. That when Lot saw them, that's the angels, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth and said, My lords, please turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night and wash your feet. Then you may rise up early and go on your way. They said, no, we'll spend the night in the town square. And um bots like, that's not a good idea. Uh but they didn't they didn't understand. So it says in verse three, he pressed them strongly when the Old Testament scholars uh says translates that he manhandled them. No. It's like, you're coming to my house. Uh you this this is not a safe place. And uh so they went, the end of verse 3, when they got to Lot's house, he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. So Lot's two guests are out of harm's way. Well, uh not exactly, right? They hear a commotion outside, and we discover it's not the welcome wagon. Uh verse four But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, and all the people to the last man surrounded the house, and they called to Lot. Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them. And Lot adhere to this Middle Eastern code of hospitality. uh recognize he has to protect uh his guests from these uh wicked men. And so verses verses six and seven Lot went out to the men at the entrance, shut the door after him, and said, I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly And so this is noble, so it seems. But then he makes a cowardly proposal in verse 8: Behold, I have two daughters who have not known any man. Let me bring them out to you and do to them as you please. Only do nothing to these men. They have come under the shelter of my roof. And so he put his allegiance to this code of hospitality above the safety of his own daughters. And so Lot was really a disgusting little man, whereas my wife uh so eloquently put it last night, he was a dirtbag. Sweet little Becky. Um yeah. So th this is bad. But you know, you all you have to do is flip through the channels on TV and you realize, well we're not We're not far behind. Remember her hearing Billy Graham once say, you know, if God doesn't judge America, he's going to have to apologize to Sodom and Gomorrah. Well he will judge America And it's going to be a horrible thing. And uh we we'll look at the judgment first of all in Sodom and Gomorrah, verse 23 to 26. Let's just read it again. I want to make sure everybody has a storyline 23. The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zoar. Then the Lord rained on Sodom and Gomorrah, sulfur and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities and all the valley and all the inhabitants of the cities and what grew on the ground. But Lot's wife behind him looked back, and she became a pillar of Saul. And so I always thought, and maybe this is how you thought about it, she maybe just I thought, well, they're fleeing Sodom and Gomorrah, and she takes one wistful look back. You know, I'm going to miss the place And she turned to a pillar of Saul. But something I was reading says, no, it wasn't just a momentary glance back at Sodom. And the reason is that God had told Lot, I'm not going to pour out my wrath on these cities until you've made it safe to Zoar. And so it was only after Lot and his daughters had gotten into this little city of Zoar that he rained down fire and sulfur on Sodom. And so I don't think it was just a looking back, but rather she lingered behind, she probably stopped on the plane, and she could not pull herself away from Sodom And that's sort of understandable. Like I said, I mean Lot was wealthy, he had risen uh in that city, he he was at the gates that brought her uh many benefits, and she she wasn't ready To leave it behind. Well, what'd Jesus say about that? Jesus said that should be instructive. Luke 17, verse 32 Jesus said to people when he was talking to them about the cost of discipleship, he said, Remember Lot's wife. That's a quote, Luke 17, verse 32. Remember Lot's wife. Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it. So he says that the gospel is counterintuitive. Following Jesus Christ is counterintuitive. You give it all up, but in giving it all up, you'll live. The Apostle John said the same thing 1 John 2. 15 he said, Do not love the world or the things in the world. And so, you know, what do I prize? What what will I look back at? between if I'm if I'm given a choice of following Christ, if I'm not a Christian, am I holding onto something? Am I am I not willing to give it up and an illicit relationship or even trivial things. You know, some people they're obsessed uh with sports or with a hobby or with some kind of recreation. And you're not you're not willing to put that in proper perspective because you're a follower of Jesus Christ? Remember Lot's wife. Get things in order here. Says the end of verse 26, she became a pillar of Saul. Now who who knows how that happened? It could have been she just died of the sulfurous gases, and then as her corpse lay on the ground uh she became encrusted her body became encrusted with the salt and the debris and she became in fact a pillar of salt. In fact I was reading uh in this area south of the south of the Dead Sea There is a lot of salt. In fact, the Dead Sea was once called the Salt Sea, and there's a lot of sulfur to this day. And so what I said in the very beginning, I said God's judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah isn't just a history lesson, but it's a harbinger of the final judgment. In uh that's not my imagination connecting dots, but that's what Peter said in 2 Peter chapter 2 verse 6. Peter said in so many words, God made Sodom and Gomorrah, quote, an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. So when you read the story of Sodom Gomorrah, hey, that's just a token. Uh that's just an object lesson. Of the final judgment. In it, there will be a judgment, and you'll be there for it. So you want to be right with Jesus Christ. And one of the lessons uh Jesus brings up himself, he says, the final judgment is going to come unexpectedly, uh just as it did on the people in Sodom and Gomorrah. This is Luke 17, 28, and following. Jesus said, just as it was in the days of Lot, they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building. But on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, Fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all, so it will be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. In First Thessalonians 5, the the the day of Christ's coming will come like a thief in the night. And so there's an urgency to this. It's saying you've got to be ready. You never know when the final judgment is. And some people are well Uh I have plenty of time. I want to I want to do things my way for a while and then I I understand this stuff's all true and then I'll I'll straighten things out then. Well there may not be a then you may you may not be ready And so we have in this passage a plea to accept the rescue that God provides. We see that God rescued Lot as as Lot was negotiating With the sodomite mob, the angels grabbed him, they pulled him back into the house. Again, verse 10 and 11 It says the men reached out their hands, these are the angels, and brought Lot into the house with them and shut the door. And they struck with blindness the men who were at the entrance of the house, both small and great, so that they wore themselves out groping for the door. Though they had blinded uh these men they were so consumed by their lust uh that they would not Give in, they would not give up, they would not go away. So uh this is what it means to be under the dominion of sin. And so the angels they say to Lot, they say to us family, get out. We're going to destroy the city. So the angels came to deliver Lot and his family from the wrath which is to come And that's what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 1:10. Why did Jesus come? He didn't come just to be a wonderful moral teacher. He didn't come just to be a great example. But he came, it says, Jesus came to deliver us from the wrath to come. And it says in our passage in verse 16, Lot lingered. And uh this the warning here, right? This is a plea. Don't linger, don't say manyana, Hebrews 3. 7 The Holy Spirit says, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. And so the risk a person takes, this is important for young people to hear, the risk you take. Is that right now you're like, you may be, I see this as true. This has the ring of truth, the scripture, the claims of Christ, it has the ring of truth. But I'm not ready to make an earnest commitment to Jesus Christ. Hebrews says, listen. Your heart might grow hard. Romans 1 says the same thing. God might give you over. And so down the road, some years down the road You may not have that conviction. You may not have the inner resolve. You may not have the ability to genuinely repent of your sin. And to rest on Jesus Christ, because it will have grown dead, that spiritual element will have grown dead, and you'll have no interest in the things of God. And so Jesus, here's another passage in the New Testament that talks about Sodom and Gomorrah. Jesus, and this is this is important. Jesus is talking now to the people in Capernaum. So this is in his public ministry. He's preaching. He's teaching. He's healing. He has his 12 disciples. And Jesus said to the people in Capernaum, this is Matthew 11, verse 23, the end of the verse. If the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, Sodom would have remained to this day. But I tell you, it'll be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you. Hear what he's saying? It wasn't very pleasant to be in Sodom when God destroyed it. Jesus says to the people who heard him, That's nothing compared to the judgment you're going to face. Now Imagine one of the citizens of Sodom could be transported into Frederick, Maryland. And they walk into Good News Presbyterian Church, 10. 30, Sunday morning. They see a table in the back. There's a stack of Bibles. What are these books? And Dean Sloan or Alyssa on the back row, they'll say, well, this is the Bible. This is God's full revelation to humanity. It tells us who he is, what he's like, and how we can be right with him. And they might say, well, that would have been sort of helpful to have. All we had was this sense in our hearts that we were doing things that were displeasing to God. Then he then they might say to somebody, what you guys gather here every Sunday? Yeah, we gather every Sunday. We have Bible studies during the week. We're gonna learn a lot. Uh Fowler Whites can teach a class on the Holy Spirit this summer. Who's the Holy Spirit? Well that's God giving God with us, God's presence with us to guide us and to grow us and to make his word apply. help us to see his the truth of his word and apply it to our hearts. They'd be like, wow, that would have been sort of helpful. What's this what's this you have at 930? Oh we have Sunday school. We try to teach the children from their earliest years about the things of God. So they're they're versed in these things for many years. Well, how's this Bible fit together? Well, the Old Testament's promise, and it and then it as it unfolds, there's fulfillment. Then the apex of the Bible is the coming, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So Jesus Christ came to earth. God came to earth. You'd be like, wow, that's fascinating. And he's going to come back again. That's what it says here in the Bible. And you know they would they would be dumbstruck. Well we ha we have this fullness and Jesus is saying it's gonna be more and this makes sense now It will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Sodom than it will be for one who has enjoyed the fullness of God's revelation. in Jesus Christ and in Scripture. And so the story in Genesis 19 is a s is a plea Not merely to the Lot and to his family, but it's a plea to the nations to accept the rescue That God has provided in Jesus Christ. Here's a third thing we see. This passage is a caution, is it not to be careful about where you go? And whom you associate with. Now, more than one person in this church, because some time ago I was talking about Lot, what a scoundrel he was. And some people say, well, you know what? You shouldn't just call Lot a scoundrel. 2 Peter verse 7 and 8, which Patrick read, says, Lot was a righteous man. Well that's what it says. And so in some m manner he was a righteous man, right? Because the Bible, when it says something, it's right. Well, how is he righteous? Maybe it means he was righteous in comparison to the sodomites. He did try to rescue his visitors, right, from these awful men. Or maybe it means he was righteous because God showed him grace on account of his relationship to the covenant That God made with his uncle, Abraham. Right? The end of verse 29. God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived. Why did God save Lot? It wasn't because he was this paragon of virtue, but because he remembered his covenant with Abraham So it says that Lot was a righteous man, so in some sense he was a righteous man. But as you read Genesis, what really stands out is that Lot was a piece of work. And he brought misery to his family. He offered his daughters to the Sodomites to stave them off. He allowed his wife to become so attached to this wicked city that she couldn't extract herself from the place. And she died. She lost her life. And now In verses 31 to 38, we discover that Lot's daughters had imbibed the ways of Sodom. They got their father drunk. And had him impregnate them. So this is a vile chapter in the Bible. But he could have avoided all this misery had he not moved down this honor. Because he knew what Sodom was like before he moved there. Way back in chapter thirteen, verse twelve and thirteen. Lot settled in the cities of the valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom. Remember Abraham chapter 13 says, Hey Lot, where do you want to live? You want to live here or there? Where where do you want to live? And Lot said, you know what? This is 1310. The land over that way is well watered like the garden of the Lord. So he's very attractive, attracted to this region that was lush, but it was right on the border of Sodom. And so Lot initially moved his tent to the border of Sodom. Now in chapter 19, many years later. We discover he had a house in Sodom, and he was one of the leaders of the city. So he liked the amenities of the place, but he didn't weigh the cost. This is really instructive, right? We need to be careful about where we go and about with whom we associate This is a cautionary tale, right? We think about educating our kids. Where do we want to send them to school? A lot of things in play there. But something to consider, especially with the indoctrination, the militant indoctrination going on in the public schools. Where do you want them to go to college? Something to think about there And then kids, this is important, especially in your teen years, the kind of people you associate with, they're going to have a huge influence with you on you because you want to be pleased them, you want to be accepted And so this again is a warning about the things that we view on TV or at the movies. You know, you don't want Sodom to get into you. You don't want to imbibe the spirit of Sodom. And so we have uh all these warnings in Scripture uh to avoid wicked people in wicked placings places Because it may end up destroying your soul. Proverbs 4, verse 14 and 15, the writer says, Do not enter the path of the wicked and do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on. You know, Flot had only done that. You know, Sodom looks like a wonderful place, but there's too much risk involved. And I think that's instructive to us And so and there's so this is very this is a very negative, dark, uh cautionary chapter. But um there is the better way, right? You turn over from the Old Testament and New Test to the New Testament, and Jesus Christ reveals that He is the way and the truth and the life. He reveals that he came that we could have life and have it truly abundantly. And so that's against that back against that black uh backdrop we read uh this uh this horrible account of what took place in Sodom and God's judgment on Sodom. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, um we live in a world where there's much evil and temptation. We want to be a witness, and uh, but we also need wisdom, and we might need to uh show more restraint So give us that. I pray for those who are not yet Christians. They're nibbling around the edges of Christianity. But they have not yet made a earnest commitment to Jesus Christ. They have a foot in both camps. I pray for them that they would see that there is true life, there's forgiveness in Jesus Christ. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing. It's number 482. Jesus' invitation. Come unto me, ye weary. Number 482. Let's all stand. And two Come unto meary and I will give you rest for blessing voice of Jesus come to our time. It does not take some of our door that have no idea of love. Which cannot please Come on to me, dear children, and I will give you light, oh loving voice of tea. If God wish us to steer the night, our heart will win sadness and we have lost our way but morning. Come on to me aging and I will give you life Oh his old was not easy as with consumer of light and spirit man And we'll not hide now. When those very sinners are worthy, no we all continue. Now, may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ The love of God the Father and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen.