Discontentment. It shows up in relationships and marriage. We look for our soulmate. Whatever in the world that means, as if one could be found. We keep looking for the perfect one, and so people go in and out of relationships when they think they've found one and then they end it when it doesn't seem to be right When love plateaus or decreases, we often move on. In Tim and Kathy Keller's book on marriage, Uh they they quote a journalist named John Tierney and he wrote about the dating preferences among New Yorkers. I don't know if any of this is going to apply to you at all. But here's what one person said Talking about meeting his date for the first time, he said it started out great. Beautiful face, great body, nice smile. Everything was going fine until she turned around. She had dirty elbows Or how how can I take him seriously when I saw the road less traveled on his bookshelf? Some of you won't have any idea what that book is. If she would just lose seven pounds. Sure, he's a partner, but it's not a big law firm. And you know he wears those stupid little tiny socks that show his legs whenever he sits down I know a woman who refused to date a man a second time because of what he ordered for dessert. Who can possibly meet our standards? We really can't. We we may say, oh, our marriage is good, but I wish she just wouldn't do this or that. I wish she made more money. Many of us are not going to be satisfied. We always want things to be a little bit more or a little bit less. And there are cosmetic surgeons that that's how they make their living, just fixing things about our bodies. There's a famous quote that you may have heard from John D. Rockefeller. Somebody asked him, he was pretty much the richest person in the world, maybe one of the richest who had ever lived, and somebody asked him, how much money is enough? And his reply, just a little bit more. But I think that's misinterpreted. See, Rockefeller was a Christian and he wasn't actually as motivated by money as you might think. I think he's talking at the human heart that for all of us it will never be enough. We always want a little bit more. Tennis great uh Boris Becker, some of you would remember him, he won the Wimbledon as it was his goal, and when he did that He wanted to kill himself. Why? Because it didn't give him what he thought it was going to give him. He was always searching for more, and when he got it, it still wasn't enough Some of you know the Bono song, I still haven't found what I'm looking for. Or the world's greatest showman. All the shine of a thousand spotlights, all the stars we steal from the night sky will never be enough. Never enough for me. Never, never, never enough. What about you? Some of you more than others know that you are dealing with discontentment. If only this were different, then everything would be fine. Or do you find your life disappointing? Thinking that, you know, has God given you enough? Has He withhold held something from you? That's what we're seeing in this passage. These people are complaining against God and against Moses as his representative because they're not satisfied with their food They're not satisfied with their conditions. So we're going to look at this passage in three easy steps today, just talking about the sin Talk about the punishment and then talk about the remedy. So let's talk about the sin specifically in this situation. They are in the wilderness. And they hadn't been there very long when we approach Numbers 13. And in Numbers 13, Moses sends spies into the promised land. Do you remember what happens? They go into the promised land and say, this is great, but we'll never get it. Because the people are too big They're too intimidating. And so they come back and they report to the people, the land is great, but God will never give it to us. And God is furious. And do you remember what he does, what their punishment is This generation will never step foot into the promised land. Only Joshua and Caleb because they brought back a good report. And so, why are they wandering in the desert? They know why. They're going to now wander for another 40 years until they all die in the desert, and then the next generation will be able to go in. The next generation. So it's it's really their fault that they're in the desert for 40 years. They can't blame anybody else. And they're getting manna every day. What is manna? What is it? Well, some of you might know the play on words. That's what nana means. What is it? They see it, they don't see it falling from the sky, but they see it on the ground. They say, what is it? Nana! And that becomes the name of it There's no water. There's no food. And we're tired of this awful, worthless manna. This is a gift from God to feed them. And they're calling it worthless. In Exodus 16, we have a description of the manna. We don't quite know what it looks like, but it's described a little bit as flakes, wafers, I think frosted flakes, maybe just a little bit softer. Very tasty, but it is every day. And so they're no longer amazed. They're no longer grateful. Give us, Lord, our daily bread, but have us some variety. We'd like different kinds of bread. This is the sin. They're dissatisfied with God. You know, psychologists say that there's a reason that we are dissatisfied, and it is actually a good thing. And this is why. Evolutionary theory would say this. Our desire for more and never being satisfied helps us to progress and helps us to be safe so that we're never just at ease. Interesting. Probably nonsense, but it's very interesting. Psychologists also say that the reason that we have uh we are kind or generous is because in some way it helps us to keep procreating. Okay, it it's it's for the further and so but we don't need the evolutionary theory to talk about where this comes from. We have the Bible and the Bible tells us where this discontentment came from. all the way back in the garden. And so when we read in Genesis 3, see what's going on there. Okay? Adam and Eve are in the garden. Everything's great. Right? Imagine Satan coming to an as a serpent and saying, So, how's it going here? What do you think? Oh, it's fantastic. Look at the beauty. We have all the food we could want. We don't need clothes. We don't have sickness. We don't have death. I don't even know if they know what those things mean yet. Okay? But all is good. And Satan probably said something, anything you want, huh? What about that tree there? Oh well we can't eat from that tree. I bet that tree has the best tasting fruit of all. I bet that God just doesn't want you to have it. And the seed Is sown. And when I ask people, what is the sin of Adam and Eve? If you say disobedience, you're not going deep enough. Disobedience is the manifestation of the sin. But what's the sin? Did God really say that? God's a liar. Well, that's the sin. That's the see that God told you this, but it's not true. Wow, that's big Or God doesn't want you to have everything good. God withholds things from you. You see where it began? God is not going to give you all that you want. Or you know you don't even need God. You could be equal to God. If you eat from this tree, you'll have all the knowledge that he has. You won't even need God. Yet another temptation that we still see today So it all goes back to the garden, and we come about it, we can say honestly, because we've inherited. It's like it's in our DNA. So, what sin is, of course, is wanting to go our own way. It's actually saying this: I could do better than God. I know better than God knows what I want and what I need. And that's what you're doing in many cases when you're sinning. Sin comes from being discontent with God. He's not enough for me. He's not doing the things I know that I want. I am dissatisfied, and that is a sin. So God sends a punishment. And it's really strange the punishment that He sends He sends venomous, fiery snakes. Now, many people when they read this the first time, they say, isn't that a bit overkill? They're just complaining about the menu. It is a big deal, because they are questioning God's competence. This is worthless food. You don't know what you're doing. Can't you do better than this? That's a sin They're griping against God. But he sends killer snakes. Again, doesn't that seem a bit harsh? Why can't God just forgive them? Okay, I understand. You're sorry that you've done that. Forgiveness. No, He sends snakes. And when I ask My students, why is it that the wages of sin is death? Why is it that we must die because of our sin? And they all quote Romans 6. 23. It says the wages of sin is death. I said, that's great, that's true, that's exactly what the scripture says. Why? Why is death the penalty for sin? Have I ever really thought about that? You don't want to argue in circles. It's the penalty because God says it's the penalty. Okay? There's a reason that it's the penalty, and there are two things I want to draw to your attention in case maybe you haven't thought of it before. One is if you don't understand why death is required for sin, then you don't understand how awful sin is. You don't realize how God cannot tolerate the filth, the vileness of sin. It's so offensive to him. That it requires capital punishment. You need to think about that. The least gripe then against God deserves capital punishment. But there's another way to look at it as well. You see, if I come up to one of you and I smack you, I punch you in the face, what's my penalty? You might hit me back. You'd probably be sh shocked and maybe do nothing. But the penalty won't go much farther. You probably won't take me to court, although you might. But let's say that I have a dignitary here. Let's say I have the president of the United States here and I come up And I hit him and we're not going to talk about whether I should or should not do such a thing. But if I did that, what's going to happen to me? What happens if you attack a dignitary, if you attack a high official, a king, an emperor, a prime minister? What happens? In many countries, you will never be seen again. And you understand why? Because the offense is different if I hit my neighbor versus if I hit the king. That's the way we need to understand sin. Sin is treason. It is saying to God, I will not follow your ways, I will spin in your face, I want what I want, and that is highly So we have two things. Sin is despicable to God, and therefore he will not tolerate it. Punishment is required. the ultimate punishment. But you are committing treason against the master of the universe every time you sin. What more appropriate punishment than capital punishment? So we send snakes. Why snakes? Why do there have to be snakes? Somebody recognize that line? Okay, Indiana Jones, okay, the lost Raiders of the Lost Ark a long, long time ago. But Indiana Jones is a hero who cannot stand Snakes. And there might be a backstory to it that I don't know. But he can't stand snakes, and boy do I relate. And how ironic it is that God keeps sending me to countries where some of the most poisonous snakes live And so I as I showed you in Sunday school, I've come across several very venomous snakes, a boom slang in South Africa, it was in a tree. And uh I was pretty much safe from that one. But two black mambas, one in my bedroom one time, coiled up when I got back from teaching. There it was, and I didn't even know what it was. I didn't realize how dangerous it was And another one that blocked my door when I was coming back from teaching to my hut in Zambia. And then the puff adder that I met one night in Zambia. These are definitely venomous, venomous snakes. I could easily have died. Had I been bitten? Snakes. I don't imagine snakes were ever considered cute and cuddly Okay, not regardless of what you feel about them. It says that the serpent was more crafty than the other. So there's already an edge to this animal, right? And Satan takes the form or possesses, whichever it is, a snake. And he talks to them and he tells them this. And what happens is when Adam and Eve fall, Satan is cursed And so so many people have developed strange ideas that, you know, w one time the snake had legs and God said you will now slune it on your belly. No, no, no, no God is condemning Satan through the snake. He's using the same imagery. You chose to be a snake, you're going to be a snake. You're going to slither along the ground, and you will eventually be crushed. And so we have an enmity of the physical snake, and an enmity against Satan, as we should, because he is God's enemy and ours. But snakes are generally considered evil. Leviticus 11 categorizes them as unclean. If anybody would be inclined to eat a snake, you're not supposed to do it in the Old Testament law. I suppose you now can do it. in the New Covenant if you so desire. I don't recommend it. But snakes are despised. Now, we don't know what kind of snakes these are. It's just a spiery snakes. That's not normally the way we describe a snake, right? What that likely means is that the bite really hurt. And that most likely there's inflammation, fever, parchment. Okay, you're absolutely parched. You're absolutely parching and thirst. It's a it's a terrible way. And then you die. Okay. Now what kind of things? Well in that area there could be asps. There could be pit vipers. My suggestion, and I can't prove this, is that they would be Egyptian cobras. Doesn't that seem fitting? You want to go back to Egypt? I'll bring Egypt to you. And he brings cobras. I don't know. I I I can't really substantiate that. But the cobra bite is also quite deadly And so they they suddenly they are affected by the venom. Now That may be what hell is like. The New Testament isn't really clear on hell. It uses metaphors of fire, brimstone, agony, darkness. We don't know how much of that is literal, and we don't want to find out, right? But the idea of wanting, of wanting and never being able to be satiated, that's got to be hell. Do you remember the parable that Jesus tells of Lazarus? And the rich man. I think it's Luke 16. And Lazarus is the poor man who has suffered. The rich man doesn't get named. And the rich man goes to hell. And Lazarus goes to heaven and they can see each other. And don't take that as an example of this is what heaven and hell are going to be like. But the rich man says, I'm so thirsty. If you would just tell Lazarus, he's still giving orders, if you would just please tell Lazarus to dip his finger just to I'm dying of thirst. I think that's a metaphor we should think about At least we know in hell it will be always a wanting, a burning kind of desire. And so the idea of this fiery serpent, I think, is even a picture of hell. We'd be so thirsty. And what the snakes are doing is they're bringing out the poison that is actually in the people's hearts. You can actually now see it manifest it. I want, I want, I want, I'm dying, I'm dying, I want more, I want more. And God allows that. To be manifested. God's holding back from them. God's disappointing them. I will not trust him. And so God sends snakes so that they can see what it's like to really want. And it gets their attention. And so they cry out to God. They cry out to Moses, please stop this. We get it. We've sinned. Okay? We won't complain anymore. And so Moses cries out to God, and God says, All right, I want you to take and he doesn't tell him at the time what kind of metal to use. Now, the word can be translated as bronze as it normally is. Or copper. I tend to favor copper because of the color. It would be more red. And put it on a pole. That's a very strange thing if you think about it. In fact, we do find out that after he crafted that snake and put it on a pole, they worshipped it in later years. So the whole idea of it is odd. Put a snake and think why is God doing that? Why couldn't he just say, Alright, enough? Instead, put that which is killing you uh an image of that on a pole and hold it up and everyone who looks at it will live. Have you ever seen anywhere an image of a snake wrapped around a pole? Of course you have. Okay? You see it it's the World Health Organization logo. You see it on many ambulances and hospitals. The double one is actually not correct where you where you see the two of them. But the original one is called the staff of Asclepius, I had to look at the staff of Asclepius. It comes from Greek mythology, but the earliest we find it is like 300 B. C. So what that tells us is more than a thousand years before is where we actually get the original image of the snake on the pole, and the Greeks must have just borrowed it or stolen it. The whole idea that a snake on a pole has anything to do with healing. comes from this passage. But it's still strange. Make a metal image of a snake, and whoever looks on it will live. Now if you're Jewish, you understand that basically their looking at the snake is their cry of repentance. And therefore God hears their cry and heals them. But if you're Christian and you're paying attention to the John 3 passage, Jesus himself brings up that imagery. And he says, I, the Son of Man, I will be lifted up just like that serpent. Now let's take that about as far as I think we should If Jesus is lifted up so that all who look upon him will have eternal life, how can Jesus be related to the snake? 2 Corinthians 5. 21. It's a good memory verse. Okay? I recommend it in evangelism as well. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. It's the last verse in 2 Corinthians 5. Which says that for our sake He, that is God, made him, Jesus, to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Let me read that again. For our sake, He made him to be sin who was who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Do you understand what's going on? On the cross. Okay, symbolically, as much as we can understand, Jesus becomes sin. Now we understand that the sin is laid upon him. But this imagery says, he becomes sin. Now do you see the pattern between the snake and Jesus? The snakes are killing them. Sin is killing us. So on the cross we raise up that which is killing us. But Jesus takes the place. Okay, so Jesus is punished for that horrible sin. And therefore, um Jesus knew, of course, that was going to happen. He cries out in agony to the Father the night before. He says, Father, if there is another way, please take this away. Now, this plan, as you may know When did God decide how he would save sinners? When did he decide that? Did he see Eve? Eat the fruit and give it to Adam and go, oh no, that spoils everything. I've got to figure out what I'm going to do. No, we know in fact that before creation, which leads to all kinds of questions, before creation he had determined That we would need saving and how he would do it. So Jesus knew, the Son of God knew from eternity past his role. And yet here the night before he's saying Isn't there any other way? And yet he knows the answer. On the cross, Jesus cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? From Psalm 22. Too many people interpret that as this is Jesus humanity coming out and saying, Father, why are you letting this happen to me? No. It's a rhetorical question. He's saying, Father, I now feel like you have forgotten me. You have turned your face away. You are no longer looking at me. The union that they have had from eternity past is suddenly severed in a way, and I don't want to get into theological heresy. But at some point now the Father says, Your sin, and I cannot look at you. And Jesus feels it. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? In the garden, when Jesus is praying. He knows what's going to take place. Now, if you and I knew that we were going to die the kind of death that Jesus died, we'd be in agony because of the pain that we're going to experience. And I know that Jesus knew of the pain that he experienced. But what we don't understand is what he also dreaded was bearing our sin. Because he'd never experienced that before. He's going to become everything a father hates, and his father will turn his back on him, and he knows. That this is going to be agonizing. Now, can I say that the spiritual reality is more painful than the physical reality? I don't know, I've not experienced either one. Okay? But his pain would be doubled. And so he knows how awful it is, and he asks for another way. But he knows there's no other way. And as he dies on the cross, one of his last words are, I'm thirsty. Just like the venomous snakes would cause that thirst. I think what it does is it gives us a sense that he's experiencing hell on the cross. He's experienced the punishment. That sin requires. And how do we get it? I'm never going to assume the people I'm preaching to are all believers. I hope you are. But there are probably some of you that either are not or not sure. Maybe you know that you're not, whatever. And the way that we receive this salvation, Jesus makes it very clear in John 3. 14 Look at me! Look at me on the cross. Now, how do we do that? Okay, it doesn't mean we look at a crucifix. It means we look spiritually to the one. who paid our price. And becoming a Christian means that we are transferring our faith and our dependence from ourselves and anything we can do to Jesus And so we look spiritually to the one on the cross. We look at him and we keep looking at him. Whenever we're tempted to say, It's me, it's me, it's him. And we look to Jesus on the cross. So nobody receives this salvation passively. You don't grow into Christianity in your home just because your parents are Christians. You don't become a Christian simply by doing good things. You must acknowledge that Jesus is the replacement for you. And on the cross, He's paying for you. And when He pays for you Not only are you forgiven, you have the righteousness of Christ placed upon you. So we look to the cross, we look to be saved. Receive it, believe it, and keep looking at Jesus. So consider back to the beginning now. What's missing in your life? What complaints do you have? Where is God holding something back from you? And repent of that Because God is not holding back from you anything that is good, anything that you need. He is doing for you. So life may be very difficult, but are you complaining? against God. You're always looking for something more. It's in our DNA. Okay, we actually have that discontentment. Some of us, if we now went to the Garden of Eden, we'd find fault. I wish there were more trees. We would find fault because that's what we do. Saint Augustine said that in every person there's a whole Okay, I'm not quoting it precisely. And only God can fill that hole in us. So when we're not content, it is often because we're not looking to the one who can give us the contentment. C. S. Lewis made a very profound statement. He said, if we find ourselves with the desire that nothing in this world can satisfy The most probable explanation is that we were made for another world. Let me read that again. If we find ourselves with the desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we're made for another world. Our feeling of dissatisfaction in itself is not bad. It's where we seek to fill it. But if we know that we are dissatisfied, we say, Lord, you, you can satisfy. I love Psalm 73. Verse 26, which says, My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my portion m uh strength of my heart. So when you sense the discontentment, realize what it is and say, the Lord alone can satisfy me. It's okay to acknowledge discontentment as long as you look to the right place. Look to the cross. Look at him and be saved. Look at him and live. Jesus is the manna. He's the one who came down from heaven. He's the one who can save us by simply trusting in him. So our only hope is to look at the one on the cross and want nothing more. For God is more than enough for all of us. Let's pray.