With Mrs. Sloane. So let's turn to Proverbs chapter three. We're marching through Proverbs. We're gonna take the first nine verses, uh nine chapters. Um In order? And then once we get to chapter ten where the proverbs begin, we will uh take them thematically. So we're this morning, we're in chapter 3, verses 1 to 12, and you'll stumble upon the, I think, probably the two most famous verses in Proverbs, verses 5 to 6. So Solomon says to his son, but also by way of extension to all God's people. Certainly it says in chapter 1, I think verse 9 or so To all who are wise. So even if you're already wise, right, there's still more you can learn. Does anybody feel like they're they've made it? They're wise? Come up here and we will come to you for counsel after the service, okay? Chapter 3. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments for length of days and years of life and peace, they will add to you. Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. So that you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of all your produce. Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and all your vats will be bursting with wine. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline Or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. Let's bow our heads. We pray, Father in heaven, that you'll help us to have teachable hearts, help us to have ears that hear, and help us, Lord, as we go through these uh this section of Proverbs. uh to take things uh from it by which we will endeavor uh to apply to our lives that would change our behavior and our thoughts and our our ambitions in that we would be pleasing to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So So if you're following the outline, you could cross out point number one. I just cross that out. That's really more words of introduction. You do find in the book of Proverbs some extraordinary promises And if you're familiar with Proverbs, you've probably wondered, you know, are these are these promises guarantees? Think about chapter 22, verse 6, a real familiar verse. Solomon says, train up a child in a way he should go, and even when he is old he will not depart from it. Is that a guarantee then? If you're raising your kid in a godly manner and you're doing a good job, but it's according to scripture, and you're a good example, that it's a sure thing that your child will not depart. from walking in God's ways. Or how about Proverbs 16, verse 7? When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Is that always the case? How do you explain then the way things worked out for the Apostle Paul? Right? His enemies were not always uh on his side. They didn't come around. They mocked him. They stoned him. They lashed him with whips. They imprisoned him. And in the end they cut off his head. What do we do with that? Or our text this morning, the first four verses of chapter three. It's another statement of praise about the value of following and keeping God's commandments. And it says that if you do these things, it will assure you of a long, peaceful life full of success. Well, how do we then explain the common experience of many Christians who suffer terrible afflictions, some of them cut down in the prime of life You read about what's going on in other nations, where there's such hostility against Christians, tens of thousands enslaved, imprisoned. Others thousands and thousands martyred because of their allegiance to Jesus Christ. Or how do you square these promises with the experience of Job, right? There was a guy who he kept God's commandments, but things didn't work out too well for him. Look at verses 9 and 10 of chapter 3. Here's a promise. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with all the f with the first fruits of your produce. Then your barns will be filled with plenty. In your vets will be bursting with wine. This seems to be teaching one of the the uh the health and wealth gospel, uh as it has been called. And so is this saying That if you give generously to God, then you will have a fat bank account. Is it a guarantee? That's a head scratcher, huh? Are the proverbs over the top? Is this the kind of promises you'd hear on a late night infomercial? Uh it's gonna change your life. Everything's gonna be different. So I'm asking, do prob does Proverbs promise too much? Will these outcomes be guaranteed? And we would say, no. The Proverbs don't guarantee these outcomes. That's the nature of a proverb, even you know, one uh worldly wisdom, you know, um an apple a day keeps a doctor away. Hey, I had an apple every day of my life You know, and I still got sick. Um what's going on here? Well it's just it's just the same. This is generally true. This uh and even more so uh with the proverbs in this in this book, right? Um If you endeavor to live according to these proverbs, God's saying, here's how it works in my world, under my sovereignty. It's likely that you're going to enjoy these blessings, but no, it's not a guarantee. And so these are just general truths about the way things typically work. So with that introduction, is everybody with me on that? If you're not, like, hey, wait a minute. Well, right, we're we're we understand this is a genre of literature, a proverb, and so we're a a proverb by its nature is not always true. Well, let's look at three prominent themes in this section. And so as we go through the first nine verses, we're not going to grind it to find powder. Because there's a lot of redundancy. But we're going to pick out, as we go through each section, we're going to pick out a couple prominent things. And so we're going to look, first of all, uh in verses five to six This well-known statement, trust God and He will guide you in all your paths. This is a good one for our young people to really focus in on. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Are you facing a decision about which you need guidance? If you're not now, you will be, right? Because we're always confronted with these things, job opportunities Marriage decisions, engagement decisions. Some are easier than others, right? It was easy for these two. Decisions about parenting, right? I mean most of our arguments in our house uh I think we should do it this way, somebody thinks we should do it that way. We're always making decisions about those things, or how to educate your children, or major purchases. Should I buy this house? Should I buy this car? Should I invest in this or that? Um young people especially, right? Uh you when you're in your teens and early twenties, uh you have huge decisions and younger kids you're looking forward, you're looking at these decisions that you will be facing. Get out of high school. What am I going to do? Am I going to take some kind of vocational training? Or am I going to do an apprenticeship? Or am I going to go to college? And if I go to college, where will I go and what will I study And um and then you meet somebody, so there's prospects for dating, prospects for courtship, prospects for marriage. Every day we're confronted by temptations and uh you know the wheels are turning. Will I will I succumb or will I resist And so we stand uh regularly before decisions. Some of the decisions are towering. Well There's a statement in this this section that should ease our anxiety. It says in the end of verse 6 that God promises God has gone on public record and said that He will guide His people. Verse 6, He will make straight your paths Let's buttress that with another verse. It says the same thing. Psalm 25, verse 12. The psalmist asks the question: Who is the man who fears the Lord? Him will he instruct in the way he should choose. So God promises that if you're a believer, you're endeavoring To know him and to walk in his ways and to please him, he promises that he will guide you in the way that you should go. Who is Jesus Christ? What's John 10 say? He's a good shepherd. What do shepherds do? They guide their sheep and paths of righteousness, right? Psalm twenty-three. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. We don't have to wonder if God will, because he promises that he will guide us. Well, that's sort of theoretical. How does God guide us? Well, one thing we'd say is that God in His sovereignty uses everything to guide us, you might say, behind the scenes. You know the Old Testament Book of Ruth, the wonderful little four chapters. The theme of the book of Ruth is that just this. God gets his people where he wants them. They don't understand this great embroidery that God is has put together But God sees it and He gets us where He wants us. He works in us in our desires and in our circumstances, our background, the influences that shape us And he gets us to where he wants us to be in this area or in that area. Let me give you a couple promises from Scripture. Proverbs 24, verse 4. A man's steps are from the Lord. How then can man understand his way? It doesn't say that we're not responsible. It's not implying that we don't make choices. But it is saying behind all this, there's a sovereign God who gets the believer where he wants him to be. Proverbs 19 verse 21 Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord which will stand. Hey, I want to do this, I want to do that, I'm striving to go this way. And e ye yeah, do everything you think you should do, but then put your head down on your night on your pillow at night. And just be at peace because the purpose of the Lord will stand. God works in everything. He works in the hearts and minds of his people. To achieve his purpose, and he even works in the hearts and the minds of those who are not his people. Chapter 21, verse 1. The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. That should give us some comfort as we look at what goes on on a national in the world stage. It doesn't absolve us our responsibility to nurture our relationship with Christ and to submit our ambitions to Him and to endeavor to walk in His ways. And what what about what this book's about? Our responsibility to grow in wisdom. It does not absolve us of these things. But we can have some confidence that as we do these things, God will get us where he wants us to, and that's why Paul said in Romans 12, be transformed. By the renewing of your mind, right? We want to know scripture. We want to gain wisdom from asking others and seeking their uh counsel And getting back to the idea of knowing Scripture, Calvin said, we want to be so immersed in Scripture In the way that God thinks, as disclosed in Scripture, Calvin said that we think God's thoughts after him. And that's a part of growing in Christ and growing in wisdom that indeed we think God's thoughts after him. We have a sense for what is the wise thing. And so chapter 6, verse 22, I know I'm throwing a lot of verses out there. The the writer says, when you walk They referring to God's commandments. When you walk, God's commandments will lead you. When you lie down, they will watch over you. And when you awake They will talk with you. And so as you nurture your relationship with Christ, As you seek to know God as He's revealed Himself in the Bible, you can trust that our sovereign God will direct your paths He will get you where he wants you in life. I think that's pretty helpful for our young young adults or young people Well, what if I make a bad decision? Am I going to destroy my whole life? No. You're endeavoring to make a wise decision, and you can trust God will get you where he wants you Let's go back to verses 5 and 6 one more time, okay? One more time with feeling, okay? Verses five and six. What does he say? Trust God entirely. Trust God exclusively, trust God exhaustively. So verse 5, trust in the Lord with all your heart, trust him entirely. Do not lean on your own understanding, right? Because we're to trust him exclusively, and not trust in ourselves And then trust him exhaustively. Verse 6. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. And all your ways acknowledge the Lord Jesus Christ. So there's Proverbs on guidance. We're going to look at verses 9 and 10. It talks about giving. Three statements here in these verses about giving. I'll first read them again. The writer says, honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of all your produce, then your barns will be filled with plenty. and your vats will be bursting with wine. So number one under this this uh statement is it says uh we're to give is an act of worship, right? He said, honor the Lord with your wealth. And so giving is a way that we honor God. Right? That's why we don't put an offering box at the door. We pass the offering bags because giving is an element of public worship. You see that, for example, in Psalm 96. The psalmist says, ascribe to the Lord, the glory do his name. Then he says, Bring an offering and come into his courts. And so we give, we smile, we sing, we have our hearts tuned in, and another expression is our giving, our offerings to God. And so we give as an act of worship. Then it also says in those verses, we're to give God the first fruits. It says in verse 9, the first fruits of your produce. Back in Leviticus. Chapter 23 verse 10. God commanded the Israelites to give the first fruits of the harvest. So the first installment signifying the best, they were to give to the Lord. Well I mean who here is a farmer today? Oh, there's one. Okay. I guess the rest of us are off the hook, right? Uh unless you have a tomato, a couple tomatoes out in your backyard. Well, it's saying more than that, right? It's saying give the Lord the first portion of your of your paycheck. And um Some Christians don't give the Lord the first portion, the tithe, or however you cut it, but they give the Lord whatever's left over. So um speaking of farmers, Martin Lloyd Jones, did you ever hear of Martin Lloyd Jones? If you haven't, you should get his book on the Sermon on the Mount, his comment his uh sermons. It's called the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5. 7. He was the greatest preacher of the 20th century. He lived from 1900 to 1980. He was a Welshman. He preached in London. The greatest preacher of the twentieth century. But anyway, in his um one of his sermons on the Sermon on the Mount He talked not about Farmer Sam, uh but another farmer, we'll call him Farmer Brown, uh because this is not a positive story, unfortunately Um so anyway, let's say Farmer Brown, he had this prize cow and uh he was so elated uh one day because uh his prized cow uh gave birth to twins and uh he ran down to his house and he throws open the kitchen door and uh his wife says, What's going on? And he said, I have some wonderful news Um so thankful uh about our cow. It's given birth to a brown cow and to a white cow And um and because I am so grateful, I want to dedicate, when it comes time to sell these cows, I I'm gonna dedicate the proceeds to the Lord uh because God has been good to us. And then um His wife said, Well, which which which one are you going to dedicate to the Lord, the brown one or the white one? He said, Well, I don't know. We'll figure that one out uh when the time comes. And uh months later Farmer Brown ambles down to his house and uh he opens the door to the kitchen and there is his wife and she says, What's wrong? And um you said, well, I have some bad news. What's the bad news? The Lord's cow died. And um anyway Oh, we could be like that, right? Uh people buy as much house as they can afford and sometimes uh that they can't afford or they get in too they they get too much. And then the Lord gets uh what's left over, uh, if anything. And so verses nine and ten. It says we're to give to the Lord the first fruits, right? You get your paycheck, you endeavor, all right. We give the we give to the Lord, and then we take care of our other things. This takes some discipline, this takes some planning, right? So that's what we want to do because it's an act of worship. And then verse 10, there's a promise, it's not a guarantee. But it's a promise that God blesses those who honor Him with their wealth. Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting uh with wine. So as I said, this is the teaching the prosperity gospel, but God does generally bless faithfulness. And you have this a couple times throughout the book of Proverbs, one example, chapter eleven, verse twenty-four. He says, one gives freely, yet grows all the richer. Another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want. We saw the same thing in 2 Corinthians 9. We looked at this months ago. 2 Corinthians 9 6. Paul wrote, Whoever sows sparingly will also weep, will also reap sparingly And whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. And so Proverbs tells us about God guiding us It speaks about giving. And then thirdly, verses eleven to twelve speaks about God's discipline. And these verses were quoted. in Hebrews chapter 12, which David just read. So chapter 3, verse 11. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as the Father the Son, in whom He delights And so God goes on record to say that he disciplines his children And we should not uh grumble about it. How does he discipline us? Well, in many ways, um through his commands, right? You're reading the scripture, you're reading through the commands And uh it it cuts, right? It cuts your conscience, and that's good, because we want God's commands uh to shape our conduct Chapter 6, verse 23, the commandment of the Lord, excuse me, the commandment is a lamp in the teaching of light. And the reproofs of discipline are a way of life. And God's commands are convicting, right? They're reproofs. They correct us. Uh but that's one of the ways he disciplines us. And then God uses human instruments, right? Parents, all the instruction to parents about uh disciplining their children. Well parents are God's instruments. So are governing authorities at times, right? The police and the courts or the and so on Even in the church there's discipline. Fellow believers, Matthew 18, 15 to 17, we're to go to one another. We're not to be nitpickers. Love should cover a multitude of sins But there are times when we confront one another for errors or things that we're we're falling short in walking with Jesus Christ Chapter 12, verse 1. Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid. And so You don't resist. Well, I've got to learn everything myself. What's the book of Proverbs say about you? It says it's utterly stupid But then even affliction, the Bible says, is oftentimes, not always, but it's oftentimes a form of God's discipline. You see that in Romans 5, you see that in James chapter 1, verses 2 and 3 God uses affliction not to get us but to shape us and that's a reminder sometimes a Christian suffers terrible affliction. I remember a fellow in the church I passed in North Carolina And he said, you know what? Here's why I got cancer. God's getting me for things I did when I was younger. That's not the case at all. Jesus already suffered the wrath that you deserve for your sin that I deserve for my sin. But no, but God does allow affliction to come into the lives of Christians to shape us. So one of the 19th century pastors, Andrew Murray, said, he said, In every trial, small or great, first of all, recognize the Lord's hand in it Say at once, my Father has allowed this to come. I welcome it from Him. My first care is to glorify Him in it. He will make it a blessing. And so God's discipline is not a sign of his disfavor, of his displeasure, of his wrath, but rather that's a sign that you're a child. He cares for you, right? Uh you know, if you didn't care for your kid, what would they think of that? Well they they might like the freedom at first, but then they would start to think, hey My parents don't care for me. And you see that. And it's grievous when a child recognizes that. But no, verse 12 says The Lord reproves him whom he loves as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. And so there's some of the ways that God disciplines us. Uh he uses he does it for various reasons. Uh one is one as I said is to shape us more into his likeness. We read that in Hebrews 12. 10. He disciplines us for our good that we may share in his holiness. So God's more concerned that we be holy than that we be happy. He disciplines us to correct us. Remember David after he committed adultery with Bathsheba? He wasn't feeling too good about himself. He felt the weight of God's displeasure. In Psalm 32 Day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up, as in the heat of summer. Right? He wasn't saying every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before I'm miserable. I feel this terrible grief, this terrible weight. But God's discipline uh brought him to repentance. And then in Psalm 32, verse 5, he said, I acknowledge my sin. I said, I'll confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt of my sin. So David received the Lord's correction and in the end he was restored. Another reason God disciplines us is to prevent us from going astray. Hey, I'm trying to I'm trying I'm endeavoring to walk in a way that pleases God and still I I face this affliction or uh this trial Think about the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 12. He was a pretty sharp guy. He was doing things well But still God gave him a thorn in the flesh to keep him from becoming conceited, because God had revealed these tremendous things to him. So he says, To keep me from becoming conceited, the Lord afflicted me with this scorn. And then he also disimplines us to educate us. You read the book of Job. I mean, why did God discipline Job? There was an upright man, if ever there were an upright man, right? But God disciplined Job. He allowed these trials and the suffering to come his way in the end of the day because it would give him a deeper knowledge of God. And so Martin Luther. Oh here's what Job said, Job 42, 5. He said, I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you. That's what he said after he'd gone through all these trials. They were miserable, right? We don't we don't Take them lightly. We don't we do we don't when somebody's suffering terribly, we don't say, Well, it's the Lord's will. Everything will be fine in the end. No. We understand we live in a fallen world and these are terrible trials But behind our grief is a knowledge that God is sovereign and He will use these to shape us. In the end of the day. So that's why verse 11 in Proverbs says, do not despise the Lord's discipline. We're gonna sing one of the hams in one of the one of the um stanzas says When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie, God says, My grace all sufficient shall be thy supply. The flame shall not hurt thee, I only design thy draws to consume, and thy gold to refine. And so we just looked at three uh prominent uh statements there in this section. When you think about it, they all point to Jesus because the whole Bible is about Jesus, right? Remember Luke 24, Jesus going down the road to Emmaus? It says he explained in all the law and the prophets the things concerning himself. We read about we just talked about God promising to guide us, and who's Jesus? He's the good shepherd. He will guide us with paths of righteousness. And we give as an act of worship as Jesus gave his life for us. So we give back to the Lord to show, to express our worship. And then, because of his death for us, we're not going to die. We're not going to suffer God's wrath But rather, we're only going to have him discipline us in a fatherly manner so that we might be shaped more into his likeness. So I encourage you to go home now. This afternoon you'll have some time. You just take those first twelve verses You could read through it and maybe zero in on just one little uh one of those proverbs or statements and reflect on it Because that's how God uh shapes us, right? You go through a trial right now or you're facing a decision. Well, I want to think on this, I want to pray, and I want to I want to weave this by God's Spirit into my heart because I want to be pleasing to him. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord. We're sort of slow to learn, but you do, in your grace and patience, continue to shape us by your word and spirit. And as we're focusing on the book of Proverbs, we pray that would continue to take place. Thank you for your promise that you do guide us. And we need not worry. We need not be anxious because you will get us where you want us to be. And we also, Lord, want to honor you with the wealth that you provided us, and we're all very wealthy compared to the masses of men who have lived down through history. So let us rightly honor you. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.