And our text is just the first seven verses of chapter fifteen. Okay He writes, We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Jesus. That together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. So like a year about a year ago, I met a young fella, mid-twenties, he's in the Navy. I guess he had a year or two before he got out. And um he was a great young man. He grew up in a troubled home. We were trying to help his sister and she was really troubled. But so I called this fella, because he was home for Christmas break or what do you call Christmas leave. I called him up and I said, hey, I try to understand what Becky and I are trying to understand your sister better. Can you give us uh some guidance here? And he came out, we met And he was a great guy. He was converted. He became a cr I was happy to like this guy was a real Christian because the home he came from uh wasn't Christian at all And so I was thankful, I was impressed, and I was really impressed that the pastor who shared the gospel with him is the pastor, there's a little fundamentalist Baptist church down by Baker Park. I forget the name of it. But that pastor I met him once He he reaches out to everybody. He's out in the park. But he met this family. There's a area called the Sagner community over by the uh fairgrounds, the lower income a housing area and this guy was meeting families or people who lived in these these places and he met this fella Antonio and he shared the gospel with them And so Antonio uh was was a truly converted Christian. I was so impressed though, because He was in the Navy. I said, Well, are there other Christians on your ship? Is there a Bible study? He said, Not on my ship. And so it's like, but he was still going on in the Lord. Now He is aligned though with this independent fundamentalist Baptist church. And they have some scruples that Presbyterians don't have. They say women should not wear slacks. They it forbid they forbid drinking in moderation. You can't have wine, you can't have beer or anything And also, it's their commitment or conviction that there's only one valid English translation of the Bible, the King James Version. Okay? So here's my question. Well, it's a setup, right? You know where it's gone. Alright. So So what if my friend, when he gets out of the Navy moves back to Frederick. I think he's going to move to Kansas. But what if he comes back to Frederick and he decides to come to Good News Presbyterian Church? Would it be wise, as we become acquainted with him in the early weeks, to try to straighten him out right away? on some of the scruples that he acquired uh from his fundamentalist Baptist background, especially Since the pastor who shared the gospel with him was such a credible Christian, such an earnest Christian. Should we poo-poo him about all these issues or uh should we give it some time? And we would say I hope we'd say, yeah. We need we need to have a little discretion about how we talk uh to this young man. That is the kind of issue that Paul addresses, that he addressed in chapter 14. We looked at it last week, and that he continues to address in chapter 15. And just to refresh, and for those who weren't here, so the church in Rome was composed largely of Christians who came to Christ. out of a Gentile background, but there were also Christians from a Jewish background in the church. And here's the a problem arose, right? The Gentiles were rolling their eyes at the Jewish Christians. Because the Jewish Christians still hold still held to some of the scruples out of the Old Testament ceremonial law And so they they still thought that they should observe the various holy days that were spoken of, for example, in the book of Leviticus. He mentioned that So it's talking about these Jewish Christians who still thought they should Celebrate the Passover and the Feast of Tabernacles and the other uh Jewish feast days. And they also, they were vegetarians. And um because they thought that was something that was taught in the Bible and well actually the Old Testament allowed them to eat meat, but we're not sure where this came from, but it was some scruple that they apparently had about the Old Testament dietary laws. Look at chapter 14, verse 2. One person believes he may eat anything, while another person eats only vegetables. Okay? The Gentile Christians are like, what is this? You guys, don't you understand the gospel? Don't you understand that Christ has fulfilled all those requirements for us? And they were just object lessons for the people of Israel. Now that the reality has come, Jesus Christ, there's no need to hold to these ceremonial laws. Now there's nothing wrong with holding to the holy days or the having a special diet It's not like it's a sin or anything, but they're but it's like but the Gentile Christians are saying, you don't need to be doing that. And so the question is How should better informed Christians relate to less informed Christians who have scruples about marginal issues, right? Practices that are not inherently wrong But nonetheless, for some Christians, it would trouble their conscience if they um participated. in these things. And so last week I said there's a term for this that the reformers came up with. It's the term adiapora. And it means matters of indifference. Or look at chapter 14, verse 1. My translation says opinions, the NIV calls them disputable matters. And just to finish our review, we're getting there. In chapter fourteen, Paul wrote to the Gentile Christians two things. He said, Listen. You need to be patient. You need to be tolerant with the Jewish your Jewish brothers and sisters. So chapter 14, look at verses 1 to 3 again. He said, as for the one who's weak in the faith, welcome him. But not to quarrel over opinions. So welcome him, but not just so you'll have a chance to set him straight, but welcome him. Verse 2. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Okay? So he's saying the better informed Christians should not press the less informed believers to do something that they think is sinful. That'd be really bad. If if we pressure another Christian to do something that they think in doing would be a sin against God, what benefit is that? And Paul refers to that as causing your weaker brother to stumble. Look at chapter 4, verse 23. But whoever has doubts, talking about this weaker brother, is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin, right? If I think I can do this, or I I I shouldn't do this, but I do it And if I think that's a sin against God, then that would not be right. Okay? So that was last week's sermon. Okay? Now This isn't a problem in our church, but we still preach the Bible. But I did say there was a bigger lesson in chapter 14 that we should think about What really stands out in this chapter is that Paul, who wasn't Mr. Wishy-washy, he he was zealous, he was concerned about doctrine, but at the same time we see in chapter 14 That he had this great concern for unity in the church. And it's this call for unity, for harmony amongst the believers. That continues now into chapter 15. And this is a familiar chord in the New Testament. Remember Jesus' prayer in John 17? What did he pray? He prayed that they may be one, His people, His disciples. The Apostle Paul, Philippians 2, verse 2 He prayed for the Christians in Philippi that he said, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love. And being in full accord and of one mind. Ephesians four, verse three Paul urged the Christians in Ephesus to be eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. So now we're in chapter 15, verses 1 to 7, and Paul makes, continues making the case, that the strong should bear with the weak. And we don't mean those with strong convictions, but we mean those who are more informed about what Scripture says. Because the weak has strong convictions But they were ill informed on some of their practices. And so you see this, you think I was a Baptist. So there's three Three Rs, okay? So alliteration. Maybe that's maybe I'm I'm starting to drift toward the Baptist church. You never know. Okay. But so the rule, the reason, and the request to God. Okay? So let's look at first of all verses one and two. The rule that Paul gives. The rule is seek to build up others and not merely to please yourself. Right? That was verse 1. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak. And not to please ourselves, okay? And then to bear with the failings of the weak is not merely to tolerate them like, oh Here he goes again. I better hold my mouth. Nope, that's not what he's saying. He's saying we need to help them. We need to support them. Those who are further along in the Christian life. Uh we want to be encouraged. We want to encourage them, right? We don't want to dismiss uh a new Christian who has some rough edges. Uh we don't want to dismiss Some family that comes in and they lack parenting skills like, oh my goodness, are they clueless what's going on with these people? Uh we don't want to keep it at arms arm's length somebody who doesn't agree with our philosophy of worship or our approach to education or who doesn't embrace the finer points of reform theology There will come a time, right, as friendships develop and as uh you have conversation, there will come a time uh to perhaps sort through uh some of these differences But what Paul is saying is that we should not make it a requirement for fellowship. And of course we don't make it a requirement for membership in the church The only requirement for membership at our church is that you be a Christian. That's a pretty narrow requirement, right? Jesus said, wide is the gate that leads to destruction, narrow is the gate that leads to life So the gate into the church universal is quite narrow. And so we don't make it even more narrow by requiring people to hold to our doctrinal distinctives. We require our leaders, our elders and deacons to hold to these distinctives because we have to be of one mind. But we understand that cr faith in Christ is the sole requirement for membership in the church. So that's the official requirement. We can't have an unofficial requirement. It's like, yeah, they're a church member But I'm not going to spend any time with these people because, you know, they're just clueless about this stuff. They would wear me out. Paul's saying that should not be our disposition. So a couple weeks ago I read a biography Of A. W. Pink, some of you are probably acquainted with him. This guy was a great reformed Bible teacher. He lived born in the late 1800s, lived into the 1950s He was born in England, then he pastored and taught in the United or wrote in the United States, then he went to Australia, then I think like when he was in his forties, fifties, he and his wife went back to England. And they tried to find a church. And they were in England and then they went up to Scotland. And I think he was in like the Baptist and Brethren circles. But he was becoming he became reformed in his theology. He it's a long story. But anyway, they're trying to go in this church for a couple years and nobody welcomed him and his wife. Then they tried this, they moved up to Scotland. Same thing, maybe this other church for a couple years. And they weren't welcomed because they didn't subscribe to all the particulars of those uh the theology that those churches held. And so it's like, yeah, they come to worship, we say hello to them. But these c Pink said, these people were clannish. And I think it's more so in Scotland than it is in Frederick, Maryland, which is quite a quite a melting pot. But nonetheless, uh, you know I I've been to churches that are clannish, especially country churches. I'm not saying all country churches, but I'm from New Jersey, if you're wondering where I got on my charm, I'm from New Jersey, and I pastored North Carolina for ten years. And you d it took a long time for some of these people uh to welcome me as one of their own. And I was a pastor. What's it like for uh for uh for a new person? And um And I've heard Christian friends say, a couple in this congregation, yeah, we went to this church for quite a quite a number of months. Not this church, but we went to such and such church for quite a number of months But we never felt like we were a part of the church. That's a terrible strike against any church. And so in verse seven Paul says to these Christians, Gentile, Jewish Christians, therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you For the glory of God. And so that's the rule. Strive to cultivate harmony in the congregation. He gives a couple reasons, so this is point two. First reason is that this is how you build up Christians. Look at verse 2. Let e let each of us please his neighbor for his good. Why? To build him up. Okay? That is our goal. Our goal is to build up the entire congregation. Chapter 14, verse 19, look there. Paul said, let us pursue what makes for peace. Then he says, what? And for mutual upbuilding. Think about that one. Sunday morning, your alarm goes off. I stayed up too late last night. I shouldn't have done that. I was playing shoots and ladders all night long. Or whatever, right? I should have done that. Maybe I'll stay in, maybe I'll sleep in uh this morning. Well Yeah, if you're completely turned in on yourself, that would be a good plan. But there are other reasons to come to worship Well let's see. Maybe it's in the tri the name of the triune God that we live and move and have our being and he redeemed us. Maybe it be good and well for me to come to give him the worship. That rightly belongs to him. Another good reason is that I need to be nourished and edified by the word taught and preached and the sacraments administered In the prayers offered in the fellowship of the saints. But there's another reason in the Bible, right? You need to come. To encourage others. Hebrews 10, verse 24, the writer says, Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. Not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but then he says, but encouraging one another. So here's this is a huge reason to be regular in worship on Sunday mornings because it's not about what ye just about what you how you will benefit But it's how you will serve and encourage other Christians, right? Verse 2 again. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good. to build him up. So come early, stay late. Look for somebody to meet, to encourage, even if you know Uh somebody you don't know, or somebody you do know, or one of kids. And when you walk across the floor or walk down the hall, don't be like this. Look up, right? Smile, say hi to somebody. I'm not saying we're not doing this, but we can do as Paul said in Thessalonians. He says you're doing really well, do it More and more. And then don't just talk about yourself. Ask them a question. See what's going on with them. And so here's the reasons Paul gives for this mutual uh this this this this call for unity. We want to we need to build other Christians up. Uh a church is not just a preaching station Where you come and you hear the sermon and you take your notes, but it's a c it's a community, it's a family. And so we want to remember that. And then the second reason Paul gives in this passage about why we should try to cultivate this unity. Is that this is how Jesus conducted himself. He put others before himself. And so Jesus didn't come. Oh, let me just say this before I look at the verse. We understand Jesus did not come primarily to be a moral example. Did you ever see that book? It was written in the 1800s, but it sold like 50 million copies. The title is In His Steps. by a fellow named Charles Sheldon. In his steps, the subtitle is What Would Jesus To? What Would Jesus Do? Some marketing guru about what in the 90s or 10 or 20 or 20 or 30 years ago, he came up with these bracelets. What would Jesus do? Made a bundle. A great idea. But nonetheless We understand that the primary purpose of Jesus coming was not merely to give us an example. That's what the mainline Protestants teach, right? Oh yeah, we're just trying to live like Jesus. Well, if we could live like Jesus, we wouldn't need a Savior. We understand Jesus came to save us. That said Once you're trusting in Christ for your salvation and not your efforts to be like Jesus, which aren't working out real well. Once you're trusting in Christ for your salvation, there is nothing wrong with looking to Jesus as a moral example. And that's exactly Uh what Paul did. He didn't hesitate to point to Jesus as an example to follow. Look at verse three, okay? Christ did not please himself. No, I'm sorry, I missed the first word. Verse three. He said, for, like, here's the reason. that we should not seek to please ourselves. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, then he quotes from Psalm 69, verse 9. The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. And so 900 years before Jesus was born, Psalm 59 foretold Jesus' suffering And that psalm in that psalm speaks of Jesus so uh so identifying himself with his father's person and purposes, that he allowed the insults that were intended that were aimed at his father to fall on him. So Psalm 69, verse 9, quoted in verse 4, the reproaches of those who approached you fell on me. And so Paul holds up Jesus Christ as exhibit A as to why we should seek to serve others and not only our own interests. Look at how he suffered And he did it for us. Now, look at verse four. I okay. So there's a goal to this sermon, right? What's the goal of the sermon? Well the the goal, this point of this passage, Paul's trying to get the Christians to be united and to strive for harmony So we're going down the Interstate 70 and we're our goal is to have that point hammered home But Paul takes Exit 32 or whatever, and he makes this comment about the Old Testament. So let's take a little lunch break here in verse 4. Paul makes a very important comment. He said, for what for whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope This is a monumental statement about the value of the Old Testament for the Christian. The Old Testament, Paul says, is not just a record of God's dealing with the people of Israel long ago and far away. It's not just a record with some moral examples for us to emulate, but rather Paul says straight up, he says The Old Testament was written to encourage Christians, to encourage we who live in the New Testament era to give us hope And so there's something there, right? This is telling us don't just read the skinny part of the Bible, the New Testament. But read the big fat part, right? The three-quarters that come before the New Testament, because that was written for Christians It was written for our instruction. That's what he said. You see it right there in verse 4, right? He said that to Christians in the New Testament church We need to take the New Testament uh serio the Old Testament as seriously as the New Testament And so, yeah, the Old Testament had an initial audience, we must understand who what these books were who they were written to and the original intent and context and all that, but nonetheless it's in our Bible because it we it's written for us as well. You see the same thing in a You might look at 1 Corinthians 10. Paul spoke in 1 Corinthians 10 about God disciplining the people of Israel during their wilderness journey. So that's spoken of in the book of Exodus, the books, the book of Numbers, but it's very interesting, 1 Corinthians 10 verse 11. Paul explains to the Christians in Corinth, to New Testament Christians. He said to the New Testament Christians, these things happen to them. As an example, but then he says, but they are written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Or think about 2 Timothy 3. 16. Paul, he says, all scripture is God-breed. Now, the New Testament was not yet compiled, and so that statement is a statement about the inspiration of the Old Testament. All scripture is God breathed. And then he says, and is profitable, or as the NIV puts it, and is useful. So he's saying, there Paul says again, the Old Testament is useful for Christians. Okay, well, no, and I would say this. 34 years preaching through the Bible, like every Tuesday, alright, what's the next passage? So I've gone through many Old Testament books. 34 years, preachers of the Old Testament, I have never yet come upon a passage where I concluded this is there's no relevance here. This is just an ancient story. No, every book of the Old Testament is relevant to Christian life. That's my experience. And the trick is not the trick. What should I say? The secret? The key? I don't know. The way we figure figure this out is when you understand the reason that any book of the Bible, Old or New Testament, was written. What was the intent of this book? So the writers of each book, by God's inspiration, They were selective in what they included in their writings because they had a purpose. There was a driving purpose. And so knowing that We can have confidence that whatever passage we're going through in the Old Testament, I might not see the reason, but I but it's there. And oftentimes it's when you step back. And you see the bigger purpose of the book. So here's an example. You probably probably memorize this passage, so I'll just throw it out to you. The Mildu laws in Leviticus 13 It's always a fan favorite, the Mildew laws in Leviticus 13. And you come to church, and the pastor's preaching through Leviticus, and he gets to Leviticus chapter 13 And you're thinking, why is he going on about the mildew laws? I'm struggling with my marriage. I'm trying to figure out how to raise my kids, or the kids is I don't have any friends at school. How is this useful to me? I think I'll just uh the I just look for another church. Well, we would say there are passages in the Bible That have more immediate relevance to our current situations than other passages. We understand that But every passage has a purpose, right? So you're reading through the Mildu laws in Leviticus 13, feeling sort of warm inside, just reflecting on them And um what do I do here? How does this apply? And um you step back and you you figure out what's Leviticus about? Well the big theme is God is trying to communicate to the people of Israel that there will be a holy nation. separate from whatever is unclean. And so these leprosy laws, the mildew laws, they were just object lessons to the people of Israel, because mildew was that represented uncleanness. So God is saying to Israel, listen, you're to be different from the nations. There's to be nothing unclean in this community of believers. Then you go, okay, I get it. Now I'm going to clean my shower. That must be what he's saying. You say, well, no, that's not the lesson. The pe the people, the church is a New Testament people of God. And so the lesson is that God has called us to be separate, to be distinct. from uh from the nations. We're gonna be a holy people, just as God called the people of Israel to be a holy people. But we still haven't really gotten the full benefit of it, we can still make further applications And we have to remember the Bible is an unfolding story. And so you read the New Testament, and the New Testament book of Hebrews explains That Jesus fulfilled all those requirements in the book of the Leviticus. He's the only one Who is truly holy, and thankfully he died in our place, and he gives us his righteousness so that we can come into the presence of a holy God without shame. And so we're in a much better position than the people of Israel Those laws, they were just like object lessons for the people of Israel. And so what do we learn from these uh Mildu laws? We learn that um God calls us, the church, to be holy and to take holiness seriously. But they also point to Jesus. who is the truly only is is the only truly holy one, and he died for us, and he gave us his righteousness. So you go on. Let me give you another one. Years ago I preached through Exodus. Exodus chapter 25 to 31 is the it's seven chapters giving detailed instructions about the construction. Of the tabernacle, that was a portable sanctuary that the Israelites took with them through the wilderness So there are seven chapters of how to design, God wanted Israel to design the sanctuary. How is that relevant? Well One thing that was relevant is relevant. It shows us God's concerned about he's worship about the way he's worshiped. You know, when somebody says Um I'll worship the way I want to worship and you worship the way you want to worship. Presbyterians should say, uh you worship the way you want to worship We'll worship the way God wants us to worship. Because God's very clear in the Bible, there are ways that we should worship Him. So it had seven chapters in the in um Exodus about how God wants the people of Israel to construct the tabernacle I did not one sermon. I didn't read all seven chapters, but there is a main point when you step back there And also we would say the tabernacle pointed to Jesus, right? In John 1. 14, John said about Jesus coming, the word became flesh and made his dwelling, or tabernacled amongst us. And so that was our little we went off the side road looking at verse four. I think, but I think it's a really important statement about the importance of the Old Testament in the Christian life. Parts of the old tests are difficult, right? Because we're not familiar with the culture and what's going on there. But still I want to encourage you um to to work through it Because it is important. And we want to figure out the uh relevance or teaching the Bible, teaching 2 Samuel. David Speezy was teaching the second first and second Samuel Sunday school He's hitting it every time. It's a great class. And so, yeah, show we want to see how it applies And so finally the third R really short uh the request that Paul makes It isn't to the people in Rome, the Christians in Rome. It's an appeal he makes to God. Look at verses 5 and 6. Whoops, I lost my spot. Verses 5 and 6. He prayed that together you may with one voice, I'm sorry, verse five, may the God of endurance and encouragement Grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's saying that's this will bring honor to God, this will bring renown to God as we grow in our he our harmony. and our our our love, our kindness, our bearing with one another. Pretty important, especially as we get into moving toward this construction of a building. A lot of decisions have to be made Lord, help us to be forbearing with one another. Help us to have discretion. Help us not to get too wound up about certain issues. And um and we see in Paul this great soldier of the truth, for the truth, he was equally concerned uh for unity in the church. So let's pray that God would uh ala enable that to continue in our church. and deepen it as we bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you for the scripture you've given us and this call uh to be more uh kind, patient, uh looking out for others. Help us to do this more and more. Help us to have a have a burden for the people in this church. Uh for those who are on the fringe, for those who are discouraged, for those who are lonely, may it deepen. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.