And let's turn to John chapter 19. John chapter 19. We are marching through John's Gospel. We're coming to the end. After a couple of years here, I can't remember when we started. But I was a young man, I believe, and um here we are. We're looking at the first sixteen verses. This is continuing Jesus' interrogation by the Roman ruler Pontius Pilate, 19 verse 1, then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe They came up to him saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. When the chief priest and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify Him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him For I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law, he ought to die, because he has made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him. You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he delivered me, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down at the judgment seat. at a place called the stone pavement and in Aramaic Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover. It was about the sixth hour, he said to the Jews, Behold your king. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered them, so he delivered him over to them to be crucified. And so just to review, from beginning in chapter 18, Jesus was arrested after the Passover meal. He the Jews brought him before a hastily assembled and irregularly conducted trial. And after that, the Jews took him, took Jesus to Pontius Pilate. He was the Roman governor If he was if he was going to be executed, he would have to have a civil trial, right? Because the Jews were under Rome and they could not execute the death penalty And uh so we're continuing now uh Jesus being interrogated by uh Pontius Pilate And Pontius Pilate was really just a minor ruler, just a really a non-entity in the annals of history We would never have heard of Pontius Pilate were it not for that line in the Apostles' Creed where we say that Jesus suffered under Pontius Pilate. So it's interesting the Apostles' Creed, it just touches on the key uh truths of the Christian faith. And it says Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary, then it passes over his earthly ministry, his teaching, and his miracles And it goes immediately to the fact that Jesus suffered under Pontius Pilate, and then it says he was crucified, dead, and buried, right? So there's this line in the creed that gives emphasis to the fact that Jesus not only died on the cross, but before that, he suffered. And that is what this passage elaborates on. And so what we're going to do this morning is draw four lessons from Jesus suffering under Pontius Pilate. And I'm going to give the most space or the most time to the first lesson. And that's this. Jesus suffering under Pontius Pilate. Underscores the price that he paid to redeem us. So let's just look at some of the ways that Jesus suffered in this encounter. First of all He suffered because he was unjustly charged, right? The Jews brought Jesus before Pilate on a trumped up charge that he claimed to be a political king and was a threat to Caesar. Pilate saw through that, right, in the end of verse 38. He said, I find no guilt in him, but he was afraid to acquit Jesus because he was afraid of the reaction of the chief priest and hence the mob that would listen to the chief priest. And then Jesus also suffered in that uh in verse one it says he was flogged and that was unjust, but that was Not because Pilate had anything against Jesus, but he just wanted to satisfy or pacify the bloodlust of the Jewish religious leaders, and he had hoped that the crowd would regard this as sufficient punishment. And this, of course, as I tend to do, as it was told about me a couple weeks ago, I tend to make references to the Old Testament. And so if you'll indulge me, uh Isaiah fifty-two verse fourteen says the flogging fulfilled a prophecy in the Old Testament. Um Isaiah fifty-two fourteen, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. His appearance was marred because of the flogging. And he suffered in addition because he was beaten, mocked, and humiliated. Verse 2 again. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail the King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands and this crown was likely the commentators say there's uh uh a a plant over there called the date thorm The date excuse me, the date thorn, uh, with these long thorns that could be as twelve inches in length And so these soldiers, they didn't have anything else to do and to provide some relief from the t tedium of military life Uh they sort of got got a kick out of this. They put this crown on his head made out of thorns. And um then it says in Mark 15 they kneeled and bowed before him And so they would kneel down, hail the king of the Jews, and then they would stand up, and they would slug them in the face, and then they would bow down again. And this was all great fun. In fact, the the other gospels, Matthew, Mark, add that they beat him over the head with rods and spit in his face Again, a fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy here, Isaiah 50 verse 6, where Isaiah said about the suffering servant, or he says, the suffering servant says, excuse me. I gave my back to those who strike and my cheek to those who pull out the beard. I hid not my face from disgrace in spitting. And so, you know, Isaiah says Jesus was wounded for our transgressions and suffered for our iniquities, but also Isaiah fifty-three verse five says, He suffered the shame and the reproach that we deserve. For our sin. So he not only suffered the judicial penalty, but he suffered the shame, the humiliation that we rightly deserve. For having our sins exposed. But they're not exposed, right? They're taken away. They're covered in Jesus Christ. And so this is why it's helpful, and we don't happen upon a passage like this very often, but it's a good reminder that, yeah He suffered shame and reproach and humiliation that we who trust in Jesus Christ We'll not have to, but rather, regardless of how we feel about things that we've done in the past, we can lift up our heads and have no shame. Jesus also suffered. Here's another angle on it. He suffered in that his weakness was put on public display. That's not something I like to do, to have my weakness put on public display. None of us like that, but Jesus suffered in that respect also. Look at verse 4. Pilate went out again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. This is after he was flogged. This was after he was beaten. And Pilate said to them, Behold the man. So Pilate was trying to, I believe, get some sympathy out of these Jewish rulers. Look at this guy. He's he's been humiliated. He has been tortured. Uh he is no threat. He certainly doesn't come across as some mighty king who's going to lead a revolution against Caesar. And then Pilate debates with the crowd, verse 6. When the chief priest and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify Him, crucify him, so they were not pacified. And Pilate's about to spit, and he said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I see no guilt in him. And he knew they couldn't do that, but he was just he was just beside himself. And so finally uh the Jews dropped their pretension that Jesus committed some kind of political offense by being a threat to uh Caesar. And they disclosed in the end of verse 7 the real reason why they wanted Jesus executed, the end of verse 7, he has made himself thus, he has made himself the Son of God. And then they said in verse 7, We have a law. We have a law. Leviticus 24 verse 16, which required stoning for blasphemer blasphemers And they they said Jesus in claiming to be God was blasphemy. No, he wasn't, right? Because he was God And so Pilate, what do I do? Right? He's in over his head. Verse 8. He takes Jesus again. When Pilate heard the statement, he was even more afraid. Probably not because he was convinced that Jesus was the Messiah, but because he was superstitious And the Roman the Roman uh culture uh was full of stories about men who were the offspring, or supposedly were the offspring of gods And then add to that the fact that in one of the other gospels, Matthew 27, 19, Pilate's wife said to him, quote, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a dream. And so Pilate was spooked. He knew he had a mess on his hands. He didn't know how to resolve it And so verse 9, he entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me. Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? And uh Pilate doesn't know what to do. As I said, he's out of his depth. And Jesus was silent, again, fulfilling the prophecy here. Isaiah 53 verse 7 which says, He opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. And so Jesus Christ suffered under Pontius Pilate. He was unjustly charged. He was unjustly flogged beaten, mocked, humiliated, and then finally executed. And what we want to recognize, and I imagine we do, what we want to recognize is that he not only died for our sin, but he suffered on our behalf. And why did this happen? Why did this happen? I think one reason is that This is a testament to Jesus' love. It's a testament to Jesus' love for us. John Calvin captured it here. He said When we behold the disfigurement of the Son of God, when we find ourselves appalled by his marred appearance, We need to reckon afresh that it is upon ourselves that we gaze, for he stood in our place. Right? That's what I was saying. He suffered the shame, the reproach The humiliation. And that's why Paul, reflecting on Jesus' work for us, remember Galatians 2. 20, he just made this simple statement: the Son of God loved me And gave himself for me. And Jesus' suffering here is just one aspect of the way that he gave himself for us. And so this is a testament to Jesus' love. And also it should steal us to walk in a way that honors Him. How's that? 1 Corinthians 6. 20, Paul said, You are bought with a price. You were bought with a price. And he goes on, so glorify God in your body. I've been bought with a price. And so Jesus suffering under Pius Pilate, first of all, underscores the price that Jesus Christ paid to redeem us. Something else, and I'll be more brief. Secondly, Jesus suffering under Pontius Pilate exemplifies, and we see this in Pilate, how the fear of man will prove to be a snare. That's one of the Proverbs. The fear of man will prove to be a snare. Poor Pilate, he tried every trick in the book to avoid uh offending the Jews. And remember last week, you may remember last week the Jews had this custom during Passover The Romans would release one of the Jewish prisoners as just a remembrance of how God released the the Jews from bondage to Egypt. And so Pilate said, hey, who do you want me to release? And he was hoping they would say, well, release Jesus. But no. They said, no, release Barabbas, right? This thief, this criminal. And so that Pilate didn't know what to do, and that's why I said he had Jesus beat to a bloody pulp. And that still didn't satisfy their bloodlust. And so finally, a pilot capitulates uh to uh this this very uh unreasonable crowd and the reason he did it of course was out of fear he recognized that Jesus was innocent excuse me And um, but it was fear because the Jews threatened to denounce him to Caesar. And he was another basket case too. Caesar was paranoid of his his under his underlings overthrowing him And uh so the Jews threaten. We're gonna we're gonna we're gonna tell uh we're gonna let Caesar know that you're not willing to execute a political revolutionary. You see that in the uh verse twelve, the second part of the verse. They said to Pilate, if you release this man, you're not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. Pilate could not afford for this to happen, right? And in fact, he was a marked man. He already had a couple strikes against him. In Caesar's eyes. I read that on on three different occasions. Pilate was negligent And governing the province of Judah. And on the last of the occasions, the Jews appealed to Caesar, saying, Hey, Pilate's doing this. And Caesar had Pilate's decree overturned. And so Pilate was humiliated, and he knew that he was on thin ice and he could not afford to be to uh be seen as acquitting an insurrectionist. And so that's why I believe Pilate uh gave in Proverbs 25, the fear of man will prove to be a snare. And we all fear man in one way or another, in one situation or another. But this is a good reminder We we need to really fear God. I just remember a couple years ago, it seems to be receding a little bit, but this tidal wave of wokeness that came over our country and all of a sudden All the academic institutions, all the businesses, in many even of the evangelical churches were just going along with the program. because we didn't want to be uh seen as uh insensitive to other people. The fear of man will prove to be a snare. Here's something else. I'm just sort of picking a couple uh berries off the bush right now, and then we're gonna we're done. Here's another one, point three. This passage shows us that some sins are worse than others. Look at verse 11. Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Then he says, therefore he who delivered you over, excuse me, therefore he delivered me he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. So, Pilate's unwillingness to administer justice to Jesus was a sin. But the guy who delivered Jesus over to Pilate had the greater sin. Who was that? Some say it was Judas. I think it was Caiaphas. uh the Jewish high priest that Jesus is referring to. And um but either way, both Judas and Caiaphas They knew better, especially Judas. He had been with Jesus for those three years. But Caiaphas also knew about Jesus. He had heard about his teaching. He had heard about his ministry and his miracles And there was nothing that Jesus did that was wrong. And so Caiaphas uh was guilty of the greater sin. And I said I'm just picking a little berry off the tree because I see this verse here. But I I bring it up because It's often said by well-meaning Christians, all sins are the same in the eyes of God. You ever hear that? All sins are the same? Well, there's a sense in where they are the same. Anyone's sin can separate you from God, right? So all sins are the same in that respect. And that's why I think it's James 2. 19 that says something to the effect Whoever breaks uh how's it go now? Whoever keeps oh yeah. Forget it. Look it up later. Whoever here we go. Whoever keeps a whole law and yet stumbles in one point is guilty of breaking all of it. Okay? So if during your entire life you only took a gumball from your uh the kid next door. That's the only sin you ever committed. Well, that's enough to condemn you to hell, right? Okay. So all sins are the same and that anyone's sin can separate you from God. However The Bible says some sins are more heinous than others. Two two ver well here's one right here, right? Okay. Here's one proof text that not all sins are the same. Another one, 1 Corinthians 6. 20, flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a man commits are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against his own body. And so Paul's putting sexual morality in a category by itself, so all sins are not the same. Another one, another Bible verse, Luke 10, verse 12 to 14 Jesus said that the towns in Judea who rejected excuse me, he said of the towns in Judea that rejected the gospel message It will be more bearable on that day, on judgment day, than for that town So what is he saying? Sodom and Gomorrah was renowned for its sin. It was a vile, or Sodom was a vile city, right? But it will be more bearable for Sodom on the day of judgment than for these Jewish towns, because they had the scriptures. And they encountered the Messiah and his emissaries. And so greater light means greater responsibility. All sins are not the same. In fact, a larger catechism says some sins are more heinous than others. and will receive for those who are outside of Jesus Christ a greater penalty. There will be justice, right? Um you know Hitler will suffer worse than just your average unbeliever. So there will be justice. Matthew Henry said All the pains of hell will be intolerable, but some will be more so than others. And Pilate's sin was grievous But even but it wasn't as grievous as Caiaphas sin because he knowingly and willingly handed Jesus over to die. And so Jesus suffering under Pontius Pilate, just to review, it underscores the price that Jesus paid to redeem us. It exemplifies the fear of man, will prove to be a snare. It also teaches or shows that, yeah, some sins are worse than others. Then here's the fourth thing we see here. In that this encounter before the Jews displays the unbelievers' irrational hatred of Jesus Christ. And so even after Pilate had Jesus beaten and flogged, the Jews still were not satisfied. And so Scratch your head here and um you ask the question how do we account for the rabid hatred of these Jewish religious leaders toward Jesus, right? The only good man who ever lived, he loved others, he taught us to love He taught with wisdom. He healed the sick. He fed the hungry. There's something irrational about the the crowd's animus toward Jesus. And that was all foretold. Psalm 69 verse 4. David said, they hated me without cause. And that's still true in our day and down through time, right? People hate Jesus Christ. without cause. You know, for all this talk about diversity and inclusion, still Christianity doesn't have a seat at the table. There's a there's a militant hostility toward Biblical Christianity, not sort of sentimental cultural Christianity, but biblical Christianity There there's this irrational hostility, right? Buddhism is fine. Islam, also religion of peace, of course, and um Never mind about those airplanes going in the buildings. Scientology, you gotta be goofy but um to latch on to that. But it's esteemed in certain corners of Hollywood, right? How is it That there remains an irrational hatred toward the God of the Bible, toward Christianity and hence, not always, of course, but I'm just saying, as a generalization, uh, toward Christians The Bible explains that we've been in John for a long time. Remember back in John chapter 3, verse 20? Jesus said, everyone who does wicked things hates the light. And does not come into the light lest his deeds should be exposed. And so there is an an animus toward True biblical Christianity, because of its teaching that God's a holy God And also Christian teaching on moral issues, certainly c uh relating to gender and sexuality Certainly, the claim that Jesus is the only way, all this brings about man's hostility toward Christianity. Jonathan Edwards, back in the 1700s, preached a sermon titled Men Naturally God's Enemies. Why did you come to church this morning? It's because God changed your heart. Naturally, outside of God regenerating us, our disposition toward God isn't one of openness. Oh, I want to know you, God, whatever it is you have. No. It's hostility, right? Romans 8. 7. The mind of sinful man is hostile toward God. That explains a lot. That I that explains what and I keep using the word irrational. I think it's an irrational hostility that many people have toward Christianity. You might notice this in your families, amongst your co-workers or your neighbors. You you can't bring certain things up. It just it triggers. It triggers them And so what do we do? Well, we pray. And we pray, Lord, help me to live a life that lends some credibility to the gospel message. Because God can change a person in a heartbeat. And so that's why we should pray. That's why we have a prayer meeting. That's why we should pray for our loved ones and people we know every day. Because people are still becoming Christians, even in this culture, people are still becoming Christians. Why is that Because the the gospel is the power of God for salvation. And You go over to Acts 2 on the day of Pentecost. The Jews who cr who were calling for Jesus crucified In Acts 2, 40 days after the resurrection, they're crying out to Peter, What must I do to be saved? They were convicted, they were cut to the heart. And so, yeah, that's our hope. God changes people. We do Colossians now on Thursday nights. In Colossians 1. 21, Paul wrote to these Christians in Colosse. He says, ye are once hostile to God But now they're part of the church. And that's the same with this church and any true church, right? It's made up of people who were once hostile to God. And so Jesus suffered under Pontius Pilate. He was delivered over to be crucified against Pilate's better judgment. And I just want to leave with this thought, with this um uh Encouragement, especially to our young people, if you haven't settled the deal the uh issue, is this stuff true? Do I believe this stuff What I would say to you is don't casually dismiss the claims of Jesus Christ without giving him a fair hearing. Examining the claims that he makes in Scripture and that really the entire Bible makes about him. So let's bow our heads. Father in Heaven, thank you that you have spoken to us persuasively in the Bible. We thank you for our Lord Jesus Christ, who not only died in our place, but suffered the shame and the reproach that we deserved. And so help us, Lord, to always lift up our heads to know that we've been forgiven. Help us to remember that we've been bought with a price and thus to glorify God in our bodies. And we pray, Lord, also for those who are not yet Christians, that you would persuade them, help them to see that Jesus is God, he died for their sin. And grant them repentance and faith, we ask this in Jesus' name, amen