So Linda Babcock brought some lilacs for the front table. She said they're really fragrant. I said I'd have no problem with it. But I'm crying now, oh my goodness. Years ago, it was funny, years ago when we adopted our son, we went to Taiwan, and somebody hacked my website and sent out an email to everybody. And and it was like, um, I was kidnapped, I'm in Scotland and um All my money's gone and I'm crying and I don't know what to do. And then Kelly Wheeler said, that wasn't from Peter, he doesn't cry. So But I am a little cheery right now. So we're in Genesis, we're working our way through the life of Abraham. Uh Genesis 12. I'm sorry, yeah, Genesis 12, 25. But this morning we're at chapter 16, chapter 16 of Genesis. So remember Abraham, his wife, uh Sarai, and then they had an Egyptian slave girl. Sarai had a Egyptian slave girl named uh Hagar. So Genesis 16. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said to Abraham, Behold, now, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Go into my servant. It may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai. So after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram, her husband, as a wife. And he went into Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress. And Sarai said to Abram, May the wrong done to me be on you. I give my servant to your embrace. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt May the Lord judge between you and me. But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your servant is in your power. Do to her as you please. Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her. The angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness. In the spring, the spring on the way to Shur, and he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going? She said, I am fleeing my mistress Sarai The angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit to her. The angel of the Lord also said to her, I will surely multiply your offspring. so that they cannot be numbered for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, you are pregnant, and you shall bear a son You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has listened to your affliction. He shall be a wild donkey of a man. his hand against everyone, and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen. So she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are a God of seeing. For she said, Truly here I have seen him who looks after me. Therefore the well was called Ber Leh Roy, it lies between Kadesh and Barid, and Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of the son whom Hagar bore Ishmael. Abraham was 86 years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram. Now, if you've been here. Uh you'd know that if ever there were a man to whom God spoke in very dramatic uh ways, it was Abraham back in chapter twelve when he was called God spoke to Abraham audibly. He told Abraham, Leave your homeland, go to the land of Canaan, and settle there. And immediately Abraham obeyed God's voice and made the 800-mile journey to Canaan. And then again in chapter 15, God reaffirmed his promise. He spoke to Abraham. He said, Listen. Your wife is barren. I think she was 65 at the time. Your wife, Sarai, is barren, but she will supernaturally give birth to a son. And you will have an heir, and you will have descendants as numerous as the stars in the skies. And good for Abraham, because it says in chapter 15, verse 6, Abraham believed the Lord, and God counted it to him as righteousness. So God spoke to this man, and then in chapter 15, God revealed himself to Abraham by way of a vision. In this vision, this is back in chapter 15, you might remember, it consisted in this very dramatic covenant ratification ceremony uh by which God confirmed visibly uh his promises to Abraham And this ceremony stealed Abraham against any doubt that God would keep his promise. And so Abraham in Hebrews 11 is celebrated as this great man of faith. But um he wasn't always all through his life he a great man of faith. He would slip And here we see that he failed in this chapter for us. He failed to trust God, and he resorted to the most shameful expediencies And so if this happened to Abraham, it can happen really to any of us. So let's look at a passage, and the first thing that stands out and really prominent. Is that we see the temptation to circumvent God's commands in desperate times. And this is one of those chapters in the Bible where uh the the stage is set right in the very first verse. It says in verse one Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. And so way back, remember I just mentioned this back in chapter 12. God had promised Abram that his wife, who had been barren all those years, 65 at the time, she would bear a son Well ten years have now passed uh since God made that promise. And I imagine uh Sarai a pulling on her sagging skin, uh, was beginning to think, you know, what's going on here? It's been ten years uh since the promise I'm not getting any younger. And so Sarai takes matters into her own hands. Right then in verse 1, she had a female Egyptian servant. whose name was Hagar, and Sarai said to Abram, Behold, now the Lord has prevented me from bearing children, go into my servant. It may be that I shall obtain children by her And it wasn't uncommon in the ancient world if a woman was barren, uh, she would sometimes or oftentimes uh have the husband uh seek to have the slave girl uh be a surrogate mother. And uh yeah, that's the way the world operated, but This is Abraham, right? This wasn't God's purpose for marriage. This wasn't how God was going to fulfill his promise to Abraham. In fact, in Galatians 4 verse 23, we're told this would be a supernatural birth. The child would be born through the promise. God would make good on his promise. But Sarai, despite God speaking to Abraham, despite God revealing himself by this very dramatic vision in chapter 15, Sarai took matters into her own hands. So we ask the question, well who's at fault? I mean this is this is a very tangled uh situation. And Sarai would have said, God's at fault. That's what she said in verse 2. Behold, now the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. But God wasn't at fault. God was going to uh carry out his promise if it just wasn't on uh Sarai's timetable. But Sarai surely was at fault. She sinned against God, right? She circumvented his commands. To get what she wanted, she sinned against Abraham because uh she wasn't supporting him, he was waiting to excuse me Um she was probably wearing this guy out, fretting, you know, w where's this son that God told you uh that I was gonna have? And in Hebrews 11, not only was Abraham called a man of faith, but Sarai is called a faith, a woman of faith, but she was not a woman of faith. At this point, I think there's something important. I was saying this in Sunday school, I was teaching the high school class this morning. I was saying, listen, I said this to the guys and I said this to the gals What kind of person do you want to marry? Do you want to marry a person who you're going to have to drag along spiritually and who's going to be a drag on you spiritually? Or do you want to marry somebody with some spiritual maturity? And at this point, Sarai was not a woman of spiritual maturity. And so Sarai sinned against God, she sinned against Abraham She she sinned against this poor a slave woman, Hagar, and then she turned her into a fornicator, and she sinned against herself, because she, of course, invited another woman but to sleep with her husband. So Sarai was certainly at fault, but so was Abraham, right? He bore blame. He should not have gone along with her scheme. He too apparently at this point doubted God's promise and he abdicated his responsibility to lead his wife. And if you remember, just two chapters ago in chapter fourteen, we have this great irony, because Abraham uh Remember when the four Eastern kings kidnapped his nephew Lot? Abraham pursued them. I think like 120 miles, I forget what I read, but he sued he pursued the not sued He pursued uh these four kings, he whipped them in battle, and he rescued Lot. So he he wasn't a w he wasn't a wimp And yet many men, strong in the world's eyes, nonetheless cower before their wives. And you see this, right? And I and I I could think about, you know, over the years, you know, I've been here 21 years, over the years in this church, we've had families come in and go out. In some cases The family was led by the wife. She was at they were at this church and they didn't like that church. So they came to good news and everything was well for a season. Then the wife got an itch and said, Well, you know, uh looking for something more. What didn't you like about the church? Well, it didn't have this, it didn't have that. So they go off to the next church, and then they're there for a couple years And then what happens? Then they're off to the church after that. What's going on here? Well, um the wife was on this elusive search for something. And the husband would not just say, you know what? No. Here's how we should do it. Or here's how I think what would be best for our family. And the husband just in some cases the husband would just sort of go along, you know. And so um Abram and Sarah's fall The I I didn't notice this until I read something about it, but it's right there. This is echoing The fall of Adam and Eve. Think about this. Adam listened to Eve when she suggested he sinned. Abraham listened to Sarai. Eve took the fruit. What do we read in verse 3? Sarai took Hagar. So it seems like Moses is using this language here to say, you know what, here we go again, right? The wife leading the husband, and the husband abdicating his responsibility. Eve gave Adam the fruit to eat. Sarai gave Hagar to Abraham. And Abraham, like Adam, consciously violated God's command. What he should have done, right? He should have said, listen, Sarai, God made this promise to us. God is faithful. Let's just stay the course here. Let's not be rash. But he did not do that. And so it says in verse 4, he went into Hagar and she conceived, and uh there were these bitter consequences, right? A Hagar relished in the pregnancy, and she became haughty, it says in the end of verse four. When she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress If you look at Proverbs 30 verse 23, it lists among the things that make the earth tremble a maidservant when she displaces her mistress. And that's what Sarai saw happening. And so Sarai was enraged. Look at verse five. She said to Abram, May the wrong done to me be on you. I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the Lord judge. between me and you. And yes, she only had herself to blame, right? She's the one who hatched uh the scheme. And uh from that point forward, these two women would never get along. So in chapter one, after Isaac was born to Sarai We read in chapter 21, verses 8 to 10, how this conflict escalated. And then again, Abraham abdicated his responsibility when Sarai was pushing Hagar out, says in verse six, but he capitulated. He said to Sarai, Your servants in your power, do to her as you please. Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she And she fled her. And so real clear illustration there. You know, and and one of the reasons, it's not the main reason, but one of the reasons the Old Testament's given It's to teach us, right, so that we don't do the same things. I think it's 1 Corinthians 10 verse 12. These things are written for your instruction that you don't do Are the same things, right? We don't want to circumvent God's commands in desperate times because it's guaranteed that the misery will only escalate Um you know you you see this when a when a believer is low a single Christian, a Christian who's not married. the has this great longing to marry. And sometimes there's no one on the horizon. And so they compromise their standards And they'll marry someone who's not either not a Christian or who is a Christian in name but is just not is not a spiritual uh self starter. And um yeah I remember I mean uh many, many situations like this. But Becky and I were talking to one lady who was just grieved by her husband. He was a bum. She was a sharp Christian woman and her husband was a bum. And um And I think Becky asked her, I asked her that she was making this list, and this is like ongoing conversations. Oh, I asked her, why'd you marry him? And she said, and she was crying, she said, I didn't think anybody else would take me. And yet, and that that was very sad. But now, you know, she sat down to this banquet of consequences. And that's something for our young people to remember. The loneliest moment of singleness is nothing compared to a miserable marriage. Or you are married, but it's a troubled marriage. Somebody else comes along, right? Hey, here's a solution. It's not a solution. Proverbs 5 says it will lead to misery that you can't imagine it will compound. We're in your job, you know, you're not in the job you like, the vocation you like, things aren't working out financially And as far as uh you doing what you want to do, well you just can't cut corners there. You just have to stay the course, you have to prepare yourself for the next thing, but you can't cut corners Or else the misery will multiply. So that's the first thing we see here. Circumventing God's commands during difficult times only leads to misery. Here's a second thing that stands out, and I use a term that's not in the Bible. I called it the Siren Song of Egypt. And some of you took mythology in high school or in college, right? The sirens in Greek mythology were these beautiful women who had the upper bodies of humans and the lower bodies of birds. And the songs that they would sing were so bewitching that the sailors would hear uh hear these sirens singing on the shore. And if they heard it, they would steer their uh ships closer to the shore, crash the ship, or some would just jump overboard and they'd want to swim ashore. uh to see these uh these women who were singing uh these beautiful songs and they would end up drowning. And um the reason I bring that up is that I know that um So the sirens aren't in this passage, but Egypt had its own siren song, had its own attraction to the people of Israel. Now here's something. To whom was Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy? So the Pentateuch. Who was the first to hear the message of the Pentateuch? Well, it was written by Moses And Moses lived during the Exodus generation, right? The people were going through the wilderness. And One of the themes that you read about in the wilderness journeys of Egypt of the Israelites Is that they always wanted to go back to Egypt, right? Things were better in Egypt, and poor Moses, he was trying to lead these people to the promised land. And they're like, we don't like it out here. It's miserable. It's dangerous. There's not remember the manna? There's nothing to eat but manna, you know, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, it was manna, right? Manna burgers Manicati, the manor bread, and so on. Numbers 11, verse 5 and 6. They missed the good food of Egypt. They said, we remember the fish we ate in Egypt that cost nothing. The cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, the garlic. But now our strength is dried up, there's nothing at all but this manna to look at. And then later, when the Israelites sent the spies, remember the spies that went across the Jordan River, they checked out the land of Canaan, they came back, they gave the people of Israel uh the report And the spy says to the said to the people of Israel something like, The people are like giants. And the people were scared to death. And they said in Numbers 14, 3, Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt? And then there was no water in the wilderness. Numbers 20, verse 5. The people again moaned to Moses, why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us? to this evil place. And so they always had in their ears a siren song of Egypt. Well, what's going on in these chapters about Abraham? Moses is instructing the Exodus generation. And Moses writes about Egypt's allure during the life of their forefather Abraham. And throughout the story of Abraham, we see this contrast between the so-called fruitfulness of Egypt. in the apparent bitterness of the promised land of Canaan. So in chapter 12, verse 10, Abraham went down to Egypt. Why? Because there was a famine in Canaan, and there wasn't a famine in Egypt. Abraham's nephew Lot He chose the place of land, the piece of land that bordered Egypt. And it says in chapter 13, verse 10, this land was well watered everywhere, like the land of Egypt. And so Egypt is a place that's fertile. Not so Canaan. That's not such a hot place to be. And then in chapter, in chapter 16, we're talking about Hagar, right? And Moses is at pains to point out in verse 1 and 3 that Hagar wasn't merely Sarai's servant, but that Hagar was Sarai's Egyptian servant, and she was fertile. And so Egypt represented the world and its apparent abundance. But every time someone went down, excuse me, every time somebody chose the fertility of Egypt Over faithfulness to God's promise, it resulted in disaster. Right? Remember when Abraham went down to Egypt during the famine? He almost lost his wife. Then when Lot chose the fertile land of Egypt over staying in the land of Canaan, he was captured by the eastern kings. Abraham chose the fertility of his Egyptian servant over trusting God's promise, and he reaped the dis the d disastrous consequences that we read of here. And even Hagar, she made her way back to Egypt and she found out she wasn't really in the milk of honey the milk of land the land of milk and honey after all but that she was in fact alone in the wilderness. So we want to be aware of the siren song of Egypt, or to put it more plainly, We want to be aware of the alluring songs of the world. What's the world say? You'll be accepted. You'll be comfortable You'll enjoy pleasure. You'll have a different sense of purpose and meaning in life, and you'll enjoy prestige. But anybody who's ever fallen for those uh followed those songs, they realize, you know what? Uh they're hollow or those promises don't deliver So we want to remember, Satan's a liar. Satan's a liar. The world's promises are hollow. And in the end of the day, maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow. But in the end of the day, it always results in disappointment, letdown, and sometimes in misery. So we need to counter that, right? We need to counter that. One of the old Scottish pastors, a guy named Thomas Chalmers, he talked about the expulsive power of a new affection. What? The expulsive power. I said the expulsive power of a new affection. Right? You love the things of the world? And what do you do? How do you deal with that? You need to develop a new affection. You need to cultivate your knowledge of Christ, right? Discover who he is, what he's done, his kindness, his goodness, his grace. his beauty. And this fall in love with Jesus Christ. When you have that new affection it will expel, you know, slowly, incrementally, it will expel this attachment that you have to the fleeting things of this world. So that's the second thing we see here, the siren song of the world, and the third thing finally So we move on to verses 7 and 16. We read about the God who sees, the God who sees. And so Sarai and Abraham, right, these two heroes of the faith in Hebrews 11, they weren't heroes here because they pressed this this Egyptian slave woman, Hagar, uh, for their own advantage. And they gave no thought to Hagar's well-being And um then when things turned sour in Hagar's eyes and she turned on, I mean uh Sarai's eyes and she turned on Hagar, it says in verse six that Hagar fled from Sarah She went back to Egypt. So you have this poor, uh, I guess destitute, unmarried, pregnant woman making his journey uh through the wilderness of southern Israel, making her way back. uh to Egypt and it says in verse 7 the angel of the Lord some say that may well have been a pre-incarnate appearance or manifestation of Jesus Christ The angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness. Then it says, the spring on the way to Shore. So this is right on the border, right near the border of Egypt, verse 8. And he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going? She said, I'm fleeing my mistress Sarai. The angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit to her. And then the angel promises that Hagar Will also have numerous descendants. Verse 10. The angel also said to her, I will surely multiply your offspring. so that they cannot be numbered for multitude. And then verse 11, the angel said to her, Behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has listened to your affliction. He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone, and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against all of his kinsmen So the name Ishmael means God has heard. And so his name would memorialize this encounter that God heard Hagar, this Egyptian. In her misery. It says verse 11, he'll be a wild donkey of a man, and uh he was, Ishmael was in constant conflict. those around him and he became uh centuries later the father of the Arab tribes from which from which the early Muslims descended. So here you have this origin of the Arab is really conflict that has gone on for hundreds of years and over which oceans of blood have been spilled. Thank you, Sarai. And um Hagar's response And this is what I want to focus on, is that she reveled in the fact that God saw her. So in verse 13, she called the name of the Lord. Who spoke to her, you are a god of seeing. For she said, Truly here, I have seen him who looks after me. Then it says in verse 14 the well was called Beer Leheiroi. And that means there's a little text note in my Bible on the bottom. And it says it means the well of the living one who sees me. And so here was this nobody out in the wilderness. uh unknown, it seems, but she wasn't unknown to God and she wasn't uh alone. Uh God heard her and God saw her And that's a good reminder. It's funny, my wife has children's church this morning, but she said, I love that passage, The God Who Sees. And this is one of her favorite passages in the Bible. We're never alone. And I think this is important. Well it's important for all of us, but I think it's really important for our our young people to think about, because I don't envy you I I think it's fair to say that you are a part of the most isolated generation in history. This has caused, you know, for all the nice things that come uh from these phones, it also takes too much attention. And it takes away our opportunities to interact, to make friends, to go outside, uh, to be in group activities. And it's been It's been terrible on young people. The depression, the suicides. You know, I read the front page of the Frederick paper yesterday. A 15-year-old girl in Walkersville was standing on the edge of the highway And when a truck came, she stepped right out in front of it. I don't know what was going on there, but it sounds like it was a suicide. And I'm sure Sure, there's this terrible uh backstory there, but it is so sad. And this is why you need to be in church. This is why we need to get to know one another. This is why the adults need to be come be know the young people, right? And the young people need to get together. They shouldn't talk about yourself. Talk say what's going on with you. Encourage each other. So yeah, we want to be a community, but we also want to remember That you you want to remember, you're never alone. And I'd I encourage everybody, and certainly our young people, when you go home this afternoon, read Psalm 139. God knows everything about you. before it ever happens. He's watching over you. He has his purposes for you. Never forget that God has gone on public record to say he cares for you and as Jesus said in Luke 27, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. He is the God who sees. Then there are others here. You've been done dirt by other people. And nobody notices. And doesn't seem like anybody cares. But he's the God who cares, he's the God who sees, and he has a special care for the weak and for the vulnerable. Psalm 68, verse 5. God is called Father of the Fatherless, Protector of Widows, for Psalm 113, verse 7. The psalmist says he raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap, from the garbage dump. So he's the God who cares. So fascinate a fascinating chapter. We see again, yeah, sin complicates things. But don't take a shortcut. It'll just be more complicated in the end. But something else that we're reminded of in Scripture Is that though our sin has deep and lasting consequences in our lives, its eternal consequences have been dealt with Isaac was the children of the prom the child of the promise, right? God was going to bring him forth supernaturally. And in his good time, right? Galatians 4. 4, when the fullness of time had come, God sent his son He was born of a woman. He was born under the law to redeem those under the law that we might receive the full rights of sons. So just as God fulfilled his covenant promises to Abraham, he fulfills his promises to us through sending Jesus Christ. In fact, 1 Corinthians Or 2 Corinthians 1 says, all God's promises find their yes in Christ Jesus. Because he didn't take any shortcuts. Remember when he was tempted, Matthew 4? He didn't take any shortcuts. He was obedient. Where we fell short, and he's our righteousness. Let's bow our heads. We do thank you, Lord, for your watch care over us. For those who are discouraged, for those who feel