To Hebrews chapter 13. So those who've been here, we've we're going through Revelation, but I took I took a couple of weeks off for something different, but also It's hard to do revelation when you have like a three-day week. So I can I can handle something else. And I and I happened to read a couple weeks ago a little booklet or I guess a short book I should say by a guy named Alexander Strauch, S-T-R-A-U-C-H. Everything the guy writes is very packed with scripture and he is very comprehensive But he wrote a little booklet on or a little book on hospitality. The title is The Hospitality Commands. I'd recommend that to you. But that got me thinking about this, and there was such uh such good uh content in there that I took some of it out uh to to uh put in this passage or this sermon on Hebrews chapter 13. Just reading two verses. So the question is, um, is this an expository sermon or a topical sermon? I'm not sure. Maybe it's a Hybrid. Then I repent. And so uh if you think this is topical, just uh just pray, you know, Father forgives Father forgive him. He knows not what he's doing. But we'll see what we're what how this ends up. But Hebrews 13, verse 1 to 2, is the concluding exhortations. That the writer gives to these Christians from a Jewish background. He says to them, let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Well that's our passage. Strauss, in that book, he said that hospitality is the missing jewel in the crown of Christian life and service. And so often We neglect to practice it, and this neglect hinders our fellowship. It certainly hampers our witness. And it leaves a longing in the lives of those who would greatly benefit from our friendship and from our hospitality. Uh in fact Strauss was talking about in the beginning of that book. He talks about an elderly woman who is now in his church, but in her former church, which she had attended For four years, uh she would get on the bus Sunday morning, take an hour bus slide bus ride to church, attend the morning worship service, and they had an evening worship service. So she would hang around the area for the evening service. But she said not one time in those four years did one person in that church invite her over to lunch And this is not uncommon, and I'm sure there are people in our church who have been overlooked. And so what I want to do this morning uh based on this text and a couple other texts, I want to make a make the case for practicing hospitality And when I'm done, I hope you'll say, you know what, this is good, this is right. This is what the Lord would have me to do. And we're going to make a way to do this, because this is This is this is it will be a blessing to us, but even more so it will be a blessing to other people. So you'll notice in the bulletin I have four headings, nice, nice, clean outline The first heading is the foundation of hospitality. Well, I have two things under that heading. The first foundation Is the fact that God has welcomed us, right? You think about the story of the prodigal son in Luke 15. We were once rebels against our heavenly Father. We went our own way, we did our own thing. And what did our Father do? He not only welcomed us back, but he was out seeking us. He was seeking after us. And when he finally found us He invited us back to himself, and he didn't merely say, you know, here, come have uh have a sandwich, but he laid out this lavish feast, or think about Revelation 19 The great feast that God has prepared for His people. And so God was hospitable to us. Think about Jesus in Matthew 11, 28. We're weary, right? We're burdened by our sin. And Jesus in that passage said, Come to me, all who are weary and burdened, and I'll give you rest. So Jesus offers us rest. Or think about the fact that outside of Christ we were orphans, but in Jesus Christ we have been adopted as God's children. John chapter 1 verse 12 John wrote to all who did receive him who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And as God's children We have all the privileges of Jesus Christ, the firstborn Son. And so one of the foundations of Christian hospitality is the welcome, the fellowship, and the rest that God has extended to us in Jesus Christ. A second biblical foundation of hospitality is the description that Scripture gives of the church. The church Is described not merely as an organization. So we're not all we're not just members of the same organization, but rather the Bible describes the church as A family. Here's a good sentence from Strauss. He said, Christians are not brothers and sisters merely because we share similar interests, ideas, and circumstances. But we're brothers and sisters because we share, as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 10, life in Jesus. And so we have been given this spiritual birth from God, right? God is our Father, and we have life in Jesus. And so that makes us a family. Uh that's why in the early church The the Christians would talk about each other as their brothers, as their sisters. Like uh Saila Chen, when she talks about seeing her Christian girlfriend, she would say She says, I'm going to go see my sisters. And that's a real that's a very nice way of putting it. In fact, you go through the New Testament and you'll find these kind of terms, brethren, brothers, sisters some 250 times. And so they called each other brothers and sisters because they saw themselves as a family. And they treat each other like a family, right? They cared for the need. Think about Acts chapter 6, right? They shared everything. Acts chapter 2 verse 46 says, They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts Uh Acts two forty-four to forty-five. They shared their material possessions. And also in the New Testament. Because they were a family, uh there was accountability. Uh they practiced discipline in the church. But this all speaks of one of the central images that the Bible presents of the church, and that is that we are a family in Jesus Christ. One of the British classical scholars, a guy named Edwin Hatch, he wrote about the early church. He said Christianity grew because it was a great fraternity. The name brother came to be the ordinary designation by which a Christian addressed his fellow Christian. It vividly expressed that a Christian found, wherever he went in the community of his fellow Christians, a welcome and hospitality. Ah, right, so we're a family, and so that's why we need to to to make this effort, to become acquainted, uh, and not merely in a casual manner But to know one another and hospitality so well uh promotes that. And some in our church are very good at that. So as Paul said in first Thessalonians chapter four verse one. Hey, you're doing a good job, but do it more and more than for others who, you know, this isn't my thing You know, here's a little nudge, here's a little push from Scripture. And so there's the foundation of hospitality, the welcome God has given to us, and the family character of the church. And then we'll go on point two, the duty of hospitality. And so you'll notice when the Bible talks about hospitality, it doesn't say Here's a helpful suggestion for those of you who like to invite other people over. It doesn't approach it like that. But rather, the Bible commands all Christians to exercise hospitality. Let me give you a few verses here. Romans 12, verse 13. Paul wrote, contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. First Peter four verse nine Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. Imagine that without grumbling you having people over and things are You're not quite ready yet. First Peter four nine, good reminder, show hospitality without grumbling. First Peter, sorry, First Timothy chapter three, verse two, list hospitality. As one of the requirements for elders, then you go down that passage to verse 8, and it says, deacons likewise do these things. And so the Bible then is saying that hospitality is one of the requirements for being a leader in the church and then not just that you have people over, but you need to have a hospitable disposition too. You need to be welcoming, you need to be approachable, you need to be interested and people. That's a really helpful thing and a church leader. It's funny, I was thinking about this this morning. I was thinking about seminary, where I went to seminary. I'd walk across the campus and half the people couldn't even look up and say hi to you when you're walking by them. You know you're I'm thinking, I'm looking at future ministers. Well I really wasn't. Uh but um But they didn't get it then. This is sort of important that you'd be able to look at somebody and say hello. But and it's in the Bible. And they studied the Bible really well there. But that one didn't click a Or something. Hebrews 13, our passage. Let's look at this a little bit more closely. So Paul, or not Paul, the writer says, let brotherly love continue Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. And so, first of all, let brotherly love continue. He's not saying in the sense of allow it to continue or permit it to continue. But more in a sense of a command, right? Let there be light. That's what he's saying. Let broadly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. And this is something that the early church excelled at. In the second century, one of the writers Aristotle said to these Christians, It was remarkable. He wrote, they love one another. They do not overlook the widow, and they save the orphan. He who has ministers ungrudgingly to him who does not have. When they see a stranger, they take him under their own roof. and rejoice over him as a true brother. For they do not call themselves brothers according to the flesh, but according to the soul. And this ex this hospitality was not only toward their friends, but even toward strangers. And this was important in the early church. Christian suddenly became a convert to Christianity, they would often be ostracized not only by society but by their family, and so they needed a place to live. And these Christians would receive these converts into their homes or if a Christian was traveling through, right? Hebrews was written to Christians scattered throughout the empire And so the writer says, you know, when a Christian's traveling through, um well they have the option of staying at a inn, but a inn at the first cent in the first century wasn't like a Hampton Inn. Now these were The flea infested uh dens of immorality, oftentimes inhabited also by criminals, and so it was important. uh that the Hebrew Christians would invite these uh traveling uh brothers and sisters to stay with them. And so we must not neglect uh to show hospitality even to strangers. Great new person shows up at church. Hey, how you doing? And you say you might say, you know what, hey, you want to come over for lunch today? We'd love to have you. having uh leftovers or nothing fancy, but we'd love to have you. Or uh if there's a refugee or you know and someone new in the area, we have refugees in our church in a sense, right? The Kungabas are refugees from Cameroon And so they've been in the church for many years now, uh, but uh they they've been blessed uh by the hospitality. We're kids, if there's a new person in your class, it's hard to be a new person. What's the Christian thing to do? Is to reach out to that person, is to to make that person feel a part of things and even to invite that person say to the youth group or to over to Sunday school. And then look at the end of verse two in Hebrews thirteen It says, hospitality may bring unexpected rewards. He says, for thereby some have entertained Angels unawares. And so I think this is a reference, or not only I, but most most of the commentators would say this is probably a reference to that passage in Genesis 18 Where Abraham extended hospitality to three strangers, and unbeknownst to him, he was uh entertaining angels. And then there's a couple other Occasions in the Old Testament. Gideon and Judges 6. Samson's parents in Judges 13 When they extended hospitality, they didn't realize it, but they were entertaining angels. And so what's the lesson there? The lesson's not that if you invite somebody to lunch, hey, you never know, you might be on Wouldn't be having uh your meal with an angel, but the point he's making is that there is an unexpected blessing. uh that comes. There are unexpected rewards that come in extending hospitality to other people. And those who you know who who practice hospital hospitality they they realize that and I I think about you know over the past thirty years we've had many of the world witnessed missionaries uh stay with us. They'd be speaking on Sunday morning at church so oftentimes they say But the blessings are because we discovered, and I say this, the most delightful people in our denomination are the missionaries. think that's true across the board for all missionaries, but these missionaries they're they're they're well rounded, uh they're interested and they're interesting. And so we've been blessed just by learning about them and learning about these other other countries or I think about uh the young adults in our church from other countries. Leo from Brazil, we've gotten to know them and we'd say, you know, they're they're amongst our our dearest friends. In fact, you're a few years back, I guess well several years back now, Colin went with us on vacation And um he found out we're a completely dysfunctional family. But um so we had him sign this long dis non-disclosure agreement Uh but also um I mean we got to know him and learned about Cameroon and so he I mean he's been a a longtime friend now, so the blessing uh really has been ours. And so it's a duty, but it's also a blessing. I want to go on now to point three and talk about, expand on that a little bit more about the blessing that hospitality brings to the recipient and also to the giver. And the first blessing is um or the talking about the power of hospitality a hospitality builds community in the church And this is the fundamental thing that most people are looking for. They're looking for community, they're looking for friendship They're looking for they're looking to be to be noticed. I know some people don't want to be the center of attention, but everybody wants to feel like they're a part of the group. accepted and that's what hospitality does. And it's just bizarre the things that churches focus on that they think would be a blessing to people When they should really be focusing more and more on hospitality. There was an article I read a few years back by a lady named Julie Nedlingber. Uh she was thirty-four at the time. And this article uh was a diatribe against the slickness and the superficiality Of so many churches. The title is Why I Walked Out of Church. And so you know this is not going to be good, right? This is not going to be pretty. And just dripping With contempt, here's what here's some some part of what she wrote. The coffee bars in the foyer. The casual attire, the buzzwords, all the programs and activities imaginable, the big-screen video monitors, the contemporary music It is actually repulsive in faith to a large chunk of people. Then she said, I miss my own small church from back home. It's filled with uncool normal people who just want to help and talk and connect and be real and accountable to each other. It's filled with people who want to go out to the Dairy Queen and have an ice cream cone The church doesn't have programs and any other accessories to attract subgroups or anything that smacks of entertainment. There's no program there to attract me to stay, but instead it's the real relationships that have done the trick. We greet people not as a job, but because we see that they're new and we want to get to know them It's like, wow. It's like shouldn't that be obvious to all of us? Uh people want to make friends, right? That's why I want to encourage you to invite people over for Sunday dinner Invite them out on a weekday for or a Saturday for lunch or for uh dinner out. And certainly encourage you to join one of these home groups we have. I know the species are Starting another group that's going to meet on Saturday nights. That might be good for some people and we want to get another group started too on Sundays after church. So that's how that's how these relationships So hospitality that builds community B it provides an opportunity for discipleship. So like on Tuesdays we have this marriage class, it starts with a cover dish uh dinner and we just sit around and we talk and we encourage each other and learn about each other and we learn a lot. In the process, that's weird disciples Often takes place around the table. Martin Luther and his wife Catherine were famous for exercising hospitality. They'd always have people in their houses. of his some of his writings were called Table Talk, right? He discipled people across the kitchen table. And sometimes it just happens, right? You don't You're not deliberate like this Tuesday marriage group, but just happens you have somebody over. Remember years ago we had some young lady in the church over for lunch And um Becky said, Hey, will you put out the uh place settings? She said, I don't know how to do it. So she had never been nurtured, she didn't have a mom, she never learned that. And so Becky said, Well, you're No biggie, but that's one of those things you want to learn how to do to make it through life. And so that was discipleship where you have somebody over on a weeknight and you have a little time you know, five or ten minutes you read the Bible and we pray as a family, that might help them if there are other Christians, hey we need to start doing that. I see how it's done now. And so hospitality provides only community, it provides an opportunity for discipleship. And then C Hospitality is a potent weapon for evangelism. When you think about it, you think about the early church. Within a generation, the church which started in Jerusalem Within a generation, it spread throughout Israel, and then into Turkey, Greece, into Africa, and then across the Roman Empire, and then into Rome itself. It was in a generation. Scratch your head. How did that happen? And we said, well, the Spirit of God attended the proclamation of the Word of God, that's for sure. But attended to that. These Christians loved in a way that the world had never seen. This was remarkable. That's what verse 1 is saying, right? Let brotherly love continue. You guys are doing this. Continue to do it. It's remarkable. One of the historians of the ancient world, a guy named Gustav Stalin, he wrote: one of the most prominent features in the picture of early Christianity, which is so rich in good works, Is undoubtedly it's hospitality. So they got it, they were doing it, and this was a key To the spread of Christianity. And remember, in the early church, there were no church buildings, right? They met in homes. Think about Acts chapter 9 or chapter 10, verse 24. Uh Cornelius, he invited his friends and his close relatives to his house, and there Peter shared the gospel. That's how the gospel went to the Gentile world. Or when Peter ate or Jesus ate with tax collectors and sinners, it wasn't at Denny's, right? It was at Peter's house. And so all this stuff took place in in people's homes, and that is how uh the church uh spread, and that's what we can imitate more and more. So have people over. We can do uh one of these seven week Christian explored studies or you could take John's Stott's book, Basic Christianity. Hey, have them over for dinner. Hey, we're gonna meet for six weeks. We're gonna read a couple chapters of basic Christianity I want to hear what you think and we'll we'll have a little discussion here over over a meal. That's how it happens. So God uses hospitality. uh as as a tool for evangelism. And sometimes you know you don't have to have only studies even, just ha have the non-believe roarer saying this to Becky, we're talking about this We need to do better at having people who aren't Christians over. We're so involved in the church, but we need to be more uh deliberate because You know, when somebody sees a Christian family with all their warts and their screaming and all whatever their problem is, still They can see, you know what, there's something different about how these people relate to each other. We certainly pray that'll be the case. I was reading uh and Jim Peterson has a a book called Evangelism as a Lifestyle. And he had a f a friend from Brazil, a guy named Mario. He was he was a he was a Marxist intellectual and he was a political activist Come on over for dinner. And um they made friends and they started studying the Bible. For four years they studied the Bible. Then Mario became a Christian And so Jim Peterson asked me, he said, Well, what was it, Mario, that led you to come to Christ? And he was like Expecting this fellow to say, well, it was a Bible study. You're a great teacher, Jim. You really opened up the scripture to me But instead, uh Mario said, I'm gonna read it, he said to this man, Jim Peterson, remember the first time I stopped excuse me, remember the first time I stopped by your house? We were on our way someplace together, and I had a bowl of soup with you and your family. As I sat there observing you, your wife, your children, and how you related to each other, I asked myself When will I have a relationship when will I have a relationship like this with my fi with my fiance? And then he said, when I realized the answer was never, I concluded I had to become a Christian for the sake of my survival. And so yeah, you know, it does make an impression on people. So the most uh powerful weapon uh that we have for evangelism isn't a gospel tract like the four spiritual laws as useful as those tracts are it's not Christian radio as useful as that is But rather the most useful tool that we have in our arsenal for evangelism is the kitchen table And there's a book out there by a lady named Rosaria Butterfield. She wrote, The Gospel comes with a house key. And that's really it. That's how we do it. So briefly, uh number four in the outline, the practice of hospitality. Well, you're sure you want to do this, right? Sure it's biblical, but is it convenient? Because it's intrusive and it's expensive. And so, nah, I don't know. But we would say, no, the the benefits outweigh the cost, the benefits outweigh the inconvenience And so you think about this, if you're single or if you're married, you talk to your spouse and say, you know what, I'm gonna have and you if you're single you do this too, right? Sayla, she's single, she has families over to her little apartment for She makes these big Chinese meals. It was funny, I was telling um somebody yesterday, when we went there she had some rice wine. I had hurt my back that week. And so I had some rice wine And then I got up out of the soft chair and I was sort of stiff. And uh later Sayla said to Becky, she thought I was drunk. I was just dead, I wasn't drunk. But anyway, uh what was I talking about? Um Um yeah, so alright, so you you talk to your spouse or if you're single, you think it through. They say, you know what, we want to do this once a week or we want to do this twice a month or whatever. And um And you start making a list. You know, who do we want to invite over? Invite them ahead of time so everything will work out, or maybe you just want to a after church, you know, maybe there's a new person you want to invite them over. But make a plan, it doesn't have to be fancy, it just has to be manageable and you just have to do it, okay? Think about people outside the church might want to invite over. That's another good way. And so as you consider the welcome That Jesus has extended to us, as you hear the commands, the clear commands in Scripture, that this is something God calls us to do, as you think about the blessing That hospitality will confer upon those who receive our hospitality, but also how it'll sneak up around the back and bless us unexpectedly. I hope you've concluded. As I said, you know what, this is good, this is right. This is what the Lord would have us to do. We need to do this. And we're going to make a way for it to happen So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, uh scripture is very clear. Help us, Lord, to grow in this area. Help us to be deliberate and may we be a blessing to other people and may we also be a light to unbelievers. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's take your song books, number one ninety-five, joy to the world. Let's Joy to the world of joy is come, let her receive the king Let every heart rebel and heaven and nature sing and heaven and nature sing And heaven and heaven nature Nature seek joy to the earth does Savior that man their soul enjoy Well to his hand, so to land, repeat the sound in short, repeat the sound angel, repeat repeat. No more attain than sorrow, no doors in bed. He wrote to make his blessings blow for as the curse is now, for as the curse is done, for as for as And it's the nation the glory has done And wonders of his heart, and wonders of his heart, and wonders wonders of his God. Please look up and receive the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Yeah, this is why Yeah, she's not feeling bad.