In Matthew chapter fifteen. Matthew fifteen. So we're we're working our way through Matthew Matthew's gospel and we come to this passage, the account Of the Canaanite woman coming to faith in Jesus. But what I'm going to do, if it were typical, I would just take that section But what I'm going to do, I'm going to take the rest of the chapter because you'll see in a little bit that this is really one piece. This is a section of Scripture. There's a unity to it. And it makes a lot of sense because if you'll notice, in chapter 15 there's an account of Jesus healing many and then him feeding 4,000. Well, in 14, there was an account of Jesus feeding 5,000 and healing many. Why does Matthew repeat another one of these feedings and another section of healing? Well there's a reason he does it, and I don't think we'll get it unless we take it as one piece. But our focus this morning is verses uh twenty uh twenty-one to twenty-eight. But I'm going to read the whole piece there. So beginning in Matthew fifteen, verse twenty-one. Matthew tells us, and Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, the Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, help me. And he answered, It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. She said, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. Then Jesus answered her, O woman, great is your faith, be it done for you as you desire and her daughter was healed instantly. Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee, and he went up on the mountain and sat down there And the great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they put them at his feet, and he healed them So that the crowd wondered when they saw the mutes speaking and the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel. Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I have compassion on the crowd, because they had been with me now three days. And the disciple said to him, Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd? And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? They said, Seven and a few small fish. In directing the crowd to set down on the ground, he took the seven loaves and the fish And having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds, and they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over. Those who wait were four thousand men, besides women and children. And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magodon. So A desperate mother with a distressed daughter comes to Jesus. She pleads with him for help. And what does he do? He ignores her, he rejects her, and he insults her. Not a very Christ-like response, uh some would say, but by the end of the encounter, Jesus ends up Granting their request, and what does it say in verse 28? Oh woman, great is your faith. What's going on here? Okay, what's going on here? Let's look at the context. You might remember from last week. So Jesus is up in Galilee in northern Israel, and he's ministering to the Jews up in that area. And a delegation of Pharisees come up from Jerusalem. So they make an 80-mile trip from Jerusalem up to the area near the Sea of Galilee. And why do they come? Do these Jews, these Pharisees and scribes, did they come up to say, we recognize your Messiah? You're the Messiah? We commend you for the great things you're doing. Not at all. They had no joy that Jesus was helping these people, relieving them of their misery, but rather These the screw this delegation came up to correct Jesus and to condemn him because his disciples were not washing their hands according to the prescriptions that the rabbis had developed over the centuries. And so after Jesus sort of locked horns with the scribes and the Pharisees, it says in verse 21 Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And so this is 25 miles north, I think, to Tyre, and another 25 up to Sidon. And so Jesus got away from the crowds, he got away from the Jewish leaders, he went up here, and this was primarily a Gentile area. That's something you want to know. And now I want to ask the question, and there's two answers to it I think. My question is Why is this passage in Matthew's gospel? You always have to ask that when you're reading a scripture, right? Scriptures are not just running travelogues, but rather uh every book of the Bible is It's a carefully crafted document, and the writers have a purpose. And so we want to ask: why does Matthew include this account in his gospel? And the first answer, I think, is that it foreshadows the spread of the gospel to the Gentiles. Now of all the gospels, of all four gospels, It's Matthew's gospel that was written primarily to a Jewish audience to show the Jews that Jesus was their Messiah. But Matthew at the same time, he can't resist foreshadowing and pointing to the fact that the gospel is going to go to the Gentiles as well. Remember when Jesus was born? Who came to worship the newborn king but magi, gentiles from far off Then you get to the very end of Matthew's gospel, Jesus gives a great commission. Go make disciples of all nations. And here we find Jesus now leaving this Jewish region, this area of Galilee that was populated by Jews. And he goes up to the Gentile area of Tyre and Sidon. He meets a Canaanite woman. Now, this is the only place in the Gospels where you're going to find mention of Canaanites. And it's interesting because you might remember from the book of Joshua, the Canaanites were the historic enemies of Israel. Remember, they went across the uh the Jordan River into the land of Canaan, the promised land. It wasn't empty. It was populated by these wicked pagan peoples, various Canaanite tribes Who had pagan gods, and they were an offense to God. And so God said to the Israelites, go into the land of Canaan and wipe out These pagans who are worshiping false gods, cleanse the land, and then take the land for yourself. So it's rather interesting That right in the middle of Matthew's gospel, we read about a Canaanite woman coming to faith in Jesus Christ and coming to Jesus in faith. and Jesus healing her daughter. And so this pictures the expansion of the gospel. It's going to go to all nations. In this picture is the dismantling of the wall that separates Jews from the Gentiles because Jesus said, When I'm lifted up, I'm going to draw men from all nations to know me. And in the remainder of this chapter, Jesus heals many people. He feeds the masses I mentioned also already. Those kind of things are were already discussed in chapter 14 where Jesus did that amongst the Jews. But now apparently Jesus has come down when you get to the feeding and the healings. Jesus has come back down from Tyre and Sidon, but now he's arrived on the western side of the Sea of Galilee. which was primarily Gentile area. We know that or we believe that because the parallel text, Mark seven thirty-one, says it was the region of the the capitalist the ten cities, and these were Gentile cities. And also something that tips us off, if you'll skip down to verse 31, uh where Jesus um had healed the masses, it says in the end of verse 31 They glorified the God of Israel. Now that's the kind of language that would be used of Gentiles, right? Jews. Don't talk about the the Jews don't have a pantheon of gods. They know there's only one God. So were it Jews? It would say they glorified God. But this was Gentile territory, apparently. And so Matthew writes They glorified the God of Israel. They recognized that this was the true God amongst the many pagan deities that they had. But anyway Um so Jesus is showing us here that the Gentiles are Worthy recipients, not worthy, are legitimate recipients of the gospel offer And so if that's the case though, you still have to scratch your head and you have to ask the question, why was Jesus so harsh to this desperate lady? Why was he so uh abrasive to her? And um you know going back to verse twenty-two uh she comes to him And he's supposed to be helping people. And in verse 22, he ignored her. Verse 23, she he did not answer her a word. And then his disciples said, get rid of her, she's driving us nuts. So he ignored her, and then he rejected her. Look at verse 24. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And it's true, the god the covenant that God made with Abraham and with um Isaac and with Noah and going out go going throughout the Old Testament, it was to the people of Israel. And so the Jews were God's covenant people But secondarily, the gospel would go forth to the other nations. And so that's why in verse 26 or 24 he rejected her request And then in verse 26, seems like he's getting sort of nasty now, says, and he answered, it's not right to take the children's bread. and throw it to the dogs. And so he calls this woman a gentile dog. She was not worthy, supposedly of receiving salvation or receiving his help. So you have to scratch your head and um I there's not an answer to this really Why did Jesus treat her in this manner? And then he turns around and he grants her request. I mean, if she was a j really a Gentile dog who wasn't worthy of the blessings of the covenant. Then why does he turn around and grant her request? We can only speculate. And I want to tell you, like when I'm speculating, this is it. I'm speculating Maybe it was so that her persistence could be demonstrated to his disciples, and then his disciples would see, you know what? Look what Jesus Christ is doing He is welcoming a Gentile, a Canaanite, into the kingdom. That's the explanation that makes the most sense to me. You could I mean some have speculated perhaps he wasn't brushing her off, right? We're just reading it. We don't we don't we don't have a recording of this encounter. Maybe he wasn't brushing her off, some would say. Uh maybe he carried out his resistance with a twinkle in his eye and he was just sort of coaxing her along. Oh, you know, you're a gentile dog and he sort of you know uh winking his eye at her. Uh we don't know So we don't know why he brushed her off, but here's the here's what we do know. Whatever was taking place This woman looked to Jesus as the Messiah. This Gentile looked to Jesus as the Messiah and as the one who alone could save her daughter. So I don't know how that all fits together, but what we do know is that God had promised in the Old Testament that Gentiles would come into the kingdom. And we see here, those promises are coming to fruition. Let me give you three examples of Old Testament promises In Genesis 12, verse 3, when God extended the covenant to Abraham, right? And nobody from nowhere. And he said to Abraham, In you, through your descendants. All the families of the earth will be blessed. So we know that the covenant was not just for Abraham's people, but it was for all the families on the earth. Another one, Isaiah 49, verse 6, God promised Israel, I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. So God's plan way back in the time of Isaiah, 700 B. C. , it was for all the nations to come to know him Through the people of Israel and through their Messiah. Then we just read Psalm 87, pictures of one day there's going to be this census taken, and people from Babylon In Egypt, in Philistia, Israel's historic enemies, there are going to be people numbered amongst the people of God from those nations. And so there's a lesson for us here before we go on. The lesson for us is that the God of Scripture, you see this from Genesis to Revelation, the God of Scripture is a missionary God. And he desires people from all nations to come to know him. That's why we want to have a missionary mindset in our church, right? It's not just we four and no more. It's not just our little congregation, but we want to have a missionary mindset. That's why we support missions. That's why we pray for missionaries. That's why the first Sunday of the month. What's the focus of the prayer meeting? We pray for various missionaries. That's why we encourage you to come to pray for our missionaries. That's why we pray, Lord, raise up from our congregation. Individuals who would go across cultures and present the gospel to those who have never heard. That's why in our budget we have a chunk of it given uh that goes out to foreign missions into domestic church planning. We want to have the same missionary mindset. Well that was the introduction, okay? Now here's a real thing that really stands out to me. So why did Matthew include this text? And certainly it's true to show the gospel going to all nations. But here's a bigger thing, at least in my mind. This passage displays the character of saving faith. And I think this is very important. Because I know through conversations that there are folks here. Some are kids, some are adults. And they're looking at Christianity and they find it intriguing, right? Otherwise, they wouldn't still be coming. They find it intriguing But in the end of the day, their their current state is that they're not convinced That this is all true. They're not entirely convinced that this book is the Word of God and that the claims that Jesus Christ makes of Himself are true. And so, how do you get there? How do you go from a sort of a waffling belief and unbelief? To the point where you're persuaded, yes, this is truth delivered to us from God. Because it just doesn't happen, and you just can't will it to happen. And so what do you do? And here's something where the here's a here's something I want to point out from this passage. You can look at this passage and discover the character of saving faith. What is the character of saving faith? I want you to understand that from this text. And then call out to God. Give me that. Give me that faith. Okay? So we're asking the question What is the character of saving faith? And here's the first thing from verse 26 and 27. The principle is this. Those with saving faith, first of all, recognize their moral and spiritual bankruptcy. Now, if you look at this story closely, it's obvious that the Canaanite woman saw her daughter's need for deliverance from oppression to these demons. But here's something else, and I think this is important. She at the same time saw her own spiritual need. And I say that because when Jesus spoke to her, she not only listened to what he what he had to say, But she indicates that she accepted it. She agreed with what he had to say. Look at verse 26. Jesus said, It's not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs She didn't say, Who are you to call me a dog? But what did she do? She acknowledged that she was a Gentile dog, and they were dogs. They lived without God's law. They lived degraded lives of indiscriminate sexual immorality. They worshipped various uh pagan gods. They were characterized by fierce violence. And so she acknowledged that she lived amongst a condemned people who had no right to claim anything. From God. And that's what happens when somebody becomes a Christian. There's a personal recognition of one's spiritual corruption And moral bankruptcy. And you realize this about yourself. You no longer say, you know what? I'm a pretty good person. I go to church. I try to do, I try to tell the truth. I try to be nice to others You no longer say that about yourself. When a person comes to Christ, you recognize about yourself, sin has tainted me from the crown of my head. to the soles of my feet, and there is no good in me apart from God's common grace. A Christian or somebody who's becoming Christian looks at him or herself like that. I read an interesting article about a Scottish theologian back in the eighteen hundreds, his name was Robert Haldane. And he took a short-term missionary trip to Geneva, Switzerland. Well, it was for a couple years, so I guess that's short-term. He wanted to go to Geneva to find out what happened to this to this city that was once the cradle of the Protestant Reformation, just 250, 300 years earlier It seems the entire city of Geneva was a citadel for the gospel. So Haldane wanted to know what's going on over there in Geneva. He took this trip. And when he got there, he wrote, Geneva was involved in the most deplorable darkness. There were churches, but they were not preaching the gospel. They were not proclaiming Scripture. And he met some seminary students, and he discovered of them they had been tutored in Plato, in Aristotle. But they didn't understand Scripture. They were not well acquainted with Scripture, and they certainly did not understand the gospel of God's grace. And so he began a regular meeting with these students. He said, I'm going to teach them. And he began a series of expositions through the book of Romans. And he came to Romans 3, verses 10-18. I'm going to read that to you, and then I'm going to tell you a comment he made. So he reads to these students, Romans 3, verses 10-18. This is God's assessment of humanity outside of Jesus Christ. Paul writes, None is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asp is under their lips, and there is no fear of God. before their eyes. And so Hal Dane read this passage to these seminary students. He explained this passage to them And one student he got it. He said, Now I understand. Now I see this doctrine. of man's depravity. Now I see this in the Bible. And Haldane didn't say, oh that's great. I'm glad you see it. But rather he asked them the question Well that's good, but do you see it in your heart? Do you see that of yourself? That there is no good that resides in you apart from Jesus Christ. And that's what I ask you. Do you see this in yourself apart from Jesus Christ? There is nothing good in me. There's nothing That commends me to a holy God. In apart from the mercy of God, I am lost, and I am without hope. When somebody sees that, that's the person who is poised to become a Christian. That we're we recognize God is working in that person God is allowing the person to see that they're not righteous. Now if you don't see that, you say, wait, that's just not right. There is good in me. Well, of course that we're we're a mix, but the Bible is saying even our good, even the good in us though is tainted by sin. That's why the Bible talks about total depravity. Doesn't mean we're as bad as we can be, but it means that every aspect of our character has been polluted to some degree by sin. And so anyway, if you don't see that about yourself, here's what I say to you. And I and I say this not because it's my great idea But it's because this is how Scripture has has been rightly used down through the centuries. What you need to do is you need to look at God's law. You need to look at the Ten Commandments, read through them, reflect on them, and discover, think, reflect. You know what? I don't keep those commandments in my thoughts, in my motives, in my attitudes. Read Jesus' exposition on the Ten Commandments in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5-7 Jesus completely cuts us down to size, right? So what I'm saying, take the Ten Commandments, you take a scripture like the Sermon on the Mount, and hold it up to your soul as a mirror and look at yourself. And you realize, you know what? I might be pretty sharp compared to many other people, but when I see God's holiness in the form of these precepts, I realize I fall short. And so we're talking about the character of saving faith. This lady recognized, you're right, I'm a Gentile dog. I fall short, I have nothing. to commend me to you. And that's what what a Christian is Christian is. It's someone who recognized his or her spiritual pollution as they stand before God. Here's a second trait we see in this woman that is characteristic of those who have saving faith. Now if we were to stop there and say, I'm a miserable sinner. We would be left in our despair. But those with saving faith just don't look to themselves, but then they see Jesus Christ And that's what happens to this lady. She sees the greatness of Jesus Christ. Look at the end of verse 22. This Gentile, this Canaanite says Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David. She calls him the Lord, and then she recognizes that he's the son of David. He is the promised Messiah. And this lady surely was ignorant of many things. And um, but somewhere along the way, she had learned That the Messiah would come from the line of David. Maybe somewhere she heard Psalm 72, verse 4, which promises that when the Messiah comes. It says he'll defend the cause of the poor of the people and give deliverance to the children of the needy. And she realized, you know what? My child needs deliverance. And she recognized this man is not just this great teacher, he is the son of David, he is the promised Messiah. And so then in verse 25, she came and knelt before him, knelt before him, perhaps in worship, saying, Lord, help me. And so what I'm pointing out from this is that to be saved, you must not only see your sin in your spiritual need of a savior. But then you want to look up and you need to recognize the greatness of Jesus Christ. And so again If you're saying, well, I'm not there yet, that would be nice if that was true, but I'm not there yet. What do you do? Well, again, you want to read the scripture, think about his teaching, look at his acts Consider the consistency of his character. You know, who is this man? Think about the brazen claims he made about himself. He said in so many words, everybody outside he didn't say it in so many words, he said it. I think it's John 8. Everybody outside of me dwells in moral and spiritual darkness. Everybody. But then he said, but I alone, I'm the light of the world. He said, everybody is a sinner. But then he said of himself, I have the authority to forgive sins. He said he'd conquer death. He said one day he would judge the world. And he said he was God Now if he was just a religious teacher, we'd say this guy's a nutcase, right? Stay away from him. But he doesn't come across as somebody who is crazy, as someone who was on balance. He's making these shameless claims about himself. At the same time, can you think of anybody who had a more consistent character, who was more genuinely humble and authentically balanced? And selfless. No, gee the this this is the character of God come in the flesh. You think about uh his claims, you think about uh the the attributes, his characters presented in scripture. Um you know Jonathan Edwards had this great line. He said, In Christ are united, he says, this is a good one to use at a cocktail party. And Christ are united in admirable conjunction of diverse excellencies. And everybody say, what? What are you saying? Then you say In Christ, we see these attributes that on paper are so dissimilar that it seems like they would be utterly incompatible in the same person And yet all these diverse traits, all these diverse traits come together in a perfect sense of proportion In the person of Jesus Christ, He's the Lord of glory, He's the suffering servant, He's a lion, He's a Lamb. We see divine transcendence, and in the same person we see divine condescension, we see justice and mercy. We see majesty, and at the same time we see meekness. How does all this fit together? Well, because he's the Lord of glory. Then, of course, uh you read about his life and the things he did, and you listen to his teaching. And ye say, like the people said in John 7, no one ever spoke like this man, Matthew 7. 28. He spoke as one who had authority. Why do we say this about why does it say this about Jesus Christ? And the reason is because Jesus Christ is God. And so for you, the one Who is saying, I'm not so sure about this stuff, I say to you, how do you account for Jesus Christ? How do you explain him? And so we're looking at the character of saving faith. I said, first of all, those with saving faith recognize their moral and spiritual bankruptcy. And then they lift their eyes and they recognize the greatness of Jesus Christ. And then finally and briefly Those with saving faith recognize that Jesus is a master who abundantly supplies the needs of his children. And so this Canaanite pleas for Jesus help. And in verse 26, he answers harshly. It's not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. It's interesting. She's not discouraged. Because she knows that Jesus has more than enough bread, more than enough food at his table. Look down at verse 27, then we're almost done. She said, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. And so her reasoning is, I understand I'm not a Jew. I understand I don't have a right to sit at the table, but I don't need to fall off the table. Because even the food that falls off the table is not only enough for me, but it's enough for all who would come to Jesus Christ. And so she recognizes the sufficiency of Jesus Christ as a Savior and as her master. And that's why, I don't think it's an accident, that in verses 32 to 39, we read about Jesus feeding now 4,000 Gentiles. Matthew 14 spoke about Jesus feeding 5,000 Jews. Now we read about Jesus feeding the Gentiles. We read in chapter 14 about Jesus healing the Jews We read in chapter 15 of now Jesus healing the Gentiles. And so we see Jesus Christ presides over a table with provisions sufficient. Not only for the Jews, but also for the Gentiles. His provision is sufficient for all who would come to Him And those who have saving faith will find Jesus to be a sufficient Savior. His righteousness is perfect. It's sufficient to cover all your sin. His death on the cross, his atonement is sufficient to cover all of your sin. And he's more than able to nourish you spiritually. And that's why Jesus said in John 6. 35, I'm the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never And this lady recognize that Jesus is the Lord and God and that He's the bread of life And so you get to the end of this conversation, and Jesus commends this woman for her faith. Chapter 15, verse 28. Jesus answered her, A woman, great is your faith, be it done for you as you desire. That's interesting. Jesus never commended the disciples for their faith Jesus never commended one Jew for his or her faith, but we find Jesus here commending this Gentile woman. The only other place in Matthew where we see this is back in chapter 8, verse 10. He commended another Gentile, the Roman Caturian, for his faith. And so there you have it. There is a picture Of saving faith. And my question to you is: do you have faith in Jesus Christ? Are you resting on him for your salvation? And if you don't, then look at what God's law says about your sin and your need of a savior. So we say we And then after you're wounded by the law You can find healing in the gospel. Look to Jesus Christ as the God who came to save us. Let's bow our heads and pray. Lord God, thank you for this clear scripture passage that shows us what it means. To truly believe in Jesus Christ for salvation. I pray for those who are not Christians yet that you will work in them Repentance and faith, we know from Scripture, these are gifts that you give. We pray that you'll give these folks the gift of faith, saving faith. But we also know that you use the means of your word, and so help them to go into the word, help them to examine their hearts, and help us, Lord, who you by your grace Have granted faith. Help us to nurture that faith, to feed upon you, as this woman sought bread from Jesus Christ, who is indeed the bread of life We pray this in His name. Amen. Let's turn to number 499. 499, we're going to sing Rock of Ages. So I'll stand. Rockness laugh for me, let me hide myself in me Let the water and the plot from the repair inside which food we have sin not double cure. Cleanse me from his guilds and power like the labor is of my hands Can I feel I won't see that? Can I see the nose? Goodbye forever. Oh, push me in the knowledge Thou I say I thou alone nothing in my hand I bring Slim with Jews, I cross my crane, make it come to thee for just help and float to thee for grace. Well, I do the country fly, was she saying your Oh my god is thinking bread, where my own death When my story was undone, be on my judgment Rock of me, let me hold yourself in me. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless. Until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. Lord is us with my blessing. Fill our hearts with joy and peace. Let us see off in reading grace. Hory precious, holy precious, traveling through his wilderness