Um we're going to look at Psalm 139 this morning, so we have been going through the book of Revelation and um just about up we're on chapter twenty and what happens I'm thinking about it's Saint De Human Life Sunday. Well chapter 20 is a really hot chapter, and so maybe some people were were were licking their chops last week thinking all right we're finally going to get to chapter 20 And then I'm thinking last Monday, Tuesday, well it is Sanctity Human Life Sunday. And each uh each year we do recognize it in our worship service But occasionally I preach on it. So I thought, um, I wonder how long it's been since I preached on this issue. Four years, five years? I looked in a little book where I keep a list of my sermon Eleven years. Well, we have a whole new generation that's risen up and I thought, you know what, this is pretty important So we'll get to Revelation twenty next year. Uh next year. If if it were up to me it would be next year Next week. Okay. But this morning we're going to look at Psalm 139. And my apologies, it's a topical sermon. Pray for me, I know not what I'm doing. But we're going to do a topical approach to the abortion issue. Psalm 139. This is the prayer of David He says to God, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up, you discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my light lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether You hem me in behind the end before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about it about me be night, even the darkness Is not dark to you, the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as bright darkness is as light with you For you here and here's our text. For you formed my inward parts, you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully And wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance, and your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them! If I would count them, they are more than sand. I awake and I am still with you O that you would slay the wicked, O God, O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. So it was on January 22, 1973, uh, that the Supreme Court legalized abortion in America and since that day over over sixty two million uh children have been aborted in our country So that's about one in four children that are conceived are aborted. So just think about going to the mall or looking at kids on the playground or being at school That's saying that one-fourth of the people that otherwise would be there are not present because they were murdered. And so Christians see this as the paramount uh moral issue in our day. And so because it and I and it is And so we should have a biblical perspective on it. And many women have abortions as a just a casual form of birth control. We understand that's callous. But we also understand that many women have abortions because they're poor, they're scared, are they alone, they've been discarded by their boyfriends, and they have no kind of family structure uh to support them and they've received bad information, bad uh propaganda, and they conclude that abortion is the only reasonable solution So we want to be sensitive to that, of course, and we certainly want to be sensitive to the crushing sense of loss of that women who've had abortions and uh the men who've supported them in that feel about the death of their their child and that does not go away. There is this crushing remorse that many women uh live with. So we want to be sensitive to that, but at the same time we do have a duty to the truth And the truth is that 600,000 unborn children are killed each year in the United States of America. And we pretend it's just some kind of casual, not we pretend, but our culture pretends It's just some kind of casual thing. And so we do have an obligation to pray, to Encourage others, to inform others, to engage others, and also to speak out on the behalf of these children Uh Ellie Weasel, when he accepted the uh Nobel Prize, he was a survivor of the Holocaust. Here's what he said. I swore never to be silent whenever and wherever human beings endure suffering and humiliation. We must always take sides. Neutrality, he said, helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented. And so this morning We're going to look at the biblical testimony concerning the humanity of the child in the womb But before we do that, we're going to spend the brunt of our time clearing away what I would refer what I would say are red herrings. arguments uh that are made in our society uh to justify the practice of abortion And so really for the brunt of our time, I'm going to go through these eight red herrings and um that typically divert attention From the real issue, and the real issue is that that is not just a some kind of uh uh blob in the mother's womb, but that is a human being And so I could have titled this uh sermon because I'm going to spend so much time on it, Eight Things That the Abortion Debate Is Not About. And then we'll briefly look at some scriptures that answer the question, what is it about? So what's the abortion debate not about? Let's just clear off these, let's clear the table here First thing I would say is that the abortion debate is not about politics. People have said the church should not talk about abortion. Because that's a political issue, and my answer to that would be abortion has become a political issue, but the the humanity, excuse me, the murder of children in the womb is an ethical issue in the church does have an obligation to speak on uh ethical issues. We speak on it uh because the Bible speaks on it So the abortion issue, first of all, is not about politics. Secondly, uh the abortion debate is not about being judgmental. And there's almost a reaction That people have. If you have some definite moral convictions, if somebody disagrees with you, they're going to say you're being judgmental. You could be the most gracious, humble, patient person in the world. But if you have convictions that go against the flow of society, somebody can say you're judgmental. And I remember this years ago when Jerry Falwell was alive. People are always condemning this guy, Jerry Falwell. Because he cares about the abortion issue. Well I would say far from it. Jerry Falwell opened a home for unwed mothers. Jerry Falwell would allow an unwed un excuse me, he allowed unwed mothers To go through Liberty University for free. Now they're not the actions of a judgmental person, and yet he was typically uh plastered uh as being a judgmental person. uh kind of guy. So it's not about being judgmental. Here's the third thing it's not about. It's not um abortion is not about freedom of choice. When you think about it, we would all admit that choice is not an unqualified right. And it's interesting, I don't know if you saw this in the paper last week But there was a mom who gave birth to a newborn in New Mexico last week, and she threw the baby with the umbilical cord still attached into a dumpster And some people nearby heard this baby in the dumpster crying. And they came to the baby's rescue and they. And they took the baby to the hospital and um everybody but what what I want to point out is that everybody was up in arms That a mother would throw her infant into a dumpster. Nobody advocates giving that in the name of choice. Nobody says, I'm personally opposed to murdering infants, but I do realize it's a complex question and it's a personal matter, and each parent should make their own decision. We would say, no, that's not something you have a choice about, because you're overlooking the rights of the a very important party in this situation, right? You're overlooking the rights of the child. And those who would advocate choice assume That the child in the womb is not human, and that is the very issue that the entire debate is about. So it's not a it's not really a debate about choice. Number four. The abortion debate is not a debate about a woman's right to do what she pleases with her own body. And those who've been around for a while, you probably remember a couple decades ago there was a bumper sticker. And the slogan was, Keep your laws off my body. Now there are two problems with that kind of statement. Number one, our society does not grant people absolute control over Third bodies, right? We have laws against suicide, laws against mute uh self-mutilation, against drug abuse, against prostitution. So that's the first problem And the second problem is that the child in the mother's womb is not a part of the mother's body. It's a separate being that her that the uh mother uh will one day uh her body will reject uh that tissue Uh this child has its own genetic code, it has its own heartbeat, it has its own brain waves, oftentimes it has a different uh blood type And so the child is not a part of the mother's body. And so as we could paraphrase the old saying, the mother's rights end where the baby's nose begins. So it's not a debate about the uh mother's right to do as she pleases with her body. Number five The abortion debate is not a b excuse me, it's not a debate about imposing your morality on others. And that's oftentimes what is said. Oh, you're just imposing your morality. Uh one of the presidential debates a couple of cycles ago, one of the candidates said, I'm personally opposed to abortion, but I don't believe that I have the right to take what is an article of faith to me and legislate it to other people. Right? And so they're just saying, you know what, I have strong convictions about this personally But I don't I can't impose my morality. We should not legislate morality. And to that, I say, why not? All law all laws legislate morality. All laws impose morality. Do you know any law? I mean uh laws against stealing. Huh. What does that impose? That imposes morality. Laws against murder imposes morality. Laws that say you shouldn't drive above sixty-five miles an hour going down the highway Well, that's some kind of imposition of one group's morality on others. And we're okay with that And so indeed the government has an obligation to continue to use laws to impose morality Especially when it comes to protecting the lives of children. Number six, if you'll indulge me. The abortion the abortion debate number six is not about compassion for those who are now living. And sometimes that's thrown in the face of Christians. Oh, you're so concerned about the baby, the baby, the body, the you're so concerned about the baby in the womb, but what about those who are living? And um we understand Right? Women with unplanned or unexpected or even unwanted uh pregnancies, they do face extreme difficulties And the pro-life movement has not ignored that, right? Thousands of homes for unwed mothers have been opened thousands of crisis pregnancy centers, hundreds of thousands of children across our nation have been adopted And so I would I I think it's not fair to say that the pro-life movement just cares about uh the unborn. Uh but rather the pro-life movement has shown compassion uh for for the child in the womb and for the mother and for society. Number seven, the abortion debate certainly is not a debate about what to do with unwanted children. You know why? This one's easy Easy. There are no unwanted children in our country. Read National Review a couple months ago. Kevin W Kevin D. Williamson wrote There are millions of American families looking to adopt. In fact, in a typical year, there are dozens of families looking to adopt for every baby that becomes available for adoption. In the United States. Even if we assumed that every one of the 619,000 abortions in 2018 would otherwise have made a child available for adoption The number of families looking to adopt would still outnumber the ratio Uh excuse me, would still outnumber the the uh number of available children by a ratio of more than two to one And so there are no unwanted babies in our country. Number eight, and now I'm sliding through these, number eight The last thing that the abortion debate is not about, it's not even a debate about when life begins. And the advent of the sonogram has rendered null the abortionists, the abortion advocates' claim that the fetus is just a blob of tissue And you show a pregnant woman a sonogram picture of her child from a sonogram, and she'll tell you when life begins, in 80 to 90 percent of those cases. Once a mom to be sees one of those pictures of their child in the womb, they choose to have the child And that's why the abortion industry is so against uh sonograms in these crisis pregnancy centers. Fellow who was the chief geneticist at the Mayo Clinic, Dr. Jaime Gordon. He reflects the consensus of the medical community in saying that it's an established fact that life begins at conception. A couple days ago in the newspaper They cited a University of Chicago study. 5,000 biologists were asked when life begins. 95% said that life begins at fertilization. I don't know what the other five percent were thinking, uh, but so it's it's it's It's the consensus that life begins at conception, right? That's when the egg and from the time the egg and sperm unite, uh there is formed a distinct, unique human life separate from the mother, has its own genetic code, it has a full complement of 46 chromosomes. At three weeks, there's a heartbeat At seven weeks, there are brain waves. At eight weeks, there are fingerprints, a fully formed structure, and all the organs are present. At 9 to 10 weeks, uh the baby can squint, swallow, frown, move his tongue, 12 to 13 weeks He sucks his thumb, he drinks the amniotic fluid, he kicks, and he recoils from pain, including the excruciating pain of being aborted. So, you know, there's a group in our society that are always talking about compassion, uh but never a word of compassion uh for children who are being burned or dismembered uh by the abortionist. When a columnist uh years ago, a guy for uh named by the name of Nat Hentoff. He wrote for the liberal newspaper, The Village Voice, uh, but he what he was stalwart about the abortion issue And he called this the averted gaze of liberalism. Where is the compassion? He's saying for these children. At 15 weeks The baby in a womb moves his hands to shield his eyes from light coming in through his mother's body. He covers his ears from loud noises he hears in the outside world. And so science or uh technology has really uh revealed so much more than than was available in nineteen seventy-three There's a picture you can find on the internet of a little boy by the name of Samuel Arnas. A-R-N-A-S. Samuel Arnas. A-R-N-A-S, if you want to look it up later. I just Google him. But he was operated on in 1999 for Spina dipida while he was still in his mom's womb. He was 21 weeks old. And as the surgeon was sewing up the womb, little baby Samuel pushed his hand through that hole and grabbed the surgeon's finger. And there was a photojournalist there for that surgery, a guy named Michael Clancy. And he captured on film this amazing encounter. And here's what Michael Clancy recounts. Suddenly, he said, an entire arm thrust out of the opening, then pulled back until just a little hand was showing. And in in this photo the doctor reached over and lifted that hand with his finger And a little baby at twenty-one weeks grabbed the doctor's finger and then as the to test the baby's hand for strength The doctor just sort of moved his finger and little Samuel held firm. And so Michael Clancy said, I took the picture. Wow. And in that moment, Michael Clancy, the photographer, went from being pro-choice to pro-life. And he said, I was totally in shock for two hours after the surgery. I know abortion is wrong now. It is absolutely wrong. So the abortion debate is not a debate about when life begins So there you have it, eight red herrings that are thrown out there to distract us from what this debate is really about. And what is it about? It's about whether it is ethical to kill unborn, developing human life Now, you don't have to believe the Bible to recognize uh what is obvious, right? But the Bible does confirm what is obvious. And so I also want to look at a few texts. Uh the first one, Psalm 139, verses thirteen to sixteen, Psalm 139, verses thirteen to sixteen So David in the Psalm is worshiping God, praising him for his personal knowledge of him, right? We read this last night. I read it with the kids. No, God knows you. He knows all about you. And he cares for you. And David makes the comment: you know what? God's knowledge of me extends all the way back to my residency in my mother's womb. Look at verse thirteen For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. Now, what I want you to notice. Is that when he describes his tenure in the womb, he uses personal pronouns And so what that does is it underlies the continuity in his humanity between the time he was in the womb and the time he left the womb. When he was in his mom's womb, he wasn't an it. He was not a blob of tissue. He was not potential human life. But he was in I, because it was David there. Verse fifteen. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret. Intricately woven in the depths of the earth. That's just a metaphor for the womb. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. Here's another testimony. Psalm 51. Psalm 51, verse 5. David confesses, in sin did my mother conceive me So he was saying, from the point of my the time I was conceived, I was in sin. Now think about that. Cabbages don't stand in the moral relationship to God. Fingernail clippings don't stand in the moral relationship to God. Only human beings stand in moral relationship to God. And so David says, from the time of my conception, I was a sinner. To say he was a human being while he was still in the womb. In sin did my mother conceive me. Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 5. Jeremiah, looking back on his call, says, before excuse me, God says to Jeremiah in his call. Before I formed you, Jeremiah, in the womb, I knew you. And before you were born, I consecrated you. And so God treated Jeremiah as a personal being before his birth. Here's one more. And there's a couple more we can pick, but Discretion's my byword, right? Not always. Exodus chapter twenty. Exodus chapter twenty-one. Let's turn there. Exodus twenty-one. So this one's going to take a little bit. You have to look a little more closely on this one. So here's the here's the here's what it pictures. This it's a scenario. But in Exodus twenty-one, verse twenty-two to twenty-five The scene is that there are two men struggling, and in their struggle, they accidentally strike a pregnant woman. Okay? So what is the sanction? What is the penalty if two men are having a fight, you know, a brawl, and you know one's throwing chairs and the other's kicking over tables And in all the all the hubbub, there's this pregnant woman, and she's struck. Well, Exodus 21, verse 22 So it says, when men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out, but there is no harm The one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him. And so you if you two guys are a fight and they A clobber, a woman who's standing in the way, she's not harmed, or there's no harm, I should say. Uh there's gonna be a fine, but that's it. Now Verse twenty-three. But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, strike for strike. Now here's the here's the nuanced uh part of this. If there is harm I took Hebrew once, I don't remember any of it. But I can read a commentary, and the commentators across the board say that if this was just referring to the mom, Then the word harm would have a feminine ending on it, L-A-H in the Hebrew, okay? As to say, or to translate it, if there is no harm to her, But in the scripture here, it's indefinite. It could be the mom, it could be the child, it could be both. There is no feminine ending on that. So that's to say that even if the baby's killed, then the death penalty is required uh for that for that loss. And so there's just four scriptures that can that agree with what is obvious when you think about it, that testify to the humanity of the child in the womb. Now, we're done. Just want to say one more thing. We live in a generation where there is so much moral posturing, right? We look back. We would never have condoned slavery like those barbarians did back in the 1800s. We look back. We would never have stood by uh during the Holocaust. as just about not but as many in Europe did and even in America. We would never have stood for that. So the British journalist Malcolm Muggerage made the comment, you know what? Every generation has enough moral courage to feel that it would have done better than the previous generation If only they'd been there. Yet for some reason, every generation fails, excuse me, every generation fails to test its own time, confronts it with. And that's precisely what the abortion issue is, right? This is the great moral issue in our day. And yet most people stand idly by. So we're Christians, right? We believe in the sixth commandment. We have a responsibility to pray. To be informed, to engage people, to share the gospel, to speak for those who can't speak for themselves. To adopt, to support adoption, right? We have an adoption fund to support foster parenting, and perhaps the foster parent yourselves. We do have an obligation. Let's bow our heads We pray, Lord, for our nation. We have blood on our hands. We do stand under your judgment, rightly so. We pray, Lord, we'd wake up and watch out. Can you bring an awakening to our nation, a spiritual awakening? We pray, Lord, for those perhaps here who've had abortions and their hearts are heavy and they're grieved. We pray, Lord, that they would know that Jesus Christ forgives, he cleanses, it's not just sentimentality, but it's a genuine legal righteousness. That we dare have no shame because Jesus Christ has purified us. And we also pray, Lord That we pray we call out to you. I pray for our young people, that they would see this issue for what it is, that they would speak out, that they would engage their friends. We pray, Lord, that they'd help us to care for others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your blue book. For those new, this is a Psalter. It's a book of Psalms. We're going to sing. It's 139C. 139C And we're going to sing this passage from Psalm 139 that we just read. So let's stand up and sing Psalter Selection 139C Come as we get to keep us alone who is please no pain so Yeah. So we're gonna have a big lunch. We want all the kids to stay in here. Don't run through the building. If some adult sees you running for their building, uh you should get really adults get really mean and uh be nasty and Uh tell 'em get back in here. Um everybody stick around or else I'll be getting emails from the school tomorrow morning. And um you don't want that for me, right? So let's uh let's receive the benediction. Then we're going to sing our thanksgiving for the meal. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen.