Let's turn to John chapter thirteen verses eighteen to thirty. John thirteen verses eighteen to thirty. So it's good to have some new faces amongst us this morning. We're going through John's Gospel and we come to this uh this uh time where Jesus and Judas have an interchange. He's about to betray Jesus Jesus had just washed his disciples' feet. And if you're pick up, we pick up actually in verse 17 of John 13, where Jesus said To his disciples, if you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. I'm not speaking of all of you, I know whom I have chosen. But the scripture must be fulfilled, he who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I am telling you this now before it takes place that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He Truly, truly I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me. After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in spear and testified, Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table. close to Jesus. So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple, leaning against leaning back against Jesus, said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have gifted it. So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him Jesus said to him, What you're going to do, do quickly. Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him. Some thought that because Judas had the money back, Jesus was telling him, buy what we need for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. So back in 1997, down in Gathersburg, there was a young pastor, a Joshua Harris He wrote a book that became a sensation. He became an overnight celebrity. The title was uh or it was I Kissed Dating Goodbye. That's a book that was wildly popular amongst Christian young people in the nineteen nineties and before long. Uh he became uh the senior pastor of the church where he was serving, and at that time I'd say it was probably one of the most vibrant churches in the country Twenty years later, Joshua Harris divorced his wife, and he renounced the Christian faith. And he said, by all the measurements that I have for defining a Christian, I am not a Christian. And that was quite uh stunning uh to those who had looked uh uh so highly upon him. He seemed like a very uh consistent uh Christian fellow and he had a lot of good things to say. And it is it's disturbing, it's rattling when somebody who is uh seems to be such an earnest Christian falls away. And I can I I can think even in our church, uh looking back years back, uh two, I could think of two individuals who I thought were the most earnest Christians And in fact they both taught Sunday school at different times. And I thought if ever there's a great Christian fella, it was this one guy in particular But now, you know, he he it's it seems he has just left the faith. And I think it was one of our fellows here saying that uh the the man who led him to the Lord has led the has left the faith. And when you hear about uh these departures Uh from the Christian faith you wonder, you know, who can you trust? Is there anybody who is going to go the distance in the Christian life? And this is troubling. I think it's somewhat uh we can't always explain it, we can't always understand it But in this passage, Jesus tells us that when that happens, yeah, it's troubling, but it should not be surprising Because even within Jesus' inner circle, we find an apostate And so, as I said, Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples. He had washed their feet. This is the night before his crucifixion. After he washed their feet, he said in verse 15 I've given you example that you also should do just as I've done to you. And then in verse 17, he said, if you know these things, you'll be blessed if you do them In verse 18, he issues a caveat. He said, where whoops, I'm sorry. In the end of verse 18, this caveat. But scripture will be fulfilled. He he oh I'm sorry, beginning of verse eighteen. I'm not speaking of all of you. I know who I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I'm telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place, you may believe that I am he. So he says, listen, one of you is going to betray me. And so Jesus tells us he puts us on the table uh before it happens and in foretelling it and he is assuring his disciples That even this act of treachery is not outside the pl the providence and the plan of God And so the Bible alerts us. We see it here. We see in 1 Timothy 4. 1 that there will be defections. 1 Timothy 4. 1. Paul wrote The Spirit expressly says that in the latter times some will depart from the faith. And so we're going to look at this uh this passage, Judas uh leaving to betray Jesus. It's a dark passage. But in this account, we find reassurance of God's sovereign plan. We find a warning to those who live double lives And we find comfort to those who have been betrayed. So first of all, and this is where we'll spend most of our time. Point one. We find reassurance of God's sovereign plan. Jesus has chosen Even the one who would betray him. Right? Verse 18 again. He said, I'm not speaking to all of you. I know who I have chosen So Jesus chose the twelve disciples, and in choosing Judas as one of the disciples, that was not a bad hiring decision on Jesus' part. He knew exactly what Judas was about And yet he selected him as one of the twelve. We can go back to chapter six, verse seven. You don't have to turn there, but just listen. Jesus says the same thing. Chapter 6, verse 70, he said to the disciples, Did I not choose you the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil? He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. So Jesus knew way back then that Judas would betray him Why God chose a traitor to be one of his disciples, we don't know. That's beyond us. But it's reassuring. This makes it very clear. He knew about he knew this was going to happen. It's reassuring to know that God does have a purpose, and so when defections do occur We need not push the panic button. We we can say, you know what, your ways, Lord, are above my ways. I don't understand. But we know That the Lord is still in control. We're going to sing a song. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. We're going to understand all of this one day. And so Jesus assures the eleven that though Judas would Betray him, they need not be shaken, because Jesus had from the get-go full knowledge of what was going to happen. And here's a second reason we shouldn't be shaken. Because the Old Testament foretold that this would happen, that Jesus would be betrayed by one of his own. So look at the end of verse 18. Jesus said, The scripture must be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. That's a quote from the Psalm we read, Psalm 41, verse 9. There David said, Even my close friend whom I trusted, who ate my bread. has lifted his heel against me. And so David was a type of Jesus in many ways, right? Jesus was born. of the line of David. Jesus was born in Bethlehem, the city in which David was born. And here we see Jesus, just as David was betrayed by a close friend, In Psalm forty-one, so Jesus would be betrayed by one in his inner circle. Psalm forty-one, it may be David may be referring to a passage back in 2nd Samuel chapter twelve or chapter sixteen and seventeen where his trusted advisor, one of his inner circle, turned against him, a guy named Ahitophel. And in quoting Psalm 41 to the discip to the disciples, it seems that Jesus may have been saying, you know what? Men, there is in Ahitophel amongst us. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. In the in the ancient near Near East, to share a meal with someone was an intimate act of friendship, of fellowship, and for that that person with whom you share with with whom you shared a meal to turn on you was especially dastardly. But I want to underline that in verse 18, Jesus said, the scripture must be fulfilled. Don't worry. Don't push the panic button All this was foretold, this is all part of God's plan. And so go again to verse 19 one more time. I'm telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He. That's helpful, right? It helps me believe. I see the correspondence of the Old Testament and New Testament. Why am I a Christian? Because I cannot explain away How the New Testament answers the Old Testament. Old Testament promise, New Testament fulfillment, Old Testament type, New Testament reality. If you're not a Christian What I want to challenge you to do is to read this book and see all the connections and then explain to me How can this exist if God is not the ultimate author of the Bible? But anyway Uh Judas uh is not the exception to the rule because and the Bible says this. There will always be within the ranks of the visible church false professors. There will always be. Remember Matthew 13, the story about the wheat or the parable, the wheat and the tares? There will always be tares amongst the we. And uh one thing that parable tells us is we can't always identify The frauds. What's that mean? It doesn't mean you should be looking over your shoulder at your neighbor and saying, you know, I wonder if he's a fraud. That's not how we do it. If somebody professes faith in Jesus Christ and they're not engaged in some sin, uh without repentance, then we don't we're not the we're not the spiritual police where we're examining everybody and questioning everybody. To be a member of a Christian church, all you have to do is give a clear profession of faith. I am trusting in Jesus Christ as my Savior. We don't say when we examine somebody to be a member, we don't say, well you're saying that, but I need a little bit more evidence. Let me ask you some more questions. We don't do that. No, it's a profession of Jesus Christ as your Savior. That said, there is an invisible church. You know what I mean by the visible church? Those who profess faith in Christ, those who say they're Christians. There is in the visible church false professors. And sometimes it becomes apparent who those false professors are Martin Luther said, there are mouse droppings in among the peppercorns. If you know what a peppercorn looks like, and you know what a mouse dropping looks like It'd be really hard to distinguish a bowl of uh peppercorns uh from the mouse dropping. No extra charge for that. Um In some cases, we will not be able to know someone's true spiritual condition until the final judgment. 1 Thessalonians 5. 24 Paul said, the sins of some people are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear later. That's fine. We don't have to worry about it, but in the end, there will be justice. It'll be all sorted out But what I want to underline is that none of this, especially with Judas, none of this catches God by surprise. Jesus is saying, even the defections are part of the Now, God's sovereignty over these affections it does not um relieve the the the apostate of his responsibility, nor does it make it pleasant when you're betrayed by another Christian. But nonetheless, it heartens us and it enables us to keep marching on because we know that God is sovereign over all these things. So that's the first thing. Be assured that even apostasy in the church, and there is a lot of apostasy in the mainline Protestant Church, which we're not a part of. But there is a lot of apostasy, and I grieve, but I should also remind myself, hey, you know what? This is all part of God's plan. Here's a second lesson. It's a warning to those who live double lives. Avoid the path that leads to betrayal. So Judas, here's a guy who spent three years in person with Jesus. If Judas could betray Jesus, then so could any of us. And so a lesson here is don't start down the road of moral and spiritual compromise. And of course, I mean we regularly start down that road. I should say don't continue down that road. Halt. Do something. Put on the brakes. Do a U-turn. If you've been going down that road It is perilous. And I would say, and I you probably understand this, that when Judas made a deal to betray Jesus, It didn't just come out of the blue. It didn't just uh pop up out of nowhere, but rather uh long before Judas had come under Satan's sway. He was a thief. That's what it says back in chapter 12, verse 6. He was a thief. He was the treasurer of the disciples, and he was sticking his grubby hand into the money bag. And so, but he was pret he you know, he looked like hey, he was one of twelve, he looked like he was with Jesus, but he was a deceiver. He was a hypocrite. He pretended to be of one mind with the other disciples, but in fact he had spurned Jesus influence his lordship, and he ignored his teaching. And because Judas did not repent The time came when he moved from being uh under the influence of the devil to being under the control of the devil. Verse 27. Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him. And so there comes a point, we see it here, there comes a point Where if you start going down that path, that you may well be under the control of Satan. I want to read a comment that J. C. Rile made me. He wrote, Trifling with the thir excuse me, trifling with the first thoughts of sin may seem a small matter to any It is precisely at this point that the road to ruin often begins. He that allows Satan to sow wicked thoughts will soon find that Excuse me, he that allows Satan to sow wicked thoughts will soon find within his heart a crop of wicked habits Happy is he who really believes that there is a devil in believing watches and prays daily that he may be kept from his temptations. And so there's a warning here as we see, you know, Judas was under Satan's control. So Satan entered into him. We see that there comes a point, if you're living in rebellion against Jesus Christ, that you may come under His control. A second lesson We can learn from Judas is don't be a play actor. Judas must have been an accomplished actor because none of the at least by what we read, none of the other disciples Even suspected that there was a problem with Judas. Right? When Jesus announced one of the disciples would betray him, verse 22 says The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. I would have thought they would say, yeah. We saw it coming in Judas, but they're like, who could it be? Is it me? And he was so he was so accomplished as a play actor. And we don't want that, right? We don't want to have a form of godliness but denies power. Better that Our public persona uh is exceeded by our private life. That's how we really want to do it. That's what we want to aim for. We want to people think, hey, I'm something else. But we'd rather it it would be better people discovered our private lives that yeah, you know what? He's consistent. She's consistent. That's commendable And that's the kind of Christian that really impresses you, right? Say, yeah, this person is doing things, nobody knows about it, but that person is a very consistent believer. That's a testimony. Here's a third lesson. We're still under point two. Were the first two lessons under point two? I don't know. I'm gonna no. Here we are. Let me review. Don't start down the road of moral and spiritual compromise. Don't be a play actor. And then From Jesus Jesus' relationship with Judas, don't dismiss repeated appeals. Because Jesus had Poked, he had appealed to Judas on several occasions. Jesus warned Judas of his collusion with the devil back in chapter 6, verse 70. He warned Judas of his corruption, chapter 13, verse 10, of his duplicity, 13, verse 18. of his betrayal. 13 verse 21. In Matthew 26, 24, we read, where Jesus said, The Son of Man will go, just as is written about him But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. And then Jesus appealed to Judas at the Last Supper in graciously giving him a morsel that he had dipped. This was a gesture, this was a token, this was a sign. of friendship and Judas you think if the guy had any kind of conscience, uh, he would have been broken at that time But rather than being broken, rather than being convicted, he went forward into his treachery. And in the life of any of Christians or of professing Christians, there are times when God tries to awaken us When God might send a warning shot across the bow, it might be a parent appealing to your child Don't look at that stuff on your screen. That is foul. That will destroy you. That will capture you. We're saying You better be careful about who you're hanging out with, uh, because they will ruin you. And those of us who are older, we can I can look back on a cousin who when he was like thirteen years old, he got wrapped up with the wrong gang and r h right now he's in his late sixties. His mind, his brain is so destroyed by the drugs he took that you feel like you're talking to an eighth grader And so it could be a warning from a parent, it could be something you read, something you hear in Sunday school, something you hear from the pulpit, or It could come in the form of a close call, right? A disaster barely averted And you think, well that should get my attention, but it doesn't always. And so if you've gotten off track You know what Jesus wants for you, but the temptation that you're under is so powerful at this moment that you're ignoring the warnings and the pleadings and the appeals of others This reminds us then you are you have put yourself in a perilous position in The warning is you better be careful because you may cross over to the point of no return. And that is what happened to Judas. It's really interesting how this account ends in verse 30. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately he went out And then John makes this comment, and it was night. And I don't think he was just making an observation about the time of day But it was a way of saying that Judas had crossed over into the darkness. So that's why in Hebrews 3, there's this very stern warning. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. Today, if you hear his voice, Do not harden your heart. Don't go the way of Judas. Here's a third thing briefly. In Judah's betrayal, we can find comfort, or there's comfort to those who have been betrayed. And many people they could say, you know what? My life has a before and it has an off it has an after. I remember a friend saying He said, this is in the 70s. Mission Impossible wasn't a movie, it was a TV show for the younger ones. But um he said, yeah, I was just sitting there in front of the TV watching Mission Impossible And my dad walked in and he said, Your mom and I are getting a divorce. And from that point forward, I mean his life went into a tailspin. And finally, years later, he came out of it. Others will say, yeah. Uh that my life has a before and after, a before I suffered abuse and then after, or before my spouse left me or committed adultery. And then after my spouse left me. Well, what we see here, what we have here, is a reminder that Jesus Christ also knew what it was to be betrayed. And verse 21 is a very very interesting little statement. John comments, Jesus was troubled in his spirit. And that's just not even j that's you might think that's just a little throwaway comment, but not really. Uh there's a lot packed in there. Uh D. A. Carson I said, you know what, that word troubled carries the idea of revulsion, horror, anxiety. Agitation. Jesus Christ, the very Son of God, he was crushed by what Judas had done. And one of the reasons that he would be crushed is so that we would know, as the writer says in Hebrews 4. 15. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. No, he knows exactly what it's like. Here's an old Scottish theologian, John Brown. He said, the truth is he not only can be touched with our weaknesses, but he cannot but be touched. The assertion is not, it's possible that he may sympathize, but it's impossible that he should not be able to sympathize with our weaknesses. Jesus was grieved surely by the fact that he was betrayed by one of his own, but I'll bet you I think it's fair to say, Jesus was also grieved for Judas' soul. Uh because Judas had, as I said, he spent three years in the presence of the very Son of God, the light of the world. He had heard his teaching. He had seen his influence But now Judas turned away from it. And if Jesus weeped over the masses in Jerusalem, people he didn't know personally In Matthew 23, how much would he weep over one of his own who betrayed him, who left the faith? And this is a warning that yeah, we should grieve for those who've turned away. And we probably all know people, they were in the church or family members. But they have turned away, they have closed their ears to the things of God, and we want to pray for them. We want to use wisdom and looking for opportunities to speak to them, but we also must understand that unless they turn back like Judas, they will be destroyed So we read Psalm 41, a very sober Psalm, and then we read this passage here, a very sober warning. Is there any good news? And we'd say, well, of course there's good news. The gospel is good news because in Christ there's forgiveness, there's restoration. And we also know, and I think I was saying something like this in Sunday school, um, people are s you know, people, church people. Once they turn, it seems like they close their ears and they can't see hear anything, they can't see anything. But we pray that God by His Spirit would awaken them, would open their eyes, would do a work in them that they might turn back. And we certainly saw that in the Apostle Peter, right? Peter denied Jesus, but you know, he wasn't lost. The Spirit of God brought him to repentance. And so There's always restoration. So let's let's bow our heads and pray. Lord God, we pray you'll help us to persevere, help us not to be play actors, help us to be vigilant, guarding our hearts, help us to stay in the Word, help us to stay in fellowship, help us to be quick to repent and also to ask forgiveness of other people. We pray you'll preserve us. We pray for our children, preserve them. For those of us who have kids who aren't walking with you, we pray that you'll awaken them. Others have parents, loved ones who aren't believers. We pray for them. for any folks here this morning who have turned from you and they're on a path of uh willful rebellion I pray that you might capture them, convict their hearts, help them to do what needs to be done, that they might not be entangled By the deceitfulness of sin. For those who aren't Christians, help them to see that Jesus Christ is the Savior of sinners. And he offers full pardon to all who rest on him as their Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.