Turn to John chapter 15, beginning at verse 18. So it's good to have some new folks here. We're going through John's gospel. And in John fifteen, uh Jesus talks about uh he talks to his disciples about their relationship to him. The first um uh 11 verses. Then he talks about their relationships to one another, that they should love one another. Verses 12 to 817. And now, in verses 18 and following, he talks to them about their relationship to the world. So Jesus speaking to the apostles says If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you're not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me They will persecute also you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did They would not be guilty of sin, but now they have seen and hated both me and my father. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without cause. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning. I have said these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he's offering service to God. And they will do these things, because they have not known the Father, nor me. But I have said these things to you. That when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. I want to set before you two divergent definitions of the church. The first one comes from Joel Olstein. Always an easy foil, but it helps, okay? He defines the church as a community where believers are encouraged to achieve their potential. and experience material and personal prosperity. Okay? That's Joel Olstein, right? Anyone like Joel Olstein? Probably somebody does, but we're not going to put you on the spot. Martin Luther defined the church. As the community of those who are persecuted and martyred for the gospel's sake Which is truer to Scripture? Well, we have the answer right here before us. Jesus, on the eve before his crucifixion, warned his disciples of the hostility that they would encounter So he's talking about persecution. And so our aim this morning is to discover what does Jesus teach us here about persecution. And the first thing we learn is He says in a nutshell, don't be surprised when it comes. So look at verse 18. If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. So he's saying, listen, you're going to be hated. And John, so this was, Jesus spoke this to the apostles. John would later write to the believers in 1 John 3, verse 13, to these believers, do not be surprised, brothers. That the world hates you. How about that? A couple more. 1 Peter 4, verse 12. Peter writes to Christians. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. So he's saying this should be expected. The Apostle Paul speaks similarly in 2 Timothy 3 verse 12. All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Now, Jesus and the apostles aren't saying that Christians will suffer constant persecution or that all Christians will suffer violent persecution. But he's saying it will come and it does come to various groups of Christians around the world, down through history, and so don't be surprised. when it comes. David prayed for the Christians in Nigeria. Just last week in the Washington Times. There's a report That over the past fifteen years, Islamic terrorists have killed more Christians in Nigeria than in any other nation. So it said, Christians have been the victims of bombings, beheadings, rapes, the torting of churches and villages, and mass kidnappings. And then in Pakistan, you may have read about these blasphemy laws, religious blasphemy laws. In Pakistan that are typically used as weapons against Christians. And so if you're a Christian and somebody doesn't like you for whatever reason They can merely accuse you of insulting the Prophet Muhammad. And if that kind of accusation is leveled You're done for. Uh Christian Solidarity reports that in Pakistan, a simple act, such as sweeping trash outside one's home Having a dispute with a classmate or just being a member of a religious minority can lead to imprisonment, mob violence, the death penalty, and permanent displacement. And in our country, right, if you follow the news over the past couple years, there has been an uptick in violence against Christians, right? Shootings in Christian churches because they're Christians. shootings in Christian schools. There have been a number in the past couple years. Why? Because these are Christians. And of course the assassination of uh Charlie Kirk And so there's physical violence against Christians, and it's not accidental. And then also more common is the soft persecution, the pastor in Savannah. Terry Johnson gave gives a good summary. The possibility of losing business and employment opportunities over matters of conscience grows daily as Christian bakers, florists, and photographers have already seen Doctors may face disqualification from the practice of medicine because of their failure to provide abortions. or administer euthanasia or perform sex reassignment surgeries and therapies Lawyers, judges, and school teachers may be disqualified for refusing to affirm the new sexual amour, the new sexual norms. even for refusing to call students and clients by their chosen pronouns. Contractors may be denied state and federal contracts for failing to comply with the new secular orthodoxies, Christian adoption agencies, drug rehab centers, homeless shelters, and safe houses for women may be subject to lawsuits on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity issues and may be disqualified for referrals from city, state, and federal agencies. So yet It's astounding the level of hostility toward historic Orthodox Christian morality. And I'd say to our young people, when you're thinking about your career, you should consider, I'm not saying that you sh it has to be, but you should certainly consider, hey Maybe I should go into some kind of career or vocation where I'm not locked in to working for some large corporation or the government But I could work for a smaller company or work on my own where I'm not going to be pressed about these kinds of issues. And so it's upon us, and it shouldn't be surprising because Jesus warned us, right? And he wants us to be prepared. Look at chapter 16, verse 1. He tells them, I have said these things to you to keep you from falling away. And so, hey Don't be surprised when it comes. That's the first thing we see about persecution. The second thing is the question, why does the world hate Christians? And sure, there are Christians who invite hostility because they're sanctimonious or they're obnoxious or they're self-righteous. But that's really a small minority. I I don't know if I know anybody like that. I I'm I've met people, yeah, sure. But most Christians They're just they're decent people. I mean, I'm not talking about church governors. I'm just talking about people who know Jesus Christ. They're decent people. They're trying to make a living They're attempting to raise their children in a way where they're not assaulted by the vulgar and foul things in our culture. And they're trying to honor Jesus Christ, right? We stumble, but our intention, I just want to get through the day. I want to raise my family. I want to serve, make some kind of contribution to the kingdom. And that's it. And yet The world, you know, the world that says Islam's a religion of peace, they're beheading people, they're flying airplanes in the building. Islam's a religion of peace, but then it's these Christians who are such a threat. So how is that? Why is there such hostility uh toward Christians and that from a culture which prides itself in its tolerance and its open-mindedness. And the answer I think is is completely irrational. And that's what Jesus says in verse 25. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without cause. And that's a quote from the Psalms, okay? The world hated Jesus without reason, right? He was the only good man who ever lived. And yet they hated him, and sometimes they hate his followers without reason. And so you scratch your head and you say, why is that? Well Jesus gives us a couple of reasons in this passage. I want to point out three of them. First of all, the world hates Christians because it hates their master. Look at verse 18, it's right there. If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. Verse 20. Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. And so, yeah, the world hates Jesus. Maybe I should clarify, not the imaginary Jesus of the mainline Protestant church, that pale Galilean who walked around, taught love Tolerance and social justice, but the world hates the Jesus of Scripture. The world hates the real Jesus Because he speaks in moral absolutes, right? Read the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5-7. Jesus speaks in moral absolutes. He speaks of sin He speaks of the final judgment. He speaks of hell. John 7 verse 17, or John 7, verse 7, Jesus said. I testify that its works are evil. And then in John 3, verse 20, Jesus said, everyone who does wicked things hates the light. And does not come into the light. Why? Because his deeds will be exposed. And so, yeah, the world's fine with that sentimental, imaginary Jesus. However When the world got its hands on the real Jesus, what did they do? They executed him. Well they didn't just execute him, they they executed him by means of the most savage form of execution ever despised. But that wasn't enough, right? First they had to mock him, to ridicule him, to beat him And to press a crown of thorns into his head. And only then could he be executed And so, yeah, the world hates Jesus, and the world hates Christians because of our association with him And in persecuting Christians, they're persecuting Jesus Christ. They can't get their hands on Jesus. You see this in Revelation, the first uh Revelation 12, the first six verses. It talks about Satan, this beast, wanting to go and get this baby who was born. But he was taken up to heaven. And so what's left is his mother, referring not to Mary, but to the church. And so the beast, the monster, goes after the church. Why? They couldn't get their hands on Jesus, so they go against they go after his people. Uh the same thing in Acts chapter 9. Remember uh when when uh Saul was going down the Damascus Road and Jesus appeared to him? And Saul, for those who are new, he was this vicious persecutor of Christians. And Jesus said to Saul, not Saul, Saul. Why are you persecuting my people? But he said what? Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? Right? Because There's this intimate connection between Jesus Christ and his people, right? Beginning of chapter 15. He's the vine. We're the branches. We're intimately connected And so to persecute the church is a way to persecute Jesus Christ. So we're asking a question. Why does the world hate Christians? I think we're really nice people. The world hates Christians because it hates their master, secondly The world hates Christians because we don't conform to its ways, right? Verse 19, Jesus said, if you were the world, the world would love you as its own. You're going along, you're doing things like they do it, you fit in. You don't make them uncomfortable. But we don't embrace its values. We don't go along with its ways. And people don't like that, right? The darkness doesn't like the light. Not that we're paragons of virtue or we think we're something, but we're just trying to honor God. in in some measure, and the world doesn't like that. See this going back to Genesis. In 1 John 3. 12, John wrote that Cain killed Abel Not because he was a jerk, but it says because his own deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. That's that's human nature, right? We we resent those who have who are living in an upright manner because it makes us a little bit uncomfortable. And I'm not saying this that Christians are most Christians don't act morally superior Uh but neither do they condone the vulgar, hyper sexualized ways of our culture, right? We're not We're just not comfortable. We don't want our children or other children exposed uh to what's going on in the public schools, pushing the transgender agenda and and even in the public libraries, this agenda to indoctrinate students in things that are perverse And so the world despises that because it inadvertently exposes their sin. George Orwell wrote, The further society drifts from the truth, the more it will hate those who speak it. So why does the world hate Christians? Well, this passage, in this passage, Jesus says It hates Christians because it hates him and secondly we don't embrace its values And then thirdly, the world hates Christians because it doesn't know God the Father. Look at a couple verses here, chapter 15, verse 21. These things they'll do to you on account of my name. Why? Because they do not know him who sent me. Verse 2023. Whoever hates me hates my father also. Chapter 16, verse 3. And they'll do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. And surprisingly, some of the most rabid opponents of Christianity or or excuse me of Christians are religious people, right? Who hung Jesus on the cross? It was the Jews, not just the Jews. It was the most religious of the Jews. And in um in uh chapter 16 verse 2, look at that. Jesus warned these guys, they're going to put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour's coming. When whoever kills you will think he's offering service to God. When they burned Archbishop Thomas Kramer at the stake, They didn't do it in the dark of night. They preached a sermon. It was an offering to God. They thought they were serving God in doing that. And so we see three reasons why the world hates Christians. It hates their master. Christians don't conform to the world's ways. And, Jesus says, they don't know God. They might be religious, they might be churchy or whatever. But they don't know God. Even if you don't do anything wrong. I mean we do s many things insensitive, right? And we say stupid things and whatnot. But even if you don't do anything Jesus is saying, the world's still gonna hate you. Right? Thanksgiving's coming up. You might have relatives there, children, parents who aren't believers. Yeah. They're gonna they're probably getting getting little jabs in here and there or, you know, go to work, just trying to do your job and You're not going to go along with certain things, you're going to get jabbed for that. You go to school, right? You go to community college or some other school. And you see all this stuff, all these posters of things that violate uh biblical morality and professors who think they're so elevated making little jabs at this uh at Christians in their uh Sunday school knowledge of things. Hey, Jesus says don't be surprised, be willing to suffer. Finally, or last lap here. How should how should you, Christian, respond to the world's hatred? Well look at verse 26. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father. And that's worthy of like the 600 sermons right there, because that was a huge discussion in church history, but I'm just going to gloss over it, okay? That proceeds from the Father. He will bear witness about me. And so the whole remember Jesus speaking to the apostles, the Holy Spirit bore witness in that he helped them to understand the scriptures, the Old Testament, and how they pointed to Jesus. And that's what Luke said in Luke 24, 27. Jesus opened up to them the scriptures so they could understand how it was about him. Okay? The Holy Spirit also bore witness to the apostles in that he enabled them to understand the full meaning of Jesus' life, his works, and his teaching, right? Because they weren't following They were it they didn it didn't click with them that Jesus Christ is truly the Messiah. They were getting there, but it wasn't until after the crucifixion, then after the day of Pentecost in Acts 2 where God gave the Holy where Jesus gave the Holy Spirit, where their eyes were opened and they understood what Jesus the apostles understood what Jesus was saying. And so going back to John chapter 14, verse 26. I didn't read that yet, did I? Okay, good. All right. John 14, 26. There Jesus said, The helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he says to the apostles, He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. And so Jesus is telling these men, hey, you're going to be equipped. for to be witnesses for me. And um the Holy Spirit not only bore witness to the apostles about Jesus But he enabled them then to give a witness to the world. Look at chapter fifteen, verse twenty-seven. And you'll also bear witness. Why? Because you have been with me from the beginning. So when he says you've been with me from the beginning, you know he's not talking to all Christians in general, right? He's talking to the apostles. They were the ones who were with him from the beginning. But the Holy Spirit would inspire them in their preaching so that they would preach the Word of God. The Holy Spirit inspired them. in their writings which we have in the on the pages of the New Testament so that we know that their words are the words of God to his church And I would add that the Holy Spirit not only guided the apostles in their preaching and in their writing. But he enabled the hearers of their preaching and the readers of their writing to recognize this is truth from God. And it's the same with us. It's God the Holy Spirit who opens our eyes to see, opens our ears to recognize that the gospel message Written or proclaimed is not merely words of man, but words of God. And this is why people become Christians. In the end of the day, why is it, how is it that somebody who may have been going to church all his or her life and it never clicked, all of a sudden, they're like, this stuff is true. Or someone who has no Christian upbringing or acquaintance with Christianity And then they read this book or they hear somebody teach on it or talk about it And they're like, yeah, this is compelling. This has a ring of truth. How is that? Well, it's because The Holy Spirit has taken the Word of God and illumined their minds and opened their eyes to see and moved their hearts to say, yes. Even though so many reject this or they have no understanding, this stuff is true. And so this is why The Christian churches, right, 2,000 years later, are still full of struggling but genuine Christians. And then going back to verse 27, where Jesus said to his apostles, You also will bear witness, well, that applies in the secondary sense to us, right? What should we do in the face of hostility? Well, we should just march along and seek to be a faithful witness to Jesus Christ, to that co-worker, to that classmate, to that to that adult child or to that parent who just scorns, uh scorns you uh for your belief in Jesus Christianity or says, I don't want I don't want to talk about Christianity. If we're if you're going to bring that up. Well, what do you do? Well that's a really hard situation, but we certainly want to pray for opportunities to respond with with with grace and uh with wisdom, uh but we do want to be a witness and we certainly want to pray for those who are adversarial uh toward us. So we don't want to see them as enemies. We want to see them as lost and blind. And apart from the grace of Christ. God opening their eyes, they're not going to change. So we want to pray. So Jesus said in chapter 16, verse 1 I have said these things to you to keep you from falling away. Now it's interesting that He wasn't so concerned that these guys were going to be executed. And in fact, only one of the apostles died in his bed, right? John, who wrote this The others were martyred for their faith. But he doesn't worry about that. He's worried that they would commit apostasy That they would fall away. And that is the great danger when you look at the biblical economy. So what? You get shot. Big deal. The bigger deal is that you deny Jesus Christ. So we want to pray that we're going to persevere and we wanna yeah, we recognize this is the world in which we live. Everything's gonna be made right one day. But meanwhile, we want to pray, Lord, help me not just to blend in. Keep me from cowering But rather, help me to be a happy warrior, marching on, seeking to be a witness for Jesus Christ. If you're not a Christian, this is something to think about. But why do Christians in Nigeria suffer? Why are they willing to die rather than give it up? Just deny the faith? Because they're persuaded this is true. It's worth the cost. And so I'd say to those of you, if you're not yet a Christian or young people and you're young person you're thinking this stuff through Yeah, there's a cost, but if it's true, it's worth it. We're persuaded it's true. You need to study this stuff, think it through, pray. And I pray that God will allow you to see, to believe, and to be a stalwart witness for Jesus Christ all the days of your life. So let's bow our heads. We're thankful, Lord, uh yeah, in this world we'll have troubles, but you've overcome the world So help us always to look for opportunities to be a light for you. Forgive us for having such fear of man and man's opinion. Help us, Lord, to be more bold. Help us to be gracious and loving. We pray for opportunities to be lights for you. Pray Lord for those who aren't yet Christians, they're weighing this stuff out, they're examining the scriptures. I pray that you would move them from on belief to belief That they would see that they're sinners, that Jesus Christ died for sinners, and that they would rest upon him for their salvation. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.