Chapter 20. So we began chapter twenty last week, the hard part. Now we get to the part that's much more clear. So Revelation chapter twenty, verses eleven to fifteen, a text about the final judgment. So verse eleven, John writes, Then I saw him. A great white throne in him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what is written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Well, I mean a few things there are a few things that are uh taught more plainly in the Bible uh than the fact that there will be a day of judgment And that God will uh be the judge. Just think about how the Bible unfolds, right? There's there's a there's a flow to the history of the Bible. It starts with Creation, then you have the fall, then you have redemption, then you have the consummation. When Jesus Christ returns, in one element of that consummation is that He will judge the world. Go through Jesus' parables and you'll find about two-thirds of the parables concern this theme of the final judgment. We've been going through Revelation now for several months, and this is a theme that comes up again and again that there will be a judgment We see it on the pages of scripture. We know it almost instinctively. They do surveys And the masses, the majority of people, have this sense that they will stand before God on a day of judgment. And so since we all have this appointment at God's judgment seat, it's certainly worthwhile to discover what this passage says about what it will be like And this text, just this text answers several questions about the final judgment. So let's jump in. First question. Who will be the judge? Look at verse 11. John writes I saw a great white throne. It's a great throne because it's majestic, it's authoritative, it's a white throne because it's the throne of a holy God, and so the white represents. the purity and the holiness of God. Who is on this throne? Verse 11, John says he saw in him who was seated on it But who is the hymn? Is it the father or is it is it the son that this text doesn't uh specify. You look at the rest of scripture, you discover that it says that both the father and the son execute the final judgment. So a couple of verses that talk about the Father, for example. Romans Uh fourteen verse ten speaks about the judgment seat of God and when you just have God is typically a reference to God the Father 1 Peter 117, Peter says the speaks about the Father who judges impartially. But then you have other Bible verses that speak about Jesus in the role of uh the judge in the end. Uh one of his parables in Matthew 25, verse 31 Jesus spoke of, or he said, when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And even more interesting is John 5 verse 22, where Jesus said, The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. So that's a head scratcher, right? You have some verses that say the Father judges, you have some verses that say the Son judges. Then you have Jesus saying that the Father judges no one. So if you if you figure that out, just let me know after the service, okay? Here's here's the best that that can be done on it Um the father is the judge, but he judges through the son. So that's how they put it together. And that makes some sense Now, moving on just a little bit, let's just move back and think about what this is saying about who God is, right? He's He's a God of grace. He's a God of mercy. He's a God of love. But He's also a judge. And this is almost that excuse me, the modern pulpit in America It's all largely silent about this attribute in this um in this this role That God will carry out, that He is a judge. The liberal pulpit denies it. I remember years ago I've said this before, I was up at Homewood on a Sunday afternoon, and I heard the over the speaker, the chaplain Given her sermonette or her sermon or whatever it was, and it got to a passage about judgment in hell And she told these residents, right, people who will be at death's door before too long. She told them that's just not true. That's the words of men. You don't have to worry about those parts in the Bible that talk like that. And so she completely misled all these residents. That's the liberal Protestant pulpit. They deny it And then you had even the Bible believing churches, they have such a therapeutic mindset uh that they think this would be distressing, and so they whitewash it. But um that's not what the Bible teaches them. Uh one of the old theologians, not exactly in our camp, but a guy named Richard Nieber, he said that the modern pulpit speaks of a god without wrath. Who brought men without sin into a kingdom without judgment through the menstruations of a Christ without a cross? And that is a theology that's completely vapid and is completely useless to men and women who need to know the Savior. So we don't want to listen to those false shepherds. God has gone on public record and he has said that he will one day judge the world in righteousness And the important part you have to hear is that no one will be able to avoid their appointment with him. And that's what's indicated in verse 11. The very creation will quake at the appearing of this holy God. If you look at the end of verse 11, John writes, From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. Similarly, in 614, when John spoke about the return of Christ, he says he saw this cataclysmic end. To the physical order, he wrote, the sky vanished like a scroll that's being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. But what's the result of the mountains and islands being rolled up like a scroll and um everything disappearing? Well the result is as Doug Kelly wrote There is now nothing to hide any individual in the universe from the Almighty. whose very existence some of these people spent their whole life trying to deny And so that's what's going to happen. Everyone will be exposed. Remember back in chapter six, they're going to call out for the mountains to fall on them? But there will be no mountains. There will be no place to hide. And so thus uh the urgency of being ready to face your Maker, not as your judge, but as your refuge. So the second question, who will be judged? Well, verse 12 says, Everyone, I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne. Not only everyone alive, everyone who's gone before us. Verse 13. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. So the sea gave up the dead. That would have been notable to the first century hearers of this uh of this revelation because in the ancient world it was considered very important to have a proper burial But if you died at sea, you were denied that, and that was considered a dreadful fate. But John says here that when Jesus Christ returns, even the sea uh will give up those who died there. Even Hades that speaks about the grave, the realm of the dead. Likewise Will yield up the dead. And so in the Apostles' Creed, what do we say? I believe in Jesus Christ. It'll come back, then it says, He'll judge the living and the dead. Matthew 25, 32, Jesus said, before him will be gathered all the nations. It includes believers. And we've got to think about this one. Believers First uh 2 Corinthians 5. 10. Paul said, We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Hebrews 10. 30, the writer said, The Lord will judge his people. Ooh, wait a minute. How does this fit with the gospel? How does this fit? Well, for the believer, you gotta listen. For the believer, the final judgment will not be a judgment that will determine your eternal destiny. Your eternal destiny was determined when you believed in Jesus Christ. Want a Bible verse that says that? John 5. 24, I think this is a huge, a very important verse, John 5. 24. Jesus said, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Okay? So you're not going to be judged as far as your eternal destiny is concerned. However, we will still stand before God's judgment seat. And his judgment of us, number one, he'll display his glory by declaring us righteous. Not because we're that hot, but because we're clothed in Jesus Christ's righteousness. So we will stand before God's judgment seat But then there is also a sense that we will be judged in that we will receive rewards For our faithfulness to Jesus Christ. Here's some Bible verses you might look up that talk about Christians receiving rewards. These rewards are by God's grace, they're out of proportion to what we deserve, but nonetheless, we have this incentive in the Bible That, you know what? There's many reasons that we should seek to please God and live a life of thanksgiving to Him, right? One would be just a response of gratitude. But then you have other incentives. And so the Bible just throws out all these incentives at the same time. Warnings, threats, but also rewards. Rewards are spoken of for Christians For example, 1 Corinthians 3, verse 14 to 15, Matthew 5, 11 and 12, Matthew 6, 19 to 21, Luke 6:35, and there are some others. Angels will also be judged. You see that in 1 Corinthians 6 verse 2 and 3, 2 Peter 2, verse 4. So everybody is going to be judged. What's the basis? On which this judgment will take place. We have that in verse 12. John writes: I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened. So two books or two sets of books. At least the first is a set. Then it says another book was opened, which is the book of life. And here's the key, or here's the relevant part. It says, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. Now before I try to uh explain what's going on, I just want to make a note. Remember I said you can't understand Revelation you can't understand Revelation without reading the Old Testament Here's just another allusion to the Old Testament. So this uh this picture of thrones and of books, it's not just something that was revealed in Revelation. But let's read it way back in the Old Testament book of Daniel, chapter seven, verse nine and ten. Daniel speaks of thrones and the ancient of days taking a seat on the throne And then 7. 10 speaks about the court sat in judgment and the books were opened. So there's nothing new or unique about Revelation It's just giving us more clarity the things that were spoken of spoken of uh less clearly in the Old Testament. So these books spoken of in Daniel or and spoken of here in verse 12, they this is a symbol, right? I don't I don't think God's gonna pull a book off his bookcase. Jason Rowling. Ooh, that's a fat one there. Yeah. And others will have multivolume sets, right? But um Anyway, um these books represent God's memory. So it's just a symbol, God's knowledge of everything We've ever done, right? All our deeds. That's what it says in the end of verse 12. The dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. All our words, Matthew 12, 36, Jesus said, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. Yep. Um all our thoughts, second Corinthians four five He'll bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. You see the movie or read the novel The Great Gatsby, read it in college. It's out in Long Island, New York in the nineteen, I guess the nineteen twenties, right? Um But there's this one figure, this one image, this one symbol driving through the the desolate uh gray landscape of Long Island, there was this old billboard Advertising for an optician or oculus, guy who makes uh glasses, what do you call them? I don't know. But anyway, Dr. TJ Eckleberg, the Eccleberg. These two eyeballs on this uh billboard, then there's a pair of spectacles over the eyeballs. Uh but Fitzgerald uses it used it as a symbol for God's all seeing eyes. He sees everything we do. And some of the characters in the book or in the story who are engaged in dark deeds. They'd be driving down the coastline in this gray night and they'd see these eyeballs looking at them and it and they would be haunted by these eyeballs. And so it is for us, Hebrews 4:13. No creature is hidden from his sight. But all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. So that's unsettling, right? Because we can we can we can uh we can present ourselves to others. in a certain manner, but God sees what we're really like. So what do we do? Well we we have to we have to look to Jesus Christ. We have to look to him as our righteousness. We we don't stand a chance standing before God uh based on a record of our own thoughts and words and deeds So anyway, get getting back to the question now, I asked the question, on what basis will be we be judged? So here's what you need to put on your your Your your listening ears. Well, the end of verse twelve says the dead were judged by what's written in the books. Then it says, according to what they had done. So wait a minute. We are Protestants, right? We're saved by grace, not by our deeds. We're saved by God's unmerited favor By his mercy. The first Bible verse I ever heard that makes sense was Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. Paul said, For by grace you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it's the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. And so we're not saved by our deeds, right? That's that verse says we're saved by God's God's unmerited favor, by his grace. And when we have faith in Jesus Christ, that he is our righteousness and that he died for our sin Well then how do we square that with what the end of verse 12 says they were judged according to what they had done? And we would say that we're saved by faith, but the final judgment is based on our actions, on our deeds. Because deeds are the evidence of whether or not someone has a genuine faith. Okay? So yeah, we are judged On the basis of our works, and works provide the evidence that you were saved by faith because only those who are saved by faith having given the Spirit of God and they have a new heart, they're they're they're They're made spiritually alive and they endeavor to worship God. They endeavor to serve Him. They endeavor uh to serve others and to grow in the fruits of Christian So I I hope that was clear. If not, let's let's talk some more. So yeah, the Bible doesn't contradict itself. We will be judged on the basis of our works, but works as the fruit of genuine conversion. What will be the penalty? Number four, what will be the penalty for the unrepentant at the final judgment We see that in verse 15. If anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Now Christians will be vindicated because God elected them and He put them their name in this other book, the Book of Life. How do you know if your name's in the book, right? Um, well, you trust in Jesus Christ. That's what happens when someone is Is um what's the word? Touched, I shouldn't say touched, regenerated by the Spirit of God. You see that Jesus Christ is Lord, you see that He's the Savior, He you see that He's a sinner. So that's the evidence that you're in the book of life. But those who are not in it, it says in verse 15, they are thrown into the lake of fire. So here's another statement about eternal punishment. J. C. Ryle said, Who shall describe the misery of eternal punishment? The eternal pain of body, the eternal sting of an accusing conscience, the eternal society of none but the wicked, the devil and his angels The eternal remembrance of opportunities neglected and Christ despised, the eternal prospect of a weary, hopeless future. Now some Christian circles that kind of talk about hell is considered unsophisticated. Uh we don't want to have hell be the only string on our guitar Uh but uh we should give it its proper emphasis because the Bible uh certainly does. Let's read about uh these old cathedrals in the Middle Ages You walk into one of these cathedrals, many of them had a semicircle right above the doorway, and on the semicircle, on this uh this this would be a carving of Jesus Christ on his throne, and the redeemed, the sheep, would be on his right. And those who were condemned would be on his left. So imagine you go to ch worship every week, and even before you get into the sanctuary You're greeted there by this reminder of heaven, of hell, and of the dual destiny of the redeemed and of the condemned And so, yeah, it's good to think about this. I remember as a kid, before I was a Christian, I had this sense of heaven and hell. Then years later here in the gospel, it's like, oh, we didn't we need we need not fear we need not fear this. How can you escape the final judgment? Question five. Well I think it's pretty clear we can't escape it based on our moral rel our moral record or our religious efforts, right? That's the gospel. Uh Romans uh three ten, Paul said There's no unrighteous, not one. Then a couple verses later, all have sinned and falling short of the glory of God. That's the black backdrop, and you get to chapter 623 of Romans. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. And so uh we can be acquitted because we look to Jesus Christ as the one who makes us righteous. We come to the Lord's Supper Not because we're that uh virtuous or spiritual or morally upright, but because our sins have been uh paid for On the cross, and we have been given uh these white robes of righteousness. And that's why I want to read that verse again I read earlier, John four uh John five twenty-four. Jesus said Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment. But has passed from death to life. So that's the miracle of Christian conversion. That's what Jesus Christ did. He delivered us. Uh it says in 1 Thessalonians 1 ten. He delivers us from the wrath to come. So now we face him not as our judge, not as one who will condemn us But as one who welcomes us, and in fact, he says, come have fellowship with me at this table So we have this little table here, right, with the little token uh elements, but they're just a reminder that one day We're going to stand before Jesus Christ. Every time we take this, what do we do? We proclaim his death until he comes. So one day we're going to be completely transformed. We're gonna know God, and we're gonna know one another, and we're gonna be in harmony. Let's bow our heads