Malachi chapter two, Malachi chapter two, verses thirteen to sixteen. And I'm going to read beginning in verse 10 because this is really of a piece that's talking to the men of Judah. This is about the 5th century B. C. Talk about to the men of Judah, about their faithfulness, not their faithfulness, their faithlessness, in their marriage commitments. Uh they were marrying um women who were not believers. They were women who worship foreign gods. That was the first problem, and we talked about that last week, the prohibition in Scripture against marrying unbelievers. Then verses 13 to 16 is God charging them with faithlessness to their wives. Malachi chapter 2, verse 10. Malachi says to the people of Israel, Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers? Judah has been faithless. And abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem, for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign God. May the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob any descendant of the man who does this, who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. And this second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it from the hand of with favor from your hand. But you say, Why has he not? Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Did he not make them one with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth. For the man who hates and divorces, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless. Remember last Sunday I pointed out the word faithless shows up five times in this little section. They were faithless to God. And um they were faithless to their spouses. And uh so it's the second week we're talking about the same uh general theme of marriage. You know, everybody here is not married But we're going to let the scripture set the agenda. And um many here will be married one day, and so it's good to have some some good principles uh weaved in to your heart about this. And we want to do everything we can uh to strengthen marriages that exist at the moment and also to prepare people are our singles to have strong marriages in the future But the first principle that stands out in this passage is um it has a broader application, which I'll expand on in a minute. But the first principle is that Narrow faithfulness leads to spiritual fruitfulness. And that's a good reminder because we live in a fallen world, right? There's all kind of temptations around us. And there's all kind of difficulties that arise in marriage. It's inevitable. And our tendency can be to rationalize away the precepts of Scripture. But that's the nature of the sin in our hearts. It blinds us, and sin always tends to rationalize things. And um we can delude ourselves into thinking that we can be unfaithful to our spouses. This is not an act than in our thoughts, we can dilute ourselves into thinking that we can be unfaithful to our spouses and still have a fruitful Christian life But the Bible is very clear that apart from genuine repentance, that will never be the case And we know Christ died for for sinners. We know that any fruit that we enjoy in our Christian lives Is the result of God's grace. But nonetheless, we have to balance that with the teaching of Scripture that we should not presume upon God's grace. What we see in verses thirteen and fourteen, I think it's really interesting, God tells these Israelites that he will not accept their worship Because these men have been unfaithful to their wives. So let's look more closely at verse thirteen and fourteen. So Malachi says, and this second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning. Because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. So they're saying, Lord, why don't you receive our worship? Why don't you receive our offering? But you say, why does he not? Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless Though she's your companion and your wife by covenant. So there it could not be more clear, right? Marital faithfulness leads to spiritual fruitfulness. And so Malachi is saying you must repent so that you can be restored. Now this is just a corollary of a broader principle that we see throughout the Bible. And the broader principle is that unrepentant disobedience is a prayer buster Now we're all disobedient, right? But unrepentant disobedience is a prayer buster. I want to give you four verses, okay? Psalm 66, verse 18 If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. It's very clear. If I'm not repentant of my sin, God's not going to hear my prayer. Proverbs 15, verse 8: The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. Here we go again, 1 Peter 3, verse 12, which quotes Psalm 34. The eyes of the Lord are on the righteous. And his ears open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. One more. 1 Peter 4, verse 7. Peter says Be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. And so there's this connection between A humble, repentant obedience and effectiveness in prayer And we know the only reason God hears our prayer, right? It's because we come in the name of Jesus Christ. It's not our righteousness, we know. But at the same time, there's this call to endeavor to walk in God's ways. Here's one, we read this last week, if I could just add one more, getting back to husbands and wives in prayer. 1 Peter 3, 7 Peter says, Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since there heirs with you of the grace of light. And then he says, so that your prayers may not be hindered. It's like whoo and whenever whenever when I regularly offend my wife, when I'm insensitive to her These kind of things come back to me, right? So this is a good verse for husbands and wives to learn, right? My prayers are a waste of time. If I'm not right with my wife, I'm not right with my kids, if I'm not right with anybody, with you. Wayne Grutham in his commentary on that verse wrote this God is so concern so concerned is God that Christian husbands live in an understanding and loving way with their wives. That he interrupts his relationship with them when they're not doing so. No Christian husband should presume to think than any that any spiritual good will be accomplished by his life without an effective ministry of prayer. And no husband may expect an effective prayer life unless he lives with his wife in an understanding way, bestowing honor upon her. And so what this leads to, what what Malachi is leading to He's saying because marital faithfulness leads to spiritual fruitfulness. Twice in verses fifteen and sixteen. He warns us to be vigilant. Look at the end of verse 15. So guard yourselves. And your spirit, let none of you be faithless to your to the wife of your youth. Again he says, so guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless, right? So we want to guard ourselves. We want to guard our hearts. We want, Lord, do not let a root of bitterness uh grow up in my heart or take or dig its roots down into my heart uh because that's gonna make me vulnerable. I want to guard my eyes, what I set before them. I want to guard the way I speak to those of the opposite sex, right? And remember Mike Pence, he said he wouldn't dine with a woman Lone to whom he was not married and everyone made fun of him. All these um reporters and everything who had been divorced and uh had affairs and everything, they all made fun of him But he says, no, this is important. We have to recognize our vulnerability in in those areas. Guard your imagination from guard from contemplating other prospects out there. So that's that's the first principle. Marital faithfulness, sorry. Yeah, I can say it like that. Marital faithfulness leads to spiritual fruitfulness. Now let's go a little further. We see as we go on of God's design for marriage. And this is really important And this is like, you know, premarital counseling, 101. Right? So all our young people, this is something to listen to. What is God's design for marriage? And the first thing I'd say is this. Marriage is a covenant. It's a covenant. Look at the end of verse 14. The wife is referred to as your companion and your wife by covenant. Okay? So a covenant it's a binding agreement to which God is the witness. You know when I meet with somebody somebody who's going to get married Lesson one, or discussion one, I say, here's what a wedding is. A wedding is fundamentally the taking of a covenant Uh and that's the long and the short of it. I mean there's a lot of fanfare and a lot of uh trappings to a wedding ceremony. But the very heart of it is that you take vows when you get married. You take vows to each other. You take vows before God And then the reason you invite people to your wedding is that you're taking vows to society and they're witnesses of that vow. And if you should begin to go astray, those people who showed up at your wedding, they have a solemn obligation to call you to get back on track with your spouse And so marriage, uh, first of all, is a covenant, and then in this passage, and we'll expand it a little bit, The Bible teaches that marriage has a number of purposes. Marriage has a number of purposes. And we're going to make a list here briefly. First purpose is companionship. Look at verse 14. Malachi says to these guys, She's your companion. Right? This is just reflecting back in Genesis chapter 2, verse 18, where God said, in a perfect world where there is no sin Where Adam had perfect fellowship with God, he nonetheless said, It is not good for the man to be alone. And so marriage is designed to deal with the problem of loneliness. And life's lonely, right? And if you're single It can be very lonely. We need to look out for each other. We need to look out for our single folks. We need to be a family to them And uh so first purpose uh is companionship and I need to not if you're married you need to be thinking, am I a good companion? Uh to my spouse, to my husband, to my wife, do I Try to engage my spouse in conversation, to to know my spouse, uh to bring that to bring them out, to to focus on them. To encourage my husband or my wife. One of the Puritans, Thomas Watson, said, a man is not kept uh chaste by having a wife. But by loving his wife. So that's something we want to always be working at. And y you look at a couple who's been married forty or fifty years and they're still madly in love Well how did how did that happen? Uh well it just doesn't happen, right? But these are people, they they work at it and Through hard times and through happy times, they're loving, they're caring, they're serving, and they're engaged with their spouse. And so we want to do that. Or think about uh Katie Clark. I don't know if she still does this uh but She said she would go Dan would go hunting and she would set up in the hunting stand and tree with Dan at the cold winter weather. Does she still do that? Well that's that's a pretty good example there, right? Doing doing something. So uh m what's the purpose of marriage? It's for companionship, it's for unity. Look at verse 15, we see that there God says, Malachi says, did he not make them one? Right? Did he not make the husband and wife? As Genesis 2. 24 says one flesh, right? They become one person, not only physically, but emotionally and spiritually. So that's another purpose in marriage. A third purpose Verse 15 is God the offspring. Now we always say the purpose of marriage, God created marriage for procreation, right? God said in Genesis, be fruitful and multiply. But Malachi in verse 15 gets a little bit more specific, not merely multiply But multiply and have offspring who are disciples of Jesus Christ. So verse 15. Did he not make them one with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Here's the answer: Godly offspring. And so here we're taught that one of the main reasons God designed marriage for is so that we can have children who become disciples of Jesus Christ. And the most effective tool what you well, what is the most effective tool for evangelism ever devised? Last week I think I asked that in Sunday school. Uh somebody might say, uh the four spiritual laws, that little yellow tract that Campus Crusade put out. That's a remarkable tool. I remember somebody showed me that when I was seventeen. That's how you understood the gospel in this little church youth group I went to. That's a great tool. Others might say, au contraire, Montferre, the most effective tool for evangelism is to build a grand crusade. Thousands of people a tent of billigrams per says. Well, yeah, that's been used and that's debatable even its effectiveness. But no, we would say the most effective tool for evangelism ever devised is the marriage bed. And so the the it's funny, the Christian Reformed Church is a has a Dutch heritage. And the Dutch have large families. So the Christian Reformed Church would use this term, they'd call it Dutch evangelism. And what they were saying is, we're having these large families Because that's how we're evangelizing the world. And there's a lot to be said for that. And that's exactly what this is saying. God desires godly offspring by birth or by adoption. Uh if you're married, I can't say it's true for everybody, but I think most should say or should consider my calling. Should be to raise disciples of Jesus Christ. Now there's some other purposes for marriage in the Bible. 1 Corinthians 7, 1 to 9 is protection against sexual temptation In another purpose, Ephesians 5, 25 to 28, sanctification, right? Just as Christ loved the church. And he gave himself up for the church that she might be holy and without blemish sanctified. So there's this analogy between Christ and the church in the husband and his wife. We're to sanctify each other. And that typically does happen in marriage because you learn about sin that you didn't really think you had before you got married. Well let's go on. Verse 16. Notoriously difficult verse. There's a debate about how it should be translated, so we have to tread carefully But um my take on it is that it's talking about God's view of divorce. And so I have the ESV translation, which many of you have And the ESB translates the Hebrew literally, and it takes it to say, the man who hates and divorces But other translations take more, I shouldn't say the spirit of it, but the sense of it to be this It's in the voice of God saying, I hate divorce. Okay? Now if that's not exactly how it translates, we understand that God does not approve of divorce And it says in the end of verse sixteen that the one who divorces is one who covers his garment with violence. You think about a murder victim uh with b covered in blood. So is the one who divorces, he or she leaves its mark For all to see. And we know that, right? And many folks in our church are divorced. And so there and many can give testimony to that. I was reading about Uh this past week I was reading about a guy named Tulian Chividian. You ever hear that name? He was quite a popular uh Presbyterian pastor. He pastored a big Presbyterian church in Florida And he committed adultery, he was unfaithful to his wife, and he married uh this woman, and so there was a divorce and He's remarried. He went back into the pulpit. I I think that's wrong. I understand God forgives. But I I'm not talk I don't want to talk about that aspect of it But he did write something that uh was was rather uh striking about the grief he has about his conduct in his in the destruction of his first marriage. And he said how it had left a mark for all to see. Just like this verse, verse 16 It's like the man covered in blood that leaves its mark for all to see. And so in this article, he recounted, he said, I was in Barnes and Noble a while back And I happened to pick up a book that was published a few years ago by a young author whom I've never met face to face I remember him reaching out to me after he finished his book to tell me that he looked up to me and said, my ministry had greatly impacted him. He told me it was his first book and said he'd be honored if I'd read it and write an endorsement. I agreed to do it Then he says, and here I was only a few years later, staring at my name on the back cover of his book. I was overcome with grief. He asked me to write an endorsement because he thought it would help give his book credibility. And there was my name sticking out. like a discrediting blemish on his hard work. I felt sick. At that moment, I I was reminded of how far of how the far-reaching effects of my sin and how so many people I've never seen or never met were hurt by me. And so yeah, it you can't we're just we're acquainted with a couple. Yeah, they just um there was just found out that there was adultery. And The man who did this, he he can't look down the road far enough to see how this is all gonna play out. But it's gonna be so destructive And um we talked about this in November. I was on Matthew nineteen, I think I spent two weeks on Matthew nineteen, Jesus teaching on marriage and divorce, and so I don't wanna Go on and on, but just a reminder, there are grounds for divorce, right? Adultery, Matthew 19, 9, desertion, 1 Corinthians 715 and there are principles from scripture. How do we apply this to particular situations? And we can all we can talk about that sometime if you But what I want to do is just say two things. If you're in a hard marriage uh if things are difficult, then there's two things I would say. First thing is this. The first thing I would say is take the long view. Take the long view because It's likely that over time that your marriage will get better. Not always the case. But I want to I want to read something that I saw a few years back. A writer named uh uh ma named uh Mona Cheron. She talked about a study that found, and let me read this so you get a listen. Here's what this study found. Unhappily married adults who divorced were no happier five years after the divorce. than equally unhappily married people who stayed together. Did you get that? I got divorced, I'm still miserable. Well, those who divorced because they weren't happy, they're the percentage of those who are still unhappy is about the same Who uh stayed married in difficult marriage. And let's go a little further. And two-thirds of unhappily married people, so two-thirds of unhappily married people. who remained married purported that their marriages were happy five years later, even among those who had rated their marriage. As very unhappy, nearly 80% said they were happily married five years later. These were not merely bored or dissatisfied whiners They had endured serious problems, including alcoholism, infidelity, verbal abuse, emotional neglect, depression, illness, and work and money troubles And so the study concludes that if a couple is unhappy, the chances of their being happily married five years hence are 64% if they remain together, but only 19% if they divorce and remarry. So the re the only reason I say that, and I've said this to people in counseling situations, is that And this isn't always the case for everybody, right? Because some people are just wicked that you might be married to. That's different. But in most cases, you put two sinners together. Things get better. And if you're both Christians, there's even a better chance for improvement, right? Because God is working on us, God's changing us. So I had I'm saying I have two things to say before I close. Number one, you know what? There's hope. Sometimes things get better, or oftentimes they get better, and with the work of God the uh percentage of improvement uh goes up much higher. But the second thing I want to say is that we all need to have a sort of I I saw this term is called a marital work athlete, just saying, I need to work on my marriage I just need to quit sliding along, uh just going along, and I need to be more deliberate, right? In conversation, uh, in serving, encouraging. Remember Tom Fortney saying He to one of the uh Saturday morning groups. He said he studies his wife. He studies his wife, like when they go shopping, he studies his wife I don't do that. But I thought that was that was very helpful. Yeah. Fascinating creatures they are. We we need we need to uh we who are married, we need to uh study our wives, women need to uh study their husbands So we want to have this marital work ethic. Mentioned this in a bulletin this marriage course I hope we can run for many years Uh the re-engage, take a look at that. Sixteen weeks, quite a chunk of time, I understand. Uh but there's a there's a logic to that. And uh there's we could uh use a couple more couples uh to to join us for that and I think it'll be useful in our families and also uh as we spread the news of it. And so Let's pray and um pray Lord uh help us help us in our marriages pray for those who will one day be married that they're gonna So you'll adopt some uh unshakable commitments of what you're looking for in a spouse and what you want your marriage to look like. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do pray that you'd help us in our homes, help us in our marriages, help our church and the many marriages represented. Help them to grow stronger. We pray for those marriages and wish there is a discord that you might bring healing and restoration We pray you'd protect us from looking over the fence. We pray, Lord, for our young people that they would be wise in their associations. They'd be wise about whom they date, whom they court, and guide them and help them that have very strong commitments to you Help them to grow to be suitable for marriage, lifelong relationships, and help them to have wisdom as they seek the right one. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, we're gonna sing Psalm 127. It's right in our bulletin