Verses 13 to 35. There should be, if you don't bring a Bible, there's probably one there in the PewRack. I encourage you to take that. You'll do a lot better if you have your Bible open. So, this is uh an account of what happened on the afternoon of the resurrection First three verses of Luke 24 it says the first day of the week early at dawn they went to the tomb taking the spices they had prepared They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. So there's all this hubbub. Where's the body of Jesus Christ? Going down to verse 13, our text. Says that very day, two of them, that's two of the disciples, two of them, were going to a village named Emmaeus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. And they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them But their eyes were kept from recognizing him, and he said to them, What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still looking sad. Then one of them, named Cleopus, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened? There in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth. A man who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him But we had hope that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back, saying that they had even seen a vision of angels. who said that he was alive. Some of those who are with us went to the tomb and found it just as the woman had said, but him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And here's our text that we're going to focus on. And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose that that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven, and those who were with them, gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. Now it's common for pastors, for evangelists, for uh Christians to urge their unbelieving friends to turn to Jesus Christ. Uh because they say Christianity is useful. Christianity will help people. If you follow Jesus Christ, your life will improve in some ways. You'll have a sense of meaning. You'll have a sense of purpose. Probably help your marriage and help you uh get along with others. And so there's this great appeal uh to the usefulness of Christianity. And that's often the case, right? And people here can say, yeah, when I became Christian a Christian, when I started following Christ, um things did improve in this area or that area. You probably can also say things got harder in other ways, and that's of course why many people don't become Christians because there is a cost But while the American Church certainly puts a this huge emphasis on the benefits that Christ can bring to a person's life, if you read through the New Testament I don't think there's one conversion that came about in response To a statement or to a sermon that set forth the usefulness of Christianity. But rather And you read read the gospels, read the Acts, Book of Acts, people became Christians not because they saw that Christianity is useful. They became Christians because they were persuaded that it's true. And two of the main arguments that the New Testament presents For the truth of Christianity are number one, the reality of Jesus' resurrection from the grave. You see that, for example, in Acts chapter 2, verse 32. Peter's preaching to the Jews in Jerusalem, he says This Jesus God raised up, and of that were witnesses. And so number one, they say Christianity is true because They were witnesses to the resurrection. And number two, this is what we're talking about this morning. They say Christianity is true. Because we find in Jesus Christ the fulfillment of the Jewish scriptures, our Old Testament. And so let's look at the context here, and I'll show you what I'm showing the case I'm going to make. So you have two men in this passage, right? They were disciples of Jesus. They'd both been in Jerusalem on Friday when Jesus was crucified. We don't know who these two were. All we know it says in verse 18 one of the fellows' names was Cleopus, okay? It's Sunday afternoon, right? Verse 13. It said, the very day two of them were going to the village named Emmaus, seven miles from Jerusalem. So they were probably going home. Uh certainly they were deflated. They had heard that Jesus Christ was the Messiah, but now he was crucified. And he was put in a grave. And so they're probably dragging themselves home bitterly disappointed and disillusioned. And an apparent stranger who doesn't seem uh the least bit shy walks up to him and he says to these two disciples, What's the latest uh from Jerusalem? And uh they're amazed that this fellow doesn't hadn't heard about the events of the past couple days And so they tell the stranger about the crucifixion of Jesus. Go back to verse 21 to 23. Let's just make sure we have the plot line here, 21. They said to him, But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb. Early in the morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had even seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive And so it's interesting, they heard about this resurrection, but it did not register. And so What does Jesus say to these two fellows about their unbelief? They had heard this report. uh but they didn't believe. What does he say to us? Because we struggle with unbelief too, right? Well he says in verse twenty-five, he says, Oh foolish ones And then what does it say? And slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken So he calls them dullards because he said this was all foretold in the Jewish scriptures or Old Testament Your scriptures said that the Messiah would suffer. And so in verse 25, he said to them, O foolish ones, slow heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Then it says, Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And so they're going down the road, Jesus at this point helps his These two men understand the scriptures, how the Old Testament points to him, right? So again, verse 27, this is the verse that we're going to expand upon. Where it says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so he he led a Bible study. He took them on a guided tour through of the Old Testament. Says he began with Moses. That's a reference to the first five books of the Jewish scriptures. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. And he says, listen, those five books are about me. And then he went to the prophets, writers like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Daniel. And he goes on. Probably went through the Psalms and Proverbs, and it says he interpreted to them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. And so this tells us that the Old Testament isn't merely background material for the New Testament, but rather The Old Testament proclaims the gospel. The Old Testament is about Jesus Christ. And that makes sense because when the apostles were out there preaching in the book of Acts. They didn't have the New Testament, right? It was still being composed, it was still being compiled. They preached Christ from the Old Testament, okay? And so we have Old Testament promise and New Testament fulfillment. And the case I want to make to you this morning. Is that understanding the Old Testament will help you recognize that Jesus Christ is indeed the promised Messiah? This stuff is true. The Bible, as I've said on other occasions, is a self-authenticating document. And so let's consider now. Let's go on a little tour through the Old Testament. And we're just going to skin the surface and we're going to see how every part of the Old Testament begins with Jesus Christ. Well, where should we start? Well, uh what would Mary Poppin say? She would say, let's start in the beginning. That's a very good place to start. So we'll start in the beginning. Uh we'll go back to the book of Genesis, right? You have Adam and Eve. And um God tested them and Adam, the representative head of the human race, uh disobeyed God. And so because of his sin All of humanity fell into sin. So because of his fall, we fell. He represented us. Romans chapter 5, verses 12 to 21. You don't have to turn there. I have the notes. You can look up the notes later. But Romans 5 explains That as in the first Adam all humanity fell, so Jesus Christ, the second Adam, All who trust in him are made alive. Okay? And think about the circumstances of their work. So the first Adam He was in a paradise. He was in the garden. There was no sin. Had infected the world. And yet he fell. Jesus Christ, when he began his public ministry, It wasn't in the garden. Remember in Matthew 4? He went out into the wilderness, out into the desert, to be tempted by the devil for forty days. Why was that? It wasn't just to give us an example, wow, this guy had a lot of self-control, but it was to set Jesus up as the second Adam who obeyed God, who obeyed all his commands. to represent us so that he is the one who brings the victory for his people. Jesus will go on through Genesis. He's the son of Abraham. Remember Abraham, he was the father of the Israelite people. And in Genesis 22, You know, Abraham had waited decades for a son. His wife Sarah finally has a son. And then God tests Abraham in Genesis 22. He says, I want you to sacrifice your son Your only son Isaac on this altar asn't to atone for your sin. And Abraham puts uh lays Isaac across the altar and he ties him down. And Isaac looks up to his dad and he says, Uh, where's the lamb for burnt offering? This is Genesis 22. Abraham replied, God will provide for himself a lamb for burnt offering. And he did, right? As Abraham is about to slay Isaac. The angel says, Abraham, don't do that. And Abraham looks and he finds a ram caught in the thicket. And so God did provide a substitute. And the angel said, Sacrifice that ram instead of your son. Well, that introduces the idea of penal substitution, right? God provided a substitute to suffer the penalty, to be the sacrifice for his sin. And that points ahead to Jesus Christ, right, in John 3. 16. God so loved the world, he gave his only son, whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. And so Abraham sacrificing Isaac points forward to the cross of Jesus Christ. You have the same idea in the book of Exodus. Remember the Passover? A little context for those who are newer to the Scripture The Israelites were in bondage to the Egyptians. And finally, God told uh called Moses and he said, You're going to bring my people out of Egypt. And the night before they made their exit throughout Egypt, God sent a final plague, and this plague was a death angel who was going to go throughout the nation and would slay the firstborn son in every house, whether it was an Egyptian home or an Israelite home. But God told the Israelites, listen, here's what you can do to prevent your firstborn from dying when this angel of death goes. to execute my judgment on you for your sin by taking your son. He said, you can take a lamb. It has to be an unblemished lamb. Slaughter it, take some of its blood, and then wipe it or paint it on the doorframe of your house And that way when the angel goes throughout Egypt, killing the firstborn in every house, he'll see that a substitute was sacrificed in your place. And as a consequence, he'll pass over your house and there there won't be uh need for one to die in your home. Well what is that? How how can a lamb suffer in the place of a person Well, it can't. It's not a sufficient sacrifice, but it was an object lesson pointing forward to the final sacrifice, Jesus Christ. And that's why it's not a coincidence that when Jesus showed up on the scene in John chapter 1 verse 29, John the Baptist spots him and he says, What? Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Well that's why in Paul in 1 Corinthians 5. 7 writes about Jesus Christ being our Passover Lamb who was sacrificed for us. And so, oh, now we understand why they sacrificed those animals in the Old Testament. They were just object lessons. They were just types pointing forward to the final sacrifice, Jesus Christ. That's why we don't have sacrifices here. It would make the landlord uh miserable And uh but it's not necessary. Jesus Christ is the final sacrifice. Here's one. This one's a little more obscure. Let's turn to Exodus chapter 17. Exodus 17, okay? Genesis Exodus for those new to the Bible. So, the Israelites have now left Egypt. They're traveling through the desert. There's no water. And they're going through the wilderness. And they complain. So I better turn there myself. Okay. Exodus 17. Verse two. Therefore the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why do you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? So Moses cried to the Lord. What shall I do with this people? They're almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, taking with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile and go. And now look at verse 6 Behold, I will stand there before you on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people shall drink And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. Well, that's sort of arbitrary. Why did God have Moses strike a rock? Why didn't he say strike the ground? Water will come out of a spring. Why do you have to say strike a rock? Was there some particular reason? Well, of course, Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 4, Moses calls God his rock. The people had called for judgment. When they themselves deserve judgment, but God Himself stands in their place And bears their judgment. That's what God told Moses. Strike the rock, you know, strike me with your staff. Because that's an instrument of Judge. Water flowed from the rock, and the people were delivered from their thirst. Now Some of you might be saying, this guy has a very fertile imagination. How does he come up with these connections? I don't have a fertile imagination. I'm as plain as they come. But the Bible explains it all. Turn to the New Testament now, if you think I'm making this stuff up. First Corinthians chapter ten. So Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, First Corinthians chapter ten. I'm not very imaginative. Ask my wife at her birthday time. I'm just not an imaginative person. But the Bible is a very tight document. Like I said, it's self-authenticating. 1 Corinthians 10, 1 to 4. This is exactly what it says. Paul says to these Christians, I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and passed through the sea. That talks about them going through the Red Sea, right? During the Exodus. And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food. Remember, they went through the wilderness, they ate the manna. Verse 4, and drink and drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And the rock was Christ. So, of course, the New Testament interprets for us the Old Testament But you could go on. I could say Jesus is, you know, you had Moses in the Old Testament. He led the people out of bondage in Egypt into the promised land, or toward the promised land of Canaan. Well, the New Testament presents Jesus as the second Moses. He delivers us from the from the true bondage to sin, Satan, and death, leading us to the promised land to heaven. Moses delivered God's law of the Ten Commandments from the from a mountain. It's no accident that in Matthew five to seven, when Jesus gave his interpretation, not his interpretation His explanation of the true extent of God's commands in the Sermon on the Mount, he delivered that exposition also from a mountain. And so Matthew presents Jesus not only as a deliverer of God's people, but as a second lawgiver And in fact, in John 5. 46, Jesus said, Moses wrote about me So Moses foretold Jesus coming. You had in the Old Testament priests and offerings, the New Testament book of Hebrews. Explains how Jesus fulfills all those ceremonial laws in the Old Testament Book of Leviticus. He's not only our priest, it says. He's the final offering. So even the book of Leviticus points forward to Jesus Christ. How about the Old Testament book of Joshua? Remember? He led the people into the promised land of Canaan. Well, that was a miserable place. That wasn't such a promised land after all. Of course it was, because it was just a type pointing forward to the true promised land heaven, which Jesus leads us into. as the true Joshua. In fact, the Hebrew uh name Joshua uh means uh or is is the is the Hebrew form of the Greek uh Aramaic uh term Jesus, Greek form uh Forget it. Jesus is a Greek form of the Aramaic uh of the Hebrew term uh Joshua. Alright. Glad I got that out. I feel better. I don't know if you do, but I feel better. How about this? I know I'm go this guy's going on and on and on. Well I'm just getting warmed up here. God's anointed king. 1st and 2 Samuel talks about Israel's greatest king, King David. He foreshadowed Jesus. In numerous ways, right? He was God's anointed king. What did the mockers say to Jesus when he was being crucified? Heal the king of the Jews! And um David was born in Bethlehem, so was Jesus. That was prophesied in Micah 5, verse 2. David went out and conquered the enemies of God's people. Remember David going against Goliath? God's appointed leader, God's warrior, would go out and defeat the enemy of God's people, Goliath and the Philistines. Well, that was a type of Jesus Christ. He was God's man who was sent to conquer our enemies, sin and Satan, and death. And so it's no accident that Matthew's gospel, the very first verse in Matthew's gospel, makes the point in introducing Jesus Christ. It says the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham, because Matthew wants us to see that Jesus is the fulfillment of Old Testament Scripture. Then Steve. Steve read Isaiah 53, written, seven hundred years before Jesus was born Or we could read Psalm 22, a description in grisly detail of Jesus' crucifixion. In fact, Jesus dying on the cross cried out uh the words of Psalm twenty-two, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? All right. So my question then, if you're not persuaded, if you're not a Christian, right, we live in a a culture where there's a cornucopia of religions. So we say, well there are so many different viewpoints and philosophies and religions. How can Christians claim that Christ is the only way and that Christianity is the truth. And the reason we make that claim is because we believe That God has revealed Himself clearly in the Bible. And one of the things we see is the correspondence, New Testament fulfillment of Old Testament types. and uh prophecies. Now you might say, well, if I could have been on that road uh with the disciples when Jesus himself was there explaining it I think uh I think I would believe I believe too, right? They said our heart didn't our hearts burn within us when they explained the Bible? Uh your heart's not probably not burning When you hear me explain it, but if Jesus had been here, explain it, you go, whoa, yeah, there's something to this. Well, you don't have to be on that, you didn't have to be there to see it because uh we have Jesus' explanation of the Old Testament. He taught, remember after he rose from the grave, he taught the disciples for 40 days, it says in Acts 1 verse 3, and that teaching has not been lost to the church. Because by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the disciples have given us parts of that teaching for our consumption in the New Testament, and that's why I imagine every single page, maybe not every single page, but probably every single page of the New Testament is sprinkled with Old Testament allusions in quotations. It's for this reason that the great prince and theologian Benjamin Warfield described the Old Testament as a richly furnished but dimly lit room. He said, in the New Testament, nothing is added but light. And so we see here That God from all eternity had a plan to save his people from their sin. Even in the scriptures, going back to Genesis chapter 3 Verse 15. How is he going to save us? Well, it wasn't by teaching us to be do-gooders or churchgoers. That would never work because God's a holy God, and our best efforts are tainted by sin But his plan was to save us by sending a substitute. And that's the message of the Bible. From Genesis to Revelation. It's one unfolding story of God's plan to save for Himself a people. And so Jesus Christ is the second Adam who obeyed God's law perfectly. Jesus Christ is the son of Abraham. whom God the Father Himself sacrificed. Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Jesus Christ is the rock who was struck by the people who suffered the judgment that we deserved. Jesus is the great high priest, the final high priest. Who offered the final sacrifice, which happened to be himself. And he's a suffering servant who was wounded for our transgressions. And because of all this, God the Father grants forgiveness to all who merely acknowledge their sin. their moral and spiritual b spiritual bankruptcy and rest upon him. So to become a Christian, all you have to do is say, yes, I'm a sinner Repent, and then believe, or trust in, or rest on Jesus Christ. And so In the beginning I asked the c I brought up the question, is Christianity useful? Yeah, it's useful. But the more important question, or I should say the preceding question, should be, is Christianity true? We're persuaded it's true. And if you're not convinced, what I say is you read the scripture, Romans 10, 17, faith comes from hearing and hearing through The Word of Christ. But you know, it's also a spiritual thing, so we pray, Lord, open our eyes. Remember these two guys, these two disciples? They'd been with Jesus. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And so we also need to pray, Lord. As I read this document, as I study it, as I ask questions about it, I pray that you would so enlighten my mind. And persuade my heart that I will be convinced of his truth, that I can entrust my life and my destiny to Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you have spoken clearly to us. We are dull. It's right here. It's a persuasive book. And yet we dismiss it casually and callously I pray, Lord, for those of us who are believers, that we would, in all our discouragements, our setbacks, that we would be heartened By the truths that this book speaks. For those who aren't there yet, I pray they'll put aside their trivial pursuits. And they would make a study of this book, and they would seek to know you through it. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your song book. Let's sing 271, 271, sing choirs of New Jerusalem.