That that we hear about in Luke eight. Perhaps that's the reason or one of the reasons why the Bible often speaks of winds and waves, storms at sea to describe not only physical danger, crisis, or turmoil, but also provide pictures of spiritual danger, crisis, and turmoil. We heard about the dangers and winds of winds and waves in that scripture reading from Psalm 107. We hear those same sentiments by King David in Psalm 124, which Reads in part, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us, then the flood would have swept Us away, the torrent would have gone over us, then over us would have gone the raging waters. We hear about it again in Job in chapter 30. Job speaks of the Lord's hard providence. on him when he says, you lift me up on the wind, you make me ride on it, and you toss me about in the roar of the storm. This was Job speaking of his God. You hear God speak further to his suffering people in Isaiah 54 this way. O afflicted one. Storm tossed, not comforted. Behold, I will set your stones in antimony and your foundations I will lay in sapphires And one last passage from James in the New Testament. This one's about the one who has doubts in this way. The one who has doubts? Is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. Some of us who sit here this morning, maybe all of us, have faced storms in our lives so fierce That we find them we find ourselves weak in pain while others find themselves entirely lacking in pain. And so with those storms, some lose their assurance of salvation. Others despair of ever having a savior from the storms of this life or the life to come My goal this morning is to review with you how Jesus is offered to us sinners in the gospel as the Lord of wind and wave who alone brings peace to us sinners. body and soul, in this life and in the life to come. And so for our review this morning, we'll look at two things. We'll look at what happened on the Sea of Galilee, and we'll look at what it meant to the 12 and means for us. So let's look at what happened first. You know the story. Basically it's a miracle at sea, but let's watch how it unfolds, get a sense of the drama that develops here A crisis arose after they launched on their sailing the sea, the lake. There was no baby onboard sign on this boat But there were among the twelve veteran professional sailors on board. They might have put that on a sign. You may not realize it at the moment, but remember Peter, Andrew, James, and John were all professional fishermen. Matthew, the accountant, the taxman, was probably happy to have some veteran sailors on that boat. The average boat's dimensions. You may not realize this. I didn't, so I'm happy to share the notes here. They were 26 feet long. Seven feet wide, four feet deep. Their capacity for mess m passengers was fifteen Five of those were usually counted among the crew members. And as they're sailing, You'll notice there in verse 23 that Jesus took a nap. He fell asleep. Now that tells us a lot, but it tells us at the very least that he got tired. He was weary from his labors in ministry. He was tired just like you and I are, because you see he was a human being as well. But a crisis arose on the lake. As I said that lake 13 miles from north to south, seven miles from east to west, almost 700 feet below sea level, and a windstorm shows up. It's not a rainstorm, mind you. It's not a thunderstorm. There's no thunder and lightning here. There's no rain and dark skies here. This is a windstorm, the text tells us A windstorm that develops because the colder air coming down from those surrounding mountains and gorges ran into the warmer air on the surface of the sea, creating a wind tunnel effect Storms like this often rose suddenly on the Sea of Galilee, the lake, as Luke calls it Even though there were veteran fishermen on board, they usually sailed closer to Capernaum, which is north of where they were. So they for them there was little they could do to prepare for this fierce windstorm that blew up from the shore. So severe was this windstorm that their boat, we're told, was swamped with water. Both vessel and the 13 passengers on board were in danger of being drowned. In fact, the windstorm was so fierce that the four veteran fishermen and eight of the other nine passengers, we are told, were terrified. and shouted for help, all hands on deck, all hands on deck, we're all gonna drown. Now notice that, we're all gonna drown. And so they cry out, Master, Master. Now why would they do that if we're all going to drown? He's going to drown too, evidently. Emotions were running high. Anxiety was running high. Panic had set in. But that shouting It was like an alarm clock for Jesus. It woke him up and he saw the danger. And he did something totally unexpected. He rebuked both the winds and the waves. He commanded The turbulent winds and the raging waves to stop. And not only did he tell them that, They stopped. It became calm. Within a matter of seconds, if not immediately, the wind stopped, the violent tempest waters became mirror flat. Can you see it in your mind's eye? You've been on a body of water like that. This Jesus, this master of these disciples. Wakes up from a nap and with a single command stops the wind and the waves that threaten those lives on the boat. And notice next what happens. The disciples were confronted by Jesus. He who rebuked the wind and the water now does what? He rebukes his disciples. What does he say? You know the story. Where's your faith? Imagine Peter blurting out, it's being tossed around on this boat in the midst of all this wind and waves that are bashing us. Jesus' question basically meant something along these lines. Don't you know who's with you in the boat? Didn't I say to you, let us go to the other side of the lake? They were in the presence of no one less than the master of the winds and the waves. Friend, trusting in him alone, no harm would come to them And then we see another reaction from these disciples. Not only did Jesus confront them, but they're still afraid, and they're now awed. They're afraid again because now they're afraid of Jesus and his word. And they're in awe more marveling at that with this question Who then is this that he commanded even the winds and the waters, and they obey him? Even wind storms and raging waters obey this master of our discipleship. You see, the threat from the forces of nature was over. The twelve were still afraid, however. And now they're completely awestruck also. Why Because they knew that they were in the presence of the holy sovereign over creation, even over wind and water. There's nothing more terrifying and awe-in-inspiring to us human beings than when the Holy God in person and in flesh shows up. And that's what they're confronted with here. So what did it mean to them? What does it mean to us? Let's look at the first part first. What did it mean to them? Historically, we know that God had used signs and wonders and miracles to certify The people through whom he brought redemption and the revelation of his will for our salvation. You see, signs and wonders and miracles had served as God's certification, his certificate, if you will, that Jesus had the supreme, the supreme role in history particularly the history of salvation and revelation. Those signs and wonders and miracles that Jesus did showed that Jesus was who he said he was and who his disciples said that he was. They displayed to us readers his glory as none other than God in the flesh, as God incarnate. Further, what did it mean to them? We should go back and look at some of the history that they doubtless knew. He's the Lord of windstorm and tempest, master of wind and water, and we see that all the way back in the Old Testament. That the one who ruled the winds and waters was none other than God Himself. We read about that in Psalm 107. But let's associate that with certain events that we all will likely recall. He had ruled wind and wave at the Exodus, hadn't he? Israel was coming out of Egypt. They were in danger, soul and body, soul because they were threatened with idolatry, body because Pharaoh and his armies wanted to kill them. But God commanded the wind in the form of the water in the form of the Red Sea to yield, and it obeyed him. Giving Israel a way of escape. God had also ruled the Jordan River. Remember the conquest? Israel had begun the conquest of Canaan. They were again in danger, soul and body, again in danger, soul because of idolatry, and body because of the threats of their weaponry The Canaanites' weaponry, God took command over the Jordan River and it obeyed him. Israel crossed that river as they had crossed the Red Sea. Again, we remember that he had ruled the flood in Noah's day. Moral corruption and violence were told in the text of Genesis 6 and 7 had flooded the earth. Noah and his household were at risk, again, body and soul. God commanded the winds and the waves that the flood, and again they obeyed him He was the sovereign over the flood, both of the immoral world, the ungodly that populated the world. But also sovereign over the overwhelming waters and weather otherwise with wind and water as well, so much that we're told in Hebrews chapter 11 that by faith Noah The reverent, with reverent regard for God's command, constructed an ark for the deliverance of his family. And through faith he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. That's the faith that Jesus was asking about. But there's one more event that we need to remember because this happens so frequently, we also want to remember that he had ruled the deep In the days of creation, the earth had been covered by darkness and deep waters. Remember that in chapter one of Genesis? And once again, by nothing more than his word, God commanded the waters to separate. At creation. And again we see that they obeyed him. So if we ask, what did the miracle mean to the twelve? It meant that Jesus had just done on the Sea of Galilee what God had done in the past. It meant that they must answer who this Jesus is in words to this effect. He was and is God in the flesh, God incarnate. Of course, the remaining question is what does it mean for us? Well, it means the same thing, although Especially it means that he is Lord of every believer's storm-tought life. It means that we must learn to who Jesus is. More than that, if we're blown around by winds and tossed by waves in body or in soul or both, we must learn That if we would be delivered body and soul from the storms of this life or the life to come storms brought on us by our sin and eventually our death by the world and the devil, then we too must answer the two questions that are found in our passage. One of those questions is the question that Jesus asks. Where's your faith? Faith cannot be in the boat built by human hands, can it? It can't be the boat navigated by human skill either, no matter how veteran the sailors may be. It can't be those veteran fishermen on board, desperately wrestling with the wind and water, afraid for their lives. Faith can't be in the boat navigated and built by human hands. No As the twelve learned to do, we must learn to look to none other than Jesus too. Who's the master of our discipleship? Who has proven in this passage to be the master and commander of wind and wave too? But there's another question in the text, isn't there? There's that question the disciples ask, who then is this Jesus? Matthew has it, who then is this man? We know that he's fully man. We saw the episode of or the words referring to his taking a nap But as Bible readers, we also know that Jesus had just done on the Sea of Galilee what God had done at creation. At the flood, at the Red Sea, at the Jordan River. Who then is this Jesus? You and I must answer that question, just as the twelve did. Why, he's fully man as well as fully God in the flesh, isn't he? He was God before he became man. And he alone is master over life as well as death. He's the master of life and death incarnate. What did it mean to them? What does it mean to us? It meant that he was God who he has always been, the one living and true God who commands the wind and the waves, not just as the winds and waves of nature, mind you, but the wind and waves of sin and death that overwhelm every one of us. as sinners. We go back to where we started and remember that the Bible often speaks of winds and waves, storms at sea, not only to describe dangers to the body, but danger to the soul too. All of us sinners face storms in our life. Some of you this morning sitting right here, right now, are experiencing a storm in your life All of us sinners face those storms as they pummel us so hard that some believers in Jesus find themselves weak in saving faith. And shaken in the assurance of their salvation. Still others, however, find themselves entirely lacking in saving faith. And in despair of ever finding a savior, is that you? Whichever state you find yourself in, miracles like this one in the Gospels Are meant to raise two fundamental questions for us. Two questions that cannot be any more clear than they are in our text. Where is your faith? Who is this Jesus You have an answer to those questions? Do I? If you would not only have saving faith, but also be strong in it, your faith must be in Jesus alone. As he's offered to you in Scripture. For it is he alone of whom it can be said that he's fully man and fully God in the flesh. His identity has been certified to us when as the Lord of Wind and Wave he woke up from sleep And with his word, he calmed the dangerous, turbulent sea of Galilee and delivered his disciples from death. And do keep in mind that there's another time when Jesus woke up. We're told that by his resurrection, this same Jesus woke up from the sleep of death through the Holy Spirit and was certified by his Heavenly Father to be the master and commander of all whose souls are tossed to and fro by sin and death, and who have with saving faith heard him speak the word of peace to them through his gospel. Have you heard that word of peace? Especially if you're in turmoil. You see, through this text in Luke's gospel, There are still two questions for you and I, as readers, to read, to answer. Where's your faith? Who then is this Jesus? May God be gracious to us to be able to answer these questions according to the scriptures by the power of his Holy Spirit. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we do pray that you would impress upon us the person of our Lord Jesus, the fullness of his person. And we pray that we might embrace him for all that he's worth through saving faith in his person and the work that he will do, which you will celebrate and certify. In his resurrection, we thank you for his death, sleeping the sleep of death, and for rising from the dead. We pray this in his holy name. Amen. Let's take our hymn book, turn to number 508 to sing together, Jesus, lover of my soul, and do Watch for the s the references to the storms of life in the hymn. Let's sing together. Fate le cavoline, i cavolini pronto. Now would you receive the benediction of God? May the Lord establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Amen.