You have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve. And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. The fourth angel poured out his full on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch people with fire. They were scorched by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God, who had power over these plagues. They did not repent and give The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in anguish and cursed the God of heaven for their pain. The sixth angel poured up his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits Spirits like frogs, for they are demonic spirits, performing signs, who go abroad to the kings of the whole world, to assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty. Behold, I am coming like a thief, a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake, keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen ex And they assembled them at the place that in the Hebrew is called Armageddon. Now we'll pick up our reading in a little bit. Let's just bow our heads. God uh first we certainly pray for Paula that you'll uh the doctors can treat her effectively. You know we do pray that you give us ears to hear of the ability to contemplate Concentrate on a passage with so many facets, but we do pray, Lord, that you would bless us uh to our hearts and that it would be useful to orienting our outlook and reminding us Reminding us of your sovereignty over history and of your righteousness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So um ye I'm sure you've if you've been uh going through uh these sermons in Revelation, you've noticed uh that one of the dominant themes in Revelation is God's promise to vindicate his persecuted people. And that's certainly the dominant theme of chapter 16. The believers living in Rome in the first century lived in a stew of paganism. They lived under the heavy boot of a ruthless, brutal uh Roman government and they were suffering, right? They were they were losing their ability to make a living. They were being shunned They were being persecuted, and some were being executed on account of their faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. And they wanted to be they wanted justice, uh for for God's honor and also for the sake of just being vindicated. We see this in chapter six. It's chapter 6, verse 9 and 10. John writes that the souls of those who had been slain for the Word of God and for the witness they had borne cried out with a loud voice. O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long for you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on So they're calling out to God to execute justice. And uh this is not uncommon. uh to the rest of the Bible. This plea for justice. Uh the Old Testament prophets, this is a huge theme, right? They were the people of Israel often times uh under either corrupt rulers within Israel or they were under corrupt rulers from other countries. The Babylonians uh For example, uh Habakkuk in the seventh century BC, in the beginning of the book of Habakkuk, he cried out, O Lord, how long shall I cry for help and you'll not hear Or cry to you, violence, and you'll not save. Why do you make me see iniquity? Why do you look idly at wrong? The wicked surround the righteousness So that justice goes forth perverted. He saw wickedness in Israel, and then when God said he was going to send the Babylonians to discipline Israel, he said, Said, I want I want vindication from that too. That doesn't seem right either. Or I mentioned the Psalms earlier. That's a huge theme of the Lament Psalms. Psalm 79 verses 10 and 12 is particularly applicable to our passage in Revelation. Listen, and I think you'll see. The psalmist prayed. This is Psalm 79, verse 10 10, let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes. And then he said, were turn sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors the taunts with which they have taunted you He prays, return sevenfold your vengeance on them for what they have done to us. It's no accident that in the book of Revelation Things are come out in sevens, right? The number of fullness, the number of perfection. And so we read about the different cycles of God's judgment in Revelation. The seven seals in chapter six, one, eight, one, nine. And then the seven trumpets that were judgments, but also they served to awaken people, to uh sound a note to call them to repent. That was in chapters um eight to eleven. And now we're at this this next cycle, the seven bowls of God's judgment. judgment. And if we had time, we'd notice that when you go from the seals to the trumpets to the bowls, there is an escalation in severity of these judgments. And so down through biblical history, God's people called out, Lord, when will you vindicate us? And certainly uh That is not just an artifact of history, but that's something that God's people continue to do today. The Christian organization that works with persecuted Christians Christians opened doors, uh, said that across the globe more than two hundred and forty-five million believers face intimidation, prison, even death for their faith. Well that brings us to the relevance of the book of Revelation, right? Because one of the key things of this book is to assure God's beleaguered people that there will be a day of judgment. Though it tarry, it will Come. And more specifically, and I'm sure you notice this, but let me just say it. What's this chapter about? It's about the wrath of God. Not a happy chapter, right? It's about the wrath of God. Now, and we want to see God in all his fullness. The Bible speaks abundantly of God's grace, his love The Bible tells us, or the gospel tells us, that God so loved the world that He gave us We have these entreaties from Jesus and the apostles in their public ministry And in their writings, calling upon all people. Come to Christ, right? He will give you rest. You can find refuge in Him. He accepts you. All you have to do To do is repent and believe on Him, and all is forgiven, and you will be in a right standing with the God of the universe. But at the same time, the Bible speaks of God's Righteousness, his justice, and in passages like passages like this, it speaks clearly of his wrath. And so we have him Verse 1, the seven bowls of the wrath of God. This is a huge chapter, right? There's a lot in it. I tried to boil it down. And I just want to point out four things we learn in this chapter about God's wrath. Some of my points will be short, the final point will be a little bit So first of all, the first thing we learn here concerns the purposes of God's wrath, or I should say, two of the purposes of God's wrath. I'm going to mention two. And two of the main purposes of God's wrath, number one uh is to administer justice, and then as we see in this text, to avenge. And so yeah, of course God's wrath uh isn't remedial, but it is to administer justice because God's wrath is his response to the violation of his holiness. One of the seventeenth century Puritans Stephen uh Carnach said, A love of holiness cannot be without a hatred of everything that is contrary to it Now some people may never have thought of that. You know, God's loving, He's gracious, and He he just turns uh uh winks at sin or turns turns the other way. But that would be in violation of his holy character. And when I talk about the wrath of God, or when you hear about the wrath of God But the wrath of God is perfectly consistent uh with his holy characters perfectly consistent with his grace and uh with his love and unlike man's anger, it's measured, uh it's pure, it's controlled. It's steady. And so there's this harmony of attributes within the person of God. And so God's wrath is given to administer justice. And we all can understand that to some degree, right? Because we have within us a desire For justice when we see great injustices done, great harm done to other people, uh we don't just say, well that's fine. That's the way of the world, but we want some kind of justice. A second purpose of God's wrath, and this is How it's spoken of primarily in this chapter is God's wrath is his retribution against those who persecute his people. Now that's interesting. When you think about the great uh players on the stage of history, you might think of uh governments or political leaders or uh uh uh people who are great shapers of thought and whatnot. But in God's economy, the greatest player on the stage of history is the church And then we're going to be able to do that. What's going on in this chapter? God's wrath is his vengeance against those who have harmed his people. Let me let's go back to chapter 5, verse 8. It says that the people, the persecuted Christians were praying, and it says their prayers, the prayers of the saints, were held in bowls. Okay, that's chapter 5, verse 8. When you get to chapter 15, verse 7, you discover that God's wrath was poured out, is poured out from bowls. And so these bowls of God's wrath are his response to the prayers of his people. Look at our chapter fourth, chapter 16, verses 5 and 6. Verse 5, uh, John says, I heard the angel in charge of the water say, Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments. And then In verse 6, for they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve. So verse 6 is saying that God's wrath is his retribution against those who harmed his people. Brings into brings into play Paul's comment in Romans 12 19. He said to Christians, never avenge yourselves. Never avenge yourselves, right? Pray for their conversion. Pray that God would awaken them. But the scripture there adds, It is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. says the Lord. And so there's this blunt statement that God will execute justice upon the unrepentant. And That's that's this sense that we have. One one of the theologians says uh the great uh the whole of recorded history is one great longing for justice. Justice. And this is reminding us that there will be a day of justice for all Christians down through history and even In the present or being threatened, starved, imprisoned, tortured, executed. Zephyr 28 says, God says in Zephyr 28, he who touches you touches the apple of my eye. And so that's the purpose of God's wrath. We'll look at the first four bowls of God's wrath. They remind us of the scope of God's wrath. And in a nutshell Shell, I would say the scope of God's wrath, it is poured out down through history through every department of creation. So first of all, it's Now this is speaking in the first place, this this letter, to the Christians who were being persecuted in the Roman Empire. And so it was poured out against the Romans. Uh in that in that in that day. The Romans were referred to as Babylon. I think it's in 1 Peter 5. She who is in Babylon in the Roman Empire Sends greetings. And then in the end of our chapter, it talks about Babylon the Great, signifying, yeah, Rome in the first century, but also all the godless kingdom kingdoms of of the world that are aligned against Jesus Christ. It was poured out against the Romans, right? The Roman Empire was destroyed. It's poured out on the evil down through time. Romans 1 one one eighteen says God's wrath is poured out from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, and there will be a final outpouring of God's wrath that precedes the return of Jesus Christ. And that's what this chapter really is pointing toward when we Get to the sixth and the seventh bowls. Uh all the plagues uh that are poured out uh lead up to the second coming of Jesus Christ. And that's why he says in chapter 15, verse 1, concerning these seven bowls, with them the wrath of God is finished. So this is the last round and it will be completely poured out. So God's wrath is poured out down through history and then also it's administered in every department So if you look at the first four bowls later on, uh but right now to summarize it, the first four bowls, just like the first four trumpets In chapter six or in chapter eight, afflict four spheres of creation: the land, the sea, the fresh waters, and the sky. And so, in other words, every facet of creation is an instrument of the wrath of God. In this wrath, as I mentioned, as the time of judgment nears, it escalates, right? We saw the seals and then we heard the trumpets. In chapters uh eight to eleven, they were warnings, right? Not everybody was destroyed. I think it was only a third in each of these spheres was Destroyed. But when you get to the bowls of God's wrath, the entire sphere is destroyed. So no more warnings. The time, the opportunity Opportunity for repentance will have passed. And so we're talking about the purpose of God's wrath, the scope of God's wrath. Brief briefly. Point three, the effect of God's wrath. That's interesting. It leads some to repent, but then there are others who remain hardened. Where do we get back? Well, chapter eleven, verse thirteen, uh says that between the sixth and seventh trumpets there was an intense uh earthquake. And then it goes on, the survivors were terrified. So there are people who suffered this earthquake, right? Think about earthquakes down through history. Or tragedies, personal tragedies. It gets your attention. It get I should say it gets the attention of some, right? And in 1113 it says after this earthquake, the survivors were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. But then, so that's chapter that's chapter eleven, verse thirteen. But then you come to chapter sixteen, our current chapter, verse nine. And it says, those who were scorched by this heat did not repent and give him the glory. And so God had, you know, as it says Romans 1, God had given them over to their sin. They were now hard, and they did not have it within them to repent. Of God's wrath. It awakens some, right? It gets our attention. It leads some to turn to Christ. C. S. Lewis said God whispers to us in our pleasures. And he shouts out to us in our pains. And that's one of the benefits of affliction. Not that we go out seeking it, but that can come. God gets our attention. But others are hardened. Why did you believe? No, because you're spiritually more emotional. And we say, no. It's only because of God's mercy, right? He I don't know why. He opened my eyes, right, to see And so then we look at others who are hard, perhaps relatives or people You know? What do you do with them? Pray, Lord, open their eyes. Help them to sing. Um, one of the songs we sing, How Sweet and Awesome Why was I made to hear your voice and enter Wilder's room when thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come? It's beyond us, but it's it's only for the grace of God, right, that we believe. And so because God's been gracious to us, we want to turn around and say, hey, you know what? Here's some good news. Let's go to point four. We'll spend a little bit of time on this. Point four is the culmination of God's wrath. And in the uh Sixth and seventh bowls of God's wrath, we read of a final battle, and then the seventh bowl, the final judgment. So let's go back to now verses twelve to sixteen That describe the final battle. We'll spend a little time on this and then we'll briefly talk about the final judgment. So verses 12 to 16, I'm going to read these verses again. Says the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for the the kings from the east. And so there was no longer this barrier separating the armies, but God removed the barrier and the battle would uh this final battle between God and the forces of evil would take place. Thirteen And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast to the kings of the whole world to assemble them for battle on the great dee of God the Almighty. And so this is this is um what What's going on here? Um these these forces are referred to as the dragon, uh which we saw is Satan, uh the beast in dra in chapter thirteen uh refers to anti-Christian governments and then also uh the false prophet uh which refers to propagandists and the end of chapter thirteen is false prophet But without going into looking at those three characters characters we see that we see them sending out unclean spirits like frogs. Now that's very vivid imagery, right? Verse 14 says that explains what these frogs are. They are demonic spirits that entice the kings of the whole world to assemble Assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty. I think it's interesting just as as an aside That the Spirit comes from their mouths as God's wrath is poured Down on the headquarters of evil from their mouths, right? From the dragon, from the uh from from from the uh false prophet, from the beast And so they are calling out the forces of the earth Unwittingly to assemble for their destruction. And so they deceive the world through their lies, through their Propaganda. And I thought it was very interesting. One of the great commentators, Leon Morris, said that when men cut themselves off From the source of truth, they become the victims of the subtle persuasion of demonic propaganda. And if you look around in our society, some of the messages in our society, some of the orthodoxies in our society That seemed to the simplest person as completely irrational, how can we account uh for these things, the things that people believe, the things that people promote, uh, the the things that people think are virtuous and uh Um, I I think this explains it. They're blind and they're listening to the message of evil spirits. And so the message for especially for our young people for our children is this. Do not cut yourself off from God's word. Because especially with these these uh smartphones, you have all these messages, all this information, and some of it is very deceptive And it's dressed up real nice, but it's very deceptive. Do not cut yourself off from God's word, no matter what. What happens in your life, no matter how frustrating your life may be, do not cut yourself off from God's Word, or else you will make yourself liable to these influences. Now let's go on in verse sixteen. It says they assembled them at the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon. Armageddon. I said earlier that the It just means in Hebrew, the hill of Megiddo. So this was an important city along a trade route, and uh Nearby uh the city there was a vast plain, and down through history armies had assembled on this great plain for battle. I read uh in one one book that they estim one estimate was that two hundred battles were fought on this plane besides The hill of Megiddo, including several battles fought by the Israelites. Right? We just read Joshua Judges chapter 4, where God fought on behalf of his people And he routed a vastly superior Israelite army. And it tells us in chapter 5, verse 16 of Judges, at Megiddam. And so So you know, people have various interpretations of Revelation, but my understanding is that because of Megiddo's long association with these major Nature of battles that the name Armageddon is invoked here not to tell us a particular location where the The final battle will be fought, but rather as a symbol of the final battle between God and his enemies And you think about all the Old Testament battles in Judges 4, for example, God came to the rescue of the Israelites when they They called out to him. They were outnumbered by a vastly superior army. God came to their rescue. Ezekiel 38-39, a great battle between Israel and God. God of the land of uh Magok. Well, all those battles, and in fact there's much in Ezekiel thirty and thirty-nine Which the symbolism there is carried into Revelation chapter 16. But all those Old Testament battles are pointers to the final battle When God goes out against his enemies and against the enemies of his people. If you want to read a good clear commentary, readable commentary on Revelation. The most accessible one and a brilliant one is by William Hendrickson, more than Coppers. But he said concerning this battle, he said When the world under the leadership of Satan, anti-Christian government, anti-Christian religion, and what is the anti-Christian government Satan in Christian religion, he says, the dragon, the beast, and the false prophet. When all the world under the leadership of Satan and his instruments Is gathered against the church for the final battle, and the need is greatest. When God's children are pressed on every side, cry for help. Then suddenly, dramatically, Christ will appear to deliver his people. We see that in the Old Testament, Judges 4, right? uh uh uh their enemy had what nine hundred iron chariots and Israel had barely a sword or a spear but God fought on behalf of his people. Well what do we see Here in chapter 16, verse 15. God says, Behold, I'm coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake. Keeping his garments on, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed. Jesus said in the gospel, I'm coming like a thief. And that's exactly what's going to happen here. God will prevail against all those who stand against him. And this final battle, Armageddon, is mentioned later in chapter 19, verse 7. And it's not necessarily, I don't think, a military battle in Israel, but it's the final defeat of all the evil powers that are raided against One more summary statement, okay? And then um then we'll go on. Another great book on this topic by a guy named Sam Storms. He wrote, Armageddon is prophetic symbolism for the whole world in its collective defeat and judgment by Christ The imagery of war, of kings and nations doing battle on an all-too-familiar battle Battlefield, the Giddo, is used as a metaphor of the consummate, cosmic, and decisive defeat by Christ of all his enemies on the final day. Right? And you can't, it makes sense, it's symbolic. You can't assemble all the armies of the world on one uh one plane uh nearby uh the Mount of Meginno. And so what what shall we make of this? How shall we think of this? Shall we dread it? Something terrible is to come? Well I I would say not. You'll notice in verse fourteen, it's not called the Great Day of Satan. It's not called the great day of the rulers of the world, but rather it's called the great day of God the Almighty. And so, no God's people in Revelation, they're calling out for this. They're looking forward to this. They're saying, you know what? One day evil will be put down and things will be made right. And so that is our outlook. That's what we're looking forward to Then after this final battle, you come in verses 17 to 21, you come to the final judgment. And I'll just read it and just make one comment. Revelation uh verse uh or six chapter sixteen verse seventeen. The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the ear into the And a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne saying, It is done. And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peels of thunder And a great earthquake such as there had never been since man was on the earth. So great was the earthquake. The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And God remembered Babylon the Great to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath, and every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found. And great hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people, and they cursed God for the plague of the hell, because the plague was so severe. And so the kingdom of the world, symbolized again by uh Babylon, is broken into uh three pieces. And um there's a lot of Imagery here if you want to look back on Ezekiel thirty and thirty-nine, not right now, but later on. Just write down chapter thirty-eight, verses seventeen to twenty-three. Revelation is drawn from Ezekiel thirty eight and thirty-nine. God dropping hundred pound hailstones on the impenitent uh symbol. symbolizes that the entire world is going to be destroyed. I remember when I was a kid I was watching a movie or called The Late Great Planet Earth and I I was sitting in my basement, Sparta, New Jersey. It's funny what you remember. But so it was this ver this explanation of revelation. I wasn't a Christian, but we watched this movie. And it talked about It said the hundred pound hailstones were uh bombs being dropped out of planes and so it's trying to make revelation match uh the latest headlines in the newspaper. But That's not the way uh that's I don't think that's the right way to to read this. It's just saying that godness will be obliterated by the judgment of God. Okay? When will this be Any idea? Hey if you if you have an idea, even if you're wrong, you can write a book on it, make some kind of uh uh chronology and there are There are people there are Christians out there, they're gonna buy that book. If it if you get it wrong, just write another book. So I didn't carry the one, you know, when I did my master class. And uh there'll be still uh a Subset of that group who will still buy uh your book. But we don't know, right? It says in verse 15, Jesus comes like a thief. We don't know when it takes place. Uh chapter seven Acts 1731 tells us God knows. Paul said in Acts 1731, God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness. So it's on the calendar. It just hasn't been disclosed to us. It's on the calendar. You're going to be there. I'm going to be there. Every person who's ever lived will be there. Be there on that day. And there's only one refuge, right? There's only one refuge, and that is Jesus Christ, who bore The full fury of God's wrath on our behalf. And so we balance out the severity of God with the grace of God. And Jesus said in John 5. 24, this is really the key lesson then. He said, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me Has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life life. No need to fear. And I and I say to our kids, you read this kind of passage, it's a little it's sort of scary. But you know what? God is for you. Christ died for sinners. All you have to do is believe on him, and he will be your God. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Father in heaven, for your justice. We're glad that we do live in a just universe. And there will be justice. And we also thank you, Lord, for your patience. Right? Bible says there's only one reason you haven't come back because you're patient not wanting anyone to perish but all to come to repentance and so help us lord To be men and women and children who pray for the salvation of the nations and the salvation of our neighbors. And help us, Lord. to take every opportunity to point others to Christ. And I pray, Lord, for those here who aren't yet Christians, I pray, Lord, that you'll move in them Give them faith. Turn their hearts to repentance. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let us sing. It's number 319. Day of judgment, day of wonderful sound. How are they under shape for my creation? So the song has will be You don't want his comparing man shall make his body. And for her life from her tax season. All the powers of nature shaken by those three battery What you know to have not messed up. You for another shall my God and glory. Look up, receive the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be Be with you now and evermore, Amen. Yeah. You can't pay the course of your own. I don't think it's a good idea.