We're marching through Matthew's gospel, we're in chapter 16, verses 5 to 12, I will read, and then I will give the context. We read, when the disciples reached the other side, so this is the other side of the Sea of Galilee, they had forgotten to bring any bread. Jesus said to them, Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, We brought no bread But Jesus aware of this said, O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, or how many in how many baskets you gathered, or the seven loaves for the four thousand? And how many baskets you gathered? How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Two big lessons here in this passage. I'll give them to you right now. Number one, first lesson is remember Jesus' promises during times of uncertainty. Then the second lesson is that we need to beware of false teachers and false teaching, real simple. And the first one I'll I'll just underline briefly And that's to remember Jesus' promises during times of uncertainty. So if you remember from last week the context, the first four verses of chapter 16 Jesus had yet another bitter encounter with the Jewish religious leaders, the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and they had demanded him of a sign. They had demanded of him a sign to demonstrate his identity as the Messiah. And it says in verse 1, they did this to test him. And Jesus said, Listen, you guys, I have given dozens of signs over the past two years while I ministered amongst you. I fed the multitudes, I walked on water, I calmed the storm. I I cast demons out. Uh one or two occasions he raised uh the s people who had died. He raised them up to new life and despite all these miracles they did not believe. And the problem was not that he had not provided sufficient evidence. The problem was that their hearts were hard. They did not want to believe. They would not believe despite all the demonstrations he gave to them. And he condemned them back in verse 4 as part of an evil and adulterous generation. So he's saying, your problem's not intellectual, your problem's moral. That's why you will not see me. Sort of like in John chapter 3. Uh they don't want to come into the light. Jesus is the light, but they don't want to come before him. They don't want to submit to him And oftentimes unbelief may be veiled by intellectual objections, but what's really at heart is the rebelliousness in man. And so Jesus was again exasperated by these people. And it says in verse 4, it says, so he left them and departed. And they went over, back over again, across the Sea of Galilee or around the Sea of Galilee. It doesn't say whether it went by boat or by foot. But they went over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, and there uh this again put them in Gentile territory. Now my question to you is what do you think Jesus was thinking about as they made their way to the other side of this great lake? You ought to speculate. Uh look at verse six. Uh he was thinking about the Jewish leaders with whom he just locked horns. He was thinking about apparently about their hard hearts and their stubborn unbelief and their destructive doctrine. Verse 6 Because Jesus said, watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. So that's what Jesus was thinking about. What were the disciples thinking about Well they're a thing about lunch, right? What are we going to eat? Because as soon as Jesus brought up this side this word leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees, they remembered Wait, we we don't have any bread. And I'm hungry. What are we going to do? And um you know if you re if you read through the Gospel of Matthew when shot, you realize, well, what are these guys worried about? Get to chapter uh six. Jesus is preaching the Sermon on the Mount. He says, don't worry about stuff like that. He said, do not be anxious about your life, what you'll eat, or what you'll drink, or about your body, what you'll put on Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? And he says, said, look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap, nor gather in barns. And yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? And so he makes an argument from the greater to the lesser, from the lesser to the greater. If your father feeds the birds, isn't he going to care for you? But he not only said he was going to care for his disciples, he demonstrated it. Chapter 14 he fed 5,000 and chapter 15 he fed 4,000, right? He multipl multiplied the loaves and There was plenty to eat, and the disciples had been there for the Sermon on the Mount. They had heard his other teaching. They had been here, been present for these uh miracles where he multiplied the loaves, and there was plenty left over. And yet still they pushed the panic button when they realized they had no bread. And so Jesus rebuked them. And this is a rebuke he speaks to them. But I think it's a rebuke we should hear spoken to us as well. So I'm going to read verses eight to ten one more time. He said, O you of little faith Why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, or how many baskets you gathered, or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? It's like, yeah, this is something we need to preach to ourselves. Do you not yet perceive? I need to talk to myself sometimes. You know, is Christianity only good? Is it are the promises in the Bible only good for sunny days, or can I take them out in the rain? Are the promises of God sturdy enough to stand on during difficult times and discouraging seasons or times of uncertainty? uh times when there are things about which I'm anxious or discouraged. And think about kids, starting a new school year. You're going to meet new people, you're going to have new experiences. If you're a Christian, Christ is with you, He's given you His promises, it might be difficult for a season. But he's going to use even these experiences to make you stronger. And so depend upon him each day. Read his word. If you've never read the Bible, just start reading through the Gospels and read a psalm and look at the promises that Jesus makes to his disciples. If you're a Christian These are promises that he makes to you. I say that to the kids. I say that to the adults. Sometimes we need to take ourselves by the collar. And Jesus said to his disciples, do you not perceive? And we need to say, wait a minute, do I believe this stuff or not? So that's the first lesson. Remember Jesus' promises during times of uncertainty. And then we're going to dig in a little more to the second big lesson in this passage. And the principle is beware of the leaven of false teaching. And I underline the word leaven. Look at verse 6 again. Jesus said to them, watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And so leaven, you know, yeast is leaven. If you take a piece of last week's dough, you know, you baked bread last week but you kept a little piece of the not the yeast of the of the dough out and you let it sit for a week and then you're going to bake bread again. Well you take that little piece of dough that's now fermented and you put it in your batch of bread and that's going to make your bread rise. And you find this leavened using the Bible as a metaphor to speak about something that works its influence on scene And yet it has a considerable effect. Once in a while, I I only found one occasion actually, uh sometimes it's used to speak of something That almost imperceptibly has a positive influence. Matthew 13, 33, Jesus said the kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. So it's like the God's kingdom's growing. It's almost imperceptible how it grows But it grows and it's gonna take over the entire earth. It's like the mustard seed, right? The little seed that grew into this great uh great tree. Um so but more commonly um leaven is a metaphor to represent something that imperceptibly has an evil influence. And so when God told the Israelites to leave Egypt, he said, take unleavened bread with you You know, just an object lesson for the Israelites to say, don't take any of the evil pagan influences with you out of Egypt and into the Promised Land. So by taking unleavened bread, he's just saying, you know, let's gonna have let's don't let's don't take any of these pagan influence that influences that are gonna have an effect on you and that are going to influence you. So that's just a couple comments about leaven. But what is the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? And in verses 11 and 12, we learn that Jesus is referring in this case to their teaching. He says in verse 11, how is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware the leaven of bread, but of the teaching, of the teaching of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And last week I mentioned some of the traits of their teaching that was offensive. The Pharisees added the traditions of men to the Word of God and they gave priority to the traditions of men And then the Sadducees, they were the modern they were the modernists. They didn't believe in the supernatural character of God's dealings with his people. They didn't believe in the supernatural character of the Hebrew scriptures. They denied the resurrection of believers. And uh they pretty much lived just for the here and now. Their teaching was wrong too because they did not chapter 16, 1 to 4, they did not recognize that Jesus was the promised Messiah. So they were wrong on that account too. So that 11, Jesus is talking about, is their teaching, and he also uses that metaphor to talk about their character. Luke chapter 12, verse 1. He said, Beware the leaven of Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Okay? And so the leaven So excuse me, false teachers can be like leaven because at times their their hypocritical character but also their erroneous doctrine It's not immediately apparent, right? That's why in chapter 7 Jesus said they're like wolves in sheep sheep's clothing. Oftentimes they look good uh they smell good, they say the right things, and you don't you don't pick up on it immediately. So what I want to do now I want to go down a little trail, a little excursus, okay? And I want to give some examples A false teaching that has infiltrated the American church. And oftentimes on detetected, some of this we well, the first one will say, yeah, we recognize that The other two are not as easy to recognize because it's infiltrated Bible teaching churches, evangelical churches And I want to go down this trail, uh, well, because it's it's something that's all about us. But also for our younger people. You're gonna g you're gonna you're gonna get out of high school and go off to a job or you might move or go to college and you're gonna be looking for a church. And um You're gonna encounter some different things. I think it's good to have a little bit of awareness of what's out there. I know you were not completely unaware, but I just want to give a little couple summary statements on some of the big things. Either I when I I became a Christian during the end of high high school and went off to college and I encountered a lot all this stuff and I didn't recognize it until I was way down the road. And so I think this is this this might be hopefully useful. So we're talking about Some examples of heresies, prominent heresies, not the cults, but prominent heresies that have entered the mainstream American church And oftentimes is undetected. And the big one is the more historic one, is theological liberalism. And I'm not talking about political liberalism, I'm talking about theological liberalism And it's interesting, sometimes I'll talk to a new Christian, and they'll say something and I say, that was me. I was just like that. And what they'll say is I'm surprised that people go to church who don't believe the Bible is the Word of God. I'm surprised that people become pastors who don't believe the most basic doctrines of the Bible. Why would they do that? Well there's a couple reasons. Sometimes they want to be religious social workers and the church Church has resources, or they like the trappings of religion. But not everybody who goes to church, not everybody who is sincere. Ian Pious and Nice believes the historic Christian faith. And this goes back to the late 1800s, early 1900s in America, it goes back further in Europe. But in the early 1900s, Christian seminaries, denominations, churches began to be infiltrated by theological liberalism. And in 1923, right at the height of this liberal, theologically liberal attack on Orthodox Christianity Professor at Princeton Seminary, Jay Gresham Machin, wrote a book that was a landmark book, the titles Christianity and Liberalism. And he tried to lay out as clearly as he could the differences between Orthodox, Biblical Christianity and uh this new version that was being uh promoted and that was infiltrating uh the the Christian churches and uh many of the mainline Christian denominations. And let me just make a list of some of the things he talks about. Just a little paperback book. Christianity, historic Christianity, believes in the supernatural. Liberalism denies the supernatural. They'll deny the virgin birth They'll deny the resurrection. They'll deny the miracles of Jesus. And so there's all these explanations that are given to explain away the miracles. You know, Jesus didn't really multiply the loaves, but uh this kid had a he shared his bread and his fish, and because he was so magnanimous and generous It just touched everybody, and then they pulled out their bread and their fish and they shared, and five thousand people had enough to eat. They're the kind of explanations that are given to explain away the supernatural Christianity teaches, the Bible teaches, that it is revelation disclosed, given by God. Liberalism teaches that the Bible is a collection of human writings. It's the historical record of the religious experiences of people who've gone before us. And the main thing they say that's useful in the Bible is the ethical teachings of Jesus and the other stuff, well you can just discard it, the history and all that, other those those other things. How about man? Who are we? The Bible teaches that man is sinful, he is fallen, and he is in need of a savior. He needs to be saved. He needs to be rescued. Liberalism teaches that though man may have flaws, he's essentially good. And he's only in need of nurture and encouragement and education. And if we do those things, he's going to get better. And I don't know if they believe in the perfectibility of man, but we all all we have to do is change the circumstances, the nurture, and uh things are gonna get better. Who is Jesus Christ? Well, Christianity teaches he's the God man, right? Fully God, fully man, he's God incarnate. Uh liberalism teaches he was the greatest man who ever lived. He wasn't God, uh, he was the fairest flower of humanity. Uh he's exceptional and in a sense godlike, but he's not God in the Bible sense of the term. People came over time to say he was God and this this oral tradition uh accumulated, and so that's where we get all these bad stuff from. How about the cross of Christ? Christianity teaches that uh the Christ died on the cross as an atoning sacrifice for our sin. So his death was a ransom by which we were deliver we were brought back as His his death served to propitiate or satisfy the wrath of a holy God against our sin. And liberalism will look at that and say, well that's a pr that's a primitive view of God Uh Jesus didn't die on a cross uh to satisfy the justice of God, but He died to show us how much God loves us. It was a demonstration of God's love. Look how look how much God loves us. He came down himself and and he died on the cross. And Christ's death is also an example of the self-sacrifice that we should show others. Yes, it is, but that's not the heart of it. That's what we're saying. And um then finally, uh historic biblical Christianity says there's one way salvation is found only in Jesus Christ. And liberalism says, well, everybody's going to be with God when they die. There are just different roads, and God's revealed himself through different religions. And we all just see a little bit of it, and we don't know how it all fits together. And so uh that's what is going on in large sectors of the American church. And I was converted in a mainline uh church and uh through the preaching of the gospel. But I became acquainted with that denomination it was in and I thought I was gonna be a pastor in that denomination And I realized, no, this is not going to work. Uh there are bureaucrats and there are power structures, and even though there might be a church that teaches the scripture and a denomination You're not going to get far as a pastor in in those denominations. And something else Jesus warned when he said that false teachings like leaven Uh you know, it's it's it's it's it's stealth, it's stealthy, it's not always easily detectable. And um That's the case too when liberalism infiltrated the mainline or some of the mainline denominations. They were stealthy. In fact, in Sunday school last weekend, he was reading 2 Peter 2. 1, where Peter warned, false teachers will secretly bring in destructive heresies And so the history of some of these mainline denominations, once, you know, if you're downtown, you see a big church with a big steeple made out of granite. A lot of money was handed over to build those churches. And it was not handed over typically to people who did not believe this stuff. But in the twenties to the fifties to the seventies, um seminaries were producing pastors. that denied these these historic Christian doctrines, but when they would be examined by the Presbytery or by the regional association of churches or by a particular congregation. They were stealthy. They were deceptive. Do you believe that they'd be asked, do you believe the Bible is the Word of God? And they would answer, I believe the Bible contains the Word of God. Well that's a good answer No, that's a there's a loophole there that you can drive a truck through. Yeah, the Bible contains the Word of God, but not the whole thing, the parts that agree with my social agenda Yeah, that's the Word of God. Uh do you believe the Bible's inspired? Sure, I believe the Bible's inspired. I believe Milton was inspired and Shakespeare was inspired. They won't say that, but they'll just say, yes, the elevated thoughts of men Do you believe in the resurrection of Christ? Well, yeah, I believe in the resurrection of Christ, but if you go talk to Matthew and you press them, they'd say, well, he didn't physically rise from the grave, but His disciples had a resurrection faith. Though he remained in the grave, he rose in their hearts. That explains the first Easter and the spread of Christianity. And so it's false teaching is like leaven and it has done great damage to the American church. And what I'm talking about now is oftentimes characteristic of the mainline Protestant churches. I want to talk about a two more heresies that have like leaven infiltrated uh Bible teaching churches and and this is not something that we're not susceptible too and I've been a pastor for I can't remember now, I think twenty-nine years. And as I've seen it in where I've pastored, especially when I pastored in North Carolina. The first one is mysticism. Mysticism. What am I talking about? We don't use that term much. It's prevalent in charismatic churches. It's prevalent in non-charismatic churches. What is mysticism? It's nebulous. I can't explain it. I don't understand it. But basically, uh, and it goes back to the Catholic mystics uh and and monks, but um it's about Bypassing the understanding and seeking to become one with God or to have some kind of experience with God that bypasses the mind, that bypasses of the understanding. And so the mystic claims to have had an immediate encounter and an immediate experience with God. And even back in the nineteen nineties when I when I was in North Carolina, um there was a church in town they had uh they had Henry Blackby come and speak and we all went to see him. He's a he was a Baptist leader and he wrote a book called Experiencing God. And we taught that book in our s one of our kids' uh high school Sunday school classes back there But now looking back I realize it was largely mystical. A lot of good stuff in it, but it was largely mystical. It was immensely popular. You may have read the book or sat through the class, uh seven million copies sold, I'm sure I'm not the only one who has encountered that book. But it teaches that God works in you, God guides you in a very uh direct uh manner. And um and you can I I'm I'm talking about this book now, but mysticism in general teaches that You become closer to God, or you can become closer to God when you let your mind go and you can enter into a state of spiritual euphoria. And here's where I see this amongst a lot of fellow pastors, a lot of fellow Bible teaching pastors Uh if you string a if you sing a string of songs together in in your worship uh service, you know, typically seventy soft rock songs with uh Christian lyrics. I don't know why it's always like that. But if you sing those kind of songs, you close your eyes, you forget about where you are, and zone out You're going to enter into a deeper experience of God. And that's from my experience being amongst pastors and in churches, these churches But it's not just me. Uh Charles Kraft, he taught at Fuller Seminary. So it was once a historic Christian seminary. He wrote in a Christianity Today article, he said, let's get above the mind and just experience God. Then he said, it's the new music sung. With the eyes closed, 10, 15, 20 minutes at a time, that makes this experience possible. This is very prevalent in American Christianity. It's the idea that if I enter an elevated emotional state, I'm going to feel closer to God. I'm going to experience God. Now there's a difference between entering a state of emotional ecstasy and growing genuine affections for God. Now the Bible does not say that Christianity is just an intellectual interaction. I'm not just I'm not saying that. We're called to grow affections for God. How are those affections cultivated? And scripture teaches is through learning God's word, meditating on God's word, setting under the preaching of God's word. Taking the sacraments, being in fellowship with God's people, resisting and fleeing temptation and living a life of ongoing repentance. And seeking to obey God, right? Jesus said, if you obey my teaching, you're going to know me. And so in other words, a true Deepening of our affections for Jesus Christ is the result of ordinary practices that God gives us in the Bible. It's not uh something that's I remember years ago This guy who had a tendency to inadvertently insult me, he said, you know, I think we just I need to we just need to go to another church maybe once a month. uh to get a spiritual charge. You know, he's talking about going to a a church that was more uh had more charismatic type worship And I'm like, okay, Mark, thanks. Thanks for sharing that. But no, it's the it's it's what we do with our our knowledge of God we have to cultivate ourselves. And it's not just going and forgetting things and all of a sudden you're on cloud nine. Yeah, but what happens Monday morning? It doesn't last long. It was just an emotional experience. Here's something else about mysticism. It maintains that God leads us through impressions, through feelings, through hunches. even through dreams. And so it's not uncommon to hear a Christian or a pastor say, you know, God told me to do such and such. And so what they're saying is God spoke to me directly. Now, some here will object. What's wrong with that in the Bible? Don't we find God leading people by way of promptings and dreams and visions. Then he'll open up to 1 Kings 19. What about Elijah? God spoke to him in a f in a still small voice. And my response to that is that yes, God did speak to people like that in the Old Testament and in the beginning of the book of Acts until the scripture was collected. Hebrews 1, verses 1 and 2 says that long ago, at many times, and in many ways, God spoke to our forefathers by the prophets. So yes, God did disclose himself by many ways, and not just a still small voice. There was writing on the wall, there was Balaam's donkey. It's strange that people who listen for God's still small voice They're not looking at the wall for some kind of uh script to come down on the wall. And so we're even they're even choosy. But nonetheless, our answer or my understanding is that the Scripture is God's final word to us. But then you might say, or someone would say, well wait a minute. What about like how do I know who I should marry or where I should go to college or if I should move to Charlotte? Well we know you shouldn't move to Charlotte, but um How how do I know I mean there's not a Bible verse that says you should do this or that, right? And um, well The Bible, there's an entire book of the Bible dedicated to the proposition that God does not lead us by speaking into our head. The book of Proverbs says you need to develop wisdom. You need to develop wisdom so that you can look at various options. And trusting God's providence that he does lead his people. He promises that, I think Proverbs 16. 1, Psalm 23. He guides us in paths of righteousness. We can trust that God in His sovereignty will get us where He wants us to be as we exercise wisdom, as we seek the counsel of godly people. And as we grow to develop what we say, what the scripture refers to as the mind of Christ, we're so saturated by Scripture. We begin to see things in a new way and we have a wisdom. We grow in wisdom. And so That's another example of mysticism. It's leaven that oftentimes enters into the churches. Another one briefly and then we'll stop. Pop psychology, U. S. News and World Report, an article said that American religion Has taken on the aura of pop psychology. Many congregations have multiplied their membership by going light on theology and offering worshipers a steady diet of sermons and support groups that emphasize personal fulfillment Come to Jesus, come to our church. We will teach you how to navigate how and how to adjust to the difficulties in life. We'll teach you how to do better in your marriage and with your kids and in the workplace and how to feel better about yourself. And so does Christianity address those things? Of course it does. But when it's taken as the as the main thrust of Scripture and when it's when the language of psychology is used instead of the language of scripture, then things have been turned uh on its on their head. And so when our message, uh when the focus is on building up our self-esteem, instead of seeing ourselves as God sees us image bearers but fallen in need of redemption, then we have allowed pop psychology to control our message. Why did God save us? Some would say, well, you're so valuable, that's why Jesus died for you. And that's the opposite of what the Bible says. It says, no, we were undeserving, we were rebels, but it's God's grace that is magnified and his love and mercy toward us. That's why Christ died for us. And that engenders in us the true uh spirit of thanksgiving. And even uh we understand uh uh the control of addictions and how that how bodily uh our our bodies are we are physical, right? And yet when everything's reduced to a an addiction, instead of using the language of sin and repentance, again we've allowed pop psychology I've gone on and on and on. There I could give some other examples of heresies. For those new here, I'm not a heresy hunter. This is not all we talk about, but I just thought I'd lay some of this out uh since Jesus talked about the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. A huge thing in the American church, another heresy, moralism. You be nice and you do nice things and you do good things and you be religious, you'll go to heaven. That's a heresy, right? We're saved by grace. Then at the other extreme is the heresy of saying, yes, we're saved by grace alone, and so you don't have to worry about holiness. That's a heresy too, right? Christ is Lord, and so We're saved by his grace, his unmerited favor, but still he calls us to to follow him. And then another one that we're less likely to run in these circles It's a prosperity of prosperity theology, right? You do these things, God will make you healthy and happy and you know send in some money and um God'll God will take care of you And so all these are all counterfeit gospels. They lead us to take our eyes off of Christ and essentially focus them on ourselves and our needs. uh and to use the Bible just as some kind of magical thing uh to to have a shortcut to fulfillment or to s or to Christian growth. And so this just says to us we need to be discerning. We need to know the scripture, right? So that we can be discerning, so that we will not make very uh mistakes that have very practical consequences in our lives. I can make a list of some practical ways that really can mess up your life, your marriage, and uh you can waste a lot of time. And we want to know cr we want to know scripture so that we can discern, but we also want to know scripture because it's not just a book of principles, it's a book it's a book about Jesus Christ. And that should be our greatest and son of Let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord God, help us to be discriminating. help us to engage in the unglamorous means that you've given us for our spiritual growth. And even as we come to the Lord's table, we pray it would be a reminder that we're forgiven and that we're cleansed. in that you have made us fit to come into your presence. I pray for our young people that they would neither fall into the ways of the world or fall into the ways of inconsistent, unbiblical Christianity. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's take our song book as we prepare to come to the Lord's table. We're going to sing number 427, written by Charles Spurgeon. 427 Amidst us our beloved stands. Let's stand, please, and sing. Um it's a song And they talk to Oyster Be One three match is No one raised home When she does We see the sign Oh lay his blow blessing You can Please be seated. Christ Jesus, the Savior of sinners, invites us, ransom sinners to come and set at his table. And it's just a little cup and a little piece of uh bread, but it's a token of this great feast that we're gonna set down at one day and it's also a reminder that Christ died for sinners. And so we call it a sign because it represents what he did for us, but it's also a seal. It confirms to us all the promises that God gives us in the Bible. If you're repentant of your sin, if you're trusting in Christ, He says, You are my child, come to me, and I'll never leave you nor forsake you. And so if you're a Christian and you're not engaged in a flagrant, unrepentant, scandalous sin, then Jesus says, You have a place at my table. If you see your sin, and he's your savior. Good news. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you have welcomed us and you've made us fit. And we can lift up our heads without shame, and we can know that you're favorable toward us despite our ongoing struggle uh with the sin uh that we that we have. And we pray, Lord, that you would confirm in our hearts all your good promises as we As we participate in this fellowship meal. In Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord Jesus, the Nanny was betrayed, took bread And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. So he took the bread. He broke it. Do this in remembrance of me. Spits Take me, this is the body of Christ given for you. Do this in remembrance of him. I don't think that's a good question. In the same manner, after the supper, Jesus took the cup, saying, This cup is a new cup of my blood. Do this as often as you drink it. Remembrance of me. And we The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ was shed for the remission of sins for your sins. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, our Lord and God, that you have not only redeemed us, but you Sustain us, you preserve us, you enable us to persevere in the Christian life. And we pray for this week, uh, for kids starting school. And for the rest of us and the challenges that we'll encounter, help us to take time to nurture our knowledge of you, deepen our knowledge of you. We pray, Lord, you would By your grace, strengthen us spiritually. Give us joy in you. Help us, Lord, as a body of believers, to encourage one another, even as we gather around the lunch table today. Praise us all in Jesus' name. Amen. Receive the benediction now in the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. The love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. We're going to stand, we're going to sing the song of thanksgiving for the meal we'll enjoy. Oh God ever Our children for Give us their library. The life of seed is not Some stories for my party not By which we told bread our house, what Lord's provision thou hast made As long as it virtually now won the budget. Why does the want to daily breath since every day by me we live May great all side history, and may the hands leave your from stain. With our job,