Romans. I was thinking I've been a pastor like thirty-three years, thirty-two, thirty-three years. I never preached through Romans. What a scoundrel. I better do it, right? So seems like when I say I should preach to Romans, they start doing it in a Sunday school class or something would happen. But here we are. So I'll get the die hopefully having done Romans. Hope it doesn't kill you. And the process, I don't think it will. It's a wonderful book, right? Romans chapter 1, we're going to look at the first seven verses. So sort of a hybrid, we're going to look at these verses, but I'm also going to give something of an introduction. uh to the book in general. Encourage you to have your Bible open. If you didn't bring a Bible, take one out of the pew rack or else you're going to have a hard time knowing what's going on here. Chapter 1, Paul writes, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures, concerning his son, who was descended from David according to the flesh. And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holiness by His resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name. among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, to all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, some books of the Bible are more important than others. I don't know if you ever thought of it like that. Now, we understand every book of the Bible is important. in that it contributes something to our knowledge of God, His person, and His works, and it contributes something to our knowledge of the Christian life. But some books of the Bible are foundational. I would certainly include in that category the book of Genesis, the four gospels, and the book Of Romans. And so it is key. Martin Luther described this book as the true masterpiece of the New Testament, the purest gospel of all. He said, we find in this epistle in the most abundant fashion that which a Christian ought to know. And so here we have this systematic theology. In fact, one of the other reformers, Philip Melanchton, called Romans a compendium of Christian doctrine. And really it does. It does uh cover really this vast scope of uh Christian truth. It talks about the holiness of God and the judgment of God and uh sin and grace and faith and works and the law of God. It talks about the person of Christ and what he accomplished in particular by his death. in his resurrection. It talks about the work of the Holy Spirit, how he applies Jesus Christ's work to us. It talks about predestination and election, uh justification, adoption, sanctification, uh glorification. It w speaks of unity amongst the believers in the Christian church. Speaks about our relationship to the government. It tells us about personal ethics and about God's plan for history. And I could go on and on. And so that's why John Calvin said If we have gained a true understanding of this epistle, we have an open door to all the most profound treasures of Scripture. But even in saying what I've said so far, I've fallen short because if we were just to say that Romans is a compendium of Christian doctrine, Or is this great systemiz uh systemization of Christian truth? I haven't done it justice Because Romans is a letter written by a pastor to a particular group of Christians for a particular purpose. And once we understand that purpose, the application and the message of Romans is going to be much more pointed. And so what I want to do is I just want to try to explore with you in the beginning why did Paul write this letter? And there's different things that could be said, but I've tried to boil it down. Okay, so we want to have some understanding of why Paul wrote this letter. In that way, when you're reading Romans this week, which I encourage you to do, you're gonna the some of the things he says, you're gonna go, Oh, I know why he's saying that now. He's addressing a particular issue and what you read is going to have sharper teeth, right? And it's going to prompt you better So why'd Paul write the letter? Let me say two things, two reasons. This is not exhaustive. First of all, uh Paul wrote Romans to uh he wrote this letter to prepare the Romans for a visit that he was planning uh to make uh to these people. So who planted the church in Rome? Did you ever think about that? The Apostle Paul. Well no it wasn't Paul. Paul planted a lot of churches, right? He went throughout Asia Minor, present-day Turkey, and he planted several churches there. We see that in the other New Testament letters. We see it in the book of Acts But he didn't plant the church around. So where did that come from? Well, the sub the it's it's believed uh that uh It came well Acts chapter 2 verse 10 it says that on the day of Pentecost uh there were visitors from Rome in Jerusalem. So these are apparently Jews who had come, traveled from Rome to Jerusalem. For the Jewish festival of Pentecost. Some of them were converted, right? In Acts chapter 2. They go back to Rome now as Christians, Jewish Christians. And it's believed that they're the ones who established the church in Rome. Paul had never been to Rome. He wanted to go there. He wanted to visit these followers of Jesus Christ. And so why did Paul write Romans? Well, here's the first reason. He wrote Romans. To prepare these believers for his visit by giving a full account of the gospel. So he wanted to make sure they understood the gospel. And just make a note, I'm not going to read it because it's pretty dense. Chapter 15, verses 15 and 16. This is what he's alluding to. He says, I want you to understand the gospel, okay? So he's giving them giving them a full exposition of the gospel. For their understanding, for their edification, but also secondarily, he wants to set the record straight Because the Roman Church, made up mostly of Gentile Christians, but also some Jewish Christians, the Jewish Christians, at least for some of them were saying That Paul was teaching that because you're saved by faith, you don't have to worry about how you live. You don't have to worry about obeying God's commands, his law. Because hey, if we if we sin, God will give us even more grace. And so Paul, for example, in chapter three, verse eight, he sets the record straight. He said Well, why not do evil that good may come as some people slanderously charge us with saying? And so Paul in Romans explains that grace doesn't give us license to sin. And so he clarifies his position on that issue and on several other issues, the relationship between the flesh and the spirit, the relationship between law and grace, the relationship between Israel. and uh the church, the relationship between the Jews and the Gentiles. Where was Paul when he wrote this letter? Probably in Corinth. It says in Acts chapter 20, verses 2 and 3. So he'd been in Corinth for some time. And he's writing to the Romans. He's saying, here's my travel itinerary. Here's what I hope to do. I'm in Corinth now. I've just taken a collection from some of the churches in Macedonia, so these are Gentiles. I want to take it to the Jerusalem. to give this collection to the impoverished Christians in Jerusalem so that they will know that the Gentile Christians in these other parts of the world care for them. I'm going to go to Jerusalem After Jerusalem, I would like to go to Spain to preach the gospel because that was on the far end. of the Roman Empire. And he says, you know what? On my way to Spain, I want to stop in Rome because that's on the way. And I want to meet you all. I want to serve you. And also I want to be refreshed by you. So turn in your Bible to Romans chapter 15, verse 24. This is what he says. So it's interesting, you know, when you stick your nose in the book of the Bible like we're going to do, it's going to come together. And you're going to say, ah, I never saw that before. Romans chapter 15, verse 24, he says I hope to see you in passing as I go to Spain, and to be helped on my journey there by you once I have enjoyed your company for a while. He tried to get to Rome on previous occasions. It never worked out. Chapter 1, verse 13. He says so much. He says, I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, but thus far have been prevented in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. So um he wanted to stop by there to see the believers. to be refreshed by them, but also he wanted to use Rome as a base of operations for his mission taking the gospel to Spain. He would get from them encouragement You get received from them prayer support and also financial support for the work in Spain. Alright, so that was the plan Well, three years after Paul sent this letter, he finally gets to Rome. But it's not in the way that he had planned. So when he went from Corinth to Jerusalem, he was arrested And his trial there dragged on inconclusively for two years. And then Paul said to the governor there, he said, Listen I'm a Roman citizen. This is ridiculous. I appeal to Caesar for him to hear my case. And so then Paul was sent to Rome. uh but it wasn't as a free man he was under house arrest however uh he was able to receive visitors while he was in Rome And he was able to preach the gospel. What happened after that? Well, it seems that he was released. It's doubtful that he ever got to Spain. And in time he was arrested again, and he was sent sentenced to death, and it was in Rome that he was beheaded. So why Paul write Romans number one? He wrote it to prepare the Roman Christians for his visit, a visit that finally came to pass, but not in the way that he had anticipated A second reason he wrote this book, and this will help some of the other parts, especially chapters 12 to 14, fall into place, he wrote Romans to address the conflict taking place between the Gentile Christians and the Jewish Christians in the church in Rome. And as I said, the Gentiles made up the majority of the believers in that church The Jewish Christians saw themselves as superior to the Gentiles, right? Because they were God's covenant people. It was to the Jews that God gave all his covenant promises. And they were telling the Gentile Christians that to be saved, you not only have to believe in Jesus Christ, but you have to keep the Old Testament ceremonial law. You have to be circumcised. You have to follow the follow the dietary laws. And Paul said, wait a minute here. No You're saved by God's grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, irrespective of your Jewish lineage, irrespective of your adherence to the Old Testament laws. And so the Jewish Christians in the church they they thought we're superior to the Gentiles. How about the Gentiles? They they thought they were superior. To the Roman, to the uh Jews, the Jewish Christians, they view themselves as strong in a faith And they despised uh the weak faith of the Jewish Christians. They said, You guys are still in bondage to the law. You don't understand the gospel And so that's what you'll see in chapters 2 and 3 and chapters 12 to 14. Paul is saying, listen, you who are strong in faith, uh need to bear uh with those who are uh weak in the faith. And so Paul is explaining Once you get the gospel, that should promote harmony in the church, regardless of your background When you understand you're saved by grace and nothing that you've done, that should make you a humble person. Okay? That's a lesson for us to learn, huh? When there's conflict, then there's not very often conflict, but when there is, hey, wait a minute. I need to have a gospel perspective. on my place uh in relation to other Christians. Alright, so there's something of background. Let's look at the first seven verses. My wife was, she said yesterday, she said, um Are you going to jump into Romans or are going to give an introduction? And I said, well, I want to give an introduction, but you don't feel like you get your money's worth unless you cover some verses And so yeah. So I I can't I can't handle it when somebody just gives an introduction. So yeah, we're gonna do the first seven verses. We're not we can't grind it to fine powder, we don't have the time this morning. But we're gonna certainly uh get our get our arms around it So first of all, so these ancient letters they would always begin uh with the uh sender's name, right? Which makes a lot of sense. Who's this letter from? You don't have to read three pages to know who it's from. In the ancient world, they would start right out. And he he introduces himself, or he nounces himself, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle. set apart for the gospel of God. And so Paul, the greatest evangelist who ever lived, Paul the greatest theologian who ever lived, nonetheless uh introduces himself first of all as a servant, or more literally, it would be translated as a slave of Jesus Christ. And uh since there were amongst the Jewish Christians of the Roman Church some skepticism about Paul's teaching. He also identified himself as, in verse 1, as an apostle. He said, I was called to be an apostle. How's that? Jesus had ascended to heaven uh before uh Paul uh was even a Christian, right? Jesus, and it says in Acts 22, that to be an apostle, you had to have seen the risen Christ And it and when you look in the Gospels, Jesus commissioned the twelve apostles. So they were the marks of an apostle. Well, how about Paul? Well he had seen the risen Christ on in Acts 9, right? Christ came to him on the Damascus Road, and Jesus commissioned him to be an apostle to the Gentiles. So this is a unique office. There are no apostles today. You might be driving by a church and it'll have the pastor's name. I'm not Reverend so and so, but I'll say the apostle, you know, uh you know, John Smith uh is our pastor Well no. Uh that that's not how it works. Uh don't you believe it? And you don't need to bow down when you meet the guy. Uh just say just shake his hand or whatever. And then he says in the end of verse 1, set apart for the gospel of God. So God had set Paul apart to proclaim this message of salvation in Jesus Christ. And it says in verse 7, the recipient says to the Romans, to those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Okay? So we all know, right? Those of from a Catholic those of you from a Catholic background, you know there's a difference uh from what a Catholic would say a saint is, what the Bible says a saint is. A saint merely means somebody who's been set apart, right? That's what the word holy means at its root. You're set apart. And we're saints, even though we still have All our struggles with sin, right? We still, if we trust in Jesus Christ for our salvation God has set us apart, He has removed our sin, He has clothed us in the righteousness of Christ, and so we positionally are regarded as saints. From Paul to the Romans concerning the gospel. Right at the end of verse 1, he says he was set apart for the gospel of God. Now, This is crucial because we come from different backgrounds. Some of you you've been steeped in the gospel. What I'm going to say, it's old school, it's old hat. Others? What? That's what the gospel is? I'd say for myself, growing up, we went to church some I never heard the gospel. I never understood the gospel until I started going to this youth group. Somebody explained the gospel. I'm like, that's what a Christian is? So what is the gospel, okay? The gospel is not a message of what you need to do to be saved. That's not the gospel. Sometimes you hear that in churches. Sometimes you hear a lot of vague talk in churches, and you think, I guess I need to become religious and become a better person. That's not the gospel. The gospel is the good news of what God has done for his people. Christ died for sinners, and God clothes us in the righteousness of Christ And he's removed our sin when we repent and we rest on Christ alone for our salvation. Right? So that's why we say. We're saved by God's grace, right? We don't deserve it. It's God's unmerited favor. We're saved by God's grace, not by our record, not by our moral strivings, not by our religion. So what then must you do to be saved? And I want to make sure our kids understand this. Okay? To be saved, don't be religious, and don't try to save yourself by being a do-gooder. But rather, Jesus said in Mark 1:15, Repent and believe the gospel. So, in other words, acknowledge your sin to God, turn from it. And then believe or trust that Christ Jesus came to live the perfect life where we fell short And he died to bear the penalty for our sin. Well that's revolutionary. And and you know, one reason I believe the Bible is from God is because we wouldn't come up with this, right? All the other religions are if you do this or you believe this, you do you follow this track uh this this little path Then you'll be right with God. The gospel is revolutionary. It's not a human invention. It recognizes our sin that we can't do anything to save ourselves If we're to be saved, God has to save us. And so that's when you end the verse 1, Paul refers to it as the gospel of God, right? It's from God And it's about God. It's about what God has done through Jesus Christ to save us. So, if you're not clear on that, Let's talk about it. After give me a call. A lot of people aren't clear, but here it is, it's right here in the Bible. In fact It was foretold in the Old Testament, Paul says. Look at verse 2. Which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. That's a reference to the Old Testament, right? And so this was foretold in the Old Testament, and Paul is continually grounding the arguments he makes in the book of Romans in the Old Testament. Chapter 4, he says, we're saved by grace, not by what we do. Then he points to Abraham from Genesis 15. Chapter 5, hey, Jesus is the second Adam. He's better than the first Adam from Genesis chapter 3, chapters 9 to 11. Paul quotes several Old Testament passages that foretold Israel's rejection of the gospel. And so because the Jewish Christians in Rome were skeptical of Paul's teaching, Paul constantly grounded his teaching in the Old Testament. So who has to say Everything that I teach was foretold in your scriptures. And so I stayed up last night and counted it. There are 51 direct quotes, 10 paraphrase quotes, and 15 allusions to the Old Testament. Alright, I didn't count it. I just read in the book. But that's true. That's quite a bit of Old Testament. What's the subject of the gospel? Well, it's Jesus Christ. He has a human nature and he has a divine nature. He's the God man. He had to be the God man. He had to be man because he had to walk in our place. He had to be God because he had to be without sin in a sacrifice of infinite value. And so in verse 3, Paul emphasizes Jesus' humanity Concerning his son, he was descended from David according to the flesh, right? In 2 Samuel 7, God promised David his house, his kingdom uh would always uh stand Jesus was in the line of David. And then in verse 4, Paul underscores Jesus' divinity. He was declared to be the Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead. And so that's to say, Jesus' resurrection confirms that he was, that he is the Messiah, the Son of God. And the goal of the preaching of this gospel, I know I'm going on and on and on, a lot of details, right? We're going to wrap it up in a minute. But listen to this: the goal of preaching the gospel Is to bring about believing obedience from all peoples. Verse five. Look at verse five closely Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith For the sake of his name among the nations. And so the obedience of faith is a life of obedience. Entered into through faith, right? Through trusting in Christ. So if you have faith in Jesus Christ, if it's through faith, it will issue forth It will issue forth in obedience, not perfection because we're sinners, but our endeavor is to obey. And then it says at the end of verse 5, among all the nations. And so I want you to see, and you may not have noticed this before, there's a huge missionary emphasis in the book of Romans. In fact Romans both begins and ends with this emphasis on missions, right? So you see that in chapter 1, verse 5. He talks about the gospel bringing about the obedience of faith among all the nations. Well, that's one bookend. You get to the end of Romans. There's the other bookend, and it has the same theme. Look at chapter 16, verse 25 and 26. Paul says now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, that was kept secret for long ages, but has now been disclosed. And through the prophetic writings, what does it say? Has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal God To bring about the obedience of faith. Okay? That tips us off. This is a huge theme in the book of Romans If it both begins and ends with this idea that the gospel's goal is to bring people from all nations to a faith that shows itself, that issues forth in obedience. So there's a lesson for us, and I haven't drawn many lessons thus far because I've been given this overview, but a lesson here for us is that the soaring theology you find in the book of Romans Should issue forth in a heart for evangelism, right? It's great To be interested in theology and to be studying your Bible and to be doctrinally astute. And it's great to have an have a position, right? Some people they have a position on every single issue. It's amazing. Some people they say to me, what's your position on this? And I'm like, I don't know, do I have to have a position on every single issue? But there are some people, they have a position on every issue. out there. And they listen and this is good. And they listen to their podcasts and they listen to the great Reform theologians and they re-the Reform theology and they can quote Anselm in the original Latin and they memorize Calvin's Institutes. That's all very important. That's commendable. However, if all this knowledge does not issue forth in a concern for those who know not Jesus Christ, Then there's some kind of deficiency. If there's no interest in building relationships with unbelievers, Because I don't have anything in common with them. I like all this theology. Well then there's something deficient. We can't invite somebody to church Uh and unbelievers, hey come to church. Our pastor, he's not gonna talk over you. He's gonna address you where you are he's gonna try to address you where you are. Sometimes he misses it, but he's gonna try If this knowledge doesn't issue forth in praying for our missionaries and receiving their prayer notices through your email. And coming to the first Sunday prayer meeting, which is primarily a missions prayer meeting, then maybe something's wrong So that's something to think about, and that's something Paul's telling us in the book of Romans. A knowledge of the gospel should issue forth in a concern for the lost. Let's boil it down. Let's try to boil down the entire book of Romans into one sentence, okay? And this is helpful because if you understand the purpose of the book of the Bible, it gives you sort of a something to hang things on. And I don't know if this isn't the last word, but this is the best I can do If I were to boil this book down in one sentence, I would say the gospel of God reveals God's righteousness for all who believe. I think that's a that that's a good summary. Romans is about how the gospel Reveals God's righteousness that is given to all who believe. In this gospel, if I could just add another statement. This gospel calls us to respond personally, corporately as a church, and for the sake of lack of a better word. Missionally. In other words, it calls us to have a sense of mission. Okay? So think about it. The gospel that God makes sinners righteous should affect me personally, right? It should move me to see my sin and to look to Jesus Christ As the one who lived a righteous life where I fell short, and then who died on the cross for my sin. So the gospel certainly should affect us personally. We should believe on Christ. Then having received this free salvation, we should go forth and seek to honor God with our lives. Should also impact us corporately as a church, right? And this is one of the things that Paul's going to talk about with the Gentiles and the Jews in the Roman church. uh should make us gracious, more gracious to one another, uh, as Paul was exhorting those uh believers to be gracious toward each other. And then thirdly, it should affect us missionally. It should give us a sense of mission, right? It should want us to take the gospel. To unbelievers, as the Apostle Paul sought to take the gospel to Spain. So there you have it. Now I'm a Presbyterian, but the Anglican Book of Common Prayer has a great prayer in it. It says that it prays or it instructs us, says to read, to mark. To learn and to inwardly digest the scriptures. So that's what I want you to do. That's what I encourage you to do. I want to encourage you to read this book over and over, right? Ad nauseum until you until you're pickled in it. And uh when somebody said of John Bunyan. You could prick him anywhere and his blood is bibbline. Well, work on the book of Romans, right? Read it over and over. in the months to come, and then mark up your Bible, make notes about what you read, and then inwardly digest it, reflect on it, and think about it, and examine yourself in light of it. So read, mark, learn, inwardly digest it. One of the great commentators on Romans, F. F. Bruce, said There's no saying what may happen when people begin to study the letter to the Romans. So let's pray. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you for the glorious gospel, and as we begin to understand the many facets and dimensions of it, Uh we pray that we would be a people who are humble, the people who stand in awe of you, that we'd be a people who are zealous to make this good news known to those who don't have it. May it also make us humble for those who are not believers yet We pray, Lord, that by your Spirit you would open their eyes to see and to believe the gospel of salvation in Jesus Christ. For he is our Savior. He's the Savior of all sinners. In his name we ask this. Amen.