So for those who remember, uh we've been in Matthew for a few years now, and then I take little side breaks and We went to Malachi. We just finished up Malachi. And so now we're in Matthew chapter 26. And if I time things well, I'll have to press the press the uh accelerator pedal a little bit. But I'm hoping to get to the resurrection on Easter Sunday. And so right this morning, we're in Matthew 26, verses 1 to 16. So I'll read this passage. Matthew writes, when Jesus had finished all had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest whose name was Caiaphas, and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people Now when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon a leper, a woman came up to him with an alabaster flax, a very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he reclined a table. When the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, why this waste? This could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor. But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me, for you'll always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world What she has done will also be told in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Assyria, went to the chief priest and said, What will you give me if I deliver him over to you? And they paid him thirty pieces of silver, and from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him I want you to notice Matthew's comment in verse 1. He says right in verse 1, when Jesus had finished all these sayings. And so from chapter 23 to 25, Jesus has been teaching about the last days and about the final judgment. But now the time for teaching is closed, the time for teaching is past, and there really only remains that work for which Jesus came. And that is to atone for the sins of his people by his death on the cross. And so now we come really to the main event of the Gospels. And it's interesting, uh uh one of the uh German theologians from the eighteen hundreds, he made a comment uh that about the Gospel of Mark, he said The Gospel of Mark is a passion narrative with an extended introduction. And you can really say that about all the Gospels. Because Jesus' passion, Jesus' sacrificial death for our sin is indeed the centerpiece of the gospel, even though they come uh at the end of the uh uh uh at the end of of the narratives. And so yeah, we should make much of Jesus teaching, uh, but we should also make much of his atoning death And so that's why we have from chapter 26 to 28 in Matthew, we have uh an account of Jesus, uh, the plot to arrest him, of his arrest of his uh crucifixion and then uh finally of his uh resurrection. But right here beginning in uh chapter 26 The storm clouds are beginning to gather. The Jewish leaders who up to this point had been unsuccessful in uh their attempts uh to arrest and to uh uh uh destroy Jesus really uh Now finally they gain the upper hand. We see Jesus in this passage anointed for burial. And then we see Judas, one of Jesus' very disciples, plots to betray him. And so this is very disturbing. But really the main thing I want you to see in this passage is that though the powers of darkness will prevail, at least for a season, Yet all of this is under God's control. All of this is part of the plan of redemption. And so Peter said this himself in Acts chapter 2, verse 23. Peter said that Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. And so this was under God's sovereign providence, and it's no coincidence That Jesus was crucified during the time of the Jewish Passover. So go back to verses one and two. So when Jesus had finished all these things, he said to his disciples, You know That after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. I know most of you are familiar with the Passover, but just for those who are not This was the annual feast which commemorated God delivering the Egyptians from bondage. I'm sorry, God delivering the Jews from bondage to the Egyptians. And this recall this recalled well let me work on my English. This recalled uh particularly uh the final plague that God sent across Egypt where an angel of death uh went across the land and struck down of the firstborn child in each home. However, God had instructed instructed the Jews. He said, if you take an innocent and unblemished lamb and you slaughter it, then um you can uh You can be spared, and I will pass over the houses of those uh of those uh believers who made this substitutionary sacrifice And so each year, so they they they did that of course when they left Egypt, but also they did it uh Forever after that redemptive event. And so now here we are, 1400 years later, they're celebrating the Passover in Jerusalem. And tens of thousands of Jews came to Jerusalem each year to celebrate this Passover. They would bring a lamb or they would buy a lamb when they were in Jerusalem And they would sacrifice the lamb in the temple, the blood from that sacrifice would be sprinkled on the altar, and then they'd take the lamb's carcass home and they'd roast it for the Passover meal. Now, we understand that the Old Testament is fulfilled by the New Testament. We understand that that Passover sacrifice is really just an object lesson uh for God's people down through time. And so we celebrate the Passover each time we have the Lord's Supper, right? And that's why When Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper, it wasn't an accident that he instituted it on the eve of the Passover, because Jesus is indeed the fulfillment of the Passover sacrifice Remember John the Baptist when he spotted Jesus for the first time in John 1. 29? He said, Behold a Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world Then Paul wrote to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 5. 7 about Jesus Christ that he is our Passover lamb who's been sacrificed for us. So that's the setting. It's the Passover. That was an extended intro introduction. But I want to just um I have three points there. If you pulled up the bulletin off the uh that I sent out And what I want to answer now is the question, what lessons do we learn as these storm clouds gather around Jesus Christ? Excuse me. First lesson we learned from this passage, verses uh 3 to 4, is that seeming spiritual leaders uh can be enemies to Jesus Christ, right? The Pharisees, the Sadducees. The chief priest. They hated Jesus Christ. Right? They were Jews. He was the Messiah. But they didn't recognize that. They hated him. They hated him for his claim to be God. They hated him because he condemned them before the Jewish people for their hi for their corruption and for their hypocrisy They hated him because his popularity was increasing while their popularity was shrinking. And so in chapters 21 and 22, we read, I don't know if you remember, but we read of several attempts by the Jewish religious leaders to discredit Jesus before the Jews and to incriminate him before the Romans. And every one of their dirty plots backfired, and with every failure, their hatred and their desire to kill Jesus Christ intensified. So they're at to get Jesus, but they had to be careful, right? Because there were tens of thousands of Jews in Jerusalem, excuse me, tens of thousands of Jews in Jerusalem for the Passover feast. And uh a large number of them admired uh Jesus Christ, and they thought perhaps he is the Messiah. So they had to be careful, and that's why we read in verses four and five that they plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they said, not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people. And so this is just bizarre, right? the uh these chief priests, these who are supposed to be the the uh spiritual leaders amongst the people of Israel, they're the ones who are supposed to be leading the people to a deeper knowledge of God They were supposed to have known the scriptures that prophesied, that described the coming Messiah. You think they would have recognized that Jesus Christ fit the description to the T But rather we discover, not surprisingly, right, that these spiritual leaders are in fact enemies of God. And rather than preparing the people's hearts for the Passover sacrifices They were instead plotting the murder of the very one to whom these sacrifices for centuries had pointed. And so my observation or my application is an obvious one. And it's it's and I'm going to be short because we see this throughout scripture. But my my observation is that some of Jesus' most vicious opponents are not the secularist But rather uh uh it's the religious and particularly uh religious leaders. And uh I read some time ago a survey A survey that was done by uh Case Western University in the 1970s. So this was 40 years ago, no, 50 years ago, okay They surveyed 10,000 Protestant clergymen in five of the major Protestant denominations. And they asked these pastors if they believe the Bible is the Word of God. Here's some of the what they found. Eighty-two percent of Methodist pastors in the seventies denied. That the Bible is the Word of God, 89% of the Episcopalians and 81% of the United Presbyterians Now, as you can imagine, these denominations have not grown more theologically conservative over the past 50 years. But this is the estate of Christianity in America, and I'd say this is uh probably a large reason why uh people have turned away from Christianity in America because they have been taught uh Christianity. Uh there are wolves and sheep's clothing, right? And just because a pastor has a kind and carrying uh disposition, uh just because he went to visit your aunt when she was in the hospital, it doesn't mean uh that he's a faithful shepherd of God's sheep Let me read something J. C. Rile wrote. He said, Let us beware of attaching an excessive importance to ministers of religion because of their office. Orders and rank confer no exemption from error. The greatest heresies have been sown, and the greatest practical abuse is introduced into the church by ordained men So that's my first point as we look at verses 3 and 4. Is that seeming spiritual leaders can in fact be enemies of Jesus Christ. Second point, verses 6 to 12. We see that Jesus' looming death was part of the Father's plan. Now This is the story, verses 6 to 12, where Mary, and this is Mary because uh uh it doesn't say her name in this passage, but this woman And the parallel in Matthew, uh John chapter 12, verse 3, identifies this woman as Mary. And um Much has been made of this account, and I could talk about Mary's extravagant love for Jesus Christ and anointing him with such uh expensive perfume. And we could pause and think about our own love for Jesus and I realize, whoa, uh mine's kind of shabby compared to that Or I could comment on the disciples' pettiness, condemning Mary. She truly loved Jesus. And yet they complained, right? At the end of verse 8, says they were indignant. Why should they be indignant when somebody shows such love to love to Jesus Christ? Says they were indignant saying, why this waste? This could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor. And so they're they're they're, you know their pettiness is really cloaked as uh some kind of taking some kind of spiritual high ground and caring for the poor. But but they were just petty. I remember when I was in high school I went to a Went to high school in Sparta, New Jersey, and the kid who was first in our class, his name was Mark Lambert. Super smart guy. He went to Cornell and he studied engineering And I was a new Christian. So one one summer back from college, I started a Bible study amongst some of uh my friends. Uh I knew and we had a little Bible study, fellowship time during that summer. And I didn't know Mark Lambert very well, but somebody invited Mark and uh he wasn't a believer but I guess he knew the person who invited him and He came and uh he made friends with uh with the with the with this group and I gave him a book and uh I still give it out, uh the book More Than the Carpenter by Josh McDowell Great book for teenagers and college-age uh folks. Talks about the claims of Christ. And Mark read it, and um in time he became a Christian. He got involved with the Christian fellowship He was going to Cornell University. And um he got out of Cornell. He he was in the ROTC, so he went into the Air Force for five years. But after he got out of the Air Force, he had a great resume and a great academic background, but he decided to go to Cameroon. With Wycliffe Bible Translators. He wasn't a Bible translator himself, but he was part of their the support network there for the Bible translators And Mark had been going to an Episcopal church in Sparta, and the response of many people in that church about Mark deciding to become a Bible translator, this fellow who was a genius and who had such potential, uh, their response was, you know, what a waste, what a waste. Mark had uh so much potential And um so Mark, uh he's in a he's six probably fifty-nine, sixty years old right now, and he's still a faithful uh follower of Jesus Christ. I think he's now in Texas uh with this uh with this group. But anyway, so I could talk about Mary's extravagant love. I could talk about the disciples' pettiness. But what I want to talk about as we look at verses 6 to 12, and I think this is really the heart of it, is that these verses Reveal Jesus' consciousness of his redemptive mission. Now you can learn something from the Bible by the way the material is arranged, okay? Now I want you to notice that Matthew places this story of Jesus anointing for burial Between the two accounts of the plots to destroy Jesus, right? In verses 3 and 4, we have the Jewish leaders' plots to have Jesus arrested and then killed. And then in verses 14 to 16, we have the account of Judah's scheme to destroy Jesus. But in between those schemes, we have this account of Jesus being anointed for burial Why is that? Well, I think it's not an accident. I think Matthew put arranged this material like this to reassure us Of God's greater purpose. But even as Jesus' enemy schemed to kill him, this was all a part of the Father's plan. Now I didn't come up with that. One of the great New Testament scholars, R. T. France, observed this. He said Behind the human plots of the priests and Judas stands Jesus' deliberate acceptance of messianic suffering, right? He allowed himself to be anointed by Mary. He knew what was going on. I don't imagine Mary knew what was going on. She was just anointed. She was just, she loved him and she's putting her this perfume on him But this was this was indeed Jesus' anointing for burial, right? Because it wouldn't happen after he was uh after he was killed. He was killed as a as a criminal But this reminds us, this reminds the reader of Matthew's gospel that the plots of men Will not frustrate the purposes of God. Look at verse 12. Jesus knew it. He knew what was going on. He said In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial He understood, and I would add that in the end of the day, even his crucifixion by these wicked men would redound To God's glory. Psalm 76, verse 12. If there's one verse I want you to think about after the sermon, It's Psalm 76, verse, I'm sorry, not verse 12. Psalm 76, verse 10. It reads, Surely the wrath of men shall praise you Now that's a remarkable statement. The psalmist recognizes But even the wicked schemes of men against Christ and against his church Are under God's sovereign control and will in the end of the day work to the fulfillment of God's greater designs. That's something to think about, right? You know, you think about what's going on in our country. I just wonder And um and rightfully so, it seems like the thought police in the years to come may well tighten the noose around Christians and around the Christian church tighter and tighter. But this reminds us that even if that happens, it will redound to God's glory. And so we should be of good cheer. It's not that we're happy about what's going on in our nation, but still, there is consolation. God's going to accomplish his purposes. We just have to be faithful. We have to continue to raise our families in a godly manner. And we have to continue to speak out for Jesus Christ. In 1916, while World War I was raging, one of the great Princeton theologians, Benjamin Warfield, he wrote this. He said Looking at just the chaos at that time, and it speaks to our day, he wrote, men seem to have broken away From the government of conscience, and even from the guidance of the common instincts of humanity. The whole earth appears to have become a churning mass of rage It is good for us to remember that the Lord God omnipotent reigns over all. None of it would have occurred without his direction. Nothing can occur apart from his appointment. I do not say merely that he will overrule it all for his glory, but that all of it will conduce to his praise. And so all the machinations of men, down through history, against Jesus Christ, against his church. Warfield recognizes all of this will only lead to greater praise to Jesus Christ. who sits on the throne. And one day everybody's going to recognize that. Everybody's going to bow before him and acknowledge that he is indeed the king. Look at verse 13 as we just wrap up this section. In verse 13, Jesus said about Mary, Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. And he was right. Here we are, 2,000 years later, in Frederick, Maryland, Maryland. And we're still taking note of Mary's extravagant love for Jesus Christ. Let's move on. Here's a third uh third section We see in verses 14 to 16 that seeming disciples can in fact be enemies of Christ. And so after several failed attempts, these Jewish leaders, remember this began back in chapter 21. After all these attempts to get their hands on Jesus They've continued to fail. But now finally uh when they were at a loss of what to do An opportunity presents himself. A most unlikely co-conspirator comes their way, one of Jesus' own disciples. So in verse 14 We read then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priest and said, What will you give me if I deliver him over to you? And they paid him thirty pieces of silver, and from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him And so this opportunity to betray Jesus would be a time uh when he would not be surrounded uh by the adoring crowds. And when there when there came a time when Jesus was away from them. Jews would tip off the religious authorities and they could arrest him without causing an uproar. Let me ask two questions before I make an application. First question is You know, well why why did Judas betray Jesus? And the answer is because the guy was greedy, right? He did it for money. Verse 15 He said, what will you give me to deliver him over to you? And they they paid him thirty pieces of silver. So that's an easy question to answer. He was greedy. Back in John chapter 12, verse 6 Uh John commented that he was a thief. And having charged in the money bag, he used to help himself into what was put into it. Okay, so that's why he did it Uh the more important question or more difficult question is how could he do it? How could Judas portray Jesus having uh been with him for three years, having witnessed his character, witnessed the miracles, having sat under his teaching What is going on? How could a person not be influenced by Jesus Christ and become his follower? And we'd say it's almost bizarre, but the answer to that question is found in a title of a book by one of the Puritans, a guy named Matthew Meade, wrote a book with the title The almost Christian. And that's what Judas was. He was an almost Christian. How do I know that? How can you know if anybody is not a Christian but is an almost Christian? And the answer Is that an almost Christian, when he stumbles, he never comes back. When a Christian stumbles, he comes back. And we know that Judas never came back because in verse 24, Jesus said about him, the Son of Man goes as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. And so Jesus pronounced a woe upon Jesus. When he pronounces a woe a woe upon Judas And um in pronouncing that woe, he's saying, uh, things are not going to end well for Judas. And so a genuine Christian will or can at times fall away, but he or she will always come back But a no most Christian, uh, when they fall away, they don't come back. Remember, I forget who it was, one of the old writers said about um a Christian, a true Christian, he may stumble on the deck, but he's not going to fall overboard. But if somebody's not a Christian, they're just a counterfeit disciple They can fall overboard, and that's the end of them spiritually. And so a genuine Christian will never fall away. Now, it's not because he or she has the resources within him or herself to hold on to Jesus Christ. It's not because that person's more spiritual or more sanctified, but rather it's because of God's promise to his children. He promises that he will preserve us. John chapter 10, verse 28, Jesus said, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. If you're a Christian, you're not going to fall away. It's not because you have such a tight grip on Jesus. That's useless. Your grip on Jesus is useless, but it's because of his grip. Same thing Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 1 verse 8. Paul writes, Jesus will sustain you to the end. Guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so you're going to persevere because God Himself preserves you And so as we close out this section, I just want to draw three lessons, simple lessons, maybe obvious, but I think it's good for us to be reminded of, and certainly our young people In the first lesson, as we consider Judas betraying Jesus, the first lesson is this. It reminds us That we must guard our hearts because Judas is exhibit A of someone who enjoyed great spiritual privileges and yet he fell away. Hebrews 6 verse 5. The writer speaks of the one who tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the age to come. And yet he fell away. And there are within the Christian church such people. And so I say to you, and I say this to myself also. Do not presume that you're immune to the temptations that could turn your heart away from Jesus Christ. One of the commentators on uh I think Luke's gospel, Norval Geldenheist, he said this: Judah serves as a permanent and powerful warning to every member of the Church of Christ. that there is always the terrible possibility that even among us who apparently live in the closest connection with the Lord Excuse me, even among us who apparently live in the closest connection with the Lord, there may be those who are inwardly false false. and busily engaged in betraying him. And so as we look at Judas, the first lesson is Don't presume that you're immune to the temptations that could turn you away from Jesus Christ. You know, and when we turn away, it's not a it's usually not a huge uh step that we take, but we take incremental steps And so that's the first lesson. Guard your heart. Here's the second lesson. And this is related. How do I guard my heart? One thing we need to do Is we need to mortify our sin. In other words, we need to put sin to death lest Satan gain the upper hand. Remember Judas back in John 12, I said he would dip into the money bag? It seems like Satan, one of the things he did was he leveraged Judas' love for money to bring him under his control. And it does say in Luke 22, verse 3, that before Judas spoke to the chief priest It says, Satan entered into Judas. And so Judas had made himself vulnerable to Satan's influence. Yeah, let me let me say this as an aside before I go on. It's just a little bookmark there what I'm saying. And I want to say this. If you're truly a Christian Satan can't enter you like he entered Judas, right? He can tempt you, but he can't enter you. 1 John 5. 18 said the evil says the evil one does not touch him. And so young people, don't worry about ever being possessed by Satan, because you're a Christian and God protects you. But anyway Nonetheless, we must put sin to death, lest Satan gain the upper hand. And if you're engaged in ongoing and unrepentant sin Then you have no grounds to say, you know what, I'm a Christian. I mean that that that is that's mere presumption, right? No matter how familiar You may be with the things of God, no matter how fluent uh you may be uh in the language of Christianity, uh You have no grounds to trust that you're truly saved unless you are putting sin to death. And that's why we need to be in fellowship with with each other. We need to encourage each other. We need to be in the Word. But we need to remind ourselves of uh of the temptations around us, and we do need to be, you know, as the Puritans would say, or the older believers say, we need to mortify our flesh. We need to mortify sin. We moved out of our house in Frederick almost two years ago, going on two years. But I'm glad one of the reasons I'm glad to be out of that house is it was on a hill And there was a bank next to the driveway and uh the former owners, the owners that preceded us, they tried to plan some ground covering on that But it never really took hold and there were always plenty of weeds uh to take out. In fact, uh there is this tree, and it's really a weed. Susie Hill explains this to me. Tree is called the tree of heaven It's a weed it grows like five feet a year. And so we would have these trees going all up this bank and uh for years I'd try to keep keep that clean. They just keep coming back In fact, I had a rope. I had to tie a rope around the trunk of these trees and then hitch the other tie the other end of the rope to the hitch on my Honda Pila. I couldn't get them out with the axe And so there I am, I'm pulling these little trees out uh with my Honda pilot, and they would come back uh each year, and what's really frustrating is the guy who bought our house, he's not taking care of it at all. So I I'm gonna send him a nasty letter. So you need you need to take care of that bank. Uh where am I going with this? Well, we're talking about mortifying sin. Unless you stay on top of it, unless you try to extract those those temptations from your heart on a daily basis Then it's going to gain the upper hand. And you're not going to be able to, it's going to get out of control. So the Puritan John Owen said, we must be exercising mortification every day And in every duty, sin will not die unless it be constantly weakened, spirit, and it will heal its wounds and recover its strength So there's a reminder. Pursue Jesus Christ, pursue the knowledge of Scripture, but at the same time, we need to be exerting ourselves to mortify our flesh. And we need to be avoiding those temptations that draw us away from Jesus Christ. That's why I read that passage in Proverbs chapter 4. One more lesson from this discussion about Judas, and then we'll close. I want you to know the difference between a temporary lapse and apostasy. And I said this before, so I'll be brief. A temporary lapse in your allegiance to Christ can be distinguished from a full-blown apostasy Only in hindsight. Right? Peter backslid, but he later repented. But Judas apostatized. He abandoned Jesus Christ. Well, how do we know that Peter was a believer and Judas was not a believer? Well, only in looking back, right? Because Peter repented and Judas did not. And so therefore, now I'll close by just saying this. Whether you're sixteen or whether you're sixty It's Proverbs 4 verse 14 says, we need to avoid the paths of the wicked. We need to avoid the paths of unrighteousness. Proverbs 4, verse 14, the father says to his son, Do not enter the path of the wicked. Then he says, avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on Right? All the temptations that loom on the horizon as you start, you go out this afternoon, or you go about your day tomorrow, all the temptations you're confronted with uh in the media and people you may whom you may encounter. The writer says we we just have to flee it We need to be quick to confess our sin. We need to stay in fellowship with God's people. And we need to use all the means of God's appointment. For growing in holiness. Right? We're going to be locked in the house today. Don't spend the entire day in front of the TV But say I need to nurture my soul. I need to be in the scripture. I need to be in prayer. I need to read a good substantial Christian book Because I'm not strong enough. And I need to use the means that God's provided for my growth. So let's pray Father in heaven, we do pray you'd help us to persevere. We pray for your spirit. We pray you'll strengthen us. Help us to avoid all the temptations all about us. And also, Lord, uh, it can be discouraged discouraging seeing what's going on in our culture. And um We wonder, you know, what does the future hold? But help us to remember, Lord, your sovereignty, your providence over all the affairs of men And help us, Lord, to be men and to be women of God, and to not flinch, but to stand uh to stand tall and to be a light for the gospel. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all now and evermore. Amen. Alright, if you want to turn your mics on and show your face, just wanna