We're in Matthew chapter twenty-six, Matthew chapter twenty-six, uh verse forty-seven to sixty-eight I know some people have been out for a little bit, but we're finishing out Matthew's gospel, and we're uh looking out the final uh days of Jesus' life on earth We're at Matthew 26 verse 47. So I'm going to read this. It's quite a quite an extensive section, so stay with me. Says that while he was still speaking, while Jesus was still speaking, he was in the garden with his disciples. Judas came, one and twelve, and with them a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had given them a sign saying, The one I kiss is the man. Seize him. And he came up to Jesus at once and said, Greetings, Rabbi. And he kissed him And Jesus said to him, Friend, do what you came to do. Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. Behold, one of those who were with him, who were with Jesus, stretched out his hand and drew a sword and struck the servant of the high priest. and cut off his ear. Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father if he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the scripture be fulfilled, that it must be so? At that hour Jesus said to the crowds Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me But all this has taken place that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled, then all the disciples left him and fled. Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high priest, for the scribes and the elders had gathered, and Peter was following him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high priest. And going inside he sat with the guards to see the end. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death But they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward and said This man said, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and shall rebuild it in three days. And the high priest stood up and said, Have ye no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so, but I tell you, from now on, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have now heard this his blasphemy. What is your judgment? They answered, He deserves death. Then they spit in his face and struck him, and some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is it that struck you? Their ends are reading. Now, the events in uh chapters twenty-six and twenty-seven uh have been come to have come to be known as the Passion of Jesus Christ. The Passion, uh that's a Latin word uh that means the suffering of Jesus Christ And so it's notable, Jesus not only suffered uh when he was nailed to a cross, but he suffered in all the events that led up to his crucifixion, right? Is being betrayed by Judas, is being abandoned by the disciples, his arrest, his trial, and then the cruel physical treatment that he bore. And so it's interesting that such uh Matthew spends so much time uh describing uh not merely his uh crucifixion But the way he suffered on his way to the cross. And so I want to ask two questions this morning. We're not gonna Look at every single detail of this passage, and I know many people are familiar with it. But rather, we're going to try to get to the nub of it And we I want to I want to approach the nub by asking these questions. The first one is this. Why do you think Matthew Devoted so much space to recounting the miseries that Jesus Christ endured before he was crucified. So that's the first question we're going to spend the most time on that. And then secondly, I would ask the question, what do you think was it that heartened Jesus to endure such suffering. Okay? And if we had time and if we had a different format, I think I'd say, well what do you think? Why do you think Matthew Spent so much detail on writing down the sufferings that Jesus endured before the cross. Now let's just review these sufferings and then we'll try to answer that question. We're not going to try to answer it, we're going to answer it, right? You didn't come out here for somebody to try to answer something something. You want somebody with answers And um if I have an answer, I'll give it. In fact, I have an answer this morning. Um first of all, uh we read about his betrayal, right, by Judas, one of the twelve who had been with him uh for three years and he but he marked him, Christ, as the uh as the Messiah uh to his captors uh by a kiss, by a sign of affection So there is that dirty betrayal. Uh there is the arrest. There was in the end of verse 56. It says all the disciples left him and fled. And then we come to Jesus' trial in verses 57 to 61. And so Jesus first faced a religious trial before the Jewish High Court. This was known as the Sanhedrin. And it says in Mark fourteen fifty-three that the Sanhedrin was composed of the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. And after Jesus would undergo this uh this religious trial, then in chapter seven we see him uh face a civil trial under Pontius Pilate, who was a Roman ruler who was placed over the region of Judea. But we dis we will discover that these weren't really trials. These these were kangaroo coerts and they're Their aim was not to uh discover uh what the truth was and then rightly assign guilt or innocence, but the aim was rather uh uh uh all uh what's the word pre uh disposed to find uh jesus guilty and so let's look at verse fifty nine again verse fifty nine to sixty one We read that now the chief priest and the whole council, that's the Sanhedrin, were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death. But they found the but they found none. So many false witnesses came forward. The last few came forward And said, This man said, I may will destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days. And so they charged Jesus with saying that he was going to destroy the temple in Jerusalem. And this was a serious offense, right, because it showed great uh disrespect for God whose temple uh this was Well, where did this come from? Well I suspect it came from what Jesus said earlier in his ministry in John chapter 2, verse 19. He had said that he would destroy this temple and in three days raise it up But John goes on, so that was John chapter 2, verse 19. Two verses later, John clarifies what Jesus was saying. John wrote, but he was speaking about the temple of his body. And so that's what Jesus was saying. The temple is a place where God dwelt And Jesus was saying, he is God's dwelling, God's temple amongst man, and he will be crucified, he will destroy this temple. But then he said, after three days Not that he's going to rebuild it, as his accuser said in Matthew 26, but rather that he would raise it up. And so these false witnesses either misunderstood what Jesus had said where they misrepresented what Jesus has said. Now a parallel passage, Mark 14 verse 59, adds That yet, even about this, their testimony did not agree. And so, according to the rules for these courts, which were in the which were in the Old Testament. Their testimony was not valid. It says in places like Numbers 3530 that the Old Testament law required two or three witnesses before a charge uh could be upheld. And so what I'm doing is I'm reviewing the sufferings that Jesus faced On his way to the cross. And that included this unjust trial. And then we see his response in the face of these false accusations, which is notable. Look at verse 62. Verse 62 says the high priest stood up and said, Have ye no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But Jesus remained silent. And so he didn't say a word. And my instinct would be to defend myself, but in this case Jesus did not say a word. Then finally As we round out the way that Jesus suffered in this in this passage, we see the humiliating physical abuse that he was subjected to. Verse 67 says, They spit in his face and struck him And some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is it that struck you? Okay? So that's just a little survey of uh what Jesus faced there in his in his arrest In his trial. But we're at we're trying to answer the question: why did Matthew give us so much detail? About what took place before the cross. I can understand why he would describe what Jesus suffered on the cross, but why so much detail before the cross I mean, was he just a windbag and he couldn't stop and everything he knew he had to write down? Was he compelled to give a full biographical statement of Jesus' uh final day on this earth? Was he trying to evoke our sympathy? And there's a theory of the atonement amongst liberal theologians. They talk about the moral suasion theory of the atonement. And the the gist of it is, they say, look how much God loves you, but he would suffer so. Of course you should come to Jesus Christ. Look at his love. Is that what Matthew was trying to accomplish? And I don't think that was his main purpose. Here's why I believe that he wrote these things. And the first thing is this. We have this description of the miseries that Jesus endured before the cross. Because this was a part of Matthew's purpose to identify Jesus Christ as the promised Messiah. Right? The Old Testament had described ahead of time what the Messiah would be like and how he would be treated And that would help his people to identify the true Messiah when he showed up on the scene. And so we have many statements in the Old Testament that talk about the miseries that he would suffer. It talked about his betrayal by Judas in Psalm 41, verse 9. David, speaking of his own experience, said something that foreshadowed Jesus' experience. Psalm 41, verse 9. David wrote, Even my close friends in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. So that foreshadowed his betrayal. Old Testament spoke ahead of time. The fact that the shepherd, Jesus Christ, would be deserted by his disciples. Zechariah chapter 13, verse 7. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. And then in the book of Isaiah, written seven hundred years Before Jesus was born, there are four servant songs. Four servant songs. Let me give you those text in case you want to look later. Isaiah chapter 42, verse 1 to 9. Chapter 49, verse 1 to 7, chapter 50, verse 4 to 11, then chapter 52, verse 13, to chapter 53, verse 12. And these four texts tell us that when the Messiah comes, he will assume the role of a suffering servant. Let me give you a couple of verses so you get a picture. Chapter 50, verse 6. The servant says, I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheek to those who pull out my beard. I hid not my face. From disgrace and spitting. Chapter 53, verse 3, says that he was despised and rejected by men. Think about how the Jewish authorities rejected him all through his ministry. Then it goes on to say in verse 3, he was acquainted with grief. Think about his anguished prayer. Last week we looked at the Garden of Gethsemane. Chapter 53, verse 7. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. And that's what we just read in verse 63, right? He remained silent. when he was falsely accused. And so these passion narratives in the gospel identify Jesus as the suffering servant who was foretold in the Old Testament. And I would say to those who are you're you're interested in what the scripture says, you're not persuaded that this is true, right? And this is an honest thing What do you do? Well, here's what I do, and certainly what I did in my younger years. I read passages like Psalm 22 And Isaiah 53. So Psalm 22 was written by David 900 years before Christ. Isaiah was written 700 years before Jesus. And I could not explain these passages apart from their fulfillment in Jesus Christ. I could not explain these passages apart from the fact That these were given by God. These were prophecies that were spoken by the Holy Spirit hundreds of years before Jesus came. And I could not explain what else could these tests be referring to? And so I I've often said the Bible has a self-authenticating character. We see it in these fulfilled uh prophecies. G. K. Chesterton he said A stick might fit a hole or a hollow by accident, but a lock and a key are both complex. And if the key fits the lock, you know it's the right key. And the key I'm referring to here is the Old Testament prophecies If the prophecies fit the fulfillment, then you know that this book is from God And though not many people believe this, not many people see this, you're going to have to explain to me the fulfillment of these prophecies Before you explain away Christianity. And so we're asking the first question, why did Matthew Spend so much time describing the miseries that Jesus suffered before he went to the cross. And my answer is Because suffering identifies Jesus as the promised Messiah. That's the main answer And I think there's a second answer too. The second reason Matthew provided such detail on Jesus' suffering Was to let us know, later on, especially through the epistles, to let us know that our identification with Jesus Christ will also involve suffering. And so Matthew spent all his time, number one, to identify Jesus as the Messiah, and number two, to help us to know that our identification with Jesus will involve suffering. John chapter 15 verse 20. Jesus told his disciples, for all this came about, he said, A servant is not greater than its master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. That was before the cross. After the cross What did the apostles say in their writings? Did they say, follow Jesus, and you're going to have your best life now? And everything's just going to be peaches and cream. Is that what they said? The Apostle Paul in 2 Timothy 4:12 said, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And around the world today, I've read 200 to 250 million Christians are persecuted for their faith. Then another 400 million Christians are living under serious restrictions to their religious liberties. Let me give you just one little quote by Nina Shea She's a human rights lawyer. She's written on on Christian persecution. And she wrote this uh some time ago, but she s she writes Over the just over just the last few days, an Egyptian cop was arrested for evangelizing and was tortured to death And police custody in Libya. A Christian village in Pakistan was stormed and set aplaze by a mob incensed by rumors of blasphemy against Islam Five Christians were put on trial in Iran, and Christians in their churches in Sudan were under siege by the Khartoum regime. Over the past decade, some two-thirds of the Christian population of Iraq has been killed or driven out of the country by targeted extremist violence. against seventy of their churches and many other atrocities. She goes on to fate a serious defenseless Christian community now seems grim And so Jesus wasn't kidding. And so I think Matthew is saying, here's the road your Savior walked And then the apostles are later going to write in the epistles, here's the road that we're going to walk because we're not greater than our Savior. And Who knows what's going to happen in our nation, right? If not persecution, I think the church, I think Christians uh will suffer uh a restriction Of our religious liberties. Because we teach things in the Bible that our culture hates. It hates what the Bible teaches about marriage. It hates what the Bible teaches about the family. About what it says about a sex being limited to the marriage bed. It hates what the Bible teaches about gender. There are men and there are women and that is it. It hates what the Bible teaches us about moral absolutes And about our allegiance to Christ above Caesar. And so for all these reasons, I think that he is going to continue to be increased on Christians. So Peter, who denied Jesus, but then saw the resurrected Christ, would write to persecuted believers in the first century, this is 1 Peter 4, 12 and 13. He said, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. So he s remember I said, I think the r one of the reasons Matthew gave all this description of Jesus' suffering is to teach us that to follow Christ, we're going to have to identify with him in his sufferings. And that's exactly what Peter said there Rejoice that you share in Christ's sufferings. And one day, you're going to rejoice when his glory is revealed. Dietrich Bonhoeff, I know most people here are familiar with him. He was German pastor, executed in 1945 under the Drecht Order of Heinrich Himmler, who was the architect of the Holocaust. In his book, The Cost of Discipleship, he said suffering is the badge of true discipleship. The disciple is not above his master. And so I want our young people to see this. Because you're going to be around for a long time. But this stuff is true. And so it doesn't matter what disadvantages you may face in this life. This stuff is true. And so we want you to be grounded in your knowledge of Christ. We want you to know the Scripture. We want you to be willing to, if it comes to it, to suffer for Jesus Christ. And so that was my first question, and that was the long answer. I asked why did Matthew give us all this detail about Jesus' suffering? It was to identify Jesus as the Messiah, and it was so that we would identify with Christ in suffering alongside him. Here's my second question, briefly. Well, what was it then that heartened Jesus to endure such suffering? And my answer is he recognized that his suffering was under his father's sovereign rule. And I want to show you several ways that we see this in the passage. He recognized this was the plan of God, and Jesus entrusted himself to his father's good providence. And so after J excuse me, after Judas had marked Jesus for a rest Look in verse 50. Remember Jesus' response? Jesus said to him, friend, do what you came to do. He understood what was going to happen. He virtually gave the mob permission to arrest him. And the reason he did that is because he knew God was sovereign over the whole affair. And he understood that everything that was taking place was according to Scripture. And so um it was because of this assurance that he could say, as the he didn't say this, but the suffering servant back in Isaiah 57 But let me go back. Remember in the garden how undone Jesus was? How he pleaded, Father, if this is possible, may this cup be taken from me It wasn't possible. And so from that point forward, we see this beginning in our passage this morning. From that point forward, as we read of the suffering servant in Isaiah chapter 50, verse 7. He says, I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. He who vindicates me is near. And so Jesus understood that this was his Father's will, and so now nothing was going to take him off the track from going to the cross. Then after he was arrested in verse 51, we read that one of the disciples drew a sword, struck the servant's ear. The parallel passage in John's tells us that that was Peter who did that. Jesus said to Peter, Sheath your sword. I don't need you to protect me. Verse 53. Verse 53, I'm sorry. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? And so one legion was twelve thousand soldiers, twelve legions of angels, a hundred and forty-four thousand angels, and so Jesus recognized, though, he was going to do that because this was all foretold in Scripture that he would suffer. Look at verse 54. But then how should the scriptures be fulfilled? That it must be so? Verse 56 But all this has taken place that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. And so then you go through a couple more things and we'll close We see God's providence over this these affair this affair in other ways. The end of verse 56. All the disciples left him and fled. But that was foretold, right? We read Zechariah thirteen, seven. The sheep will be scattered when the shepherds uh struck. This was part of the father's plan He was going to go to the cross alone, because he alone had to bear the sins for his people. He would have no support. He would suffer all of this alone Then his trial. Jesus recognized this was under God's sovereign rule. And um his trial became the occasion At which for the first time in his ministry he declared unambiguously to the Jewish leadership that he was the Messiah. And so you you see in the end of verse 63, the high priest said, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you're the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him And here's this declaration that he was ambiguous about throughout his ministry before the Jewish leaders, but now he says You have said so, but I tell you from now on you'll see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. His condemnation was under God's sovereign rule. Verse sixty-five and sixty-six Then the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have now heard this blasphemy. What is your judgment? And they answered, he deserves death. So the Jewish high priest condemned Jesus Christ. That wasn't an accident That's how that's the that's the design of Scripture way back in the Old Testament in the old uh in the book of Leviticus chapters fifth sorry chapter 16 verse 21 It was the high priest who on the Day of Atonement says, would lay both his hands on the head Of the live goat, confess over it the sins of the people of Israel and all their transgressions and all their iniquities And it says that he shall put on the head of a goat and send it away into the wilderness. The goat shall bear all their iniquities on itself in a remote area. Well that's where Jesus was. He was the scapegoat on whose head all the people's sins was placed And he wasn't crucified inside the walls of Jerusalem, says in Hebrews 13, 12, he was crucified outside the city because he was a scapegoat who had to go outside the city walls. And so we see here that the machinations of evil men are not outside God's sovereign will But these foolish people who opposed Jesus Christ were in fact unwittingly fulfilling everything that God from the foundation of the world had decreed would happen. They were responsible and yet they were they were carrying out God's greater plan for the good of his people. And so that's our assurance here, right? It's Romans 8, right? All things are working together for those who love Jesus Christ. Jesus entrust himself to his Father. And that's what we need to learn, right? We can trust God, though the wrong seems often so strong God is the ruler yet. But let me close just by reading something J. C. Rile wrote. Talking about Jesus, he said, the willing sufferer will surely be the willing savior. The Almighty Son of God who allowed men to bind him and lead him away captive when he might save when he might have prevented them with a word must surely be full of readiness to save the souls that flee to him. And so do not lose heart Do not lose heart, because you are on the winning side. And I'd also say to those who may not yet be Christians That you should plea to Jesus Christ. He is more than able, he is more than willing to save your soul. Let's bow our heads. We thank you, Lord. Our faith is weak, but you've given us the Bible And we see this clear testimony of fulfillment of the Old Testament scriptures that Jesus Christ is indeed the Messiah. So that may that strengthen our faith And may we also be willing to identify with Jesus, no matter what may come in our way, in our culture. Help us not to be ashamed of the gospel. Help us, Lord, to be happy warriors, quick to give the reason for the hope that is in us. And we know, Lord, that you're still saving people. And so we can be optimistic. Let us pray. Help us remember that this is a spiritual battle in which we're engaged We don't fight it with the weapons of the world, but we fight this battle with spiritual weapons. So help us to be men and women and boys and girls of prayer And help us, Lord, to be fortified by all the good promises you give us in the Bible. For those who are not yet Christians, who are not yet persuaded, we pray, Lord, that they would see and that they would believe. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your songbook, please. We're going to sing a song. We've never sung it, but you know the tune. It's number 75 and the title is O Father, you are sovereign. Let's stand and sing in number 75. You don't see no shut Well we're done. Receive now the benediction. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Okay, that's the question.