To have some new faces here this morning. And we are in chapter 13, beginning at verse 31. John 13 verse 31. In fact, just a little background for those who weren't here last week. So Jesus washed his disciples' feet, and then he said, one of you guys is going to betray me. And in fact, at that time Judas got up, he left, it says in verse 30, after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. Verse 31. When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I have said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another By this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I'm going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. Peter said to him, Why can I not follow you now? I'll lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. Let's bow our heads. Our God, we pray that your Spirit would attend the proclamation of your word. Give us hearts that are teachable, and help us to see our Lord more clearly, that we may worship Him and thank Him and honor Him And all that we do, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so Jesus and the disciples, they've just had this meal. He's just washed their feet. And at this point, Judas leaves the group to betray Jesus. So this is a dark moment, and you would expect Jesus to acknowledge uh things are not going well now. You know, he might say something like, you know, we had a good three years together. But now the end has come. You're good men. It's been good to know you, but now we're all finished. But rather, Jesus says something I think quite unexpected. If you look at verse 31, Jesus said, rather, now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. And so Jesus said, you know what? Judas has left, and now I'm on the cusp of being glorified. Well that's sort of a that's sort of obscure language when Jesus talks about being glorified. What's the Bible mean when it talks about God being glorified. And sometimes we well I think there's two ways. Sometimes we speak about glorifying God by honoring Him or praising Him in our worship. You think about Psalm 34, the Psalmist said Glorify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. And so that's one way that that word glorified is used. But more often Glory in the Bible has to do with God displaying his splendor. His majesty, his power, his holiness. And so glory is the publication of God's nature to us. And you see that in the Old Testament. God's presence enveloped the portable tent that the Israelites, or the portable worship tent that the Israelites carried with them throughout the wilderness. So there was this cloud of God's presence, which was referred to as God's Glory. Or we just read Exodus chapter 33, where Moses asked God to go with him into the promised land. And God told Moses, I'm going to show you or display to you my glory. And God hid Moses in the cleft of the rock, and he shielded his glory from Moses with his hand, so to speak. But anyway, there's this T or this What we're seeing here is that glory is the outward shining of God's being Well, you turn over to the John's Gospel. We leave the Old Testament, we turn to John's Gospel, and we find that this idea of God's glory is a theme that runs through John's gospel. Way back in chapter one, chapter one, verse fourteen, John wrote The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son. from the Father. And so because Jesus is God incarnate, he displays God's glory. Of course, it was veiled in the in the humili in his earthly life. He was humble, right? It w it was veiled. But still it was something of God's glory was disclosed. Or when Jesus performed his first miracle, when he turned the water into the wine at the wedding in Cana, uh chapter two. After that miracle, John commented, this is John 2 verse 11, this the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee. And manifested his glory. And so Jesus displayed something of his divine nature. And then later and we could go through several ver uh passages, uh skip up to John chapter 11, verse 2. Jesus raised Lazarus from the grave And it says in 112 he did this that the Son of God may be glorified, that he may display who he is But Jesus' glory has not yet been fully revealed. That would not come till his death and resurrection and ascension to heaven. And thus, chapter 7, verse 39, John said, the Spirit had not been given because Jesus was not yet glorified. So there was something more to come. So anyway, where am I going with this? There is a purpose to all this, okay? What What I want to show from this passage is that what most revealed Jesus glory was when he, the God of the universe, submitted himself to death to redeem his people. And this is most unexpected, right? Because Jesus is the sovereign God And yet Jesus humbled himself unto death, and in doing that, counterintuitively God's glory was most uh was displayed in the most amazing way. In fact, one of the early church theologians, Origen, uh refer to this as humble glory. And so God's glory, what what this passage is teaching Is that God's glory was most dramatically displayed when Jesus Christ humbled himself to this shameful death to redeem us from our sin. And so in these verses, we're going to look mainly at verses 31 to 35. In these verses, Jesus explains to his disciples two basic things. Number one, that his death and resurrection will bring glory to him and to the Father. And secondly, he explains that his death and resurrection sets a new standard for how we, his people, must love one another. And so point number one is the glory of the cross. And that's that sounds like a contradiction in terms the glory of the cross because in the ancient world execution by crucifixion was a disgraceful way to die. In fact, Cicero uh called crucifixion so unspeakably ugly as to be off limits in polite conversation And the Jews likewise regarded crucifixion as a shameful way to die. And that's from the their scriptures. Deuteronomy 21, verse 22 said that whoever is hanged on a tree is cursed. by God. And that's why Paul would say in 1 Corinthians 1 that Jesus' death by crucifixion is a stumbling block. to the Jews. But Jesus tells us in this passage that the cross, far from being an object of scorn or shame, is really The supreme way in which God displays his glory. John Calvin said the cross is a splendid theater It's like this great drama, this great theater by which the the by which the incomparable goodness of God is set before the world. And not only was Jesus' glory displayed on the cross, but so was the Father's glory. That's what Jesus says in verse 31 and 32. Let me read those verses again. Jesus said, Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. And so how do we hold all that together? You know, he's just, God's glorified, I'm glorified. And he goes on and on and on, repeating this word, glorified. But we could just scratch the surface and say, yeah, the Father is glorified because he's the author of our salvation And the Son is glorified in that He accomplished our salvation. And if we had, you know, several hours I could go on and on and on about thinking about the dimensions of how the Father and Son are glorified. For example, The cross displays the righteousness of God. It tells us there is a God, He's a holy God, and sin must be punished. The cross displays the justice of God. So last uh in July, Becky and I uh went to Germany and we visited the concentration camp, the Dachau a concentration camp and we saw uh these cells uh where unimaginable tortures were carried out. We saw the instruments Of torture? Hard to imagine that man would do these kind of things to fellow human beings We saw photos of Jewish men so evaciated that it was hard to believe that these people were still alive. And then there are pictures, of course, of piles of corpses. You know, how how couldn't people do this? Well There's comfort in the cross because it asserts there's a God, He's a just God And the stream of events will not run on forever. He's going to seek out the doers of these of these deeds, and he will administer justice. in his good time. And so in the cross, we see the righteousness of God, we see the justice of God. In the cross we set we have set before us the love of God. And in fact, so brilliantly does the cross display God's love that if you read the New Testament, it hardly ever mentions God's love without making reference to the fact of the cross. Let me give you two verses. 1 John 4. 10. John said, and this is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us. And then what's it saying? And send his son to be the propitiation for our sins. That's how we know that God loved us Romans 5. 8. Paul said, God chose his own love for us in this. How so? Well, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. So in the cross we see the righteousness of God, we see the holiness of God, we see the justice of God, the love of God. We see the wisdom of God in that from all eternity We see that God had a plan to redeem his people. It started way back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, I think. It was announced. And it unfolded over the generations, down through time. And then, Galatians 4:4, when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. to redeem those under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. And so, whoa, this is brilliant. And if you're familiar with the Bible, you read this unfolding story. and you see that everything is leading up to the cross in the Old Testament, and then in the Gospels And in the book of Acts, we see the proclamation of the cross, and then in the rest of the New Testament, we see the implications of the cross. But the cross Jesus Christ's death and resurrection is the center of biblical revelation. We see the wisdom of God. And when you're reading the Bible and you see how this all fits together It's very confirming that, yeah, this stuff is true. We also see God's wisdom. As Paul said in Romans 3. 26, God is both just and the justifier. He is a just God. He is a righteous God. But at the same time He's the one who makes it possible for us to come into his presence because he sent his own son to die for our sin. That's brilliant. Who would have ever come up with that? And so in the cross we see the wisdom of God In the cross, we see the power of God. He conquered on the cross our final enemy, Satan. And it was God's power. That raised Jesus Christ from the grave. Roma uh 1 Corinthians 1 18. I'm sorry, I think that was Romans 1. I didn't write it down But yeah, and it's the same power that gives us new life. And so there's 1 Corinthians 1 18, where Paul said The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. Right? Unbelievers look at Christianity. And they say, that's foolishness. They have no idea what it's about. They don't understand the scripture. They think it's a religion, it's just an ethical system Not at all. No. It is God's way of redeeming his people. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it's the power of God, right? I was lost, I was blind, I was a rebel, I was completely turned in on myself And God in his mercy opened my eyes to see and to believe. And now when I read this book, I recognize this is the voice of God. In the cross, we see the faithfulness of God. We have in the Old Testament all these promises. God's going to send a Redeemer. What happens with the cross? We see God is faithful. He made good on his promises. And so whenever you find yourself doubting the goodness of God, the kindness, the love the justice of God, what do we do? What should we do? We need to look back at the cross of Jesus Christ and remember As Paul said in Romans 8. 32, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Let's look down now at verse 33. Jesus speaks tenderly to his disciples. He wants to prepare them for his departure. And he says, Little children Yet a little while I am with you, you will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now also I say to you. Where I am going, you cannot come. And if they're gonna weather the storms ahead They're not going to only need to understand the meaning of the cross and how that in the end of the day brings glory to God. But they're gonna have to understand how important it is for them as Jesus followers to love one another. So that brings us to verses thirty-four and thirty-five, where Jesus speaks about a new commandment. Verse 34. A new commandment I give to you that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another Now, he's talking to his disciples, so in this pla this particular spot, he's not saying you need to love everybody in general, although you should, right? Because everybody in general is made in the image of God. And in loving others we emulate God who so loved the world, but he's speaking here about love within the community of believers that you love one another. Now, here's the head scratcher. I hope you're asking this. Not that I can answer it, but I hope you're asking. What's so new about this command to love one another? Because It's not new. It's in the Old Testament. For example, Leviticus 19:18. God said, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Well, there's something new about this command, or else Jesus wouldn't have said it's new, right? What is new? I'm not entirely sure. I have a pretty good idea though. I mean I I these these are these are the most uh I I think I have the most reasonable uh explanation And the best I gather is that this commandment to love one another is new, in that Jesus provides a new motive for loving others and also a new standard. For loving others. And so Jesus talking about his death, his glorification, in that we have a new motive for love Right? 1 John 4. 19. We love because he first loved us. Because God loved me despite myself. I need to love you. Because God was gracious to me, I should cut you some slack and uh be gracious to you. You may not deserve it. But I didn't deserve God's love. And so we have a new motive for loving others. And really that's why we should think about what Jesus Christ did, because when somebody gets under your skin It's very difficult, but you need to recall, hey, here's the grace, here's the kindness, here's the love that God had for me. But secondly, this commandment's new because it provides a new standard of love. We must love in the same manner that Jesus loved us. Right there, verse 34, the second part of the verse, what'd Jesus say? Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. So that's how we're to do it. As Jesus did it. And so we have this new standard, this new model for how we're to love. Paul spoke similarly in Ephesians 5. 25. He said, Husbands love your wives. Because she's such a great woman. No? He said, husbands, love your wives. How? As Christ loved the church. So we have that's the standard by which we are to love our wives. And how did Jesus love us? Well it goes later in John 15, 23. He laid down his life for us. That's how he loved us. And so that's the kind of love that we should have for other people. And then he says, in verse 35, we're getting near the end here, he says, By this all people will know that you're my disciples. If you have love from one another. And so what trait communicates to other people that were really followers of Jesus Christ? Yes, and uh I mean I think in our Christian subculture we would say, well, because I have right belief, I I'm Orthodox, I I hold to uh the the tenets of biblical Christianity. That's really important, right? But it's not the final test. I'm engaged in acts of service. I'm zealous in my worship. That's really important. But that's not the final test. I know this book. I have mastered it. I can tell you the order of the books of the Bible. I can't, but um maybe I used to. But that's what makes shows that I'm a Christian. No, that's not it, right? What'd Jesus say? He said, the mark of the Christian is love. This is how people will know that you're my disciples. And what he said worked out in practice because the early church grew at a phenomenal rate. What was going on here? They they loved each other, and they loved the widow, they loved the orphan, they loved the outcast. And so in the uh in the second century, one of your one of the early Christians, Tertullian, said Here's what the pagans are saying about the Christians. Behold how these Christians love each other. how ready they are to die for each other. And so this was what happened. This was the magnet That drew unbelievers into the Christian church. They saw something different about these people. And it's the same today. And so what I want to think want what I want to want you to think about is The measure of your love for fellow believers. How do you conduct yourself in this fellowship Think about the most basic rudimentary expressions of kindness, of love. Do you look people in the eye? Do you say hello to them? Or do you wait to be noticed, to be recognized by others? Do you ask other people about themselves, what's going on with them, what their concerns are, how you can pray for them Or do you always turn things back to what's going on with you? And yeah, of course we should say what's here's what's going on with me, but we should also be looking toward the other Uh do you pray for other people? Do you call other just you know call somebody during the week to ask them how they're doing or even just send them a a text message, some expression that you'd by which you'd say, yeah, I notice you and I care for what's going on with you Do you only show up at those uh church gatherings that are your cup of tea? Or do you say, you know what, I should go nonetheless because I want to be able to chat with others and maybe encourage somebody else. Are you patient with those who get under your skin? Or do you cut them some slack or do you say, you know what, I'm done with him, I'm done with her? at the first event. First offense. So Jesus said, by this all people will know that you're my disciples if you love one another. So that's what I want you to think. I'm just going to make a short comment. I I'm not really addressing verses thirty six to uh thirty-eight where Jesus or I sorry Where Jesus talked about going to the cross, and uh Peter said, uh, I'm gonna lay down my life for you, and Jesus said, No, you're not. Before the sun comes up, uh you're gonna deny me three times. Just you wait and see. And yeah. Peter overestimated his resolve. He didn't stand firm. And I think that's a warning for us, right? Because we might overestimate our spiritual resolve, our moral resolve. As a reminder, we need to be resting on Jesus Christ. We need to be in the Christian fellowship. We must be in the word. We must be in prayer. Let's bow our heads