John's Gospel chapter sixteen, John chapter sixteen We're working our way through the gospel, and we come to a short section this morning, beginning right there in the middle of verse 4, where it starts a new paragraph. So Jesus, remember this is the night before he's crucified. He's with the disciples from chapter 14 to 17. He's speaking to them. And he says here to them, I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you. But now I'm going to him who sent me, and none of you ask me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has is judged. And so here we have in John 14 to 16 this huge discourse and largely about the ministry of of the Holy Spirit. And so we've been in this for several weeks now, this discussion Jesus discussion about the work of the Holy Spirit Just want to say a few things by way of review, especially for those who may be new here. Jesus tells us that the Holy Spirit isn't this uh in personal power, but the Holy Spirit uh is a person. The Holy Spirit is not an it. The Holy Spirit is a he And he is fully God. He's the third person of the Trinity, equal with the Father and the Son. And it's the ministry of the Holy Spirit to make the personal presence of the risen, ascended Jesus Christ known to his people. Back in chapter 14, verse 16, Jesus referred to the Holy Spirit as another helper, or some translations say advocate or comforter. The Holy Spirit in a nutshell is another Christ who is with us to strengthen us, to guide us. to teach us. In chapter 14, verse 17, Jesus said to his disciples, He, the Holy Spirit, dwells with you and will be in you. And it was the discipl it was the Holy Spirit's ministry to the disciples, or to the yeah, to the the disciples, the twelve that enabled them to recall, to comprehend, to teach, and to record for future generations the things that Jesus said. That's sort of summed up in chapter 14, verse 26, where Jesus said to the apostles, the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name He will teach you all things and bring to remembrance all that I have said to you And so that's why we can trust the scripture, because the Holy Spirit enabled the disciples to recall The teaching of Jesus, and finally to understand the meaning of it, and then faithfully record those teachings for future generations. Now Here we have this short paragraph. In it, Jesus speaks of a further ministry of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit has a further ministry of bringing conviction, conviction of sin, conviction of righteousness, conviction of judgment. And I have two aims as we look at this passage. So there's why, or here's the cash value of this passage. There's two things, two benefits from it. Number one We're going to learn the benefit of the Holy Spirit for those who are not yet Christians. If you're not yet a Christian, it's the Holy Spirit who will bring conviction of sin. That's something you must attain. That's something you must sense before you become a Christian. You must see you're a sinner and you need a savior, or else it's just y you don't s y it it doesn't connect, okay? So my first aim is to help those who aren't yet Christians to recognize that Conviction given by the Holy Spirit is something you must attain before you can really turn to Jesus Christ. And my second aim is to help Christians recognize That in our efforts to share the gospel with people who aren't yet Christians, help us recognize We need to pray that God will, by the Holy Spirit, open our eyes to see and to believe Because our just giving information, just making reasonable arguments, isn't enough. God has to open a person's eyes And so these two things are the implications of what Jesus speaks about in verses 8 to 11. But first we're going to look briefly at what he says in verses 5 to 7. In verses five to seven we we discover that it's that excuse me that the Holy Spirit, one of its ministries is to make the presence of Jesus Christ known to Christians everywhere. Okay? And so, as I said, w when is this taking place? It's the night before Jesus was hung on the cross. And so Jesus has been telling these guys, he's been speaking about his imminent departure, but then in the second part of verse 4, he tells them I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you. Now he had told them at various points in his ministry, that he was going to be he was going to die for the sins of his people. But there are many things that he had not told them up until this point. So Jesus says, I'm going to be leaving you like right away. And Jesus says, not to worry. It's for the better. So verse 6. But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. Now, have you ever had this thought? You probably have, okay? I hope you have, because what I'm going to say would be relevant then. Um, have you ever thought, you know If I could have been with Jesus, if I could have seen him, observed his person, heard him teach, and witnessed his miracles. Then my faith would never waver again. I'd be certain. You know, the disciples they had it great. They saw Jesus Christ. According to this passage, Jesus is saying, I don't know if he spoke French, but if he was, he'd say, Oh contraire, mon frère. We're in a much better position than those who saw Jesus during his earthly ministry. Because Jesus during his earthly ministry He was localized, right? He could only be with the group he was with physically. But Jesus is telling us That by the ministry of the Holy Spirit, the presence of Christ comes to all Christians in all places. I like the song I have on my playlist, Johnny Cass Song, I've Been Everywhere. You ever hear that song? It's a great song, right? I've been to Reno, Chicago, Fargo, Minnesota. Buffalo, Toronto, Winslow, Sarasota, and he goes on and on and on. He's been everywhere. Well, the Holy Spirit is everywhere. Around the world, wherever there's a Christian in some lonely corner of the earth, the Holy Spirit Is with God's people, and he's also bringing on believers from the darkness into the light of the knowledge of God And so that's the first thing Jesus tells us about when this helper, when this comforter comes, he will be with you wherever you are. And he's with God's people everywhere. And now we're going to look more closely at verses eight to eleven about a second thing we learned about the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And it is that the Holy Spirit, one of his functions, is to convict unbelievers. Because The world, apart from the work of the Spirit, does not recognize its sin and its guilt. And so Jesus gave the Holy Spirit to open our eyes to see that we are sinners and we need a Savior. So there you have it in verse 8. Jesus said, and when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. So he convicts us of our sin, and then, and this isn't in the verse, but I'm going to add this, he opens our eyes, And I've said this before recently, to recognize the truth of the gospel message. It rings true Like, why am I a Christian? Because I heard this message and it rings true. Why is that? That's the work of the Holy Spirit. Paul said this in 1 Corinthians 2. 14. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. Right? Some people here have a cat. Did you ever try to explain something to your cat? Like cats, they're clueless. That's what it's like. Or you try explain something to a rock. A rock is sleeping. It's even worse. They don't get it. It doesn't connect. Well, but then when God gives his spirit They're like, wow, I've heard that a million times. And now it connects. So I want to go back to John chapter 3. This is familiar territory for many, but I want you to see The great emphasis that the got that Jesus in the Gospel of John puts on the ministry of the Holy Spirit So John chapter 3, verse 3 to 8, we're going to read it. We're not gonna I'm not gonna explain every detail, but I just want you to see the thrust of what Jesus is saying. John 3. 3, Jesus talking to this religious fellow, Nicodemus, who was not, did not believe in Jesus. Jesus says in verse 3 Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God, this idea of being born again. Unless God grants you spiritual birth You can't see this stuff. You don't recognize the truth of Christianity. Verse 4 Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? So that's his question. Jesus completely ignores his question. It just says in verse 5, Truly, truly I say to you. Unless one is born of water, water in the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. So Jesus just makes this assertion, yet again, without explaining it. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. And then this cryptic statement in verse 8, the wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. Jesus is saying, it's a mystery But it's God who sovereignly grants his or gives his spirit to people, and they Enter into this where they receive this spiritual birth from God. But going back to uh chapter 16 now What this Holy Spirit first does, or what he does in bringing this birth, is he grants us the ability to see our sin and our guilt and our need of a savior And so verses 9 to 11, Jesus explains the Holy Spirit gives us a correct perception of sin. and of righteousness and of judgment. And so let's go through these three things. I'm going to spend most time on the first thing. The Holy Spirit convicts unbelievers of their sin. Now think about Jesus during his earthly ministry. One of the things he did Was that this is chapter John chapter 7, verse 7. One of the things Jesus did during his earthly ministry was that he testified to the world That its works are evil. Okay? He is the light. Remember John chapter 3, verse 20 or thereabouts? The darkness hates the light. Jesus is the light. Why? Because he testifies that his works are evil. That's uncomfortable, right? You come against someone who's holy? You see your sin more clearly. And so that's why they crucified him, okay? Well, Jesus has now ascended to heaven. One of the ministries of the Holy Spirit is to continue Jesus' ministry of convicting unbelievers of their sin. So that they will see their need of a Savior. The immediate fulfillment of this promise took place in Acts chapter 2 on the day of Pentecost, right? Peter is preaching in Jerusalem. And it was the Holy Spirit who made Peter's preaching to these people, to this crowd, effective So Peter, he's out there in the middle of Jerusalem like a prosecuting attorney, and he told this crowd You crucified Jesus. Now if gee if Peter had stood out there a day before, before the Holy Spirit was given And he said to this crowd of Jews, You crucify Jesus. They would may have ignored them, ignored him, but they probably would have beat him to a pulp. But that's not what happened on the day of Pentecost. Peter's proclaiming the gospel message, you crucify Jesus. And it says in Acts 2 verse 37, that the people were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? What's going on here? Well, this is the fulfillment of Jesus' promise, right? The Holy Spirit came and he convicted the world of It's sin. And so this is the first ministry that we mention or this is the first thing that Jesus mentions here About what the Holy Spirit does. He convicts us of our sin. He enables us to recognize, whoa, I thought I was such a great guy. But I'm guilty. I've sinned against the holy God. Think about Isaiah in Isaiah 6, right? He's a prophet of Israel. But when God disclosed his holiness, Isaiah Said, woe is me. I'm undone. I remember a friend from 40 years ago, a girl named Carla, and she just lived a degraded life. But when she saw her sin, she was bawling. She had a very raspy voice. My sin makes me sick. Well, that was a good thing. That was the work of the Holy Spirit. And until the Holy Spirit convicts an unbeliever of his or her sin. We're very casual about it. We take it very lightly. Uh we we dismiss it. Yeah, you know, I I yeah, I lie, but they're really uh white lies. or therapeutic lies or or or my sexual transgressions, or just uh Piccadillos, you know, boys will be boys or or foul language. Well, you know, um yeah my language is a little uh salty. Uh we casually excuse our covetousness, right? Everybody else is like that. So I'm gonna I'm gonna get that I'm gonna get that too. Our petty thefts. Uh we're blind to how proud we can be, how how puffed up uh with self-righteousness uh we can be, and uh we don't think twice about the way we slice and dice other people. Well What and then we don't believe in Jesus Christ. That's the greatest sin, one of the greatest sins. Look at verse 8. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. That's the that failure to recognize The Lordship of Jesus Christ and his claim on our worship, that's a fundamental sin. And so the Holy Spirit convicts us of our sin before you become a Christian. You must have this sense. Yeah, I've fallen short. I think I'm a great guy. I'm a really nice guy. People respect me But no, before a holy God, I have fallen short. And so, if you're not yet a Christian I would say, do you recognize that you've fallen short? And because if you don't You're not going to see your need of Christ, right? In Matthew 9. 12, Jesus said, it's not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. It's those who recognize their sin, they're the ones who turn to Jesus for forgiveness and to receive. his righteousness. Now let me add something here. So I said the Holy Spirit brings conviction of sin. I would add ordinarily it's also in conjunction with a recognition of God's moral law. By that I mean God's commands. God's moral law is summed up in the Ten Commandments. And so uh most people think, you know, I'm pretty good. Remember I was was I telling you here or at the funeral about Charlotte Lee? She said, I never thought I was a sinner. Until she was 88 years old when she understood the gospel. And there are people like that. I'm not a sinner. If you say they're a sinner, they're insulted But it's just it's not an insult, it's just our condition, right? Of course we're sinners, but you don't recognize it. But what helps us to recognize our sin is the moral law of God. So the It's like a mirror, right? You hold a mirror up to your face and go, oh, my face is sort of dirty. I need to wash it. But yeah, read the Ten Commandments, reflect on the Ten Commandments. If you've never looked, look at the Westminster Larger Catechism of questions 103 to 148. The Westminster Larger Catechism, questions 103 to 148. gives an exposition of each of the Ten Commandments saying, here are here's a myriad of things that Commandment 3 forbids and enjoins. You read through that and you realize I'm guilty. Or the Sermon on the Mount, right? Jesus, Matthew 5-7. Jesus took God's commands and he says, it's not just the outward behavior, but it's your attitude and your heart that is an offense to God. And so God's law helps us to see our sin. Romans 3. 20, through the law comes knowledge of sin. And so that's good. So I was talking about this girl, Carla, bawling. Hey, that's a good thing. We need to take a good look at it before we come to Christ, but then we need to look at what Jesus did. for sinners. So D. L. Moody, the 18th, what 19th century evangelist, he told a story about a surgeon in Belfast. He said, imagine being having surgery in the 19th century. But anyway He would tell his patients, listen, before I do the surgery, take a good look at the wound But then look at me and don't take your eyes off me until the surgery is finished. And that's what the Bible teaches. Yeah. If you're not a Christian, the first thing you want to do is come to a sense of your sin. And so take a good look at it, reflect on it. In comparison to the holiness of God and to God's commands, which is just God's holiness in the form of precepts. But then, having seen your sin, look at Jesus Christ, the Savior of sinners And so what I'm saying is the Holy Spirit uses God's law, his commands, to drive us to the gospel. Okay? So the law is what God demands of us. The gospel is what God gives us, right? Jesus lived a perfect life He died on the cross to pay for our sin. And so the gospel is the message that God gives us forgiveness, he gives us salvation as a gift. And we receive it by faith. And so the law is everything God demands. The gospel is everything God gives. And if you read the history of revivals in in Europe or in this country in the uh seventeen hundreds, eighteen hundreds One of the distinguishing marks of true revivals is that God, by the Holy Spirit, brought upon people this profound conviction Of their sin. And those who were formerly at ease suddenly recognized the nature of their fallness. And so that's the main chunk of what I want to say here. The Holy Spirit brings conviction of sin. More briefly, verse 10, the Holy Spirit brings or excuse me, convicts unbelievers of on righteousness. So we tend to think of righteousness in relative terms, right? I'm not a murderer, I'm not an adulterer, I'm not a thief. I go to church. I try to be a nice guy. And um I'm a generally good person. I guess you all recognize that by now. And then hell, you know, that's for um That's for those with gross, gross uh sins, sins that we dare not speak of. Well, verse uh verse eight. Jesus said, the Holy Spirit We'll convict the world concerning righteousness, right? Because we it shows us the perfect moral integrity of God And we recognize that, you know what, in comparison, Isaiah 64, 6, all our righteous acts are like filthy rags. So the Holy Spirit convicts us of sin. He convicts us of righteousness. And then verse 11, the Holy Spirit convicts unbelievers of judgment. Concerning judgment Because the ruler of this world has been judged. And so it's the ministry of the Holy Spirit to convince us that you know what this life isn't all there is there's gonna be a final judgment and it's interesting so a lot of people become Christians because they they go through some trial or ordeal or struggle in life and they're at the they're at the end of their resources And then they meet somebody or they remember something they heard when they were younger, and they they look to Jesus Christ. And that's a wonderful thing. And I I remember I became a cr when I became a Christian, I was like, I don't really have a like a I didn't have this terrible trial that led me to Christ, and so my conversion story is not that interesting Why did I become a Christian? Because I had this sense that there's a God and I'm going to hell. And now I realize, hey, that's pretty good. Because that's what Jesus says here. That's good enough. Uh if you think you're you realize you're a sinner and you're going to hell. That was the work of the Holy Spirit. He convinced me concerning judgment. It was over a number of years I had this sense. And um and if you doubt that there will be a final judgment, better think again Just as Jesus judged Satan, look at the end of verse 11, concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. So Jesus judged Satan when Jesus died on the cross. He condemned him, but Jesus was victorious over Satan. And just as Jesus judged Satan, so he will judge all who are under his sway. If you're a Christian, you won't be condemned because you have the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So there's that's a short passage. And as I said in the beginning, if you're a Christian and you have loved ones or friends or neighbors who aren't Christians, This text reminds us of the importance of praying that the Holy Spirit will convict that person of his or her sin 1 Corinthians 12, 3, Paul said, Nobody can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. And Becky and I, when we pray for loved ones, we just pray, Lord, open his eyes, open her eyes to see and to believe because we've talked to her till we're blue in the face. But we're praying, Lord, open that person's eyes to see and to believe. So that's the encouragement for Christians. And then if you're not a Christian, pray. And if you're like, I don't know about this stuff, pray. That the Holy Spirit will convict you of your sin and of your need of a Savior. Right? You read read the scripture. Become acquainted with what it says about the character of God, the holiness of God. And as I said earlier, reflect on his commands, how you've fallen short In praying that God will open your eyes that you can genuinely turn to Christ in Rest on him, recline on him as your Savior. So let's bow our heads We do pray, Lord, for those who are not Christians but who are uh inquiring and curious. I pray they'll seek these things out, but I also pray that by your Spirit uh you would Move them, open their eyes, and take turn their hearts of stone to hearts of flesh, that they can genuinely Trust that Jesus Christ is their Savior and follow Him. And help us who by grace had had our eyes opened. Help us, Lord, to be diligent in calling out to you to open the eyes of people we know who aren't yet in the kingdom. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing