Okay. But let's turn we're in the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter five. And for those who I think just about everybody's been here, you know what we're doing. So we're marching through Revelation. And last week we were on chapter four. Where God gave John a vision of God in heaven. He's on the throne. And then that vision continues now in chapter 5. And we see another key element. We see Jesus Christ also in the vision, so not just of God the Father, but God the Son. So Revelation chapter 1, John says, Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on a throne, that's the Father, a scroll written within and on the back sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open a scroll? And break its seals. And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it. And I began to weep loudly, because no one was found worthy to open a scroll or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me Weep no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered, so that he can open his scroll and its seven seals. Between the throne and the four living creatures among the elders I saw a lamb standing, as though it had been slain. With seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent into all the earth. And he, this is Jesus, And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was standing on seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain. And by your blood you ransom people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb Be blessing and honor and glory and might for ever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. Well, if I were to choose a hymn that sums up this passage, I might choose the song This Is My Father's World. There's a line in there that says, Though the wrong seems often so strong God is the ruler yet. And that's really the message of chapters four and five. God's on the throne. He's accomplishing his purposes. These purposes are for the ultimate good of his people and for his ultimate glory. That's a message the original recipients of this letter needed to be needed to hear because as I said on in other weeks Uh things were difficult. Uh many of these people were losing their uh means of making a living. Remember I mentioned that uh working at In the Roman Empire you had to be part of a a trade guild, and each of these trade guilds had it had its own deity, its own pagan god or goddess. And you'd have to go to the temple, you'd have to participate in the uh the pagan uh sexually immoral uh festivals that were put on. Uh they were being persecuted and this persecution uh would ramp up. Uh some would be tortured. Uh some would die on the count of their allegiance to Jesus Christ. and their unwillingness to bow before the emperor and say, Caesar is Lord. So there are problems without, and there are problems within. We looked uh recently at chapter at chapters two and three, letters to the seven churches in Asia Minor. And These Christians were in church, many of these churches were teaching false doctrine, they had apostate leaders, and there was immorality in the church, and there was compromise And so it was hard. And so this is and I said the seven letters to the seven churches, really the whole book of Revelation. is to those seven churches and to all churches. But these folks need to be reminded, God is on his throne. He's still sovereign over history. And uh you don't have to have a very fertile imagination to draw the application for us, right? Uh because we too uh need to be reminded in our culture of this when we look around at the decadence, we look at the perversity, godlessness, and really the compromise in the impotence of the Christian Church in America. And I'd say, uh, if you ever watch the evening news and you get heartburn, what you need to do, uh, if I were your doctor, I'd say, read Revelation 4 and 5 and call me in the morning. Because this puts things In perspective. Remember, and I just mentioned this, chapter 4, verse 1, 4 and 5, chapters 4 and 5, John's invited To see God's throne in heaven. So God discloses the sanctuary in heaven by way of a vision. He's not imagining this, but this is a disclosure, a revelation. That God gave to John and that John wrote down for the church down through the ages. And in chapter 4, he sees the Father on his throne, the Creator of all, ruling over all things. And now as he continues to scan out the sanctuary, He sees in chapter 5 the Redeemer of God's people, Jesus Christ. Encourage you to go home, read this chapter over and over. But after you squeeze it down, here's one thing you want to remember. This is really the the key to or I should say a summarizing statement. The lesson of chapter five is that Jesus' death and resurrection is the pivotal event. That enables God's plan for history to go forward. This plan includes the redemption of God's people, it includes the judgment of the wicked. So this is telling us that the day is coming when Jesus will right all wrongs and he will vindicate his suffering people. So if I could put it another way, I would say chapter five of Revelation presents a Christian view of history Uh here's how you need to interpret history. History past and and then also things that are And you need to remember or recognize that history is not merely a meaningless succession of events It's not a chronicle of the weaker uh prevailing sorry of the stronger prevailing over uh the weaker History is not, as Shakespeare said, a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. But rather, history is really God working his purposes in what chapter 5 tells us is that what enables that purpose to go forward is that Jesus Christ died and he rose. Okay? And that's really what this this discussion about a sealed scroll is about So we're going to look at uh we're going to look at this scroll, and then we're going to look at Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God So it's going to take some, as Ricky Ricardo would say, this is going to take some explaining, but you want to keep your Bible open and um and then we're going to sit we're going to make some applications, okay? And so, uh in chapter 5, verse 1, uh John sees God seated on his throne, so God the Father on the throne holding a scroll. Verse 1. I saw on the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within, and on the back sealed with seven seals. Now there's three things that I want you to notice about this scroll. It's content, its comprehensiveness, and its inaccessibility. So first of all, it's content. What is this scroll about? This scroll is a book that contains the world's destiny. It's a scroll that tells us of the things to come. It is God's plan for history And central to this plan is God's judgment of the wicked and his vindication of his people. This scroll is rooted in the Old Testament. You see a scroll? In Daniel 12, 4. It was sealed up. It seems here now the scrolls being unsealed. And I say it's a book of God's plan for history. Because the scroll continues in chapter 6 and 7 up to chapter 8, verse 1. And what we see in those chapters are the seven seals being slit open one by one and we're have we have this disclosure of God's plan for history. It's not a chronological plan. In fact as we go through Revelation We're going to see that there are cycles and the same, basically the same thing over and over. But what we have though in chapters 6 to 8 It's the first cycle, and it tells us God is sovereign over all these things that happen. You get to the end of Revelation and you discover God's purposes indeed prevail. And so first of all the scroll is content. It's about God's plan for the for history. Secondly, it's comprehensiveness. It says in verse 1 that it has writing on the front and the back on both sides. This was not typical of an ancient scroll. These scrolls had rough backs. And so they would only write on the front typically, but this scroll has writing on both sides. Uh just to say that it contain it's comprehensive. It contains the entirety of God's will. It contains the whole of God's retent redemptive plan. So it's a comprehensiveness. But the distressing thing to John is the third trait of the scroll. It's inaccessibility. It is sealed. It was seven seals. And that's to say that not anybody can open a royal scroll. Only someone so authorized to do that uh could open it. Only someone who was worthy uh to to to slit it open uh could do it Yeah, one of the commentators, one of the very helpful commentators, and I'd say the best for you if you want a good accessible commentary on Revelation, William Hendrickson Let me read what he said. It's a pretty good summary about how you couldn't get into the scroll. He wrote, the closed scroll indicates a plan of God, unrevealed and unexecuted. If that scroll remains sealed, God's purposes are not realized. His plan is not carried out. To open the scroll by breaking the seals means not merely to reveal, but to carry out God's plan. And so who is who is out there who can carry out God's plan? As soon as I turn my page I'll tell ya. Oh, I lost that paper, you'll never know, right? No. No. The angel asked um so the angel asked in verse two, Who's worthy to open a scroll? And there is nobody. They found no one worthy. There is no one amongst among God's creatures Who has the rightful authority to execute God's plan of redemption and judgment? And upon hearing this in verse 4, we see that John wept. Nobody was worthy to implement God's plan to redeem and bless his people. No one had sufficient authority to execute God's purposes for history. And so if this scroll were not opened, remember this is written to Christians who are being persecuted. If this scroll was not opened, The misery of God's people would continue. They would die. There'd be no redemption. There would be no justice in the world. There would be no new heaven and earth. There would be no future inheritance. So, in other words, if Jesus did not come as the slaughtered Lamb of God, there would be no one to carry out God's purposes of redemption and judgment. So John wept. But then you look in verse five. It's like, don't worry, it's okay. Uh verse five. From the pages. Okay. One of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold the line of the tribe of Judah The root of David has conquered, so that he can open his scroll and its seven seals. So now we have this the scroll with seven seals. He is worthy. He is authorized to open this scroll. And what we will discover in chapters 6 and 7 is that Jesus Christ slitting open each of those seals, revealing God's plan for history. In verse 5, he was called the lion. Remember I told you about last week, oh everything in the Old Testament meets in Revelation. You see that again and again. Jesus in verse 5 is called the Lion of the Tribe of Judah. That goes back to Genesis 49, verses 9 and 10, where the patriarch Jacob is blessing his sons And he says to his son Judah, You're a lion, and uh from you a royal dynasty will come. So that's a prediction that the Messiah will come from the tribe of Judah, the twelve tribes of Israel We're told in Genesis 49, the Messiah will come from the tribe of Judah. So Jesus is called the line of the tribe of Judah because he descended from that tribe and is uh his physical descent. And he's also called in verse 5 the root of David. Now wait a minute. Jesus was born after David, so he's a descendant of David. And that's another fulfillment of a prophecy about the Messiah's lineage because David was from the tribe of Judah, so the prophecy in the Old Testament about Where where what line would the Messiah come? Well, first of all from the tribe of Judah, but then that line would be narrowed to the family of David. And so he'd be of Judah and then of the line of David, foretold for example, in 2 Samuel 716. Okay, so Jesus is the offspring of David, but this verse says verse 5 says, he's the root of David Well, how is that? Well, because he's God, right? He's the He's the origin from which David sprang. So that's why when you get to chapter twenty-two, verse sixteen, Jesus says of himself Quote, I am the root and the descendant of David. Okay? And so this is telling us this was all planned from all eternity. Uh John when he's writing this revelation that was given to him, he's not just sort of making up as he goes along. But God is disclosing to him the fulfillment of his plan from all eternity, which should confirm our faith when we see how tight the Bible how tightly the Bible fits together But he says in verse 5 of Jesus Christ, He has conquered. He has conquered sin. He's conquered Satan. He has conquered death. How so? By his death and by his resurrection. And it's that act of dying and then rising that authorized Jesus to open the scroll and to rule the world according to God's purposes. So verse 9 now. Verse 9. And they sang to him a new song saying, Worthy are you. to take the scroll and to open his seal, open its seals. He's worthy. He's the man. He is God's man who has been authorized. And so in verse 5, that's why the elders said to John, Weep no more. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David has conquered So that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. So that's interesting. Now track with this. So the elder said, Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. And then in verse six, John goes to behold him. He goes to look at this lion, and what does he see? In verse six, John says that he saw a lamb. John must be confused. No, of course not. It's making a very important point. The point is that Jesus Christ, the strong lion of God, has come, but he's come and he's conquered in a way that's unexpected. Because the way that Jesus Christ, the line of God, conquered for God's people, was that he took the form of a lamb who was sacrificed for our sin. Remember John the Baptist in John 1. 29, he saw Jesus coming on the scene? What did he say? He said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And so that's how the mighty line of God conquered uh sin and Satan and death. He conquered it by Laying down his life as a sacrifice for our sin. And that's why you look at verse 9, this sacrifice is referred to as a ransom, a ransom He they said, by your blood you ransomed people for God. That's what my translation says. Some translations might say Redeemed, uh the uh NIV says purchased, but it's the same idea. A ransom had to be paid. uh to liberate us from our bondage to sin, to Satan and to death. Same language Jesus himself said in Mark ten forty-five The Son of Man came to give his life as a ransom for many. To whom was the ransom paid? It wasn't paid to Satan, but rather it was paid to satisfy the justice of God. Right? So you have all these words in the New Testament to explain what Jesus did. He was a sacrifice. He was a propitiation for our sin. You could also use the word ransom. Jesus paid to satisfy of the sacrifice of God. So really there's the gospel ruling in that word, right? You don't how do you get to heaven? How do you get right with God? It's not by becoming a better person. It's not by trying harder. It's not by becoming religious But rather it is by looking to Jesus as the one who was sacrificed to pay the ransom from your sin, so that you who were who were formerly in bondage could now be liberated and set free. So verse six again, and between the throne and the four living creatures, and the and among the elders, John, John says, I saw a lamb standing, so he's alive. But then he says As though it had been slain. So still there's still the marks of the crucifixion, whether it's blood or I imagine the the scars, and remember that we just sang the song Arise My Soul Rise and we sang five bleeding wounds he bears, right? His hands, his ankles, his spear through his side Five bleeding wounds he bears for received on Calvary. They pour effectual prayers. They strongly plead for me Well that's what this idea, that's what's being conveyed when G when John says that he still uh he looked as though he'd been slain. He still has the marks of the crucifixion to convey the continuing efficacy of his death for his people He had been slain, but now he was victorious, he was standing, and we discover that after all the slam's really not all that weak after all, because it says in the end of verse 6 The lamb had seven horns with seven eyes, which are the spirits of God sent out into all the earth. The horn in the scripture, think about a ram's horn, it conveys power, authority, strength. The seven eyes, not merely omniscience, but in this passage, it says the spirit, the seven spirits of God, and that's a reference we saw early in Revelation to the Holy Spirit in his fullness. And now again in verse 7, we're getting we're getting there. Verse 7. And he went, the Lamb Jesus, and he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And so this is saying that Jesus is able to open that scroll. He's able to carry out the Father's plan for history. And after Jesus died and rose and ascended, there he is at the Father's right hand. He's taking the scroll. And I said he's at the Father's right hand. That's what it says in Revelation twenty-two, verse one. It speaks about the throne of God and of the Lamb. And so the idea is the Father governing the universe through his son to whom, remember Matthew 28, to whom he's given All authority. That's the Father's plan. And so that's why this elder said to John, weep no more to God's beleaguered, persecuted people, down through history. Jesus is going to save him. Jesus will judge the unrepentant. Jesus Christ will make sure that the Father's plan is accomplished in history. And so there you have it. That was quite an explanation. Thanks for bearing with me. Just a couple applications. And really I could we could spend a lot of time on this. But I just want to make a couple applications for you to consider on your own as you reflect on this passage. The first one is the most obvious. It concerns our it should change our outlook. It should change our perspective on the on the very discouraging things uh we see going on in our culture and also the things you hear about taking place around the world. We grieve for what's going on and it and um And we don't we don't dismiss it. But this does give us some perspective. This tells us, sorry, this reminds us God is sovereign His plan is not going to be thwarted. And there will be justice in the end, no matter how difficult or lonely or distressing your life may be. There will be justice in the end And if you're one of God's people, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ, in the end you're going to be fine. You're going to be redeemed. And if you have that outlook, uh that should give you a sense of purpose. That's the second application. Uh knowing this, uh Is what gives a a cr anyone this is this is the only grounds for having a sense of purpose in your life. If this life isn't all there is. But if there's something more to come, and if there's a sovereign God, this is what gives us purpose. Last Monday, Becky and I were chatting with a lady who's uh recently retired She and her husband live in a very uh nice retirement community and we listen to her tell us about her husband almost daily goes out and plays golf uh with his retired buddies, which is great She told us about her nice vacation house up in New England and all the things they were having done there. She told us about all the things she was going to have done on her present house, which was very a very nice house And about her uh getting together with this friend and that friend. And um far from envying them, uh we thought, you know what, that's sort of a jury existence. Is that it? You're retired now? And then you're gonna enjoy this for hopefully several years, but that's the end. Then we were talking about Frank Van Dalen, Frank and Emily Van Dalen. What they do in their sixties, and I I'm not saying this the only thing you would do in your sixties, but I thought the Vandalen's they were ready for retirement and they went to Lithuania and learned a new language and became missionaries. Now they're like in their mid to late sixties We were reading their uh email. I don't know some of you get that. They're doing three camps in July, one after another. The camp that they're doing this week has like a hundred kids in it And uh the the kids who are leading it, sixteen year olds, some of them aren't even Christians. They don't have anybody to work with, but they have this sense of purpose that, you know what? We want to do everything we can to bring people to Christ, to build up the next generation, and to re-establish the Reformed Church in Lithuania. Don't misunderstand, right? When you get older, you retire, you don't have the energy. Well, they do. So I'm not saying that you have to do something like that. But what I'm saying And this is largely largely true of young people. What I'm saying is you have to have a sense of purpose in life. And you're not going to get it by sitting under the glowing light of a tiny screen. That's just going to depress you. And it's going to make you compare yourself to others who also don't have any sense of purpose. But a sense of purpose comes from recognizing There's a God. This isn't just some kind of ceremonial thing we do on Sunday mornings. There's a God. He's spoken to us in the Bible He's told us that his purposes for us are good, and he has a plan for the world, and you can be a part of that. And so recognizing this, that's what gives us a sense of purpose. Here's another application we see in the passage Prayer. This passage should give us an incentive to pray because the confidence We're confident that God's going to accomplish His purposes in history, okay? Because of that, we shouldn't say, Well, I don't need to pray, but rather we should say I should pray because that's the means that God has appointed to carrying out his unfolding purposes. So you'll notice in verse 8 of chapter 4, which again remember As a passage about God's absolute sovereignty over history, nonetheless in chapter 4, verse 8 It says that the four living creatures did I say v chapter four? Chapter five verse eight, sorry. In chapter five, verse eight The four living creatures and the 24 elders were holding golden bowls of incense. Which are the prayers of the saints. And so even as God's carrying out his purposes, he's doing it in response to the prayers of the saints. Now how does that all fit together? We have no idea. God's sovereign on one hand, and yet it says our prayers have efficacy. We don't know that, but this is a theme that goes throughout scripture when you talk about prayer. But the bottom line is that this is telling us that God chooses for some reason to act in response to our prayers. So that's why we should pray at home, in the families, in our small groups. On the Wednesday meet on the one on Wednesday on Wednesday morning a prayer call. So we see the importance of prayer. And then here's a huge theme of this this passage that I haven't done justice to, nor will I. But really, beginning in verse eight to verse fourteen, we see the preeminency of worship. So when these angels See what God has done through Jesus Christ, their instinctive response Is to praise him, is to worship him. And so in verses 9 to 14, you have this great company surrounding Jesus Christ Gladly giving him the worship that he's rightly due. And that's what we're doing right here, right? We're just joining in. Remember last week is a Hebrews 12, when we worship, it's not just us calling out to God in heaven, but Hebrews 12 says we're raised up before God's throne. Spiritually by the Holy Spirit, we are part of that great company. Then one more thing, and I haven't done this justice is that uh it should make us zealous to take the gospel to others. It should make us zealous for for missions. Look at the end of verse nine They say in their song, By your blood you've ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. And so God has his elect from all nations, right? Jesus said in the Great Commission in Matthew 28, go to all nations. This is why we pray. for Lithuania or for what's going on in Russia or in Kenya or whatnot. This is why we pray for God's church. This is why we support David Galeta, it goes to Pakistan and Africa to train pastors and our other missionaries Because this is the very heart of what it means to be a Christian and to recognize the Lordship of Jesus Christ over the nations. And they recognize that he's ransomed people from all these nations. So now we get to be a part of that great endeavor. So a wonderful passage. I wanted to cover it in one week. It could be covered in several weeks, right, as as you look as you look through it. But um Here we go. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that