Let's turn to Psalm sixty-five, probably uh a psalm unfamiliar probably to every of everybody here. It was unfamiliar to me. uh largely. It's a it's a good psalm. It's nice to it's nice to master a psalm because then if you can own a psalm is something you could always pull out and read at different times. And so I'm going to read the psalm and then we'll we'll look we'll go through it. So and this is a psalm written by David. Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and to you shall vows be performed. O you who hear prayer, to you shall all flesh come. When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. Blessed is the one you choose, and bring near to dwell in your courts We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple. By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness. O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of the farthest seas. The one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might, who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, the tumult of all the peoples. so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy. You visit the earth and water it. You greatly enrich it. The river of God is full of water. You provide their grain, for so you have prepared it He watereth furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers and blessing its growth You crown the year with your bounty, your wagon tracks overflow with abundance, the pastures of the wilderness overflow. The hills gird themselves with joy. The meadows clothe themselves with flocks. The valleys deck themselves with grain. They shout and sing together for joy. So it's a wonderful psalm. It awakens us to what's really going on in this world. If I can give an illustration. When we moved here years ago, we thought, hey, we live right near Washington, D. C. And so we'll go down there every blue moon and we began visiting the National Art Gallery And the first time uh we walked through the gallery, uh we would look at the pictures and I would look at this great masterpiece and Becky'd be there with me and she'd be looking at it and I'd say, yeah That's really nice. Uh what time you want to eat lunch? And that was a I'm from New Jersey. We didn't we didn't learn that. We were uh not the Breeding Chablis crowd, we were the Delvita and the Six Pack crowd. But we started going trying to get a little bit of culture and um we realized we don't know what's going on in this place. Well they have free tours if you've been down there, right? They'll have a couple tours each day. And we would get in on a tour and an art historian or some kind of scholar, you know, leads these tours. And it's a fascinating exercise to have uh one of these I guess they're called docents even doing that, but one of these docents explaining, you know, here here's the historical setting and here's how the artists use the light and the shadow And notice how all the lines are pointing toward this one little uh this uh one person up here and uh and so on. And you said color and texture It's like, wow, this is fascinating, and of course it heightened our appreciation. uh for these for this art but also um our appreciation of the brilliance of the artist who could create uh such such a work. Well In a similar way, we often just roll through our days and we fail to recognize The benevolence and the power of the God who designed and created and sustained The universe. An English poet by the name of Gerard Banley Hopkins said, the world is charged. With the grandeur of God. I thought, yeah, we can see that this morning. The world is indeed charged with The grandeur of God. And so this psalm is a reminder of the God who preserves us Of the God who rules over history and who has shown us grace and who scatters blessings daily Along our paths. And so in this psalm, it's King David who recognizes the grandeur of God And um he points us to his goodness, to his power, to his sovereignty And he begins with his conclusion. In verse one, he says, Praise is due. to you, O God of Zion. It's fitting. It's appropriate. Any other response to God would not be appropriate. Praise is due to you, O God. And then he says In Zion, that's in Jerusalem, that is where God dwelt in his temple. And so If we could break this psalm nicely into three parts where God exhorts us to praise Him, He gives three reasons. Number one, He answers prayer Number two, he rules over creation. And number three, he generously provides for all of our needs. So the first point I'll spend most time on this, the first four verses David says, we should praise God because He answers the prayers of his people. Praise is due to you. Why? Beginning of verse two. Oh you who hears prayers. What prayers? We're not sure. It may just have been a prayer for rainfall. That's what he talks about in verse 9, right? He says, You visit the earth and you water it And in fact it may be connected to uh an episode back in uh second Samuel twenty one. Uh that that speaks about a time when God responded to the people calling out uh for the land because there were three years of drought in the days of David But finally God heard the people's prayers and he brought the rain. So maybe that's the occasion of Psalm 65. But whatever the particular occasion, it's because God answered their prayer that David says in the end of verse 1, to you shall vows be performed. That's a little bit that seems like that's a little bit foreign to our experience. We pray for something or these people said, we're praying for this, and if you answer it, we're gonna make some vows and we're gonna carry them out. Well, that's not entirely foreign. Because a vow is really just a necessary duty that you resolve that to say, I am going to carry this out. And so for me, I can think of what vow I made I prayed for many years for a good Christian wife. God answered my prayer. I got up there on our wedding day and I made a vow. You did the same thing, okay? And so I'm bound to that vow because that's a duty, but I also want to fulfill that vow as a way to thank God for answering Our print my prayers. In fact, our confession of faith, our summary of what the Bible teaches. Westminster Confession, chapter 22, section six Says Christians can make vows, quote, in a way of thankfulness for a mercy received or for obtaining what we want. Whereby we more strictly bind ourselves to necessary duties. And so you shouldn't make a vow to do something that's not necessary. Some in the Catholic Church priests make vows never to get married, to be celibate. That's not something necessary. That would be something that violates uh what God commands or to become a monk and less live out there in some uh isolated place. That's not right. We need to be in the world, right? And so, but there are things that we can resolve to do, even in making a vow. You're praying perhaps for a loved one to become a Christian. And that person becomes a believer against all hope, right? The years roll on, things change, and they become a believer. Well that At that time, it would be fitting to make some kind of vow, to say, you know what? I'm never going to forget what you did, Lord. I'm going to carry out my necessary duties. I'm going to be in w in worship each Sunday unless something comes up where I'm hindered. I'm going to be there because you're faithful to me. We should be there anyway, but we can vow to carry out this duty. I'm going to come to the prayer meeting I'm going to remember to pray every day for this other person who's not a believer yet because God answers prayer and I want to show my thanksgiving. Bible warns us we shouldn't take vows casually, Ecclesiastes 5. 5. The writer said It's better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. And so don't take these things casually. But the psalmist reminds us, yeah It's good, it's right, it's fitting on certain occasions to take vows, and we do that right. You join the church. You take a vow. You do just show up. You're saying I'm committed to this people, at least for this uh time in my life, until I move on to another church. That's a vow. When you become a church officer, you take a vow. When you become married, of course, uh you take a vow Well, there's so David's thankful to God for answering his prayer, and he acknowledges that there is an obstacle to God answering prayers. Now that's not the only reason God doesn't answer our prayers, and so if you're praying for something and you don't see it answered, it doesn't necessarily mean That there's some sin in your life that you're not aware of that you haven't repented of yet, and if you only repent, then God would hear that prayer. That's not what we're saying here, but the Bible does teach that, yeah Unrepentant sin can be a hindrance to God answering our prayer. Excuse me. In verse three He said, When iniquities prevail against me. And so let me give you two verses that underline this that unrepentant sin causes God not to answer our prayers. The first verse is Isaiah 59 verse 2, where God says, or Isaiah says, Your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear is though if I'm engaged in ongoing unrepentant sin, I know it, and yet I'm still praying for God to do this or that. Isaiah 59. 2 says, I'm completely wasting my time. Psalm 66, 18 speaks similarly. There the psalmist said, If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have answered. Now, uh there may be other reasons that God's not answering our prayer. It might be for his good purposes and so on, but nonetheless, it's fair to ask yourself, hey Is there something in my life, is there some sin in my life that I need to deal with? Not to say that you need to be overly introspective and beat yourself up But it is a fair question to ask. Well, we go on through the Psalm and we see the good news that God has provided a way for our sin to be removed. So we're down in verse 3. There he says, When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. And so God has provided a way for our sins to be removed, right? Atonement, which means an innocent substitute stands in our place and suffers the death that we deserved for our sins. And in the Old Testament, the atoning sacrifices were animals, right? Goats and rams and lambs and so on. But A goat can't die in a place of a person. They were just types. They were just object lessons. That pointed forward to Jesus, the final atoning sacrifice for our sin. And so we're going to go through this in a little bit, but Psalm sixty-five really points to Jesus Christ. And then he says, hey, uh verse four, uh we're going to be satisfied. Uh thank you, Lord, uh, for hearing our prayers. Thank you. for providing a way for my sin to be removed, that I can indeed come before you. Verse 4, Blessed is the one you choose. and bring near to dwell in your course. And so just a little summary here of verses three and four. I hope you're following. David praises God for providing a way for his sins to be removed. And there's only one way. The only way is atonement. The only way is penal substitution. And that's what we say in the Apostles' Creed. I believe in the forgiveness of sins. And that's something we sometimes have to remind ourselves, that God does forgive our sins. Here's why I bring this up Honest Christians with tender consciences can be consumed with guilt. over some dark deed from years ago, or maybe something that they're involved in right now. But here's the reminder of God's forgiveness. He forgives our sin when we rest on Jesus Christ. And so as a consequence of God's forgiveness, David says, you know what? We're satisfied. Look at right there in the end of verse 4. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple. And that's just a foretaste. One day we'll be completely redeemed and we'll have unending satisfaction. And so in Psalm 65, David praises God. Thank you, Lord. You heard my prayer. It took a long time, but he praises God for that. And then he goes on to praise God in verses five to eight, more briefly, for his rule over creation. So let's look at this. Verse um whoops. Yeah, we got some wind here. I got all these clips on my Bible. Uh Psalm uh verse five He said, By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas. And so then he says, or he reflects on who God is. Hey. You're the God who made the mountains, verse six. The one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might. And also he made the seas and the nations, verse 7, who stills the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves the tumult of the peoples. Then he goes on to say, the God who set the mountains in place, the God who rules over the seas, is also the God who rules over time, over the day, over the seasons. The end of verse 8. You make the going out of the morning and the evening. And so David reminds us here that The mountains, the seas, the stars, and the universe, they don't just happen to be there. They don't just don't happen to exist. We assume that oh yeah, of course there's mountains out there. Now, God God formed the earth. God formed the seas. God formed the mountains. God upholds the stars and the skies and the heavens. Moment by moment he governs them. And so it's because God is so powerful, David says, we can have hope. That's why in the end of verse 5, David called God the hope of all the ends of the earth. He is our hope, and one day he will crush all evil and every power that is arrayed against him. And so in the first four verses it ends with a satisfied people. This second section concludes with all the inhabitants of the earth marveling at God And they don't do it now. They don't recognize that this earth is under his rule, that it is his handiwork. But one day, look at the end of verse 8. Those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe of your signs. One day everybody will recognize that What we want to do now is to acknowledge that and to discover that more and more. And so David praises God. Hey, you answer prayer. I'm a sinner. But you are gracious, you remove my sin that my prayer can be answered. And then he praises God for the fact that, hey This world is not just at the mercy of random events, but you're sovereign over all things. And then thirdly, in verses 9 to 13, David praises God for his provision. So you look around, you look at his fields. Did these just come about by chance? Is that is that just how things came about? How is that? The elements that enabled the crops to grow, the fertility of the soil, the sun the process of photosynthesis and then the water cycle? Did these systems uh just happen to line up uh by some random confluence of events? And we say, no, God designed these systems. God engineered these systems. God sustains and upholds all these processes moment by moment. And then I asked, did it just so happen that the crops that these fields produce, they just happen to be edible? They just happen to provide the nutrients necessary to sustain life. And then I would ask, is it just a stroke of love uh of luck that the the foods that we eat not only nourish us physically, but they're a delight to our taste buds and even to our eyes. Was that just a stroke of luck And we would say, no, uh, this is evidence of the goodness, of the kindness, of the benevolence of God. who created all things. And this is why Paul, back in Acts chapter 14, verse 17, preaching to pagans, said, Hey God did not leave himself without witness. He did good by giving you rain from heaven and crops uh excuse me and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food. and goodness. And so Paul says the entire creation testifies to the fact So now let's read verses eleven to thirteen. David says, You crown the year with your bounty, your wagon tracks overflow with abundance. So think about a wagon just Spilling over with grain, it's falling into the tracks. The pastures of the wilderness overflow. The hills gird themselves with joy The meadows clothe themselves with flocks, the valleys deck themselves with grain, they shout and sing together. for joy. And so we just sang a song. We plough the fields and scatter, the good seed on the land, but it is fed and it is watered by God's Almighty Hand. And then the writer says, All good gifts around us are sent from heaven above. So what should we do? We should thank the Lord for all of his love. And that's what David is reminding us in the end of this Psalm. You know, farmer Sam, he plows a field, he sows the seed, he fertilizes it, he cultivates it, he tends it, but Hey, nothing's gonna happen unless God brings the harvest. Well, that's a wonderful psalm, and um I want to say one more thing because you don't understand the psalm really Unless you see how it points to Jesus Christ, how all the Psalms are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And I can say many things that's going to say Point out a couple, make a couple observations. First four verses. Whoops. Go away. First four verses speak about God answering prayer. Why can God or why would God answer the prayers of sinners Well, it's because atonement has been made for our sin. And so God looks on us as forgiven. And not as a judge, but as a benevolent father who is anxious to answer the prayers of his people. In verse 1, David wrote about Zion, Jerusalem. the place where God dwelt in the midst of his people. That too points to Jesus Christ because in John two, nineteen and twenty-two Jesus said of himself, I'm the true temple, I'm the true tabernacle or the presence of God amongst his people And so, if you want to get closer to God, you don't need to go to Jerusalem. That's a nice place to visit. You can learn a lot But that's not going to make you any closer to God. It's knowing Jesus Christ and coming to God through Jesus Christ, and he is God with us. Or how about verse 4? There David said, Blessed is the one you choose and bring near. If you're a Christian God by His grace has chosen you. He has brought you near. And there's not it's not because of some virtue or a spiritual superiority that you possess, but it's just because God in His grace chose you. Or verses 5 to 8 going on. Speaks about God's rule over creation. Well, the New Testament makes clear Jesus is the God who rules over the creation. Remember in the Gospels he would still the seas, he still the storm, he walked underwater This was to demonstrate his deity. He's God. He rules over creation. And it's interesting, in the book of Revelation, chapter four, it says before Jesus' throne There was, as it were, a sea of glass like crystal. What is that demonstrating? Jesus calmed the sea. Before Jesus Christ, all things are brought into submission. Where verses 9 to 13 talks about how God provides for our needs. Well Ultimately, that points forward to Jesus, who is the bread of life, who satisfies our souls and uh through whom we shall never hunger. And so here we have this reminder in Psalm 65. And David is saying to the Christian Because the Old Testament was written for Christians, it wasn't just written for Israel. And David is saying, whereas we look at it through the New Testament lens, this is our God. This is our God. He is the God who answers our prayers. He is a God who forgives our sins. He rules over all things. We forget that when we watch the news, but he has his good purposes. He rules over all things and all the nice things that we enjoy. all the beautiful sights, all the relationships we have, all the good food we're going to enjoy in a moment, these are evidences of the goodness and the kindness and the mercy of God. And it's also a foretaste that one day we're going to be fully satisfied in his presence. And so Remember, go back to verse 1. Remember how this Psalm started out. It started out with this recognition: Praise is due to you, O God. That's what I want to keep, I encourage you to keep before you today and this week to come. Praise is due to you. And so it's good that we're here with God's people. And it's good each day that we take a moment or throughout the day to give God the worship He's rightly due. So let's bow our heads Our Lord and God, we do thank you that you have blessed us beyond measure. We enjoy many good things. Even uh in the fallenness of this world, there are many gifts that we enjoy. I pray for those who are burdened by legitimate concerns. I pray that they would be reminded of your sovereignty and of your providence. And help us, Lord, to recognize that the entire world is charged. with your glory and to give you the worship that rightly belongs to you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing Psalm sixty five