He saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and to them he said, You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you So they went, going out again about the sixth hour, in the ninth hour he did the same. In about the eleventh hour, he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, Why do you stand here idle all day? They said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You go into the vineyard too. And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last up to the first. When those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius. And when those who hired first came, they thought they would receive more. But each of them also received a denarius. And on receiving it, they grumbled at the master of the house, saying, These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching he But he replied to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge me my generosity? So the last will be first, and the first last. How do you define a Christian? Well, you could put it in different ways. It all means the same thing. But here's a good way to say it. A Christian is somebody who understands the grace of God. A Christian is someone who understands and has been a recipient of the grace of God. Now the grace of God, you know, it's used in the Bible, I think, two different ways. Maybe there's a third way. Oftentimes, or I should say sometimes, it refers to God's empowering us or strengthening us. But typically it has to do with how a person is saved God's grace typically refers to his unmerited favor, God giving us what we don't deserve. What do we deserve? Well, we deserve justice And if we if we got justice, we would be condemned for our sin, and we would be sent to hell. But God is gracious. He gives us what we don't deserve. He sent Christ, right? Jesus lived a perfect life where we failed. Then he died for our sin. And so that's an act of grace, and even the ability to see your sin and to repent of it and to turn to Jesus Christ. That's an act of God's grace because he opens our eyes to see and to believe. Now I'm bringing this up Because there are many church people in our land who think that they are Christians Because of their religion, because of their moral efforts, because of their efforts to reform themselves. But they're not Christians. And so it happens. I mean Charlotte Lee, a member of our church, she's in a nursing home at Homewood now. I was talking to her Friday. She's 93. She did not understand the gospel until she was in her late 80s, about five years ago. Sylvia Little explained that you're saved by what Jesus Christ did for your sin. She'd gone to church all her life She tried to live a good life, she thought was she was a Christian, and she said I realized I was not a Christian. I did not understand That God does the saving, we don't save ourselves. I can say that of myself. I was converted as a teenager. I thought along the same lines. I know many here were converted in their adult years, and they say the same thing. And so What I want to make sure is that everybody here understands what grace is. Do you understand? Have you received the grace of God for salvation? That's what this parable is about. It's about the kingdom of heaven. Look at verse 1. Jesus says, the kingdom of heaven. Was it like? Well It's like a kingdom that is entered by God's grace. Now, here's the context. If you were here last week We looked at the end of chapter 19. Jesus had this encounter with the rich young ruler, and Jesus was trying to point out his that he was a sinner. And so he said, give up everything you have and follow me. And the rich young ruler, he was tempted to do it, but he just couldn't let go. And so he would not give up everything to follow him, to follow Jesus. But then Peter, speaking for the disciples, said, Lord, we've given up everything to follow you. And they did. The disciples gave up their jobs, they gave up their homes, they gave up their security. Is there going to be any kind of reward for us? And in verse 28, Jesus answers Peter and says, I truly I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne Ye who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So you disciples are going to be giving a are going to be given a place of authority. Then in 29 he says And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children of lands for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. So everyone who gives up anything to follow Jesus Christ, you're going to be blessed beyond any kind of sacrifice you made. So there will be rewards. But then He wants them to recognize, he wants us to recognize that whatever rewards we get, whatever benefits we receive From following Jesus Christ. They are still given to us by His grace. Still, we don't deserve the rewards, the blessings. that God showers upon us. And in fact, he goes on to say that there are some who have less merit, who will receive greater rewards than those who have more merit. Look at verse 30 of chapter 19. But many who are first will be last in the last first. And so what he's doing, that's connecting what Jesus says to the disciples. to the parable that follows. And in fact, this idea, the last will be first, the first will be last, brackets the parable, chapter 19, verse 30, and then chapter 20 verse 16. And so there the book ends to say, here's what this parable is about. It's about God giving people what they don't deserve. And that is what grace is about. So I'm gonna we're gonna do a little summary, the storyline of the parable. Then we're gonna draw two big lessons, okay? Two big lessons from the parable. So let's just go Review the parable. So it says in verse 1, early in the morning uh the master went out to hire laborers for his vineyard, so it's it's harvest time. And he finds some workers and he agrees to pay them a denarius for a day's work. That was the going rate for a day labor. You get a denarius if you work a day's work. And uh so they said, yeah, okay, we'll do that. And they went out to work uh six o'clock in the morning. Well the harvest was a lot bigger uh than the uh the the master of the land realized and so at nine o'clock he went out and he said, I I need some more labor. Does anybody want to work for me? And they said, yeah. They got on board and they went out and they worked in the fields and then at twelve o'clock, oh this isn't this isn't going to get done. So we hired some more, and then at three o'clock in the afternoon he hired another group of men. Then at five o'clock after five o'clock in the afternoon, right before uh an hour before quitting time, Think I'm gonna get some more. So he goes out and he hires another batch of uh workers and they go out and they work for an hour Then the foreman, at the end of the day, he calls these uh these workers in, and it's payday. It's time to get paid. And he starts with those who are paid or who started work at five in the afternoon at the last hour, and he paid them a denarius. So that was pretty good. I'm sure they were happy to receive that. And I imagine those who were hired at six o'clock in the morning were probably licking their chops and are thinking, well, those guys who work an hour uh get w get in an area, what's the master going to give us for our twelve hours? twelve will be twelve denarii, who knows what it'll be. But much to their chagrin, uh they too were paid a denarius, and uh maybe they were Americans, who knows? But they cried injustice. This is not fair. And in uh in verse eleven, on res and on receiving it, that's those who are hired at six in the morning They grumbled at the master of the house, saying, These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us. Who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching tea. And it's the master's response, the master's reply in verses 13 and 15. That is really the key to understanding the point of this parable. Now I'm going to read verse 13 to 15 again. But he replied to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I gave to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge me my generosity? So the last will be first, and the first last. And so, remember I said verse 1, this parable is about the kingdom of heaven. So here's the first lesson. There's two lessons. The first one's this: the kingdom of heaven, the place where God rules, the realm, I should say, where God rules. Is a realm where grace abounds. This is almost like a parrot putting the story of the thief on the cross In the form of a parable, right? Remember the story? Jesus is dying. A thief next to him said to Jesus, Remember me when you go into paradise? And Jesus said to this thief, in his the final hour of his life Today you'll be with me in paradise. And so you wonder, you read the story of the thief on the cross, and you wonder. How is it that someone who's converted late in life can receive the same benefits as those who are Christians from their earliest years and endeavored to walk with Jesus Christ throughout their lives. Right? How can a criminal uh who trusts in Christ on his deathbed receive the same salvation as those who follow Jesus all along. And here's the question that the recipients, the original audience of Matthew's gospel, had to have been asking Matthew was written to Christians out of a Jewish background. And they had to have been scratching their heads. So I know they were, because a lot of it, a lot of Matthew addresses this issue. They're asking. How is it that Gentiles are entering the kingdom of heaven, are believing on Jesus Christ? How is it that Gentiles are entering the kingdom of heaven ahead of our fellow Jews? Because so many of our fellow Jews Do not believe in Jesus Christ. Have they not been God's people for the past 2,000 years Have they not endured hardship and persecution on account of their allegiance to the God of Israel? And yet, there are Gentiles coming into the kingdom. And the Jews, our fellow Jews, their hearts are hard. And uh the answer to the question is found in this parable. The last shall be first, and the first shall be last, and the reason Is that the only reason anybody's saved is on account of the grace of God? It's not by what you do, it's not by your record, it's not by your religious heritage. And just to make this clear to everybody, and this might be new to some folks, to make it crystal clear, here's three Bible verses that are explicit. First one's familiar? Wasn't familiar to me until a friend invited me to her church youth group and a youth pastor opened up the Bible. Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9. For it is by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It's a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. It's like, oh That was clear as a bell. I understood it for the first time. It's not what you do. Salvation is a gift of God He gives it to us by his grace. We don't deserve it. And we receive it not by what we do, not by religion, but by faith, by trusting in Jesus. Another verse, Romans 3, 23 and 24. Paul says, All have sinned, all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God. But then it says, and are justified, that means declared righteous, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. One more, if you'll indulge me. Romans 9, verse 16. Paul writes: It depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. There it is. Is that clear? Do you see what I'm saying? And so, and that's good news because if we weren't saved by God's grace uh none of us uh would be saved. And so when the workers who were hired first thing in the morning, they complained that the master was unfair, because you gave those guys who were hired at five a denari, a denarius, and you only gave us a denarius, the master said in verse 15, Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? And that's God. He's sovereign, right? He can do whatever he chooses. And don't ask for justice, right? But we ask for grace. God can do whatever he chooses, so we speak about God's sovereign grace. He bestows his witch his his witches. Was that Elmer Fudd? He bestows his riches. as uh as he so desires. So Charles Spurgeon said, this parable should give us such a view of God's sovereign grace as should close down the complace department permanently. And that's what this parable is telling us about God. He is God. He may do whatever he chooses to do, because he is sovereign. And if he's gracious, we can only thank him for it. And we can, because this parable is telling us as the rest of Scripture God's kingdom is a kingdom where grace abounds, right? You don't do anything. There's nothing you can do to earn your way There's no religious record that you can compile to win God's favor, but that's okay because God grants salvation as a gift. And even the ability to believe, it said in Ephesians 2. 8, is a gift from God. It's not from yourselves. It's not something you conjure up. We were reading in Thursday Bible study, Acts 18, verse 27. It said that the Christians, one group of Christians in Achaia, it says Through grace, they believed. How could they believe? Because God was gracious. God chose them. He elected them. He opened their eyes and gave them faith to believe. And this makes a lot of sense Because true Christianity always has to focus on God and what He does and not uh not on us and what we do. And that's how you'd always smell a rat in the realm of religion. If it's about man, if man becomes a focus, something's wrong. Because think about how the Bible starts out. In the beginning, God, right? That tips us off. Here's what the Bible is about. It's about God. So, we're saved by grace. So when we get to heaven, who's the glory going to be about? It's going to be on God. So when I say, hey, how'd you get here? What'd you do? You're not going to say, well, You may not have realized it, but I was pretty uh insightful and I looked at various religions and philosophies and uh ways of life and I studied Christianity. I read the scripture and I put two and two together and I realize that Christianity is the truth. No, you will not say that. That would not be a God-centered religion, right? But the Krishna response will be, I was lost, I was blind, God by his grace Put me in these circumstances, maybe in the family in which I grew up or people whom I met, even the nation in which I lived where there was a gospel witness, God was gracious to me And he put me in this situation, but still he changed my hard, rebellious heart So that I could see and so I could believe. And so, yeah, that that rings true, right? That's what the Bible's about. It is about what God does. And so I said there's two lessons in this parable. First, I summarize the parable. The first lesson was God's kingdom is a kingdom where grace abounds. Here's the second lesson. God's grace toward us should make us big-hearted toward other people. We should not resent it. When somebody else, maybe a more notorious sinner than us, is a recipient of God's grace. And let me give an extreme example. And uh it's a little Uh well it's very extreme and it's a little awkward. Jeffrey Dahmer, now that's a name that you pr many you're familiar with, right? He was a mass murderer, he was a serial murderer He killed and dismembered between 1978 and 1991 17 men and boys. So we would say That man was evil. And there are evil people in the world, right? Some people say, oh, it's just their upbringing or whatnot on their surfaces. No. There is such a thing as evil. And we say Jeffrey Dahmer was an evil man. And he was executed, and rightly so. Genesis 9, 6 says, if you take the life of another, your life will be required. There is a civil penalty. uh for breaking the moral law of God when it comes to taking another life of a human being. That said So I read that Jeffrey Dahmer made a profession of faith in Christ before he was executed. And the pastor who was working or meeting with him said, you know what? It seemed like a genuine profession of faith. Who knows? We don't know, right? Because you have these kind of professions all the time. I've not whether or not he was really believed in Christ, that's another story. But my question is what is your reaction to the possibility that someone like that was forgiven and did not go to hell, but is now with God in heaven. What is your reaction? And I'd say, you know what, my instinctive reaction is if that if he had murdered and butchered uh one of my family members, my instinctive reaction would be, I think, I hope he burns in hell. But this I got some nods there. All right, just set yourself up there. Um But what does this parable teach us? It teaches us, well, if only the upright will be saved then then not a one of us is going to be with God in heaven, right? And we don't we do not minimize the heinousness of what someone like Jeffrey Dahmer did Nor do we say this. And this is what you'll hear in the American church and even on American preachers, some American preachers on the radio. They'll say all sins are the same in God's eyes. That's what they say. All sins are the same in God's eyes. Maybe you say that. That's not what Jesus said Jesus, for example, in Luke 10, verse 12 to 14, points out, no, some sins are more heinous than other sins. Luke 10, 12, Jesus said about the Jewish talents who rejected the gospel. He said, I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day, on the day of judgment, for Sodom and Gomorrah than for this Jewish town. So we say, no, the sins of these Jews who had the Old Testament scriptures Their sin in rejecting me is greater than the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah in rejecting the God of Israel. Some sins are worse than others. John 19, 11, Jesus told Pontius Pilate. He who delivered me over to you, referring to the priest Caipus, has the greater sin. So he says to Pilate, your sin is bad, but Caiaphas's sin wa is greater. And so some sins are worse than other sins. And then some people say, what about the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus says, if you murderer, if you have hatred in your heart, you're a murderer. If you have lust in your heart, you're an adulterer. Well yeah, the seed of murder and adultery is in your heart, but that does not mean that hatred or lust Is a more heinous or is as heinous a sin as the physical acts of adultery or murder. Okay? So no, some sins are worse than others However, anyone's sin is enough to send you to hell. That's the point. Anyone's sin is enough to send us to hell And so though we are not as wicked, I don't imagine, as someone like Jeffrey Dahmer, nonetheless, outside of Christ, in the righteousness that we're received by believing in him Outside of Christ, we are also eternally condemned. And yet, God is gracious. And so we should have a generous spirit when you hear about someone else, someone you might despise, perhaps for good reason. That's what it should do. That's the problem that the workers in the parable had, right? They were hired at six. And they resented the master's generosity for those who were hired at the end of the day. And so Uh God's grace toward us shouldn't make us big-hearted. We shouldn't resent the fact that God is gracious to those whose sins are more notorious than ours. And uh, you know, along those lines we shouldn't uh resent the successes. of other people. You know, think about the apostles. They had they had walked with Jesus for three years through thick and thin and uh there were their they made sacrifices and Uh they suffered a uh a degree of persecution and ostracism. And um when Jesus was crucified, uh it was not a pleasant day for them. They thought they had been um defrauded by Christ, that he was just a a a fake, and they thought the Romans were going to come and uh crucify them as well, so they were scared to death. They went through a lot And then look what happened. After Jesus rose and ascended to heaven, he calls the Apostle Paul on Damascus Road. The Apostle Paul Avoided all those difficult experiences, and then God called Paul to be the great apostle to the Gentiles, and I'd say he became the most celebrated of all apostles. And yet, you know, say, well that's not fair. No, who cares what's fair? God God chose Paul and um it was fine. And I'm sure the apostles they had the wisdom and insight But that time to rejoice also. So we should not rejoice the advantages that other people enjoy, advantages in life, experiences that they enjoy. And also the advantages they might enjoy, a more fruitful ministry. That's how God does it, right? We just plot along. We've been at it for a long time But we shouldn't be resentful toward others who uh they get out of the gates and they have more success right in the get-go. 1 Corinthians 3, we're getting near the end here. 1 Corinthians 3, verses 5 to 7. Here's what Paul said when the Corinthians were celebrating Apollos and uh Paul had his group, Apollos had his group. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 3. 5, what then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants, through, excuse me, through whom you believed. Then he says, as the Lord assigned to each. So God assigned Paul to have a certain amount of fruit, Paul to have a certain amount of fruit. Hey, you know, it's God assigned. He says, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants, nor he who waters, is anything, but only God who gives the growth. Skip down to verse 10. According to the grace of God given to me. Like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation. And someone else is building upon it. So you think about your labors for the kingdom, whatever you're doing, you know, in your in your job or in your family, in the church. Some some might be more celebrated than others. But nonetheless, you know, any success that we enjoy in our witness or our ministry It's only of God any benefits that we enjoy in our lives that others don't have, and others might have more than us. You know what? God assigns to each as he so pleases Because he is sovereign and he extends his undeserved merit or benefits to whomever he wills. And so we say, God, uh you get the glory, uh we're but your servants. But you remember in the beginning, I said one of the best ways to define a Christian is that a Christian is somebody who understands the grace of God. And so that's my question. Do you understand this? That you're saved by grace, not by what you do. And then have you received salvation as a free gift? that God gave to you and there's not a thing you did to deserve it. That's the gospel. All you have to do Recognize I'm a sinner. There's nothing I can do to earn my salvation. But Jesus Christ, He was obedient where I fell short, and then He bore the penalty for my sin All I have to do is receive that with an open hand. And he says, you're forgiven, and I adopt you as my child. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we're thankful that you save us by your unmerited favor, kindness, your mercy. We pray, Lord, for anybody here, a young person or an adult that has never received the free gift of salvation that you would enable them to acknowledge, repent of their sin, and then look to Jesus and rest on him as the Savior of their soul. And help us, Lord, to always be, have a generous spirit toward how you bless and show your grace toward others. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So I was thinking about what would be a good song to sing after that sermon And after about a half a second I thought, maybe amazing grace, uh four hundred and sixty. Let's stand and sing.