Eight. So we're making our way through the Book of Romans and I've been taking uh pretty much chunks that follow the way it's broken up in the by the paragraphs But in chapter 8, we're slowing down. There is so much in here. And so we're going to be a little bit more uh detailed in our in our look at chapter 8, because there's so much in it. And this morning We're looking at uh chapter eight verses twelve to uh fourteen. For Paul Says, so then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of Christ are sons of God. So you'll notice I gave this sermon a title, a rather perhaps obscure title, The Mortification of Sin. Well, when I started out, I just titled it Putting Sin to Death, because that's exactly what this is about. But I said, I think I'll change it. Why is that? Is it because I have a yen uh for the antiquated language of old. No. It's because I want to uh draw your attention to the fact uh that our Christian forefathers uh use this phrase, especially the Puritans, and they had an uh they had a greater zeal, I would suspect, or uh for holiness, uh than do uh Christians in our day, than does the church in our day, and I'm speaking in uh terms of uh generalizations, I think the church focuses a lot on spiritual fulfillment, having a sense of meaning in life, on how Jesus can help us navigate uh the challenges in our lives and this is all legitimate and part and certainly scripture talks about these things but I don't think we give due emphasis uh to the fact that God calls us to be a holy people It's not that we think that our efforts to grow holy will get us to heaven, right? We don't confuse sanctification with the gospel. The gospel is we're sinners. Christ is our Savior. He clothes us in the holiness of Jesus Christ, but once he does that, once we have that positional, that legal righteousness before God, God does nonetheless call us to to be sanctified, to become more and more uh what He intended us to be. In fact, chapter 8 verse 29 Paul says God's plan from all eternity was that we might be conformed to the image of his son. And so holiness is just reconstructing the image of Jesus Christ in his people. And so that's Paul's focus. And part of growing in holiness is mortifying sin. So what is mortification? Before I define that in a simple sentence. I want to just look a little more closely at the context of this passage. And so last week we looked at the first eleven verses. And Paul said, one of the results of Christian conversion is that you acquire a new mindset. It's just it's not something you even strive for initially. It's something that God does, right? You see things differently. You now you are You are inhabited by the Holy Spirit, and you have a new way of saying things. And at the same time, we do strive to attain this mindset more and more But this is summarized in chapter 8 verse 5, where Paul said, Those who live according to the flesh, remember that just means your sinful nature. It doesn't mean that The flesh doesn't mean our physical bodies, but it means when you're driven, when you're controlled by your sinful nature. Those who live according to the flesh Set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. And so when God regenerates you, when God converts you, you receive the Holy Spirit And you begin to set your mind on what we would say, what Paul says, the things of the Spirit, or we could just say more simply, the things of God. But we don't do it completely, right? But nonetheless, when you come to Christ, there is a shift In your priorities, in your ambitions, in your affections. And Paul says in verse 12: as people who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, We have an obligation not to be ruled by our sinful nature, but rather to be ruled by this desire to please God. And so let's look at verse 12. So he uses this language of obligation. And that's the first thing I want you to note in your struggle against indwelling sin. Paul says, listen, this isn't an option. He says in verse 12, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. And so As you struggle with temptation, this is a little conversation that you can have with yourself, right? And and oftentimes we're like, well, I've always been critical, I've always been slothful. I've always had a uh a wicked tongue, you know, when when somebody pushes my button, or I've always uh gratified too easily uh m my sensual appetites and so on. But Paul says You need to have this talk. You can't just say, well, I'm saved by grace, so that's just the way I am, and I'll just go along and everything's fine. Paul says, you have an obligation not to live according to the flesh, but in the end of verse 13 he says, but to put to death the deeds of the body. Alright? So that is what he's talking about when he talks about mortification. Mortification In a word, is putting sin to death, right? So to mortify something is to kill it. So it's not merely to suppress it It's but it's rather to weaken it and in the end to destroy it. You see the same idea, this theme of mortification, for example, in Galatians 5, verse 24, there Paul says Those who belong to Christ Jesus. So first of all, he's talking to Christians, this discussion of mortification. He is not saying if you're not a Christian Put sin to death, and that'll win God's favor, and that'll get you to heaven. No, you need the gospel if you're not a Christian. You need to receive Christ to live a perfect life for you But he's talking to Christians, and he's saying, Christians, Galatians 5. 24, those who belong to Christ Jesus, have crucified the flesh. in its passions and desires. I have a great description of mortification. Seems like I read it every other month. But I can't do better. Now Sinclair Ferguson described mortification like this. He calls it the constant battle against sin, which we fight daily. The refusal to allow the eye the excuse me, the refusal to allow the eye to wander, the mind to contemplate the affections to run after anything that would draw us from Christ. Then it goes on. Mortification is a deliberate rejection of any sinful thought, suggestion, desire, aspiration, deed, circumstance, or provocation. At the moment we become conscious of its existence. Whoa, that that's a rigorous calling, right, to be that ruthless, uh, to deal with our our desires, our temptations in such a uh such a forceful way. But that's what the Bible's calling us to. Okay? So I want to just flesh this out a little bit and then we'll we'll have some practical uh steps toward mortification. So let me just say three things in general about sanctification. What's sanctification right? It's God renewing us in the image of Jesus Christ. But you could divide sanctification into a positive aspect and a negative aspect. The positive aspect would be pursuing the things of God. Coming alive in Christ. The theologians call that vivivification, right? Making alive. But then the opposite, the negative aspect of sanctification is This idea of mortification of weakening and killing the sin that dwells within us So I want to give three basic truths about sanctification in general, and particularly about mortification. First big thing, first truth. Sanctification is a work of God. God transforms his people. It's a work of God But at the same time, we participate in it. So Sam Roop didn't know I was picking up going to pick on him this morning, but he's right in the front row, and so what the heck. Farmer Sam, right? He has a big farm up there in Thermont. When May comes and it's time to uh plant his fields, He gets a seed, he sows his seed, he spreads the fertilizer, right? I guess the first thing you do is plow the field. Plow the field. I'm from New Jersey, what do I know? You plow the field, you sow the seed, you spread the fertilizer, and you cultivate it, right? And uh you do everything you can. At the same time, Sam's a Christian. He recognizes the sovereignty of God. And he realizes, I guess any farmer would realize this that the growth of his corn grop crop or whatever we're talking about, that in the end of the day That is dependent, its growth is dependent on forces beyond his control, right God has to cause the rain to fall, He has to cause the sun to shine, He has to cause the seas to germinate. It's God who must sustain Sam in good health so that he can do all this work to cultivate his field. Okay? So it it's out of your control, Sam. And so what you do next May, you just sit down there on your porch, get a nice glass of iced tea, and you you look out at the barren field. And you just hope God will make it happen. You say, well, no, that's not how it works, right? Because God we're not to be passive. God makes it grow. But Sam has responsibility, right? And there's going to be no harvest unless he carries out his God-given responsibility. That's how it is with cultivating holiness, right? That's how it is in Christian growth. It's a work of God, and the Bible is very clear about that. Good example Philippians 2. 13. Paul said to Christians, it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Same thing in um look at our passage, Romans 8 verse 13. Paul says, he gives a command, but then he says it's by the Holy Spirit that we can fulfill this command. The end of the verse 13. By the Holy Spirit, you put to death the deeds of the body. And so it's a work of God. It's by the Holy Spirit. God enables us to make progress. And yet at the same time, Paul says, you're responsible to put to death the deeds of the body. And so it's this both and, right? So we have to exert ourselves, we must deny ourselves, we must strain, we must battle against indwelling sin. And you see this throughout Scripture. One good verse. 1 Peter 2. 11. Peter commands the Christians, abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Okay? So all I want you to know so far is that many Christians don't appreciate the magnitude of the struggle involved. Right? I'm in the Spirit. You know, God mystically lifts me up and I achieve a new level of holiness. You don't see that in Scripture at all. That's completely uh passive, it it's it's imaginary. The Bible puts great emphasis on personal exertion, on self-denial And yet at the same time, it says God is at work in you. Okay, so that's the first truth about sanctification in general, mortification in particular. A second truth And this is the good part, is that as we fight this fight, sin's grip, sin's power is weakened. Now Fowler White hurt his back, but he wrote a great article on mortification. He put it in the form of a catechism, question and answer. And uh I made some copies I put on the back table But um here's something he said in this light or this idea about as we fight this fight It's not going to be as strenuous a fight five years from now as it is right now, whatever the temptation is. So he said, in the process of mortification Little by little, sin's power is taken away with the result that it acts more seldomly and faintly. With the result that the habits of sin are not able to rise up in the believers, in believers who incline them with the same intensity and frequency, uh nor is nor uh to make them its slave as it did before their uh before And so I didn't read that very well. But he's just saying, listen, you fight this fight against temptations, but new habits are formed Uh n noble aspirations uh take the place of uh degraded aspirations. Love for God takes the place of love for the things of the world. You see things more clearly And you make some progress, right? This is this is what it means to grow in holiness. That's a relief. But I and I'm saying it becomes easier But I'm not saying it becomes easy. So we're not saying that because some people I don't know what planet they're for some Christians They're like, oh yeah, remember I was talking about this a few weeks ago? People are saying, Yeah, I haven't sinned in seven years. Well, because they redefine sin, they they they lower the bar. We're not talking about that But we are saying that it is possible to make progress in holiness. Here's the third truth about sanctification and mortification. We will not gain complete victory over indwelling sin in this life. Right? Remember, we looked at this in the second part of Romans 7. The Apostle Paul, the great apostle, the greatest evangelist, one of the greatest men of God who ever lived, right? He talked about his struggle. We'll never get beyond the point where we struggle with indwelling sin. And so you when you struggle, it doesn't mean you're not a Christian. It means you are a Christian. And the fact that you're having this struggle, that there's this battle, shows that you are striving to grow in Jesus Christ. Alright, that's a little background. Now let's let's get to start the sermon here. No. Um five things, okay? Five things. How do you mortify sin? And this isn't like, hey, you do these five things, you got it, all right, you can graduate. Um this these I mean there are the Puritans were brilliant And they wrote about how to grow in holiness. And um, and these are just basic things from Scripture, from our Christian forefathers. From wise godly theologians and Christian writers in our day. First one's basic, but it's not trivial. Feed on God's word and pray. So that's letter A in the list. 3A. How do we mortify sin? Feed on God's word and pray. Why do I say that? Because This is not a history book. This is not a book with uh elevated religious thoughts. This book is life-giving. It has a transforming power. That's what it says about itself in Hebrews 4 verse 12. The writer says, the word of God is living and active. And this is why I say to our kids, Turn off the goofy video game. This is a living document. God will use it to change you. That's why Jesus prayed when he prayed to the Father in John 17, 17. He prayed about for his people. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. So, in other words, transform my people by the truth of your word. That's how God transforms us by his word. Same thing in 1 Peter 2, verse 2. Peter wrote to these new Christians. Long for the pure spiritual milk. He's referring to God's Word. Long for the pure spiritual milk. That by it you may grow up in your salvation. And so it's the milk of God's word that nourishes us and matures us. And so God uses his word read. He uses his word preached. He uses his word when it's made visible. in the sacraments to renovate us, to sanctify us. How is that? Well, because it sets forth so many things. It sets forth the character of God, right? In this book we learn He's holy, He's wise, He's good, He's loving. And as we read it, it nurtures our love for God and for Jesus Christ, His Son. It shows us what sin is, right? We're so casual. We say, oh yeah, sin is like uh getting drunk and having sex and uh outside marriage and um you know cheating on your taxes and uh embezzling and murder No. I mean well yes they're sin, sorry. What did you learn in church today, son? Let the record state. All right. No. But um it shows us what sin is. The world portrays sin as edgy, as attractive. The Bible exposes it, right? It's disgusting, it's heinous, it's dangerous, it's destruction, it's destructive And so the Bible tells us about God. It tells us about our hearts. It tells us about the world in which we live. It identifies sin for what it is and all its heinousness. However, you have this book. It's a dead letter, if not attended by the work of the Holy Spirit. And so that's why we would say the Bible says it's living inactive. And so this book is. The truth of God that the Holy Spirit applies to Christians to change us. So one of the great Puritans who wrote on this Topic of mortification, uh the uh seventeenth century uh brilliant Puritan theologian John John Owen, uh he said The actual aid and assistance and internal operation of the Spirit of God is necessary To produce every holy act in our minds, wills, and affections. So, yeah, but If you're Christian, you have the Holy Spirit. So how do we mortify sin? Well, letter A? Well We feed on God's Word and we pray, right? Because it's not just an intellectual exercise. It's a supernatural work of God's Spirit. And so we pray, Lord, help me to see my sin and help me to apply it to my heart. Second thing is we avoid those situations where we're likely to fall into temptation. Pretty obvious, right? You don't have to be a rocket scientist. If you're tempted to look at pornographic websites, don't surf the internet in solitude If you're tempted to gorge yourself at the golden corral maybe not that, who's tempted to eat there? Uh if you're tempted to gorge yourself Like at the Olive Garden, like the never ending pasta. Uh maybe we better go to Panera. That's my wife tells me. Um If you're single and you're tempted to uh be too physically intimate with your boyfriend or your girlfriend, hey, don't put yourself in those situations, right? You're you're too weak. You must recognize this about who you are, but who we are. John Owen again, he that dares to dally with the cases of sin Well dare to sin, right? If you nibble around the edges of temptation, you know, forget it. You're done for. You can't nibble around the edges. You know, it starts with just nibbling. But then it's a downward slope. This is what Proverbs chapter 4, verse 14 and 15 says. Do not enter the path of the wicked. And do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on. So we're answering the question, not exhaustively, just a few things. How do we mortify sin? Well you feed on God's word, you pray and be You avoid those situations where you're likely to fall into temptation, right? Flirting with someone? That's very dangerous. Don't even go near those situations. And then three, and this is what we already talked about, but I just want to put it on our list, we must resist and fight. Against our sinful desires, right? That's what he said again in verse 13. Put to death the days of the body. What is that? That is the language of warfare, right? That's not the language you kinda see in these little uh uh little Hallmark cards or Christian embroideries over the fireplace. No. This this is martial language. Uh this is the language of warfare. Billy Sunday, right, the old evangelist, what was it, early 1900s He put things very colorfully. He said, I'm against sin. I'll kick it as long as I've got a foot. I'll fight it as long as I've got a fist. I'll butt it as long as I've got a head. I'll bite it as long as I've got a tooth. And then he said, When I'm old and fistless and footless and toothless. I'll gum it until I go until I go home to glory and it goes home to perdition. Well Alright, you're not sophisticated like the Presbyterians, right? But um he understood. It's a battle, and um and also we need to be around other Christians To encourage us, you know, you don't publish everything you do, but there you need some friends that you could trust. Say, I'm struggling in this area, will you pray for me? Will you help me to be accountable? This is why we have the church. D When you fall, be quick to confess your sin and receive God's forgiveness. When you fall, it doesn't say if, it says when. I didn't say if, I said when, right? Because we fall all the time. I mean, we'll probably have an argument going home, uh after I preach on this sermon even. It's just it just comes out of nowhere. Like everything's going fine, then all of a sudden, whew! When you fall, be quick to confess your sin and receive God's forgiveness. Martin Luther said, and this I think this is helpful. This comes from Martin Luther, right? One of the great men in Christian history. He said, the righteous man feels more often to be the loser than a victor in the conflict with sin. That's the normal Christian life. The righteous man feels more often to be the loser than the victor in the conflict with sin. And it's discouraging, right? I've been a Christian all these years, you say, and I'm still struggling with my tongue, with my lust, with my covetousness, with my critical spirit, with my gossiping ways, with my slothfulness I've been struggling like this for 20 years or 40 years or 60 years. What do you do? Well you don't give up. You just recognize we're not completely redeemed. We're being transformed. One day we'll see Christ face to face. We won't have this battle But Luther advises a lifelong repentance. In other words, continually examine your heart Confess your sin. Ask and receive God's forgiveness. Then march on. Don't look in the rearview mirror. Don't beat yourself up. March on. We're saved by grace. We rejoice in that. It says in Hebrews 10. 17, God says, their sins and lawless acts I'll remember no more. God forgives. He doesn't hold it on our account. He doesn't remember it. So we must. You march on, you remember it no more. And then down the line you stumble again You know, so I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna do penance for my sin. I'm gonna beat myself up, I'm gonna flagellate myself, I'm gonna wallow in my guilt so that I can really stew and suffer, and that'll help pay for my sin. No That's not the way to do it. We ask God's forgiveness. We're not casual. We own it. We recognize its heinousness. Then we ask God's forgiveness and we believe his promise. In 1 John 1. 9, where God says, if we can f or John says, God is faithful and just. to forgive us our sins and to purify us from all unrighteousness. And then to be to mortify sin, the fifth thing, letter E, brace yourself For a lifelong, never-ending battle against indwelling sin. You'll never get to the place where you get out of Romans 7. You'll always have this struggle. So that's just, we need to understand that So we have a little chapel over on North Clifton Road, if you're new. Come at 5 o'clock. That's where we have the prayer meeting. You'll see a nice piece of property. We're going to build a building. It has a white gravel all the way around. Looks pretty nice. Um but weeds pop up. So last year we weeded the place. It looked great. And um winter came and spring came and A couple weeds start to pop through. Don't worry about it. Well before long, it was a jungle again. And um Uh I know Garrow weeded it uh just a few weeks ago. I maybe others helped. But it was a jungle. There were some weeds two feet high. And there's some Roundup down there, so before he came, I I'll just spray that Roundup and uh that'll take care of it. Nothing happened. I gave it another shot of Roundup. Didn't even make a dent. These these there were too many weeds, they were too big. So Garrow, uh bless his heart, he went out and he pulled those weeds. And that was a huge undertaking. Uh but you know We need to make a note. Let's stay on top of these weeds so they don't get out of hand. And so it is with mortification. John Owen again. So we must be exercising mortification every day and in every duty. Sin will not die unless it be constantly weakened. Spare it, and it will heal its wounds and recover its strength. And so we need to be vigilant daily. We need to stay in God's Word. We need to have clear minds Well, number four, letter Roman numeral four, what's at stake? Well, uh nothing less than your eternal destiny. Look at verse thirteen He says, if you live according to the flesh, you'll die. But if by the Spirit of God you put the death the deeds of the body, you will live. Why? Why will you die? Because if you live according to the sinful nature, that's an evidence. If you don't desire to please Jesus Christ, That's an evidence that you're not converted, you're not regenerated, and you will die. If you live according to the flesh, you'll die. And um but if you live according to the Spirit, you'll live. Because if you're living according to the Spirit, that's an evidence. You've been regenerated by the Spirit of God, you receive the free gift of salvation And the Holy Spirit is in you, changing you. Verse 14. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. Now that phrase and we're almost done. That phrase where Paul says speaks about being led by the Spirit He's not talking about the Holy Spirit guiding us in making decisions. That's how our charismatic friends often speak about it, right? I took this job because the Holy Spirit led me to do it. I decided to marry Betty Lou because the Holy Spirit uh led me to call her and to and to ask her hand in marriage. That's not what Paul's talking about. Being led by the Spirit has to do with being led into the paths of godliness. And we see that because He contrasts being led by the Spirit with verse 13, living according to the flesh, living according to the sinful nature. And so my question to you then is, are you content with living an outwardly respectable Christian life? Or do you genuinely want to grow in the likeness of Jesus Christ and please God? That's what this gets down to. Am I okay just rolling along as I've been? Or do I say no? God's concerned about holiness, and I need to be concerned about it. Because I want to please God and I want to be useful to Him. And um and how strenuously Do you exert yourself? How ruthlessly do you deny yourself in the battle against the indwelling sin? In what's one area you say, you know what? I'm gonna be more deliberate in this area. I want to endeavor by God's enabling to make some progress. That's something I think good to identify and to reflect on, to pray about, and to search the scriptures on. But let me be clear again. If you're not a Christian, don't waste your time trying to overcome sin. That would be a fool's errand You're not going to make much progress unless God gives you his spirit, unless God regenerates you spiritually. And you have a more immediate concern, and that is to receive forgiveness from God, receive the gift of salvation. And you receive that merely by faith and repentance. Our friend John Owen, mortification is not the present business of unregenerate men. God calls them not to it as yet. What does he call them to? Conversion. You must come to Jesus Christ. So don't clean yourself up. You need a Savior. And Jesus is that Savior. That's good news. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we're thankful that we don't fight this fight alone in our own power, but that you promised you would change us. You are changing us little by little Help us not to become discouraged by our stumblings and setbacks. Help us to use all the means you've provided, staying in the Word, the sacraments. being amongst God's people, calling out to you in dependent prayer. And also for those who are not yet Christians, we pray, Lord, you'll bring them to see that it's not what we do, but it's what Jesus Christ has done. He was sufficient to cover all our sin in his death and resurrection. And so grant those who do are not yet there Grant them repentance and faith, bring them to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen