Matthew chapter seventeen This text is known as the transfiguration. Fasting passage. What does it mean? Here we go. Matthew 17. We read and after I'm sorry, the the children's the worship training. If you're if you're four or five years old and you'd like to go to worship training, you may go back with Miss Becky. Did they already leave? Okay. All right. Or maybe they just don't want to go. That'd be good too. Okay. Matthew seventeen. And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, his brother, and led them up on a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I'll make three tents here, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. But Peter came and touched them, but Jesus came and touched them, saying, Rise and have no fear. And when they lifted up their eyes they saw no one but Jesus only. And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man is raised from the dead. And the disciples asked him, Then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things, but I tell you that Elijah has already come. And they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. And verse 6 says the disciples were terrified. And uh, you know, who who would not have been terrified uh at this kind of uh uh s situation. And uh, you know, just starting out this week looking at this passage, this this is this is a high mountain, the transfiguration of Jesus Christ. I realize I can't do justice to this. I feel a little bit comforted because I read about an old Scottish pastor by the name of Alexander Bruce. And uh he said this. The transfiguration is one of those passages in a Savior's earthly history which an expositor would rather pass over in reverent silence. It is too high for us, this august spectacle. We cannot attain unto it. Its mystery surpasses our comprehension Its glory overwhelms us, and we are inclined to be shy of even drawing near to it. And so we do approach this kind of text with a little bit of caution and trepidation, but it's here for our instruction. So we should at least try to come to the foot of the mountain, even if we can't get all the way up it and completely uh appreciate what's taking place here. So I have two questions. First question is what was the transfiguration? And then and we could approach it from a number of angles, but I want to limit it and just ask the second question. What does it teach us about Jesus Christ? So, first of all, what was the transfiguration? First of all, let me give you the setting to the passage as we try to answer that question. We still have back, do I need to change this out? Keep going. Alright, keep going. Okay. So back in chapter 16, verse 13. Jesus had taken his disciples away from the crowds, away from the hostile Jewish religious leaders. And he took them up to the northernmost part of Israel. And it says in 1613 that this was the area of Caesarea Philippi. They were there for a little bit, and then it says in chapter 17, verse 1, After six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, his brother and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And so these guys were the inner circle amongst the disciples, Peter, James, and John. They went up on a mountain. Why did they go up in a mountain? Well, you turn over to the parallel passage, Luke 923 or 928 says, They went up on the mountain to pray. Then it says in verse 2 of our passage. He was transfigured before them. What in the world is this? Well, I can tell you what the Greek word means, and that's not going to help either. It comes from the Greek word metamorpho, so we get there from there metamorphosis. And um well what what was taking place here? Well you think about it like this When Jesus came into the world, when he took on our flesh, his divine nature was concealed, right? At least to a degree His divinity was concealed. That's why in the Christmas song, Hark the Herald, we sing about Christ. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity. And so Jesus was God, but he was veiled by his humanity. Now there were occasions, right, during his earthly ministry, uh when the veil was lifted, you know, think about a curtain. uh just being lifted up a little bit and his deity shown through. Right? Remember when uh Jesus and the disciples were out on the uh the Sea of Galilee and there was this wicked storm And Jesus spoke, and the waves subsided, and the wind stopped immediately. And the disciples marveled. They said, What sort of man is this that even the wind and the waves obey him? And so they had caught a glimpse of his deity. Mark or Matthew 14, 26. In the middle of the night, Jesus walked on the on the raging waves. And uh he's walking to the disciples who are in a boat. And they are terrified because they realize this was not just of a great religious teacher, but he he was something more But now you get to Matthew 17, and in this passage, more than any other text up to this point. Uh Jesus' deity is even more fully, more brilliantly uh disclosed to these three disciples. What did they see? Well says at the end of verse 2, his face shone like the sun, and his his clothes became white as light. And so there was a blinding display of the glory of the holiness of Jesus Christ And uh his deity shone through his humanity. It's interesting. Mark 9. 3 says, even his clothes sparkled. This would be a real good laundry detergent commercial, right? Uh Mark 93. They became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them And so these three disciples had had a uh they witnessed uh the glory that Jesus Christ had uh with the Father. before the world was created, in which he would again have at his ascension and exaltation at the Father's right hand. And so he was disclosing his divinity, right? In the Nicene Creed we say of Christ, he is God of God, light of light. Very God of very God. Revelation 19, verse 12 says of Christ, that his a his eyes are like a flame of fire. Hebrews 1 verse 3 says of Christ, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact representation of his being. And so In this passage, yeah, Jesus was a great religious teacher. Yes, Jesus was the holiest man who ever lived, but he was something more. He was God. He was God who came amongst us. And so we want to ask the question, what does this event teach us about Jesus Christ? And the first one's simple. And It's when you look at the context, it's almost obvious, but you probably pass over it until you think about the context a little bit. The first thing it teaches us is that Jesus is God and he can be trusted. Now, this was an area where the disciples needed some help Because back in chapter 16, right, they went up to the Caesarea Philippi in 1621, he told his disciples, I'm going to be crucified. I'm going to Jerusalem, and they're going to nail me to a cross. And as I said over the past couple weeks, the disciples did not have this kind of conception of the Messiah. They were with the rest of the Jewish nation. They thought the Messiah would be this great political deliverer. He'd conquer the Romans, he'd liberate the the Israelites, and he would reign as their political ruler. And now Jesus said, No, I'm going to be snuffed out in a short time. And then he goes on in chapter 16, verse 24, to say And life's not going to be so good for you guys either, because if you're going to follow me, you're going to have to renounce your very life. You're going to have to take up your cross and follow me. And so this had to be unsettling. I'm going to be gone, I'm going to be crucified, yet I'm the Messiah, and you're going to have to give up everything to follow me, even though I'm gone. Y'all in and um had to be unsettling, should they, would it be wise for them to stake their very lives on Jesus Christ? That's the question we would ask, right? Should I stake my life on Jesus Christ? When everybody's going that way, should I be going this way? And in the Transfiguration, Jesus shows, relax. I'm the Son of God. You can trust me. And so the disciples, they behold this dazzling display of Jesus' glory, and then speaking from the cloud The Father affirms, this is my beloved Son with whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. And so the transfiguration Part of it is a testimony, a confirmation to Jesus' followers that Jesus Christ can be trusted. Now We have trust issues, right? We're not always consistent in what we profess. That would be quite helpful if I could see Jesus Christ transfigured. Here's what Peter says. Peter picks up on that issue because later he writes a letter to the church, 2 Peter 1, verse 17 and 19. And he makes a reference to the transfiguration. And he said to these Christians, he said, for when he, Christ, received honor and glory from God the Father, And the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory. This is my beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. Peter says, We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. So we know he's God. We saw it. But then the people are saying, well, what about us? We weren't there. And so then Peter says in his next sentence, And we have something more. What could be more convincing? What could be more persuasive than seeing the glory of Christ displayed? Peter says we have something more. What is it? He goes on, the prophetic word to which you will do well to pay attention as a lamp shining in the darkness. He's saying, you have the words of Scripture. Now I understand the New Testament is still being collected. But still parts of it were going around, including this letter that Peter wrote to these people. And Peter saying That God's word is an even more persuasive testimony to the truth, to the truth of Christianity than if he had witnessed the transfiguration itself. How is that? And I've said this before and of late. Well You read it, and it's self-all it's self-authenticating. It confirms its truth. What it tells us about Christ. Nobody could have made this up. And then there's a consistency from Genesis to Revelation. The book is coherent. It corresponds to life in this world and to our understanding of life and it helps us along there and um it knows us better than we know ourselves. And then there's this theme of promise and fulfillment, right? You have the Old Testament being fulfilled in the New Testament, and it all fits together. Remember what Chesterton, I think, said he said, you know, if you stick put a stick in some hole in a rotting tree and it fits, well, okay, that's fine. Uh that could happen anytime. But if you put a key into a lock and the key fits, it's very convincing that this key was made for this lock. And so it is with Old Testament promise and the new the very detailed, specific New Testament fulfillments. And so what I'm saying is that as a Christian, as a struggling Christian who is inconsistent, You know, you sit down, you read this book, you you immerse yourself in it, and I'm saying this to the kids too. Even when you don't feel like it But yeah it's just a daily habit that you have developed and it it convinces you This stuff is true. I can stake my life on this, just like the disciples before the transfigured Christ should have been convinced. They can stake their lives on him. And so what's the transfiguration teach us about Jesus? Number one, it teaches us he's God, he can be trusted. Number two. The transfiguration teaches us that Jesus fulfills the Old Testament. Why do I say that? Because in chapter seventeen, verse three, we read, and we you have to hang with me, just a hair on this one. Chapter 17, verse 3. It says, behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him, with Jesus. What's going on here? Why Moses and Elijah on this fountain talking with Jesus? A little bit of background. You read the Bible and you come upon this phrase again and again. The phrase, the law and the prophets, right? You see it in the Old Testament New Testament, Jesus said in Matthew 5. 17, I haven't come to abolish the law and the prophets, but to fulfill them. Matthew 22, verse 40. Jesus was talking about the two great commandments, love your neighbor love God, love your neighbor. And then Jesus said, if you keep these two commandments, you are fulfilling the law and the prophets So that little shorthand alone the prophets is just a way referring to the entire Old Testament, okay? It's shorthand for the Jewish scriptures, okay? Now, Moses and Elijah, they appeared on the mountain of Transfiguration. They are key representatives. Moses, he was Israel's chief lawgiver. He stood on Mount Sinai. He received the law from God and then he delivered it to God's people. So Moses represented the law. Then you had Elijah, one of Israel's greatest prophets. And so the picture is that Moses and Elijah represent the Old Testament. And their appearing with Jesus is a symbolic way of saying, hey, you know what? We see you, Jesus Christ, as the culmination of the Old Testament. We see you as a fulfillment of the Old Testament, of the law and the prophets. And that's what Jesus said, right? I haven't come to abolish the law uh law or the prophets, I've come to fulfill them. And that's precisely What Jesus does. He fulfills every jot and tittle of the Old Testament. And we can go on a little excursion. I think we will. Let's hop in the car here, and we're going to go from Genesis to Revelation. No, we'll go to Revelation, but we'll just take a couple of short stops here on our tour. Hey, you had Adam, right? The representative humanity. He fell, but he pointed to Jesus Christ, whom Romans 5, like 12 to 20 says sets forth as the second Adam. The first Adam was disobedient. Jesus came along. He was completely obedient to all God's laws. So Adam pointed ahead to Jesus Christ. Why? Because the Old Testament's about Jesus. You have Moses. He delivered the law, right? Jesus shows up on the scene, and in Matthew 5-7, Jesus goes up on the mountain, and he delivers an exposition of the implications of God's law, right, in the Sermon on the Mount And it's no accident that in John 5 46, Jesus said, Moses wrote of me. Moses was pointing ahead to Jesus Christ. I think that's referred to Matthew or Deuteronomy 1815 where Moses says God God says, I'm going to send a prophet greater than Moses to the Israelites. Speaking of the Israelites, they're a bunch of bums. They spent 40 years in the wilderness and they disobeyed God's commands. God said, just I'm gonna free you from Egypt. I want you to walk in my ways. They didn't, so they spent forty years in the wilderness, then God brought them into the promised land. Moses didn't go, right? Remember, he wasn't allowed to enter. Well interesting as a side note, he finally entered the promised land here on the Mountain of Transfiguration. So he finally did make it to Palestine. But anyway, the Israelites were disobedient toward those 40 years. Jesus starts out his earthly ministry. It didn't start out with a great celebration, but rather God said, the Father said, I want you to go into the wilderness for 40 years, and you're going to be without uh food and water, and you're going to you're going to deal with the devil And so 40 days, let's say 40 years, Jesus, sorry, 40 days Jesus was in the wilderness. What's the picture? Jesus is the true Israel who was obedient to the Father in the wilderness. Jesus is the fulfillment of Old Testament Israel. You had the temple in the Old Testament. What was the temple about? It was this, that was the location where God came to be in the midst of his people. There's no temple in the New Testament. In fact, the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed by the providence of God. You get to heaven, and it says, I think, like in Revelation 20 or 21. There is no temple in heaven. Why is that? Because Jesus said about himself in John 2, 19 to 21, I'm the temple. He is God's dwelling amongst his people, right? John 1. 14 or something. John said the word became flesh and tabernacle, he dwelt among us. And then 1 Peter, we're living stones being built into the spiritual house, this spiritual temple in which God dwells by the Holy Spirit. So again, you see the Old Testament. pointing ahead to Jesus Christ. And then you had these lands that were sacrificed in the Old Testament. Why'd they do that? Well they were just object lessons that pointed forward to the final sacrifice for sin, right? John the Baptist saw Jesus coming. Hey, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And Paul said in 1 Corinthians 5 that Christ is our Passover Lamb who was sacrificed for us. Then you had in the Old Testament prophets, priests, and kings like King David and King Solomon. And they were all flawed, but they were shadows that pointed ahead to Jesus, the final prophet, priest, and king. And so that's just a survey, right? That's just some examples of why we say everything written in the Old Testament points forward to Jesus Christ. And after Jesus rose from the grave, he's walking down the road, he's going to a maze, he happens upon a couple of disciples. And Luke says in 24, verse 27, That beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so Moses and Elijah appeared on the mountain to display that Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. They're glad that they finally see him. I want I do want to say there's an implication here then. If Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament, Then that should affect the way we read the Old Testament. To understand the Old Testament, you should not just read it as a Jewish document. You should not just take into account It's um it's uh the the Old Testament historical context, but rather you need to go you need to read it through the lens of the New Testament, right? You certainly take its immediate setting and uh the reason that this this or that book was written to Israel, but then you're not done until you look at the Old Testament text through the lens of the New Testament. You think about it like this. If you read mystery novels and um you happen to say, you know what? I think I'm gonna s I want to see who committed this crime. I'm gonna skip up to the last chapter and I'm gonna see who done it. Okay. Now you know how who who the killer is or whatever Now you go back and as you're reading that novel, all these details that seem incidental Ah, I get it now, why that's there. Well, that's the same reason we want to read the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. Because the Old Testament is pointing ahead to the New Testament. And so the Transfiguration teaches us, first of all, Jesus is God. He can be trusted. It teaches us Jesus fulfills the Old Testament. It teaches us that Jesus is superior to the Old Testament prophets. Okay? Now, looking at Peter and what he does, this made me think about something I did years ago. Uh Jared, Jarrett, make a suggestion and realize it was completely inappropriate. I can think of a couple examples. And um Becky, so when we start dating, I was young and naive. Not really, but I was naive. Um and um On our second date, we went to Subway. I like was going through my Subway phase. I said, we went to this Christmas parade in Graham, North Carolina. I said, well, let's go to Subway for lunch. And we're standing in line there. I said, I don't know if I should say this, but I said, you know, if you get a foot long and split it, you say about a buck. But that's the way I operate it. And I think it occurred to Becky she wasn't going out with the last of the big time spenders at that point. And then I realized no that probably should have let that one go. Look at the Apostle Peter. Verse four, so Moses, Elijah are talking to Jesus And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it's good that we're here. If you wish, I'll make three tents here: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He didn't understand, but this was completely inappropriate because if Jesus had if Peter had made a tent for Moses and Elijah alongside Jesus That would have put them on the same level. And that was entirely not the case. And so at that point It says in verse 5, he was still speaking when behold a bright cloud overshadowed them. This was the cloud of the presence of God. And this was not a new thing to the Jewish understanding because you had the cloud of God's presence in the Old Testament. Exodus 40. Uh Moses saw the cloud of God's presence descend upon the tabernacle. Second Chronicles 7. Solomon saw The cloud of God's presence fill the temple. Ezekiel 10, Ezekiel saw the god of the cloud of God's presence rising from the temple. So now, here we are in the New Testament, the Father displayed the radiance of his glory in a cloud that descended upon those on the mountain. So there was this cloud of God's presence. Then it says in the end of verse 5, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. That harks back to chapter 3, verse 17. The Father spoke that at Jesus' baptism. And then the Father says in the end of verse 5, listen to him. And so the Father affirms the supremacy of the Son. So Jesus was standing there with Moses? The founder of the prophets, he was standing there with Elijah, the restorer of the prophets. And what does the father say? He says of Jesus, listen to him. And so to hear the words of Jesus is to hear the very words of God. Listen to him. Go down to verse 6, we'll read how it rounds out. When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. But Jesus came and touched them, saying, Rise and have no fear. And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. A. W. Pink Pink makes a comment. The glory associated with Moses and Elijah was so eclipsed by the infinitely greater glory connected with Christ That Moses and Elijah faded from view. So in the transfiguration We're told God can be trusted. We're told second, Jesus fulfills the Old Testament. We're told third, Jesus is superior to the Old Testament prophets. Here's the final thing. Okay, I know I've thrown a lot out there. One more thing. We see in this event, the fourth thing, Jesus' death accomplishes our salvation. So Moses and Elijah, it says in verse 3, were talking with him. What were they talking about? Well, you could speculate, but why speculate when you could just turn over to the parallel passage in Luke And you'll read in chapter 9, verse 31 of Luke what they were talking about. It says, you might want to turn there, they spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Was a departure. It was a reference to his death that he was to accomplish at Jerusalem. Moses and Elijah were talking to Jesus about his death that he was going to accomplish in Jerusalem. Now it's interesting. When you think about these Old Testament believers, what did they believe in? How were they saved? Well, they were saved the same way we're saved. Jesus said in John 8:56. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. Now, Abraham didn't know there was going to be this guy named Jesus, and he was going to become incarnate, and he was going to die for his sin. But he had a promise from God that God would save him. The Lord will provide a lamb, right? Genesis 22. And as the Old Testament unfolds, it became clearer that God was going to send a suffering servant, that God Himself was going to come amongst his people, that God was going to re-establish his kingdom. And so Moses and Elijah, like Abraham, they're looking forward in faith. To God doing something to save his people, right? Where's the Passover? These Passover lands you have to sacrifice them every year Is there any end to this? And yeah, there would be an end to it. And so believers in the Old Testament, they were looking forward to God's salvation. We look back on the salvation that God provided. We have all the details. We're in a better position. But going back down to Luke 9. 31, uh it says they spoke of his departure which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. That word departure in the Greek is ch they were looking for they spoke about Jesus Exodus, his exodus, the the road out, his his way out. So it's interesting. Moses and Elijah They're talking to Jesus about his Exodus. Well Moses was involved in an Exodus, right? The Israelites were led out of Egyptian bondage and uh to the promised land, but that Old Testament exodus merely prefigured or foreshadowed the greater deliverance that God would accomplish for his people. And uh the deliverance would be a deliverance from sin and from death into the true promised land, which is not Palestine, but is heaven. And so they're telling Jesus about the true Exodus. And uh it's interesting going back to Luke 9. 31 one more time, or was it 932? It says his departure that he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem. And you don't really think about you don't think about death as something you're you're going to accomplish, right? Death is something that overtakes us. It's not something that we accomplish. But Jesus' death was something that He accomplished for us. And And how do you get a share in that? It's simple, right? Repent and believe on him, and you have a share in that salvation, in that deliverance. and in that entrance into the promised land. Okay. Well, we didn't cover verses 9 to 13. I think we're going to skip that. I was just going to make a couple comments, but I'm going to pass over that and we'll talk about that later if you want me to send you something. But just in a summary, um this trans the transfiguration It is not merely a spectacle that is designed to fascinate, but it discloses something of the glory of Jesus Christ. And when as we Begin to comprehend it, we realize more and more Jesus Christ is most worthy of our worship. And so, yes, that's why we gather to worship Jesus Christ. He's most worthy. The second thing we're reminded is that, yeah, he can be trusted. He can be trusted. He is God Almighty. So we should trust him. Another thing we see is that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. He's the greatest prophet. And so because of that Listen to him. The entire scripture is the voice of Jesus Christ. Listen to him. Don't buy into the world's messages, young people. Then also the transfiguration points us to the salvation that He did accomplish for us. And so we say, believe on him, and you will. be saved. There you have it. Let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, that we can, that we might be able to behold something of the glory of Jesus Christ as he's revealed to us in the Bible. Help us to cherish him, help us to worship him, help us to trust him. And for those who are still waffling, still on the fence, we pray for them that they would bow before you in repentance And trust in Jesus Christ as their Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's sing. It's number 58. The title is O Splendor of God's Glory Bright as Jesus Christ. Let's stand fifty eight.