Uh speak to Kelly or send her an email. But we're in the book of Malachi. The Old Testament book of Malachi. I don't know if we have any new folks here. We do. I think I see some new folks. We're glad you're here. And um so we've been marching through Malachi. Before that we were in Matthew. We left off at Matthew 25. And as it turns out, Matthew 25 was about the final judgment. Now we come to a passage in Malachi about the same doctrine, the final judgment. And we're in Malachi chapter 4. We're just going to look at three verses. So that's the last book in the Old Testament. And this is God speaking. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven. when the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubborn. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall, and you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet On the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. Well, that's quite a thundering uh statement in verse one. For God speaks about this coming day. Behold, the day is coming. And that in itself tell that in itself tells us something about history. It reminds us that history is not an endless succession of cycles with no with no overarching Purpose. History is not just this chain of events that will go on indefinitely with no rhyme or reason, no purpose, no path, but rather We're reminded here that history has an endpoint. It has a goal If you were you use the Greek, you'd say it has a telos. There is a destination to which history is headed. Our forefathers understood this. So down in D. C. on the dome of the Capitol building, there is inscribed a statement that speaks of one far-off divine event. to which the whole creation moves. And we're on that train, right? We're on that train. We're heading for a station. And this endpoint in the Bible, excuse me, this endpoint of history is variously described in the Bible as the day. You see that in verse 1 and verse 3 It's spoken of in verse 5 as the day of the Lord. Matthew 11, 15, Jesus describes it as the day of judgment. We're in John thirty John 7. 37 He refers to it as the last day and the great day. And so this final day is primarily a reference to the return of Jesus Christ, when he'll come back, he'll judge the world, and he'll take his people to himself. But it has some uh more immediate references also, and we're gonna look at that. And so our outline this morning uh is about the day of the Lord, the day of judgment Number one, what is it? Number two, how should it awaken the complacent? And number three, how should it comfort those who fear God And so first of all, what is this day of the Lord? And sometimes, as I said, it has an immediate uh reference uh in the Old Testament. Oftentimes it refers to wars to famines, to outbreaks of pestilence, to plagues. So we can relate to that But these are all temporal judgments that God down through history has visited upon the nations And they point forward to the final judgment. They're just a foretaste, verse 5, of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And on this day of judgment, God's going to establish this kingdom on the earth, and he's going to judge the heavens and the earth. Now, You read in the Old Testament, you read in Malachi, and you see this discussion or these warnings about this coming day. And they sound like they're going to be fulfilled in a single decisive event But then you get up turn over to the New Testament and you realize that the day of the Lord is rather it's one event that has two parts or two chapters to it. And um so it's partially fulfilled at the coming of Jesus Christ, and then it's Finally fulfilled when Jesus returns. So that's why the writers of the Bible, 2 Timothy, Hebrews chapter 1, we're told that we're living in the last days Because the last days began when Jesus came to this earth. He was the perfect light. He died for our sin. He rose again. He reigns on high. And so the last days had been inaugurated And they'll be consummated when Jesus returns. And so here's something, I hope this is helpful to your reading, especially the Old Testament. These prophecies that talk about this great day of judgment that's coming, uh these you can refer to these as Telescoped prophecies. Telescoped prophecies. And why do they use that term? Well if you're if you're out west And you're looking in the distance at a mountain range, perhaps through binoculars or even through a telescope. When you're looking at that mountain range uh through this uh through that lens, it looks like all the mountains are right next to each other. But if you were to fly over that landscape, you would discover that these mountains are in fact separated by many miles. If you were to look at a map, you'd see they were separated by many miles. So it is with Old Testament prophecies about the coming of the final day, the coming of the Messiah and the final judgment. From the perspective of the Old Testament prophets It seems to be one decisive event, but then once you get into the New Testament, Jesus Christ comes, you discover that it's a it's one event that has two parts, the first coming of Jesus Christ in the second coming of Jesus Christ Well that's just a little background about this day. Now let's look at why God spoke this to the people of Israel And he had two purposes. Number one, it was to awaken the complacent within the community of believers. Now if you've been with us as we've gone through Malachi, you'll probably remember that Malachi is a rebuke to the people of Judah. It's 450 uh BC and most of God's people, most of the Jews, had fallen away. They were worshiping God in a way that was corrupt, that was perfunctory. The priesthood it seems was completely corrupt Uh the men were divorcing their wives and marrying women who worship foreign gods, they were stingy in their giving, they were oppressing the needy, and so on and so forth. And so the people have lapsed in their allegiance to God, in their in their obedience to God's law, to God's law. And so God warned those within the community of believers, you better wake up and watch out. Verse 1. Why? Because the day is coming. Burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all the evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. And so it's interesting, in this verse, the day of judgment is described as a fire that will destroy The unrepentant. Back in chapter three, verse two, uh God spoke about his coming as a fire that would refine his people But now he's speaking to those who are unrepentant, and he says, it's burning like an oven And you think about a forest fire, a forest fire might wipe out a forest, but still, uh there will be some roots intact. And so in time that forest will reestablish itself. Those roots will uh again produce uh seedlings. But when God's judgment comes, it says in the end of verse 1, it will leave them neither root nor branch. So what is this saying? When it says that the final judgment will leave neither root nor branch. Some would say, well the it seems to be saying that we're gonna be or Excuse me, but those who reject God are gonna be annihilated and um they're gonna cease to exist. But that can't be because we look at the rest of Scripture and we understand that everyone, the believer and the unbeliever, will exist eternally. So what it seems to be saying is that at this judgment, when it says there's going to be no root or branch, it's saying there's going to be no second chance There will remain no roots that will provide for a fresh start. There will be no branch remaining that might somehow be grafted into an existing plant. In other words, God's saying, when the judgment comes, it's going to be final and it's going to be irreversible. And that's why we had as our New Testament reading Luke 16, the parable of the rich man in Lazarus. So in this parable, remember, the rich man in hell called out to Abraham, and he said, Show me mercy. And Abraham said in a nutshell, it's too late. The door has been closed. Luke 16, 26. Abraham says to the rich man, Between us and you, a great chasm has been fixed. In order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. And so that's the same thing that we're reading in chapter 4, verse 1, where God says, once his judgment is unleashed, there will not remain root nor branch. And so this all leads to the warnings we see in Scripture, for example, in Hebrews chapter 3, where the writer says, Today, today if you hear his voice Do not harden your hearts. That's the lesson here. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. And remember These words were not spoken by God to the pagan nations. These words were spoken to the covenant community. They were spoken to Israel And likewise, they apply to the covenant community in our day. They apply to the church. Right? Jesus had the same orientation. Remember in Matthew 7? For he said, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven. Then he talks about the day, the judgment day. He goes on to say, On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name And do mighty many mighty works in your name. Jesus says, I'll declare to them, I never knew we I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. It's the same idea. And this is something I want our young people to hear. On the final day, on the day of judgment, that's when the die is cast, and there will not be an opportunity To for a redo or to try things in a different way, the opportunity will have passed. And so Malachi And Jesus, the prophets, and the apostles, they speak such stern words of warning To awaken those within the community of believers who don't really know Jesus Christ, who do not possess true faith in Jesus Christ. but are merely a part of the visible community. It's a warning to say that you must deal with Jesus Christ in the here and now. Because once the door closes, It's closed for good. So it's interesting. As you read the Bible, now I bring this up because some churches, all they talk about is God's grace and his love, and his mercy. I carry no brief against God being a God of grace and love and mercy, but run a text that reminds us that God is also a holy God. And so we see here That the Bible uses both carrots and sticks to awaken us to Jesus Christ. Right? It uses carrots, it speaks about forgiveness. It speaks about, you know, think about the psalmist, uh, the joy of knowing God, walking in his ways. Think about Jesus saying, I'm the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger. So Jesus says, I'll fill the the the hunger in your soul I'll satisfy you with living waters. He speaks about himself as a shepherd and as a friend of sinners. And so these are all the cares that should draw us to Christ. But at the same time, the Bible uses sticks, right? I just mentioned Matthew twenty-five. Jesus himself spoke these terrifying warnings of judgment. And then you read, well, in this passage and then in the New Testament. You have these threats of eternal damnation. Then you read through the book of Revelation. And he had descriptions of the unleashing of God's righteous wrath. And it makes you tremble. But these are all a part of the public disclosure that God has made of who He is and how He deals with people. And so, yeah, Malachi 4, this is a little sobering, but that's okay, because it's balanced out by all the statements of God's love and his grace. To those who recognize their sin and their need of a Savior. And I think we need both. We need to hear both. Both are in the Bible And we need to present both when we share the gospel with someone. We need to use discretion, of course, but we need to share both. And I know when I became a Christian It was both the carrot and the stick that awakened me. It was the carrot finally understanding that you're not saved by going to church or by trying to be a better person. But you're only saved by God's grace, by his mercy, by his un uh merited favor That he extends towards sinners. And so the carrot was very attractive. But also the stick, I didn't want to go to hell. And I of course after I became a Christian, I thought that's sort of unsophisticated, but now I realized that's exactly one thing that the Bible holds sets forth. God's a holy God, and we want to be right with Him. And so I say to you, and I say to our young people, and I say to those who may not be Christians, he both the carrot and the stick And don't poo-poo uh the warnings of scripture. I remember one lady uh having some conversation, she said When I talk about this kind of these kind of things, she says, Well my God's not a God my God's not a God of judgment. My God's God of love. And I didn't say it, but I thought it. I said, sure, your God's not a God of judgment, your God's a God of love. But you know what, lady, your your God's a figment of your imagination, and it's not going to get you anywhere What you have to do is discover what God has said about Himself on the pages of Scripture. And so God spoke these words with all their severity to awaken those who are complacent. And so I would ask that of you. Are you complacent about dealing with Jesus Christ? Have you turned from going your own way and have you submitted to His ownership over your life? This is the call that Scripture extends to you. This is the call that God extends to you through the words of Scripture. And so that's verse one. God spoke these words to awaken us when we're complacent. But secondly, God spoke these words to encourage Those who feared him to encourage the faithful. So there was, as as as you picked up, there was this great general apostasy in Israel. But there remained a remnant who feared the Lord. We read about them last week in chapter 3, verse 16. There was still a group, despite the corruption in the priesthood and in the temple, and despite all the ways that the Jews were spurning God's law There remained a group, a remnant, who feared the Lord. And what we have in verses two and three Is an assurance of God that God says to them, There will be a day of liberation. Look at verse 2 God says to this remnant, but to you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. The sun of righteousness shall rise. In other words, God's righteousness is going to blaze like the sun and its wings. In other words, it rays. are going to bring healing. And it's going to heal. All the hurts, all the wounds, all the injustices. They're going to be set right. What what is this more specifically? Well you'd say, well, this this healing um uh it certainly includes the healing of of justification, right? Of being declared righteous in God's sight. And so in 1 Peter 2. 24, Peter, speaking about Jesus' work on the cross, says that Jesus, he himself wore our sins in his body on the tree. That we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Then he says, by his wounds you have been healed. He says this to Christians, you've been healed. You've been healed of the penalty of sin. You've been healed, or I should say you've been healed of the penalty of sin. You're being healed of the pollution of sin, of the corruption that still works within us And also you're being healed of the power of sin. And one day we will be healed not only from sin's penalty, which we are now, but when we see Jesus Christ will be healed of its power and also of its pollution. And so when what's going to happen? on this great day that has been inaugurated when Jesus came. Well at the end of verse 2. God says, you shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And so imagine these little uh calves uh in a shed, a dark, cramped shed for days on end. And then finally a nice sunny day arrives. The farmer goes down to the shed. He opens up the gate to the shed. And they spring out of there. Well maybe not immediately, but once they start moving, they start they go about leaping And that's what we're told. This is what it will be like for God's redeemed people, the lonely forgotten Christians in far-off oppressive countries They're going to be released from all their injustices, from all their oppressions, or those Christians around us who have suffered horribly at the hands of others, they're going to be released. And they're going to be liberated. And it begins in Jesus Christ, and it'll be consummated when he returns. And so we understand, you know, we don't want to over um We don't want to exaggerate the benefits that come when you become a Christian, but neither uh do we want to uh understate the great liberation that we will experience when we are when when Jesus Christ returns and He calls us to Himself. And so one more thing, uh we're we're coming, we're getting closer here to the end. You turn over to the pages of the New Testament to Luke chapter 1. When John the Baptist was born. Now we're going to look at this, I think, in two weeks. The very last statement of the Old Testament, verse 6, verse 5 and 6 Talks about the coming of Elijah who comes before the Messiah to announce his arrival Well, when John the Baptist was born, his father, Zechariah, who was a priest, he sang a song that celebrated John's birth. And um the song also celebrated the fact that Zechariah, who knew the scriptures, who undoubtedly knew these promises in Malachi, his song celebrated That the fulfillment of Malachi's prophecy was at hand. So I'm in Luke chapter 1. Let me turn there myself. Luke chapter 1, verse 76. Now, this is Zechariah speaking about his newborn son John, and he sings. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you'll go before the Lord to prepare his ways. Exactly what we're told in Malachi, right? John's going to prepare the way for the Messiah. You will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people. in the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby, now here's this prophecy in Malachi fulfilled. whereby the sunrise will visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness in the shadow of death, and to guide our feed In the way of peace. So Zechariah recognizes that Jesus Christ is the sunrise of salvation of whom Malachi spoke, who has who brings healing in his wings. Healings in His rays. And that's why John Wesley in his hymn Hark the Herald Angel sings. Which that we're going to sing in a minute He picked up on us and he said, Hail the sun, as she went, Hail the sun of righteousness, light in life, to all he brings. risen with healing in his wings. And so that's really the great encouragement we have from this passage. It's as I said, it's a severe warning of the final judgment. But while God speaks of his wrath against the unrepentant, he speaks of his mercy toward those who would but look to him. And that's really what you need to do to become a Christian. You have to recognize that you fall short of God's holiness. You need to recognize your sin But then you need to look to Jesus Christ as the great healer. And I read a great story about D. L. Moody. He was an evangelist from out based out in Chicago. in the 1800s. And um he told a story about a surgeon in Belfast, Ireland, who would say to his patients before an operation, He would say, take a good look at your wound, and then fix your eyes on me and don't take them off me. And that's really what a person does. That's how you become a Christian, right? You take a good look at your sin, you recognize I have violated the holiness of God But once you see that, you don't dwell in despair. Well, you look up to Jesus Christ, who forgives, who heals. And you fix your eyes on him. And that's what we do when we take the Lord's Supper. If you're a Christian and you know your sin, Don't dwell on that. Rather, focus upon the great, tender mercy of God to all who come to Him. So here we have in Malachi just to just to remind you. We're reminded When you're frustrated by what is going on in our country, or you're in despair about this personal your personal situation Or what's going on in other places around the world? Malachi reminds us: history is marching inexorably toward that great final day. When every wrong will be made right. And when we take the Lord's Supper, we say we're proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. We're reminding ourselves Yeah, it's not just this meaningless cycle, but Jesus Christ is going to come back. He's going to judge the unrepentant But he extends his grace to those who fear his name. And so my question is, how will he come for you? How will he come for you? Will he come in judgment or will he come in grace? Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, help us not to brush aside the severe statements in Scripture. Such as the one we've just read. Help us to remember your sovereignty over history and over all the affairs of men. But also, may we look to Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Savior of all, who would but turn to Him and rest upon Him. And for anyone here this morning who does not know Jesus Christ as the Savior of their soul, I pray, Lord, that you would grant this person faith Repentance and assurance of your love and forgiveness and grace. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We'll come to the Lord's table. From the first break case after the Okay. Paul writes, I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you that the Lord Jesus in the night when he was betrayed to bread And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you, do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also he took a cup after supper, saying, This cup is a new covenant of my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. As often as you eat this bread and drink this stuff, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Then Paul issues warning saying Whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who leads with race, that discerning the body meets and brings judgment on himself And so I'll ask the question, who then is worthy? And he says, um, don't take the suffer in an unworthy manner. And our answer is that if you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, uh you're a right, Jesus got down with his disciples uh with the sacrament. Uh you're worthy, uh not if you think you're such a great person or a moral paragon, uh you're worthy. If you're if you see you're a sinner and you're repentant of your sins and you recognize Jesus Christ. Is your substitutionary sin bearer? So in other words, uh who's worthy? Well, only the person who finds Jesus Christ to be his or her worthiness. That's what Calvin said. This is the worthiness, the best and only time we can bring to God to offer our violeness in our unworthiness to him, so that in his mercy we may be taken as worthy, to despair in ourselves So that we may be lifted up by him, to accuse ourselves, so that we may be justified by him. And so Christian, do you see that you're a great sinner? Most of them say, Yeah, I'm not worthy. But then Jesus says, No, you are worthy because you recognize Your sin. So let's bow our heads. We thank you, Lord, that you invite us to this fellowship meal. Well we know the left to ourselves we indeed would be honor the guests. But we also know that we're invited because we have been fitly clothed in Jesus' righteousness. And so, because we're invited, help us Lord to lift up our heads, nourish us spiritually. Just as bread and wine nourish us visibly. So we ask for it by your word and spirit. You remind us of all your good promises to us. You can confirm in our hearts. That we stand in your good favor. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now For those who haven't uh celebrated the word supper with us, let me just explain this. There's a piece of cellophane on the top. None of that cell paint, believe it or not, is a little wavelet. So you take this don't take the coil off, take the cell phone off first, real trigger. Lord Jesus, the night he was betrayed to the bread when he gave thanks. He broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you, do this, or thou mercy me. Sound style of the thing. Take and eat, this is the body of Christ, given to you, do this in remembrance of him. This cup, this new covenant, the blood of Christ, shed for many, for the forgiveness of sins. Drink ye all of it. Bower heads. We thank you, our Lord of God, that by your grace you've invited us to this your table and nourish us with spiritual food. We also thank the Lord for these tokens. That's all they are. But they're the reminders, they're visible confirmations from you. That we are members of your body, fellow heirs of the eternal light, and members of an everlasting kingdom. We ask Lord to help us to walk in your ways and not to fall away from you, not to be uh deceived by the girl's lies But to set our hearts on things above, on Jesus Christ, our Savior, and also the one who will return as our king. A playboy for those who are discouraged, that you remind them. Your watch care over their lives. Pray for our children and our teens who are so uh tempted by the things of the world. That they receive better things in Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, as a congregation of Christians. to be a counterculture that goes against the flow and that makes Christ, who is the way, the truth, and the light, attractive to a watching world. In his name we pray. Amen. We're going to sing. Ark the Herald, Angel Singh Sit on another grip on that on the mediation rise.