So I'm going to read the chapter, and then we'll go back and we'll it's a big chunk, but we we can cover this. So John telling about this vision. that God disclosed to him says, then I looked and behold, on Mount Zion stood the lamb, and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder The voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps, and they were sing excuse me And they were singing a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb Wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as first fruits for God and the Lamb. And in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless. Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people. And he said with a loud voice, fear God and give him the glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. And worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea, and the springs of water. Another angel, a second, followed, saying, Fallen, fallen as Babylon the grain, she who made the nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality. And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, he also will drink the wine of God's wrath for it full strength into the cup of his anger. And he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever. They had no rest day or night, these worshippers of the beast in its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name. Here's the call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. For their deeds will follow them. Now we'll pick up the rest of this chapter in a little bit. But I want you to imagine yourself as a Christian. A living in the first century in Asia Minor. This is would be present-day Turkey. Remember from chapter 1, or chapter 1, 2, 3, Revelation was written to the seven churches in Asia Minor. So imagine yourself a member of one of these churches, perhaps in Smyrna or Sardis or wherever, and you're struggling And you're a little bit afraid. You're no longer able to make a living because you belong to a trade guild and each guild has its patron God or goddess and sacrifices would be made to this deity and there would be pagan festivals occasionally that would be part of the worship of this deity. And these festivals would involve gross sexual morality. You're a Christian now. You had to get out of that guild, but because of that, you're no longer able to make a living Because you're not a part of these guilds. Imagine also being accused of being a ro being an insurrectionist Because Asia Minor was part of the Roman Empire, and officials would oftentimes call upon citizens to say, Caesar is Lord But you can't say that. That would be worshiping another God. And so you say, I will not bow before Caesar. And then there are all kinds of rumors and gossip circulating about your little church One of the historians, a guy named Tom Holland, talked about these rumors. He said these early Christians were the objects of much prurient gossip. They committed incest. They worshipped the genitals of their elders and bishops. They staged monstrous rituals. involving a tethered dog. They worship a crucified criminal as their Lord And so you live in constant fear that your family or your congregation might be attacked by a mob. But now you're gathered with the congregation on the Lord's Day, and someone in the congregation is reading this This this scroll, this letter that we call the Book of Revelation. And as you listen to it, it gives some perspective to the persecution And the oppression that you're suffering. But this book, of course, is not only written to Christians in the first century. Is written to Christians down through time and around the world. And it should give encouragement to Christians today, right, who live in countries where there's vicious persecution Against believers. But also, this is for us, right? This is for us. We look around, we see some of the uh many of the foundations Of our culture crumbling before our eyes, we see what seems to be in a rational hostility Toward Christianity, toward biblical ethics, and toward Christians themselves. And so I want you to hear what this chapter says. So we're in a section of Revelation begin in chapter twelve, where God pulled back the veil on the earthly conflicts that we face. And we see here, after this, with this veil pulled back, the greater spiritual forces at work in this world. And in this chapter 14. There are three scenes, okay? And you'll notice, or I want you to notice, that each scene is introduced by John saying, speaking of what he saw in this vision. That God gave to him. So look at verse 1. John says, I looked, and behold. And then he talks about what he saw. And then the scene changes in verse 6. I saw another angel. Then you go down to verse 14. He says, I looked and behold, and it goes on to talk about what we what he saw in that vision. But the main thing that got that John sees in these visions is that despite all the turmoil In our lives here in this fallen world, God's throne in heaven is firmly established. And one day, Christians will stand before that throne And the first five verses tell us we're going to be victorious, we're going to be conquerors, and we're going to worship our God face to face. And the second thing we learn in this chapter is that Jesus Christ is going to return. And when he returns, he'll not only redeem his people, but he will judge the world. There will be justice. So there's three sections in this chapter. You'll notice how your Bible has it broken up. And so we're going to take it like that. Verses 1 to 5. The unshakable security of God's people, verses six to thirteen is a warning to the unrepentant. And then verses fourteen to twenty speaks about the certainty of the final judgment. And so verses one to five, the unshakable security of God's people. We're going to spend a lot of our time on this one, less on the others, because it's a big chapter, right? You have to make it I have to make choices here. And so in these first five verses, what did John see? He saw a vision of God's people in heaven. He sees them on Mount Zion. Now there was a Mount Zion in Jerusalem, but that wasn't the true Mount Zion. That was just a copy of the heavenly Mount Zion. We talk about, or they talk about in Hebrews 12, 22. The writer speaks about Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem. And so John is looking at the real Mount Zion. He sees Jesus on his throne. In the end of verse 1 says, he sees 144,000 who have his name And his father's name written on their foreheads. Now, the 144,000, if you ever talk to a Jehovah's Witness, they would say, well, that's a select group of Jehovah Witnesses. If you talk to some Christians or listen to some radio preachers like we had on this morning, we'll say the 144,000 refers to the Jews who are converted during the millennium. But like other numbers in the book of Revelation, this hundred and forty-four thousand is symbolic. You can't say some numbers in Revelation are real and others are symbolic. Some are literal and others are symbolic. They're all symbolic. Right? The seven there's a lot of sevens in Revelation, there's a lot of threes, there's a lot of fours, and there's certainly a lot of twelves. And that's the case here with the a hundred and forty-four thousand And what we've seen again and again is the twelves, right? So you had the twelve tribes of Israel referred to in many passages, then also the twelve apostles, and so that representing the Old Testament believers. New Testament believers, 12 times 12 is 144. Right, you do the math. That's where we gotten the end of our times table. 12 times 12 And then you multiply it by a thousand. Why is that? Well, you go back to chapter seven, verse nine It describes a great multi quote, a great multitude that no one could count. So 144,000 is just describing there's going to be this vast company Of believers before God's throne. Not just 144,000, or they're not the spiritual elite, but rather all believers are numbered in that 144,000. But what I want to ask now is how are they described in these first five verses? And I think I have four things I want to say. The first thing we can say about this 144,000 is that they are a secure people. Back in chapter 7, verses 3 and 4 We read about 144,000. Then it says they were sealed on their foreheads. And we said that was just a symbolic way of saying that God owns them. They belong to God. And because they belong to God, God will protect them. And they're going to make it to the end. And what we see now in chapter 14 is that the 144,000 is a vast company. Have indeed made it to the end. They are before God's throne. They have been glorified. And so all those who are sealed uh are going to make it. There's not going to be one believer who's missing from this great assembly that assembles before the throne of Jesus Christ. And so what are we learning here? What is a Christian in the first century or a Christian in our day, what should we be learning here? God's people are secure. Nothing can separate you from the love of Christ. You will persevere in the faith. Not so much because you have some kind of inner spiritual fortitude. But because God preserves you, if you're resting on Jesus Christ, He will preserve you to the end. Here's a second thing we see about this company. There are worshiping people. Look at the end of the beginning of verse 3. They're singing to God. It says they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures. And before the elders. Why were they singing? They were singing because God gave them the victory It says somewhere in these first five verses, they were conquerors. I forget where it is, but it's somewhere. They were conquerors. They were conquerors in Jesus Christ. You go through the Old Testament and we see God rescuing his people, right? He rescued them or delivered them. From bondage in Egypt. God rescued them from 70 years of captivity in Babylon. God gave them victory in various battles. And whenever God's people were delivered, were rescued by God, they would sing a song of deliverance. So you see in Exodus 15, right after they came out of Egypt, they sang the song of Moses, right? God brought them through the Red Sea in Judges chapter 5, when Deborah uh led the Israelites in victory in battle against their enemies. They sang a song of of uh praise to God. And then you go through the book of Psalms, and many of those Psalms are songs Thanking God for his deliverance, either in uh a battle against Israel's enemies or a personal trial against the personal of someone who who was oppressing that individual. So you have all these rescues in the Old Testament. Excuse me. That point forward to a greater rescue. And the greater rescue is the rescue that we have through Jesus Christ dying on the cross, conquering sin. In granting us faith and repentance in bringing us one day into his presence. And so that's why the people in heaven are Singing this song. That's why when we stand before God's throne, and if you're a Christian, you're going to stand before God's throne and you're going to be a part of this great company of people who are singing God's praise. And it's not something you're going to have to work up within yourself, right, like sometimes we do on Sunday mornings. I have to get myself in the right framework to praise God, but when we see God face to face, when we see Him clearly in all His glory, it's going to be spontaneous. And so Jonathan Edwards, in a sermon he preached on this text, he said, those who see God cannot but praise him. Such a glorious sight will awaken and arouse all the powers of the soul and will irresistibly impel and draw them to acts of praise. We will worship God heartily and with sincerity. And I want you to notice also about this song. This is a song that is only sung by those who've been redeemed. The end of verse three John says, no one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth. And so not even the angels could sing this song. And the reason is that Jesus didn't redeem the angels, right? He redeemed his people. And so only sinners who have been delivered are qualified to worship God in a way that not even the angels can worship God. And so here we see again is that one of the distinguishing marks of those who have been saved by Jesus Christ is that we sing his praises, right? It's inevitable. It is completely fitting that we would do that. And if we don't, if you don't have that desire, you need to step back and say, hey, you know, what what's going on here? Do I not recognize who God is and what He's done for me In our opening hymn, we we say that those refused to sing that never knew our God, but children of the heavenly King, uh May speak their joys abroad. And so this is one of the traits of the Redeemed. We sing God's praise. First trait was we're a secure people. Here's another trait. The redeemed are an ethically upright people. Look at verse 4, just the first part of it. John writes, it is these who have not defiled themselves themselves with women, for they are virgins. Now what's this talking about here? The Roman Catholic Church would use this verse and other verses as a statement to talk about the superiority of celibacy. And the reason that those in the priesthood should remain celibate. So back in the Middle Ages, right, if you're really spiritual You'd become a nun a monk or a nun and you'd be celibate. And you were the more spiritual over those who got married, although they recognize that God designed marriage, right? So, but if you're really spiritual, you won't marry and you'll remain celibate. Now I don't I don't know. I'm sure there's an answer that they give, but in 1 Timothy 4 3 Paul says that one of the depravities that will be introduced in the last days is that the seaful spirits will forbid marriage. And so there's nothing virtuous about not getting married and remaining celibate. Of course, if God calls you to that, that's good and right and virtuous But it's not a higher calling than marriage. And verse 4 describes God's people. So men, women, single, married. He describes them as virgins, not to say that they were all celibate, but to say that they had not defiled themselves by the world, that they had not defiled themselves. By associating with this beast, this world system, this prostitute that's referred to as Babylon. And so when it says in verse four that they not defiled themselves of women, it's just another way of saying what we read in in We read in verse five. In their mouth no lie was found. They are blameless. In other words, he's just saying God's people, when they stand before God's throne, will be an ethically upright people. Here's another trait of the redeemed. Then we'll move on. They're called the first fruits of a great harvest, the first fruits for God and of the land And so what John sees is the first installment of a greater harvest that will come as God's people are translated into his presence. And one day we'll all be in his presence. And so the bottom line then of these first five verses Is that if you're in Jesus Christ, no matter what trials you face right now, your salvation is guaranteed. And there should be some consolation in that, right? Jesus said in John 10, My sheep will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. And so, in other words, uh be of good cheer. You're going to see God, you're going to worship Him one day. So there's an encouragement. to the persecuted church in the first century, to the persecuted church around the world in our day, and even to Christians as sitting here. here this morning. Excuse me. Second point. Like, uh oh, second point. That was a whole sermon. No, we're just getting warmed up here. Um but I will be more succinct. Not not entirely succinct, but but a little more succinct. We have in verses uh six to thirteen a warning to unbelievers. And so we see in this section, three angels issue warnings. to unbelievers. You better wake up. You better watch out. There will be a day of judgment. And you need to turn to Christ. That's what it's telling us. And so the first angel, verses six to seven, warns everybody on earth. Heed the gospel and give God the worship he is rightly due. So I'll read verse 6 and 7. John says, then I saw another angel flying directly overhead with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people. And he said with a loud voice, fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. And so this this summons This warning goes out to every nation, tribe, language, and people. How's it about in our day? Well, it goes out through the scripture, when it's read aloud or when it's read personally. It goes out through the proclamation of the gospel, from the pulpits, and from Personal conversations. It goes out through our the words of Christian parents to their children, okay? And so what is this gospel going out? It is turn to Jesus Christ. Bow before him. Now it's interesting. The Bible is not as nice as most preachers, because when it gives this gospel You know, in our day, we're oftentimes told of God's grace, which is a huge theme in Scripture, right? It's a central theme of the gospel. So it's even good to start with God's grace, right? God giving us what We don't deserve speaking about God's love and God's mercy. But the Bible doesn't only speak in those terms. It does doesn't only hold forth the carrot, but it also uses the stick. In verse 7. The angel said with a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. And so why should you come to Jesus Christ? And we can say, well, there are many positive reasons, right? God made you and he loves you. And you are made to know God. We would say you should come to Jesus Christ because Jesus is the bread of life. And there's no satisfaction outside of him. And only he can feel that hunger in your soul. But also negatively, we see here in else in other places You should come to Jesus Christ because your sin and your rebellion have separated you from God, and you stand liable to his wrath. And so flee to him, right? Flee to wrath. That is to come. And so this first angel issues a warning. Heed the gospel, respond to it, bow before Jesus Christ. The second angel, it gets worse, announces the certain destruction Of the godless world. Look at verse 8. It says another angel followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the grave. excuse me, she who made all the nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality. And so first re first century readers would take this as a prophecy About the fall of the Roman Empire, but more broadly, when the Bible talks about Babylon, you know, think about Babylon in the Old Testament, where Israel went into captivity. uh an idolatrous of moral people. Well Babylon is just a symbolic way of speaking about the seductive nature of the unbelieving world. And it's interesting In verse 8, the angel says, fallen is Babylon the Great. Right? He doesn't say Babylon's going to fall, but rather he says, it is fallen. And the reason it would speak in that tense is because it's to say So certain is the destruction, is the demise of this world system that it can be spoken of as in a complex And then the third angel, he warns unbelievers, repent, or you're you're gonna be damned. Okay, so it gets worse and worse. Verse 9 And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast and its image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand He also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he'll be tormented with fire And sulfur in the place of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. And they have no rest, day or night. These worshipers of the beast, in its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name And so this passage, I probably figured out, this passage is talking about hell. I was reading, somebody said, um, it seems like the doctrine of hell disappeared sometime in the 1960s And I think that's probably true because in the 70s, when there was this movement they called the seeker-sensitive church, where we're trying to make the gospel attractive uh to the world instead of just laying it out there. There wasn't much so much said on about hell as to typically was spoken because the Bible uh speaks about it quite a bit. But you know, here's an example that the Bible doesn't pull any punches uh concerning the doctrine of hell. You go to the end of verse uh the end of verse ten? I see. Yeah the end Let's look at that verse a little more closely, okay? Just a couple comments on it. First of all, hell is described as a place of torment. And so there will be misery. You find the word fire. The word fire is used twenty-one times in the New Testament to speak about hell. And so it's a huge theme. Now we say revelation is full of symbolism. So is the fire symbolic. Perhaps it is, but that should be no comfort, because if it is What the writer's saying is that they're reaching for the most dreadful word they can find and the most dreadful description of hell uh in reach that we could follow uh would be fire. So what it whether it's fire or not, uh we will take no comfort in the fact if it's not a fire Verse 10 also speaks about those who suffer in hell will suffer in the presence of the Lamb, in the presence of Jesus Christ. Now you say, wait a minute, because there are parts of the New Testament that talk about hell as being separated from God. Matthew 25, 41, Jesus said to the unrepentant Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire. That's not about separation. Second Thessalonians 1 9 Paul said that the damned will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord. So there it's saying that we're away from God when we're in hell, and yet in verse 10, it says that those in hell will be in the presence of the Lamb. So how does that fit together? And I think the way we would understand it, and this is uh from John Blanchard, uh he said the separation is not in distance But in relationship. He said the sinner in hell will be in God's presence, but at the same time will be alienated From God. One of the Puritans, John Flable, said this: The worst terrors of the prisoners in hell come from the presence of the Lamb. And so you're not going to be away from Jesus Christ. You're going to be in his presence. And it will be in his holy, wrathful presence, his presence as the judge. And so what do we learn about hell? Well, it's a place of torment. Those in hell will be in the presence of Jesus Christ. And verse 11, it is an eternal misery. And uh of late, uh many theologians have tried to come up with the idea of annihilation, to say, you know what, one day the fire of hell will be extinguished And there will be relief, and they'll give all kinds of reasons. But verse 11 says it's eternal. I'll read it. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest. Day or night, these worshippers of the beast in its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name. And so there is no end. There is no hope for relief in hell. Now, why is this being written of in Revelation, this passage? Well, certainly it's a warning to those who aren't believers, right, to come to Jesus Christ. But also For Christians who suffer horrendous persecution because of their allegiance to Christ It tells them there will be a day of reckoning. And so do not lose heart. Look at verse 12. So then after talking about health, The angel says, Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God, and their faith in Christ Jesus. And so press on. And then it goes on to say in verse 13, even as Christians who are martyred. because of their allegiance to Christ will one day enjoy eternal rest and blessing. Verse 13 John says, I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors for their deeds. Follow them. I'm going to come back to this verse in a couple weeks, but we're going to move on right now. And then just briefly, verses 14 to 20. speaks about the certainty of the final judgment. So it's spoken of as a harvest. You see that in other places in the scripture. Uh uh Matthew chapter three verse twelve. John the Baptist said about this the Sager, his widowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn. But the chaff he will burn he will burn with unquenchable fire. So twofold harvest, right? Jesus will harvest the wheat, then also he will harvest The shack, the shack. And that's the idea we see here in verses 14 and 16. I believe it's talking about the harvest of those who belong to Christ. I'll just read it. John says, Then I looked and behold a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one like a son of man. This is an allusion to Daniel seven verse thirteen to fourteen. He saw one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand, and another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who said So he sat on the cloud and swung his Sickle across the earth and the earth was reaped. And um you know who is this who is is swinging uh this sickle? Uh this one line Like a son of man in verse thir thir verse uh fourteen. And many would say it's Jesus Christ, but it may in fact uh be referring to an angel. Angel uh because he's commanded by another angel in verse fifteen uh to to carry out this harvest. And if it is an angel, well that should be agreeable Matthew 1339. So all right, we're not going to get exercised about that But just an observation there. But the the bottom line is there's there will be this great in-gathering of believers. There will be a great harvest day And then, if you go down to verses 17 to 20, the other side of the harvest is that unbelievers will be harvested, and they're going to be thrown And so this again. Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle. So, okay, so picture it. This angel here comes from the temple in heaven. Heaven. But then there's a second angel, verses 18 and 19. Where does he come from? Another angel came out from the altar the angel who has authority over the fire, and he called with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, put in your sickle and gather the cluster. From the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe. So the angel swung a sipple across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth, and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of the And the wine press was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the wine press, as high as a horse's bridle, for sixty So my question is number done is why is it that while the first angel, verse 17 came out of the temple in heaven, the second angel of judgment came out, verse 18, from the altar. What's going on here Why does John point this out? And I think if you go back to chapter 6, verses 9 to 10 The souls of the martyrs cried out to God. From where? It says, from under the altar. They cried out to God to avenge their Now you come back here to chapter 14, verse 18, and you see their prayers are answered. Their prayers were not a waste of time. God will hear the prayers of his people and he will deliver justice. The stream of events Will not run on forever, but there will be a day of judgment. History will come to an end, and there will be this great separation. And so it's a warning, right, to unbelievers. This this this this chapter is a huge warning to unbelievers to say, hey. Look to Jesus Christ. He loves you. He died for sinners. He invites you to himself. He offers you a great inheritance. So take this take this offer. But it's also this passage uh with this very Severe these very severe warnings to unbelievers are also or should also be a comfort to those who today Because of their allegiance to Christ, are suffering vicious persecution. We don't see what's going on in certain countries in Africa. Africa. We don't see what's taking place in Iran, in Afghanistan, in Vietnam, but we we read some anecdotes, but we don't know all that's Going on. And so we can pray for them. Come, Lord Jesus. But also, you know, there's two groups here. There'll be this harvest of the The wheat and the harvest of the chat of the chat. And the question is, in which group are you? That is the question. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, uh we're thankful for the scripture, uh even uh these very sobering texts But we're thankful for the warning you give us. I pray for anybody here who's not a Christian that they would see that there is one Who rescues them from the wrath to come, and any allegiance that they would have to offer Jesus Christ in this life Will be well rewarded. And I pray also for those who are discouraged by what they see going on in our country, in the world. In their personal lives. Help them, Lord, not to grow weary, but to be steadfast, immovable, and to know that there's labor in the Lord is not in vain. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing uh the final song. Our bulletin. Where did I put that bulletin? Here it is. Okay. So the title Um is come quickly, dread judge of all. So you know what? I mean it's not a happy song, but not everyone. Sunday's happy happy, right? But we want the truth, right? We just don't want warm milk poured over us. Let's stand in sync. Oh quigly congressional Oh and the shadow from the truth will call and call Light inside of the quickly combo sound and fear, life class is all here. Oh greatly come great king of all rain of all in Let's see no more and sorrow I live sin Oh great, we come to life for And never thou thy glory strain will quickly come Light of me through the rain. And we will speak in through Paul with weary watching for the take Oh quickly come for my throne, I his blind known I Amen. Look up, receive the benediction. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole soul, spirit, and body Be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you as faithful, he will surely do it. Amen. But if I um twelve, that I So