Turn to Psalm 14. So we finished the Gospel of Matthew. We're moving on. We're gonna next week, Lord willing, we're gonna start the book of Revelation. uh sort of a challenging book and when you get to chapter six to ver chapter eighteen, but first five chapters should be fine. Even when we get to chapter six, hopefully we'll have a running start and we'll we'll have a handle on what we're doing. Maybe I should be more honest. Maybe I'll have a handle on what I'm doing. We'll we'll we'll have to wait and see. I'm optimistic um that I I can make it. Might kill you, but I'll still be kicking in the end. But this morning as a buffer uh we're going to look at Psalm 14. It's an intriguing Psalm and tell you what I've been wrestling with this psalm for a couple months, trying to figure it out. Um I think I figured it out by God's grace and so we're gonna go through it this morning. I like how it starts with a real punch in the nose The fool says in his heart, did I turn this thing on? I don't know if I turn it on or not. Oh well, okay. If I push it again, I'll mess it up. So It's all it red. Alright. I'm not exactly a technological whiz, so I should not be near this kind of stuff Sorry, Psalm 14. The bull says in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat of my people, as they eat bread, and do not fall upon the Lord? There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion when the Lord restores the fortunes of his people Let Jacob rejoice. Let Israel be glad. This Psalm's interesting. It's somewhat unique because most of the Psalms focus on God. And they focus on the experience of the believer. I mean, there's some of the experience of the believer in this. It is written by a believer by King David. But most of the psalms focus on the believers' worship of God, his prayers, his trials. But the focus of this psalm, and in fact it's duplicated in Psalm 53 The focus of this psalm is on the atheist. And uh it's sort of a surprise compared to what's going on in our or sort of different from our culture. Because in our day the the atheist typically uh enjoys a great deal of respect and social uh cachet, as they say. And he's regarded as an independent thinker, as a man of science, as the person who's willing uh to deal with the facts Uh regardless of how unpleasant those facts may be. Remember an atheist once saying to me, I was trying to say a couple comments about Christianity, and his response was, Well I prefer to dwell in reality. And so that's the atheist. But Psalm 14 disputes this high view of the atheist, and it does so uh rather bluntly. And it serves as a warning to atheists, to militant atheists, uh guys like Richard Dawkins over in England and Uh the late Christopher Hitchens, I think he was British too, very interesting guy. I never spoke a born sentence, but he was a he was a very rabid uh atheist But it also speaks uh perhaps more uh relevantly to the what you know what we would call the practical atheist. Uh this is a person who is not antagonistic uh toward Christianity, uh but he merely uh lives his or her life in a way that does not ex acknowledge the existence of God or the claims of a scripture. And so this is uh the man who or the or the woman who they don't deny God's existence, they just deny his relevance. So this could be the person who lives upstairs in the next apartment. You see them going down the stairway. This could be that nice couple who live who lives next door. They go to work Uh they on the weekends they'll take their kids to soccer, they'll watch a football game on TV and uh for nice folks as neighbors uh but they really have no spiritual inclinations. That's really uh that's really that sector in our culture is growing more and more And this psalm issues a warning to atheists, and it says, Don't be a fool. And I want to say this to our young people. Now I I want you to hear this psalm because we live in a culture where unbelief is in the very air that we breathe. And you almost feel like you're an outlier if you embrace the claims of Scripture. But this psalm is a warning. It's a warning to think through the implications Of denying God's existence. Think that through. And it's also a call to examine. I know it's not explicit, but it's an implied call to examine the claims of Jesus Christ. And so I want our young people, I want you to have your Bible open, I want you to have your nose in it. I want, and of course, I want us to think about this. Now, I said I wrestled with this psalm for a couple months, and the challenge of Psalm 14 is that it's hard to discern a structure. And whenever you deal with a passage of scripture, if you could figure out the structure of that passage about how one thought leads to the next, a logical connection Then it's easier to understand uh what what what the big pic the big messages and also the sub-messages that fit under that But I could not figure it out. And and the commentators, uh, they I don't think they I haven't found a commentator that's figured out either. But the way we can approach it, uh it still gives us a handle on it This psalm identifies three characteristics of atheists: their ignorance, their iniquity, and their intolerance. So that's the first of all, and this is where we're going to park most of our time. The first thing it says about the atheist, it speaks of his ignorance. Now this is a little turning things upside down because right in our world uh it's the atheists who are considered the enlightened ones And it's the Christians who are often pasted as being hate hasties. But Psalm 1 turns that on its head And the psalmist, King David, calls the atheist a bull. Now, this assessment doesn't come from some religious crank But rather, this is the considered judgment of the God of the universe, the atheist or the agnostic The person who denies the existence of God, who says God cannot be known if he's out there, God says that person is a fool. I made a couple comments in the beginning where I said, you know what? That's not how your e average atheist views himself. There's a Canadian philosopher by the name of Charles Taylor who elaborates on this. He has written that atheism In our day is viewed as the stanza of maturity, of courage, of manliness, over against childish fears and sentimentality. He said the convert to unbelief, the convert you know from belief and for for example, Christianity, to unbelief, the convert to unbelief Want to give the impression that it was the scientific evidence that was doing the hard work. And so he'll say, science has led me to reject Christianity. But Taylor goes on to say that you know what? In most cases, the belief such persons have converted from has usually been an immat an immature Sunday schoolish faith that could be easily toppled So while such converts on belief tell themselves stories about growing up and facing reality, thus paint belief as essentially immature and childish Their testimony betrays the simplistic shape of the faith that they've abandoned that they've abandoned. And Romans 122 said the same thing. It said, claiming to be wise, they became fools. And you see this, for example, in a guy like Richard Dawkins, you know, he was asked, well, how do you explain the origin of life? And his he suggests that, well, you know, I think aliens came and they put the seeds of life on Earth. So this great British biologist He says, well, life came from aliens. Well that requires something of a leaf of faith. That's not a leap that any Christian uh would be willing to make. And so claiming to be wise, he became a fool. And so the first characteristic of the atheist is his ignorance. Look at verse 2. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man. To see if there are any who understand. They don't understand. Verse 4 rhetorically asks, Have they no knowledge? And so what we're saying, and we saw this in Romans 1, is that the atheist rejects the overwhelming evidence that God has provided of his existence. And you might say, well what evidence? Well here's we're gonna go down a little side road, okay? We're just gonna make a list of some things that we would say Here are lines of evidence that point to the existence of the God of the Bible. We're going to look at three lines. We'll look at creation We'll look at the scripture, and then we'll look at the third line, which is the resurrection of Christ. We talked about that recently. And so we would say, a Christian would say, creation points to the existence of God. So down at University of North Carolina we lived about forty minutes from there when we were in North Carolina Inscribed over the entrance to the planetarium is Psalm 19:1. The heavens declare the glory of God. The sky above proclaims his handiwork. So creation itself is a testimony to the existence of God. That's what we read in Romans 1 verse 20. Paul said, God's invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. And so everything you see all about you uh bears testimony To the fact that there is a creator, and it says something about his majesty, his intelligence, uh, his order, and so on Uh you you could you know read about how large the universe is and how all the planets are are in motion according to certain laws, and you'd recognize the vastness. And the intricacy of the universe points to uh the fact that there is a governor of this universe. And you go outside on a day like this and you recognize a delightful uh spectrum of flowers and trees and uh animals and and then uh also just a delightful array of people right from all over the world uh different backgrounds, different personalities, and uh the geography. And this too uh bears testimony to a creator Consider, you know, those who are biologists, they would talk about the irreducible complexity of the biochemical processes in the in the human in in the human beings. And Th there's no way that these processes could have been formed gradually, as the evolutionists would say. And then you think about the moral compass that God has placed within every person. Across cultures, you know, down through time, people have a sense that certain things are right and certain things are wrong, and there's a uniformity uh across across cultures about uh these more these moral inclinations. How do we explain that? The only reasonable explanation Is that the God of Scripture made this universe? But still, that's just a big picture. That's not enough to bring someone to saving faith in Christ. And so God has revealed Himself not only through the big book of creation, but through the little book of Scripture And so we put on, you might say, the spectacles of Scripture, so that we can recognize uh this creation and who who made it. And so I say, and I've said this before, this is familiar territory I say the Bible points to God's existence. Why do I say that? Well I I one thing I say, and I said this before Is that the Bible is self-authenticating, right? Before Easter, we were talking about some of the predictive prophecies and their fulfillment in the New Testament. Passages like Psalm 22 or Isaiah 53 And how they're fulfilled. We talked about the unity of the scripture, right? Sixty-six books written by forty authors from various cultures Written in three different languages, and yet from Genesis to Revelation, we have this one unfolding story of God's plan to redeem for Himself His people through the sending of a Savior. And so there's a progressive nature to Scripture, and it doesn't contradict itself. Rather, it unfolds in the grand theme and all the sub-themes, there's a consistency And something else that I would say, and many people have been converted to Christ just through reading the Bible Because they realize the Bible knows you better than you know yourself. And when I struggle with questions and with unbelief and I start having doubts I read the Bible, and I can't explain this, how this book, what, 2,000 years old? Parts of it older? This book has my number every time, right? Matthew 5 to 7. Read the Sermon on the Mount. How do you explain that? Well, it's from God, and that's why Hebrews 4:12, the writer says The Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And so young people, you say, I don't know if this stuff if this stuff is true. You know, my parents have taken me to church for years. Well what do you do? Well you don't just act like a skeptic, but you need to open the scripture and wrestle with it and stay with it day after day Another evidence of the self-authenticating, self-validating character of the Bible, it's real simple. It works You know, even though it was written hundreds of years ago, the principles for marriage and relationships and dealing with your money and dealing with other people It all works. So Jesus in John sevens John chapter seven, verse seventeen said, if anyone's will is to do God's will. He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. Did you hear that? He says, listen, if you want to know if this is from God, just start acting on it, and it'll come back from behind, it'll sneak up from behind, and it'll validate itself. And you say, whoa! That makes sense. This stuff works. And so what I'm doing is I'm talking to the atheist, but I'm also talking to the Christian because we all struggle, right? Is this stuff true And I'm reviewing what are some lines of evidence that would point to the reality of God as He's revealed in Scripture? And I say, well consider creation. That bears testimony to God. Consider the scripture. That too bears testimony to God Then was it Easter or the week before Easter we were talking about uh Jesus' resurrection and and the talked about the evidence for the resurrection, how the disciples they went into hiding when Jesus was crucified Then s suddenly they become these fearless evangelists. They go out in Jerusalem, they preach. You have the Apostle Paul, this uh vicious persecutor of Christians In an instant, he becomes this great, zealous Christian evangelist who gave his life for the gospel You have this tomb that was guarded by Roman soldiers. It's empty. Nobody can produce the body to stop these rumors of a resurrection that was going around through Jerusalem. And we'd say, well, the only explanation we can find is that he r Jesus really did rise from the grave, and if he didn't rise from the grave, how was it that the first Christians who were Jewish changed? The day of worship and rest, the Sabbath, from the seventh day to the first day. This is one of the institutions Of Judaism observed for hundreds of years, a couple thousand years, and yet there was a sudden change in the day of the Sabbath. And so the psalmist, you know what I'm still on the first point? I don't know if you realize that. The first point, the psalmist talks about the atheist ignorance. And this all points to the fact or to the truth that no matter how learned someone may be Uh if he doesn't recognize the God of Scripture, he is ignorant. He has not worked through the implications of his atheism And he hasn't really seriously considered the claims of Scripture. Now that's not me saying that, that's the psalmist. He talks about the atheist ignorance. Then he talks secondly about his sin, his iniquity. And so you find this in the end of verse 1 down to verse 3. You find a statement about the universality of sin. And this isn't just talking about the atheists, of course, this talks about everybody. There's not one of us who has not been corrupted by sin. So look at the end of verse one David says, They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one Now, we're not going to turn there, but in Romans chapter 3, verse 10 to 12, Paul quotes this psalm. He brings a couple other scriptures in, but he Quotes this section in Romans 3 as a testament to the universal character of human sinfulness. Now here's a connection. Here, this is my understanding how to next. Here we find the reason for unbelief The reason that people don't believe, the reason smart people don't believe, the reason well the reason people don't believe Is not because God has failed to provide sufficient evidence of his existence, but the reason people don't believe is because of their sin. Jesus said something similar in John 3. 19. You know, here Jesus Christ is is doing miracles and he's teaching and uh he's doing great works and many believed but many did not why was that Well Jesus said in John 3. 19, Light has come into the world, and the people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. So there's this light, a revelation of God in Jesus Christ, but they didn't want anything to do that, do with him. They love the darkness. Because their hearts were sinful. Ephesians 4. 18 says something similar. You might want to look this one up because this one isn't as familiar. Ephesians 4. 18. Paul speaking about unbelievers says they are darkened in their understanding alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, but then it says, do to their hardness of heart. So what's he saying? The reason that people don't recognize that there's a God, the reason their understanding is darkened Is because of their hardness of heart. In other words, the root of their unbelief is not intellectual, the root of their unbelief is moral. And so when a person says there is no God, the Bible's assessment of that statement is not merely that this person is might be sincere, but is misguided But the Bible's assessment of that person's unbelief is that it's an act of rebellion against God. That's what it is at the heart. And um this is even hinted at in verse one of our psalm. Uh the word, you know, David said, calls this man a fool And the behind this Hebrew word is the word Nabal. Remember the story of Abigail and Nabal and uh 1 Samuel 25? Well, this word Nabal, one of the uh Hebrew scholar Derek Kidner said, is a word which implies an aggressive perversity. And so when the Bible talks about the fool, it's talking about someone who is antagonistic toward God And toward his law. And it's interesting, you might go home and read the story about Nabal and he uh 1 Samuel 25. And you'll see, yeah, that guy was rightly named because he was a brutish fool. And so why don't people believe uh God has made himself known, but they're in rebellion against God, but in the end of the day It's because Satan has blinded them. 2 Corinthians 4. 4, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers. to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. And so in the end of the day, it's a spiritual issue Right. Why is it that you now believe in Christianity whereas years ago you didn't? What was it? Was it that you're wiser, that you're more intelligent, uh that you have some kind of spiritual spark within you that the next guy didn't have? And we would say, no, that's us, right? We were rebellious, we were blind, but God, through his grace, opened our eyes. That's what Christian conversion is. You be you suddenly see these things. You know, I remember a girl who was converted, uh she was a German exchange student. And we were doing Bible studies in Sunday school, and then we had a Tuesday night Bible study uh with the college kids. This was in another church. And she came to on Tuesday night, she came to Bible study, and she said, I became a Christian. Just a couple days ago. She said, I became a Christian. It's like now I get it. All this stuff fits together. So God opened her eyes. That's what happens when someone becomes a Christian. God it uh uh second Corinthian second Corinthians three fourteen, Paul said, Only through Christ is the veil taken away. And so this is why we pray for our friends and our loved ones who are not yet Christians, right? Right, Lord Take away the veil. Remove the blinders like you did for me. I was blind. I was lost, right? You were gracious to me. Please be gracious to them. Open their eyes to see We continue to have conversations and hopefully if they're open to talking about these things. We encourage them to read scripture, encourage them to come to church. But we pray in the end of the day, Lord, you have to open that person's eyes to see. And it's only by your grace. So the atheist's ignorance, the atheist's iniquity, and then briefly, uh the atheist intolerance. Three eyes. I'm in a Baptist church, so I thought I should alliterate uh my points, right? So the Presbyterian Church won't worry about this. But the the atheist that was a joke, at least the Baptist in the front is out laughing, so he gets it. Okay. His intolerance. We see this in verse 4. They devour the people of God. Where is that? Verse 4. Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers? Then it says, Who eat up my people as they eat bread And so the atheist uh stance toward God's people is to desire to devour them As uh you might a starving person might devour a loaf of bread. And uh it's interesting, you know The typical thing you hear uh from atheists is that religious people are intolerant. And there certainly have been uh severe acts or or great acts of religious intolerance down through history. So we don't deny that, but I think the real story of history is the monstrous intolerance that has been perpetrated by unbelievers Against uh people of various religions. So you had Hitler, an atheist, right, an unbeliever. He killed 12 million, six million Jews. He allowed three million Russian POWs to die, and add on to that another three million civilians. Not to mention, of course, all the casualties, the hundreds of thousands of casualties In World War II. Then the dictator of China, Mao Zedong, killed some 77 million, Stalin, 20 million. A guy named Rudolf Rommel who wrote a book, Death by Government, and he estimates that communism, right, a distinctively atheist philosophy Between 1900 and 1987 killed 110 million people. Then you have in China today. You have a little Muslim ethnic mini minority uh not little but the Uyghur people who are uh for all practical purposes in prison camps a million of these people In uh prison camps, uh forced labor, women forcibly sterilized, uh even the government harvesting the organs of these people some while they're still alive Why isn't this on the news? You know, why isn't Nike, Nike in uh Disney uh calling out for some kind of social justice in China? I mean th these these are horrendous things being perpetuated uh by unbelieving governments And in our country, is it really the Christians who are intolerant who are intolerant? And I would say, I don't see that. I mean, we're not telling people to do what we do or believe like we believe. We just want to live our lives, right? But it's the atheists who are shutting down these Christian uh wedding venues. I think there was one in Cape May, New Jersey. And they're the atheists want to shut them down. They want to take these Christian bakers to the court If they won't uh condone same-sex marriage. And it's the unbelievers who are against school choice, right? P parents of all persuasions are just saying, just let us educate our kids according to the dictates of our conscience. Don't make us send our kids. to schools without we where we disagree with their philosophy. But atheists would have none of that. So Richard Dawkins, he's That Christian parents should be forbidden from telling their children about Jesus on the grounds of his child abuse. But, you know, I don't think we're intolerant. We just want to conduct our business. We just want to educate our kids. We just want to uh worship God. According to the dictates of our conscience, and just leave us alone. And you do what you want, we'll do what we want, we'll have good conversations, we'll be friends, and we're not going to say you're bad people, but we just disagree with you. Well there you have it. So what do we do? How d how should the believer respond uh to the atheist? Well of course we should we should respond with love and We care and compassion, and we should also call out to God. And that's what the Psalmist does in verse seven He called out, he said, Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. What is he talking about? Well Zion was the mountain in Jerusalem on which the temple sat, right? Well it was the mountain which mountain on which Jerusalem sat. And there sat also the temple, and the temple was God's dwelling place. And now it's interesting, well, why are we calling to Jerusalem? Well that was just an object lesson, the temple in Jerusalem. Hebrews 12, verse 22, says that Mount Zion represents God's throne in heaven. And that's where Jesus Christ is seated at the Father's right hand. And so what's the lesson for us in verse 7? The lesson for us, then, is that we need to call out to God. He's the great sovereign. He's the ruler of all things. Call out to God to bring revival, a spiritual revival to our nation And also, we want to continue to call out to God to bring our unbelieving friends and neighbors to Jesus Christ. And it does happen. I was reading about Francis Collins. You ever hear that guy? He was the head of the Human Genome Project back in the nineteen nineties, very uh respected uh geneticist and then uh and now he's a director of the uh NIH the uh National Institute of Health uh down the road but he said that in in his uh academic days He said I was an obnoxious atheist. And uh he said I viewed science as having all the answers. Then he said when he was in medical school he would minister to people who were suffering Suffering and and dying, and they would bear testimony to their faith in Christ. And he said one lady challenged him about his own beliefs, and she encouraged him to read C. S. Lewis' little book mere Christianity. And Francis Collins said that within this within the first three pages, I realized that my arguments against faith were those of a schoolboy. And he saw that there was no law in science, and there's not any law in science, uh, that could adequately explain the existence of morality. In other words, that people have this moral sense, a moral compass within their hearts. And then he realized, you know what, there's there's nothing in science that can really explain Explain the beauty and the intricacy of the physical creation And he said I was hiking in the Cascade Mountains on a beautiful fall afternoon. I turned the corner and saw in front of me this frozen waterfall a couple hundred feet high And at that moment, I felt my resistance leave me. And it was a great sense of relief. The next morning, in the dewy grass in the shadow of the Cascades, I fell on my knees and accepted this truth, that God is God, and that Christ is his Son, and that I'm giving my life to that belief. And so we call out to God because God's still bringing people from unbelief to belief. But I just want to say one more thing to our young people Yeah, in our day, secularism, unbelief, atheism enjoys a lot of prestige. But we see here it's blind and it offers no hope. It's intellectually hollow and It's an act of rebellion against God. And so I want to say to our young people go against the flow Just don't go along with everything you hear and what everybody else is saying or thinking. Go against the flow. Wrestle with the scripture And pray, Lord, you know, show me this. Allow me to see. Okay? Let's bow our heads. Lord God, we all struggle with unbelief to various degrees. We pray, Lord, we do believe, but help our unbelief We pray that we would be have our convictions strengthened by the testimony of Scripture. We pray for those who are not Christians. That you would help them to search these things out and to come to a firm and settled recognition that Jesus Christ is God, He died for sinners. He's the way that we're made right with him. We pray, Lord, also that we be gracious and wise and winsome toward our unbelieving friends. We pray you'd use us, Lord. And work in them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, let us sing song number 125. The title is Let All Things Now Living. And it says in a nutshell, give recognition to God who made them. To God Nathor Shalaya Pasha made us rotable Who God does the end of our days It is banners, his night goes before us Slava feel by shining for alone. Two shadows are bad as dark and As for what we traveled from light into light. His block me forces a számi szólné. Shine the pools and mountains, the rivers and mountains. The deep from the ocean divine. We choose your voicing our love and rejoicings. We adoration. To God in our praise. Receive now the benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you, be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you. UPs AM.