Let's turn then to Revelation 18. So we're marching through Revelation. We'll take a couple weeks off, look at some uh passages on the incarnation In the next couple weeks, and we'll return to Revelation in January. But we began uh well last week we looked at the beginning in chapter 17 of the description of Babylon. I said Babylon is just a symbol, a personification not personification, but a symbol of the corrupt world system. They chose the word Babylon, right? Because Babylon was Israel's historic pagan So that's why when uh John speaks about uh Babylon, he or that's why he chooses that uh nation. is is more of a general term though, for the world opposed to Jesus Christ. If you looked at her description in chapter seventeen, now in chapter eighteen We have more of a statement of her doom, of her judgment. So I'm going to read just to start the first eight, the first eight verses And then we'll finish out uh the chapter in a little bit. So John writes about what this angel saw showed him. He says, After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was made bright with his glory. And he called out with a mighty voice Fallen, fallen is Babylon the grave. She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit. A font for every unclean bird, a font for every unclean and detestable beast. For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality And the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues, for her sins are heaped high as heaven. And God has remembered her iniquities. Pay her back as she herself has paid back others, and repay her double for her deeds. Mix a double portion for her in the cup she mixed. As she glorified herself and lived in luxury So give her a like measure of torment and mourning. Since in her heart she says, I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see. For this reason, her plagues will come in a single day, death and mourning and famine. And she shall be burned up with fire, for mighty is the Lord God who has judged her. Now you're you probably remember last week I said, you know what, we'll take chapters 17 to 22. They're really a section And they describe what we could call a tale of two cities, right? Jerusalem stands for God's people, the church. And so the church is not only likened to Jerusalem, but then Jerusalem is likened to the bride, the bride of Jesus Christ. Chapter 21, verse 2. For example, John said, I saw a holy city, New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. Then it says, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband So there's the people of God, Jerusalem, the bride, and then we also see Babylon, which as I said stands for the corrupt world. And that's why in chapter 17 In ver chapter 18, she's also likened to not to a bride, but to a prostitute. She's coarse, she's brazen, she's materialistic. And she hates God's people. In chapter 18, we're reading about the final judgment, the final destruction of Babylon the destruction of godless humanity that opposes Jesus Christ. Now, we remember, right? Revelation, it wasn't written in a vacuum. It was written to seven churches in Asia Minor. They were part of the Roman Empire. And so when they read of Babylon They understood that it was speaking in their day of the Roman Empire. And the impending fall of Rome was indeed the first installment of God's judgment on the kingdom of man. But uh it speaks more uh not only of Rome but really of the entire world system that opposes Jesus Christ. And you have these prophecies from like Jeremiah, Isaiah, Ezekiel. To say, you know what, even the judgments in the Old Testament point forward to the final judgment on the world that stands in opposition to Jesus. So, whoa, okay. You alright? You know when I first wrote out the title of this sermon, I I titled it, The World Will Be Destroyed and Why It Should Matter to You. It was a little long for the bulletin. And also, you know what? It's the advent season. So I thought maybe something snappier. Uh the day of doom. So there you go. But what do you do? I mean I didn't write the Bible, I'm just saying here's what it says. And this is a lament This is a lament over the destruction of the godless world. But it's not meant ultimately to discourage, but to comfort. Think about the Christians in the first century, right? They were saying, if you don't bow before Caesar You will not be able to practice your trade and make a living. If you do not participate in the pagan temple festivals, you will be kicked out of your trade guild. And so there were these great injustices. People were being martyred, right? Remember chapter 6, verse 11 or so? The martyrs were crying out, Lord, how long? Before you avenge our deaths, well here's the happy answer there will be justice in the world, right? The stream of history Will not go on forever. Wickedness, corruption, injustice will not go unanswered In one day, you know, unless people repent, there will be destruction. God will destroy those who are aligned against Jesus Christ. So if you want to see how the chapter uh is structured, the first eight verses which we read is an announcement of Babylon's destruction. Then verse 9 to 20 are laments of the godless over Babylon's destruction. And we'll read that in a little bit. But what we want to do then is just ask the question: what does this passage teach us about the destruction? The coming destruction of the godless world. The destruction that you will one day witness. Probably not on earth, but from heaven. This is going to happen in history. And so we're going to get a picture of here's our here's a picture of things to come. And the first thing I want to point out this passage is that it speaks with certainty about Babylon's coming destruction. Okay? So here we are talking about the end of the world. Seems like Strange place, Presbyterian church. You think an end some guy, a wild owl man wild eyed man with unkempt hair, maybe standing on a street corner with a placard. The end is near, right Uh Presbyterian Church. I'm a Presbyterian pastor, and I'm dignified, I'm sober, a little boring at times. Uh this is not the kind of thing that Presbyterians would talk about. Well of course it is, right? Because uh this This is in the Bible. So we join hands uh or we join arms uh even with some some crazy guy who's standing on a street corner because the Bible teaches History is not just going to go on forever as it's always been going on. And the Bible also says It told us ahead of time that there are people out there who will deny that there's a God and that He's going to judge the world. Remember 2 Peter chapter 3 verse uh verse 3 and 4. Peter warned. He said, Stoppers will come in the last days and will say, Where's the promise of his coming? Go down to verse 10 Peter says, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief, then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. Well that's what this chapter in Revelation is talking about. In fact, so certain, so certain is Revelation's doom that there are places in this passage Where the angel speaks in the past tense so as to say, you can bank on this. You can look at the destruction of the of the godless world as an accomplished Fact. Look at verse 2. The angel called out, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place of demons. Again, verse 10. Alas, you great city, you mighty city Babylon, for in a single hour your judgment has come. Verse 17. In a single hour all this wealth has been laid waste. Verse twenty. Then he says to the believers, Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets For God has given judgment for you against her. So the first thing we see in this passage is the absolute certainty that Babylon, that the world system, Will one day be judged by God. Then we have, second, the reasons that God gives for the destruction of Babylon We have to say, we have to qualify it a little bit because the world's a wonderful place, right? People are made in God's image Believers and unbelievers have many commendable uh qualities, and so the world's not as bad as it could be. Um and there and the world's not I mean the world's fallen But there's still beauty, there's still truth, there are still noble things taking place, there are charitable things that take place. So we understand all that, but nonetheless Apart from the work of Jesus Christ, the world is at its core corrupt And in these verses, we could summarize the sickness of the world under four heads. The world is demonic The world is defiled, the world is dissipated, and the world is proud. Okay? So let's just go through these four heads. We'll look at some verses. First of all, this passage says that the world is demonic. Look at the end of verse 2. The angel said of Babylon, she has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit. Now that's rather strong language, right? I mean usually we say the world is misguided, uh the world is ignorant, uh the world is sinful But this passage goes so far as to say that the world is demonic. And uh right, uh 2 Corinthians 4, 4 Paul said, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers. How else do we explain history, right? How do you explain? Hitler's concentration camps or Stalin's gulags or uh Polpas killing fields. How do you explain the the The wicked, the wicked abuse that children suffer under some people. How to explain some guy taking his SUV and mowing through a Christmas parade A Christmas freight in Wisconsin. How do you explain human irrationality? Very educated people, psychologists telling little boys Maybe you're a girl telling little girls. Maybe you're a boy. These are highly educated people. These are knowledgeable people. How to explain what what was in the newspaper last week about the Fairfax County Schools system. They they're they're justifying the presence of books in school libraries uh that promote pedophilia. Complete with with uh with photo w with with illustrations. How do you explain these things Here it is. Or think about Jesus' words in one of the parables. He said, An enemy has done this. And so the first thing we recognize about the world system. Is that at its heart, it is under the authority, I shouldn't say the authority, it is under the influence of Satan The Bible says Babylon is demonic, despite all the good. Second thing we see in this verse. Babylon is defiled. Look at the end of verse 2. She is called a haunt. For every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast. And um, you know, you turn on the TV or things on the internet, things that young people are exposed to, that teenagers spend time reading or or viewing. What is this? It's a haunt for every unclean spirit. I was reading something about Detroit and I realized this in in nineteen sixty Detroit had the highest per capita income of any city in our nation. It was the fifth largest city. Today, it's crime-ridden, abandoned, it's an economic basket case, and it's been so widely deserted that many of its neighborhoods Have been overrun by coyotes. What happened there? Well, the nineteen sixties, that's what happened. With these very uh militantly secular uh public policies that uh foster the breakdown of families. Uh the Bible was no longer taught allowed to be taught in the schools. Uh Little League sports took more and more root, right? So Sunday, I remember when I was a kid on Sunday, I went to the Little League football game, not to uh Um not the church, uh NFL in the nineteen sixties, right? NFL became huge uh as far as the TV presence on Sundays. They didn't think the NFL would survive when they said the we have to play on Sundays because college was on Saturday, they couldn't compete with that. They said, we can't survive. We can't compete with the culture with church. Well they they've done a fine job, right? Then in the sixties, what else was there? And we can make a list and that's when it all not that's not when it all began But that's when it all uh picked up steam. And so Babylon is not only demonic, Babylon is defiled. And then they say with the D's, at least for one more point, we'd say Babylon is dissipated in that she indulges in sex and drink without restraint. You know, look at verse three. I mean This could you could peel this off and make this a mission statement for Hollywood. All the nations all the nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality And so right Madison Avenue in Hollywood has exported her sexual immorality to all the nations. So uh Babylon's demonic is defiled is dissipated And in all this, there's not the least sense of regret or remorse. She's proud. Look at the end of verse 7. In her heart she says, I sit as a queen I am no widow, in mourning I shall never see. So there you just have a sampling of the reasons for Babylon's coming destruction. And we live in Babylon. We live in this culture. And so what is the call to God's people? Point three, God calls believers to flee Babylon. So another voice from heaven calls these believers to run from the allurements, from the seductions. Look at verse 4, echoing what we read in Jeremiah 51 Verse 4, John says, I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues. So this is interesting. Here's a call for separation. And we need to wrestle with this a little bit because the Bible says a couple things that l that should lead us to qualify this call. But first of all, let's look at similar calls throughout the Old and New Testaments. Isaiah fifty two verse eleven. God saying, speaking to the people of Israel who are in Babylon, says, depart, depart, go out from her. Touch no unclean thing, go out from the midst of her, purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the Lord. Same thing in Jeremiah 51. Three times there was that command to flee Babylon. Turn over to the New Testament. Ephesians 5. 11. Paul says to Christians. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness. And then uh Second Corinthians chapter six verse chapter six verse fourteen. Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, right? In your business partnerships or in your marriage relationships. Second Corinthians six Again Paul says to these Christians, go out from their midst and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing. So very clear statements about separation and there are fundamentalist uh groups That look at these statements and say, yeah, I should not associate in any way with the wickedness of the world. And they try to avoid it. They separate themselves But then you have to wrestle a little bit because Jesus and the scriptures also call us to associate, to interact with the world, right? And Jesus right He said you need to be in the world but not of it. Don't take them out. Just keep them from drinking the world. Or even in the Old Testament, when the Jews were in exile in Babylon, God instructed them To settle down amongst your pagan neighbors. Jeremiah 29. So even in the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah 29, verse 5, for example. God told the Israelites in Babylon, he said, build houses and live in them, plant gardens, and eat their produce. Get on to verse 7. Seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. Then of course Jesus ate with the tax collectors and sinners. And I think the real punch in the nose is in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 9 to 11. Where Paul says to Christians, he's talking to them about disciplining immoral people in the church, but then he qualifies it. He says, don't associate with a Christian who commits gross immorality and then will not repent. Okay? But then he qualifies. He says in 1 Corinthians 5. 9, he says, I wrote to you my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the sexually immoral people of this world were the greedy and swindlers or idolaters. Since then You need to go out of the world. So he's saying, yeah, you need to interact with unbelievers, right? You need to you need to be salt and you need You need to be light to them, you need to love them, right? You were once blind and dead and uh in your sins, and God had mercy on you So of course uh we need to be amongst people so we can point them to Christ. We cannot isolate ourselves In the world. Think about a Scottish pastor named William Still. He died back in the 90s. But he he said he excoriated Christians for the I for their isolationist tendencies. He said all sorts of exclusive Christian pleasures are unhealthy inasmuch as they breed prigs, boars, and evangelical sissies. Well we don't want anybody to call us a prick or a bore or an evangelical sissy, right? So we we want we want to have the right balance here. Um but we don't want to jump into the cesspool either like some Christians do, and they under the fig leaf of saying that they're engaging the culture. And so we need to exercise wisdom and this is this is where we need to think seriously about this and I think each person has to uh think this through. Certainly there are really clear areas, right? Uh I don't want I don't want to drink the culture. I don't want to I don't wanna take in it's foul movies or shows or music or uh websites. Uh that's that's pretty clear. Uh as a parent, and I can say this I have a kid in uh one of her kids in public school, uh not without regrets, but man, things things going on out there, it it's pretty bad, right? The Marxism the the the gender confusion that's not only tolerated but being promoted uh the very militant secularism. So we need to as parents we need to think these things through. And usually for most Parents is like, well there's not a good option or but what's the least worst option for my kid in my situation? But it it is not it is not looking it is not not looking good. It it is not good uh in many public schools. And so how can I be in the world but not of the world? Because we do have, we cannot minimize the command here uh to flee babylon. Uh this is not just some theological principle, but something we have to say. How can how how do we apply this? Well let's go on. We're getting near the end. And um the the fourth point is the justice of Babylon's destruction. Remember this is given to tell Christians, and think about Christians right now in other countries. who are being tortured, who are in prison, or who are having their churches bulldozed. Here's a statement to them. There will be justice one day. And um when you think about punishment in the Bible, there it's given for different purposes. Sometimes it's given to deter, as in 1 Timothy 520. Sometimes it's given to chasten and to bring about reform. Hebrews 12, 5 and 6, you know, he punishes us for our good, to discipline us. But there's another purpose to punishment oftentimes, and that is just merely to administer justice. to show that there is a difference between right and wrong. And if you're not in Jesus Christ, if he didn't take the justice you deserve, then you're going to face it. yourself. And that's what the final judgment is about. It's not to reform, it's not to deter, but it's merely to exact retribution for those whose sins, against those whose sins are not covered. Verse six, here it is. The angel says about Babylon, pay back as she herself has paid back others. So that's what the final judgment is. It's payback. It might sound childish, but that's not the case here. Repay her double for her deeds. Mix a double portion for her in the cup she mixed. Now when it says, if you let's look at verse 6 a little more closely, when verse 6 says that Badlin will be paid back double for her deeds, It's not saying that her punishment will be twice as severe as her deeds. It's not saying that the punishment will exceed the crime. But verse six would be better translated. Give her back a duplicate of her deeds. In the cup which she has mixed, mixed an equivalent for her to drink. This verse is saying that her judgment will be the duplicate that exactly corresponds to the severity of her offenses Now, if you look at verse 7, you go, oh, yeah, that's exactly what verse 7 is saying. Look at verse 7. As she glorified herself and lived in luxury. So give her what? A light measure of torment and mourning. And so yeah. And so there will be justice in the end. And then just to end on an even more um grave note, the fifth point I want to point out from this passage the finality of Babylon's destruction. It'll be sudden. It will be unexpected. Look at verse 8. Says, for this reason her plagues will come in a single day. Look at verse um ten. Alas, alas, you great city, you mighty city Babylon, in a single hour your judgment has come. And it'll be not only sudden and unexpected, but it'll be thorough. The end of verse 8 says, she will be burned up with fire. But then there will also be great laments over the end of this world, the over the destruction of the godless world. And so in verses nine to twenty, I'm just going to read it out, the read through. And we see in these verses the lament that will be expressed by the kings, by the merchants, by the navigators, by the sailors, by the great ones, by the mighty ones, by the beautiful ones who rejected Jesus Christ. Verse nine. And the kings of the earth who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her will weep and wail over her. When they see the smoke of her burning, they will stand far off in fear of her torment and say, Alas, alas, you great city, you mighty city Babylon For in a single hour your judgment has come. And when the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, excuse me, in the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her Since no one buys their cargo anymore, cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple silk Purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble Cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors are lost to you, never to be found again. The merchants of these wares who gain well from her will stand far off in fear of her torment, weeping and mourning aloud. Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, with jewels and with pearls, for in a single hour all this wealth has been laid waste And all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors, and all whose trade is in the sea, stood far off and cried out as they saw the smoke of her burning What city was like the great city? And they threw dust on their heads as they wept and mourned, crying out, Alas, alas! For the great city, where all had ships at sea, grew rich by her wealth, for in a single hour she has been laid waste. But then he says to God's people, Remember the martyrs and those who were suffering He says, Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, for God has given judgment for you against her. And so every last fiber of this world system will be destroyed. And then in the final verses, verses 20 Just to underline the thorough and irrevocable character of Babylon's destruction We read about Babylon being thrown into the sea like a millstone, and that's a reference to Jeremiah fifty-one verse sixty. But look at twenty-one. Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying So will Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence, and it will be found no more. So we're going to read it through, and you'll see this refrain. It'll be no more. Look at verse 22. And the sound of harpists and musicians, of flute players, and trumpeters Will be heard in you no more. And the craftsman of any craft will be of any craft will be found in you no more. And the sound of the mill will be heard in you no more. And the light of a lamp will shine in you no more, and the voice of bridegroom and bride will be heard in you no more. For your merchants were the great ones of the earth, and all the nations were deceived by your sorcery, and in her was found the blood of prophets and saints, and of all who have been slain. And so because of that, she will suffer God's wrath. And so that's the city of man, the city of Babylon. But after the corrupt world is destroyed, we're gonna pick this up in January. Of course, we'll come back to chapter nine. But I even if you skip ahead to just uh a couple verses in chapter twenty-one, the first five verses That's not the end. Because after the destruction of the corrupt world, God is going to restore the world as it was enriched. So look at verse chapter 21. John says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away And the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. They will be as people. God himself will be with them as Their God, He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more, neither shall be there be mourning or crying or pain. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. This is all under the authority of Jesus Christ. Go back to chapter five, right? He's seated on the throne. He's in he's in control of history. He's in control of what's going to happen today in this town in your family and in the world. He's sovereign over all these things. So we have two cities. We have Babylon and we have Jerusalem. And the question they asked you last week certainly fits uh our passage this morning. And that question was, uh which city are you aligned with? Which city has captured your heart. I was reading a little antidote about uh the Emperor Charlemagne. He said that when he he said, when I die, I want to be entomb, sitting in a chair, and I want a Bible open to first John two fifteen. fifteen and I want you to put my finger on that verse. What does 1 John 2 say? Do not love the world or the things of the world. And it goes For the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. That's the orientation we have to have, let's power hands