Alright, I'm just gonna have to repeat everything I said for the last ten minutes just to get no Okay. We'll skip that. We'll have to come up, catch up. Matthew 27, uh verse 27 to 50. I'll read it and I'll give the context after that. We read that then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And they strapped him, they stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! And they spit on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his cross. When they came to a place called Golgotha, which means place of the skull, and they think because that's the shape that mountain or hill was in They offered him wine to drink mixed with gall, but when he had tasted it, he would not drink it. When they had crucified him They divided his garments among them by casting lots. Then they sat down and kept watch over him there, and over his head they put the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And two robbers were crucified with him, one on his right and one on his left, and those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple And rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked him, saying He saved others, he cannot save himself. He is the King of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trust in God, let God deliver him, if he desires him. For he said, I am the Son of God. And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over the land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice saying, Eli, Eli, Lamis of Octani, which is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders hearing it said, This man is calling Elijah. And one of them, a man, excuse me, and one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine. And put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink. But the others said, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. Now as important as uh the teaching the teachings and the uh example In the miracles of Jesus Christ, the central message of Christianity is no doubt his death on the cross for sinners. That's what Paul Corinthians said, in the book of Corinthians said, we preach Christ crucified. That is our message, right? Our message is the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ For sinners. And as we're going to see this morning, as we've as we see oftentimes, this death was foretold in the Old Testament. It's reported on in the Gospels, then really the rest of the New Testament is just an exposition of Its implications for us and for the course of history. And so we're looking at a familiar passage, the account of Jesus crucifixion and I just want to ask three questions of it. First question: why did Jesus have to suffer so horribly? Then we want to consider the fact that he was abandoned by his father. What was the purpose of that? What do we learn from that? Then also we're just going to look at a minor point in the text and ask the question uh why does Matthew mention They weren't just giving a travel log or a general history of the life and times of Jesus Christ, but they chose the events they reported on to make a So we're gonna ask why does Matthew mention uh about this little incident where Simon carried Jesus cross But we're going to focus most of our attention on the first point. It's funny how that works in my sermons. I tend to spend a lot of time on the first point. Uh it's not because I'm writing my sermon and after make my first point I'm out of gas. Uh but because using the first point uh something that's central and um it's also I take a lot of time the first point to mention the comp the uh the comp Context. But that should give you some comfort because once you're through the first point, uh your uneasy is true. So we're gonna look at first of all uh the significance of Jesus Suffering. And I want you to remember, it was just the evening before that Judas betrayed Jesus to the Jewish religion. leaders and uh these religious leaders hastily gathered uh the Jewish high court called the Sanhedrin For a quick and uh unjust trial, where they accused Jesus of blasphemy. But the Jews didn't run the show. The Jews were out of the uh Israel was occupied by the Romans. And the Romans would not execute people for blasphemy against the Jewish God. And so the Jews came up with a different uh charge when he they brought him before Pontius Pilate for a civil trial. They charged him with insurrection, claiming to be the king, not merely a religious King of the Jews, but a civil uh king, a political, a usurper. And so Pilate recognized that Jesus wasn't Fact innocent, these charges were trumped up. But Pilate was a weak man and he gave in to the cry the cries of the angry Jewish mob, and he handed Jesus over to be crucified Which brings us to our text. And at this point, we're just going to review some of the ways that Jesus was humiliated. And brutalize, then ask the clerk or try to answer the question: why did it have to be like this? So let's review some of the ways Jesus did suffer, beginning in verse 26. We read then when when he, Pilate released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified. So first of all, uh Jesus was clogged, he was scourged. Uh this would be with a whip composed of several store uh several A quartz plated uh with lead or with bones, and these scorchings would tear open the skin, uh exposing the bones and oftentimes the organs, and oftentimes times those who were scourged would die uh from that beating alone. And then he was mocked. And all of us from our school, our schoolyard days or days on the school bus or in the classroom or at the playground. Uh we know how crushing it is uh to be mocked or humiliated or how scary it is even to see a classmate mocked for the others Stand away from that child, and that child felt isolated and humiliated. And that's certainly what took place So I want to read some of the ways just uh in a quick manner, reviewing some of the ways that he was humiliated And brutalized. Beginning at verse 27. The second part of the verse says, They gathered the whole battalion before him And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and put a reed in his right hand, and kneeling before him They mocked him, saying, and it's interesting, everything they say in their mockery is something that's true about Jesus' claims and his identity. So even in reporting these things, Matthew's telling us about Who Jesus is, saying, Heel, King of the Jews. And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, They stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him. You go down to verse 39. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, Ye would destroy the temple and rebuild it three days? Save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. And also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked him, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. He is the King of Israel. Another identifier of who Jesus is. He is the king of Israel. Let him come down from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God, let God deliver him now. Then even the criminals who are crucified next to Jesus added And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. So my question is, why did Jesus have to suffer? And I think there's two things that we can say that are at the center of it. And the first thing is that Jesus suffering Confirm his identity as the Messiah, for these things were foretold, right? We've been talking about this of late, of how Jesus' sufferings uh were foretold. There's Old Testament suffering scriptures. Uh Greg read Psalm twenty-two, another one would be Psalm uh sixty-nine. I think with last week a week before we looked at Isaiah chapter fifty-three Then there's Daniel chapter 9, verse 24 to 26, Zechariah 13, verse 7, Zechariah 12, verse 12 ten. A couple I want to share, Isaiah chapter 50, verse 6. This is the Messiah, the suffering servant speaking 700 years before Jesus showed up on the scene. He said, I offered my back to those who beat me, my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. I did not hide my face From mocking and spitting. That sounds familiar. Isaiah 52, verse 14 Isaiah writes of the Messiah. His appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. by the scourging uh by this crown of thorns and one of the commentators said these thorns are as long as twelve inches, this crown of Thorns being crunched into his scalp, and then the beating uh with the reed. Verse 34. Um where am I? Verse 34 It says they offered him wine to drink mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it. Narco uh gall was a narcotic uh which would Dead in the senses to pain. And this has been foretold in Psalm 69, verse 21. David, foreshadowing the Messiah, says, They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they They gave me sour wine to drink. But Jesus refused the cops yell because he wanted to undergo uh the crucifixion fully conscious What was going on? Then in verse 38, it says two robbers were crucified with him. Isaiah 53:12 said he was numbered with the transgressors. Then verse 39 Those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads. Psalm 22 verse 7. David said, All who see me mock me, they make mouth, they wag their heads. And then the report in verse 35 that they divided his garments among them was also foretold there in Psalm 22, verse 18. And so that's a sampling of how Jesus' crucifixion was prophesied, and the fact that Jesus experienced all crucifixion these details and the way that he died confirms his identity as the Messiah. And when I do this, when I say look what the Old Testament says, looks how Look at how Jesus fulfilled those prophecies. I'm using the Old Testament the way the Apostle Paul used it when he tried to persuade The Jews in Jerusalem or in the early church to uh believe that Jesus Christ was indeed the Messiah. One example Acts 17, verses 1 to 3. There Paul was in. He was in Thessalonica. He went into a synagogue. And it says in those verses, Acts 17 that he reasoned with them, with the Jews in the synagogue. He reasoned with them from the scriptures. Now the scriptures that were available at that time was the Old Testament. So he reasoned with them from the Scriptures. Explaining and proving that it was necessary for Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead and saying This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. He's the Messiah that was foretold. And so Paul's saying, look at all these prophecies about what the Messiah Messiah would be like. Hey, I mean, look at look what happened to Jesus. Look at his teaching. Look at his life. Look at his manner of death. Jesus Christ is the man who was foretold in And so I I'm gonna say this especially to our young people. Look up, please, young people. Yeah, you thank you Here's why you should rest on Jesus Christ. Here's why you should follow Jesus Christ and should not follow the world. Because here's why. It's simple. It's because this stuff is true. Do you see it? You see the Old Testament written hundreds of years before Jesus came, and there's this portrait of the Messiah given. And Jesus will build every aspect down to the most minute detail. And there's no way to explain this away This stuff is true. This is why we're still coming to church on Sunday mornings. This is why we make great sacrifices to serve Jesus Christ. This is why we give financial This is why we have prayer meetings. It's because it's not just some imaginary religious tradition that makes us feel good or we get some kind of Silly comfort from but because Jesus Christ is God and the Bible proves it. week is self-authenticating. And so what do we learn from Jesus' suffering? We learn that, excuse me, it confirms his identity As the promised Messiah. Here's something else. And this is more personal. Jesus' suffering displays his redeeming love for Sinners. And Jesus Himself said that to his disciples in John fifteen, eight. He said, Greater love has no one than this that he would lay down his life for His friends. Jesus Christ is our friend. He laid down his life for us. And the Father loves us. That's why 1 John 4:10. John said, and this is love. Not that we love God. We don't love God naturally. God took the initiative. This is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. And so what I would say Is the when you look at Christ, his passion, his crucifixion, I would say, behold the love of Christ for a sinner like you, for a sinner like me Me. In the twelfth century, the French theologian Peter Abelard asked the question Are you not moved to compunction by the sight of the only begotten Son of God? Who although he was innocent, yet for you and for all men, was taken by the impious And were scourged, mocked, spat upon, crowned with thorns, and executed between thieves by so frightful and shameful air. death. Look upon him your bridegroom and the bridegroom of the church. See him on the way, staggering beneath his cross. Take your place with the throng and the women who wept. As he passed by, he bought you not with his own, but with himself. With his own blood, he bought you and redeemed you So Jesus Christ, the only good man who ever lived, the only innocent man who ever lived, was condemned to death. That we, though guilty men and women Boys and girls might be acquitted before the throne of the great judge of the universe. Jesus Christ had a crown of thorns pressed upon his scalp. That we might be crowned with a crown of righteousness. Jesus refrained from saving himself, that he might save us. And so, do not despise the love of God. He laid down his life for us. If you're not a Christian This is a call to you to bow before Christ, to embrace Him as your Savior and as the King of your life. So there's the significance. Why did Jesus have to suffer? There's something of the significance there. Something else, let's move on. Point two. The fact that he was abandoned by the Father when he was on the cross. Why was that? Matthew, you know, this is interesting, a Mel Gibson, I didn't see the movie, but what was it? ten fifte years ago he ripped this movie, The Passion of the Christ, a whole movie about Christ's suffer uh Christ's crucifixion, and uh Matthew just represented So Matthew provides no great description of the crucifixion, although certainly it was one of the cruelest forms of execution ever devised. Crucifying excruciating both share the same root word. And that's a good description. The archaeologists or archaeologists archaeologists have found skeletons of uh victims of crucifixion So they know that one spike would have been driven uh through the heels, and then a nail what and then a nail was driven through each of the forearms or hands. The board was placed under uh the the victim's feet wasn't a gesture of mercy or compassion, but it was so that the the dying uh victim could raise himself and grab some air And in doing so, uh, we prolong the dying process. And these were public executions to serve as warnings by other uh citizens in this road in these Roman occupied territories that you better not mess uh with the Roman government. So Jesus was hung on this cross, and um then in verse forty-five says God turned out the light of the Roman. Verse 45. Now from the sixth hour, so that's noon, from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. So this was until three and afternoon, 12 to 3. It was a supernatural phenomenon. And the darkness signified God's judgment against sin. This is how you see darkness used in the Old Testament. Remember the ten plagues God put uh sent against Egypt? The ninth plague was darkness. God was judging the Egyptians for their sin. For an Amus chapter 8, verse The Old Testament prophet spoke of God bringing darkness on the world to emphasize the terror that it would be For wicked men to face the judge, the judgment and the wrath of God. So Amos 8:9 reads, On that day, declares the Lord God, I will make the sun go down at noon And darken the earth in broad daylight. At noon, God would darken the earth at broad daylight. And so the judgment that we rightly deserved came upon Jesus when God darkened the earth. And then uh Matthew's so Matthew's report of this darkness coming out of the land, it wasn't merely uh a literary embellishment to sort of uh spruce things up. But actually it was a historical phenomenon and it was widely known. Back in that day one of the early church fathers, uh Tertullian one of the early Christian authors, he wrote a an essay to his pagan readers, and he mentioned in this essay About the darkness that came over the land. And he said, this darkness, quote, is related in your own annals and is preserved in your archives to this day. And so it was a widely reported phenomenon. And it was during these three hours that Jesus took the burden of our sin Upon himself, and he suffered his due punishment. Jesus cry of dereliction, verse 46. In about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lemus of Baptini. That is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Now this is really the heart of the crucifixion. And um, you know, all all the miseries of all the miseries that Jesus suffered on the cross, and uh they're agonizing, right? Just looking at What we looked at. This was the worst in that the eternal fellowship that Jesus the Son had with his Father Was now severed for the first time. Jesus in suffering God's wrath against our sin Suffered the full fury of that wrath and during that process was separated from the Father One writer, uh one commentator R. A. Cole said, here is the heart of the cross. Here is the mystery Which no painting or sculpture with distorted face can ever show. But this is the very core of what happened to Jesus Christ on the cross. He suffered the Father's wrath against our sin in his own person. William Hendrickson, another great Bible scholar, said Hell came to Calvary that day. Hell came to Calvary that day, and the Savior descended into it and bore its horrors in our place. That's what's going on when Jesus said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Then in verse 15 Jesus cried out again and with a loud voice yielded up his spirit. So nobody took his life from him. He gave his life. He yielded up his spirit Then the parallel passage in John chapter 19, verse 30, says, Jesus, before he yielded up his spirit, he cried out, It is finished. One word in Greek, to telesti. That's a commercial term. So to say, the debt has been paid in full. My father, he was in World War II. He landed on Normandy Beach in D-Day. On D-Day, June sixth, nineteen forty-four. Years ago I read a a book by Stephen Ambrose on uh D Day, and he He gave an account, the 20th anniversary of the Normandy invasion. Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Allied commander, was interviewed on Normandy Beach by Walter Cronkite. And in that interview, they stood there looking out over the English Channel, and Eisenhower said, You think you see these people out here swimming and Sailing their little pleasure boats and taking advantage of the nice weather and the lovely beach, Walter. It's almost unreal to look at it today and to remember what it was. But it's a wonderful thing to remember what those fellows 20 years ago were fighting for and sacrificing for and what they did. To preserve our way of life, not to conquer any territory, not for any ambitions of our own, but to make sure that Hitler could not steal freedom from the world. Then he says, I think it's just overwhelming to think of the lives that were given for that principle Paying a terrible price on this beach, on this beach alone. One day, 20,000 or 2,000 casualties But then he said, Eisenhower says, but they did it so that the world could be free. And it's true. I mean they we would be speaking German today Did they not make that sacrifice? And we would say likewise, Jesus Christ suffered This horrible death, he suffered, abandonment from his father, that we could be free, free from the penalty of sin? So that we would not suffer the eternal miseries of hell, separation from God, so that we would become free from the power of sin, and as Christians we are And that we would one day be completely free from the pollution of sin. That's why Jesus was abandoned by the Father. Let's look at one more detail. Well I want to want you to notice verse thirty-two the strangers providential encounter with Jesus. Now typically the condemned criminal would carry his own cross out to the place of execution, this hill, Golgotha. Uh and then by cross there's probably just the horizontal bar. The uh vertical uh pillar would already have been planted in the ground Specifically. And um but Jesus was too weak. He became too weak from the beating, from the scourging, so he's unable to continue carrying this beam. And so the Roman soldiers plucked a poor soul out of the crowd, one of the bystanders standing by the way, a guy named Simon uh from sirene that's uh North Africa modern day Libya in fact Acts chapter six verse nine says there was a Jewish community in Cyrene and so Simon was likely a Jew who came up to Jerusalem For the Passover. And here's what's interesting. You have to turn to the parallel passage, Mark. Mark chapter 15 So same story, but Mark includes a different detail that Matthew omitted. Mark chapter fifteen Verse 21. Identifies this guy Simon, Mark writes, and not by accident, not because he had extra ink and parchment, but he includes the detail. That Simon was the father of Alexander and Ruthus. So why would Mark include that little detail? And we suspect that it's because Alexander and Rufus were two men who were well known in the church and would have been well known to the readers in So Mark's writing this story about the crucifixion of Christ, and he mentions that the guy who carried the crossbeam that was Simon the father of our friends Alexander and Ruthus. So, what can we conclude from that? Well that must mean that this guy, Simon, became a believer. He became a follower of Jesus. And in time, he led his boys, Alexander and Rufus, to the Lord. Nobody names their kids Ruthus anymore. But anyway But anyway, so Simon's standing there, and uh you know poor Simon, the Roman soldiers accompanying Jesus on the way to the cross. They yanked him out of the crowd and say, we want you to carry this guy, this beam up the hill for this guy that we're going to crucify What would you have been thinking if you were Simon? Oh, nothing's good, nothing's good's gonna come from this. But what do I do now? So he carried it. But it seems apparently God used that initially unpleasant encounter to bring Simon to a saving knowledge of Christ because Now Simon seems was later influential, leading his sons to know Christ, and so what at first seemed like a miserable encounter have turned out to be a remarkably good providence. And I want to say to those here Those who are here by no choice of your own, right? You come because your friend or your friend family member invites you and it's just a good thing to do, it's a kind thing. Where you come 'cause you're a kid, you don't really have a choice, right? You don't come to church, you don't eat. Uh you don't have to I don't know if there's any kids like that here, probably not, but there are in some churches. But anyway It's a good thing for you to come into contact with Jesus out through the reading and through the preaching of the Scripture. It's a good thing. And um who knows? You're sitting here on Sunday mornings. I hope you don't think it's unpleasant. I think it's rather pleasant myself. It should, I pray it'll lead you if you're not a Christian. It'll lead you to believe in Christ. Because anybody who is a Christian It's someone whom God yanked out of the crowd, right? The crowd's going its own way down the wide road. Jesus yanks people out of the crowd And he brings them to know him, some in childhood, some in adulthood. Charlotte Lee, who I mentioned in the prayer. Oh, by the way, she they can have visitors down home, but so if you want to visit Charlotte, you can call ahead and do a visit She became a Christian in her late 80s through the witness of Sylvia Little sitting right there who became a Christian what in your fifties Fifties? Sixties? How old were you when you became a Christian? Yeah 60. A lot of people here became Christians as adults. How is that? Well, it's because God called the person. God got their attention, he yanked them, you might say, out of the out of the crowd, and he brought them to believe, to say, hey! Well that's sort of like me in my late teens. I believe this stuff is true. How did I get that thought? It's not that I had any great insight, but God, you might say he yanked This is John chapter 10, verse 27. Jesus said, my sheep hear my voice and they follow me, right? So you hear the word preach. It has the ring of truth. That's God's Holy Spirit using the word to bring you from unbelief to belief. And so if you're not a Christian, that's what I I pray if I could say it one more time that God might yank on you spiritually and open your eyes to see and to believe as power has. Thank you, Lord, for Jesus Christ who died for sinners, who suffered this horrible separation from the Father And the accompanying miseries that we could be free, that we could be redeemed. Help us, Lord, be willing to follow you no matter what, to make sacrifices. Help us to worship you with thankful and sincere hearts. And for those who are not yet Christians, we pray that by your word and spirit You might allow them to recognize that this scripture speaks the voice of the living God. Grant them faith and repentance. I pray this in Jesus' name Amen. We're going to sing a wonderful song, 257. The title is Stricken, Smitten, Afflicted I'm almost tempted to read the words, but I won't. But notice closely the follow the words closely Especially uh the third and fourth verses. So here we go. Uh two fifty-seven. Let's stand in sync. We live now. Jesus comes down to God will be five friends to be held in the If we have our foundation in the loss Please look up and receive the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Be with you now and evermore. Amen. Amen. I think those things So there's a lot of the same thing.