Uh is not familiar to our understanding. Matthew sixteen verse thirteen. Uh Jesus has now gathered his disciples, just the twelve of them up in northern Israel, Caesarea Philippi, this is Gentile territory. And he's teaching them before he goes to the cross. We studied this passage last week, but there are two statements at the end of it that we're going to cover this morning. But I'm going to read the entire text beginning at chapter sixteen, verse thirteen of Matthew Now when Jesus came into the dis into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, Some say John the Baptist others Elijah, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you Very good, thanks, sir. Okay now. A little review from last Sunday. I know everybody was not here. Uh but last Sunday the the brunt of this text is Jesus' identity and his mission. And so Jesus asked the disciples, who do people say that I am? And they said, well, some say John the Baptist, some say Jeremiah. Some say one of the prophets, but then the apostle Peter uh made this confession that was really the first confession of clarity about the identity of Jesus Christ. Christ. Peter said in verse 15, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And so that's his identity. And then he explains his mission. Jesus in verse 18, one pithy sentence, says, I will build my church. That is his mission. And that really is the overarching purpose in history. Jesus Christ is building his church. Now there are two other statements in verses 18 and 19 that I want to look at, I'd like to look at this morning. The first one, verse 18, where Jesus says to Peter, You are Peter, and on this rock I'll build my church. And so my question is: who or what is the rock that Jesus refers to. What is this rock on which Jesus will build his church? And then in verse 19, that's the nebulous statement when he speaks about, I give you the key, I give you the keys. of the kingdom of heaven. What in the world are the keys to or of the kingdom of heaven? So that's our task this morning. The first question we have is what is Jesus referring to in verse 18? When he says, on this rock I'll build my church. Who or what is the rock? And this is a text that has been disputed down through church history. Roman Catholics understand it to say that Jesus was designating Peter as the first Pope, in that he, distinct from the other apostles Will serve as the infallible foundation upon which Christ will build his church. And further, Jesus entrusted the keys of the kingdom to Peter and to his successors. And they're the ones who hold the key to the kingdom of God. In other words, they say Peter was the first pope. I'm not sure even if a Catholic believes that Jesus is saying Peter's the first Pope, I'm not sure where they get the idea that Peter would have successors. who would also hold the keys of the kingdom. But that's the Catholic position. Protestants, of course, there's a Reformation over passages like this. Protestants reject that interpretation for a number of reasons. One reason, and you're going to have to turn to chapter 18, we're going to come back here again to 18 a couple times. But in chapter 18, verse 18, Jesus in that text confers upon the twelve apostles the authority that he just conferred upon Peter. In chapter 16. So 1818, Jesus says to the apostles, Whatever you, plural, bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. And so that leads many of us, probably most of us, to conclude that going back to chapter 16, verse 19. Jesus wasn't speaking to Peter as distinct from the other apostles, but as a representative of the other apostles. And it would be quite extraordinary. If Jesus were designating Peter in 1619 as the first infallible Pope, just a few moments later in verse 23, he said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan, your hindrance to me. And um then you have the Protestants, I think Protestants have reacted against the Catholic position. And Protestants oftentimes say, well, Peter is not say, excuse me, Jesus was not saying that Peter is the rock upon which he will build his church. But Jesus was merely saying that Peter's faith or Peter's confession is the rock upon which he'll build his church. I don't I don't think that's correct either. I don't I don't of course I don't think Peter was the first Pope, but I don't think that Jesus here is referring to Peter's confession. or his faith, he is referring to Peter as an individual because Peter did have a foundational role in building the church. If you turn over to the book of Acts, that's obvious, the first twelve chapters Peter's leading everything. Chapter 1, verse 12. Jesus ascended to heaven, and Peter was leading the disciples. And then on the day of Pentecost, Peter, Acts chapter 2, Peter preached. And 3,000 were converted. And Peter and John are going about throughout Jerusalem in the chapters that follow. So Peter had a foundational role in building the church. Once you get to Acts chapter twelve or so, uh things shift and Paul now takes that foundational role. But all I want to say is that just because Roman Catholics make too much of Peter uh we should not make too little of them. I he did have a foundational role in the building of the church. And every time you find a list of the Twelve apostles or the three uh inner the the three apostles who are in Jesus' inner circle, uh Peter's name is always mentioned first. Uh but that said, uh I think I think most of you would agree that Peter's foundational role in building the church was not exclusive of the other apostles. And that's where we can look to other scriptures and have that confirmed. Too, for example, Ephesians 2 verse 20. Paul writes that the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone. Then you turn over to Revelation 21, verse 14, it has a picture of the heavenly Jerusalem. And that text says that this Jerusalem had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles and the Lamb. And so when Jesus said to Peter, on this rock I'll build my church, my understanding is that he is referring to Peter as well as the other apostles. They were the foundation of the church. in their missionary activity and also in their teaching. And so when we say the Nicene Creed, one of the statements we make is I believe in the Apostolic Church. What are we saying? We're saying that the church is indeed built on the teaching of the apostles. And so we are an apostolic church, right? We're built on the teaching of the apostles, and that's the foundation that has been laid for the church of Jesus Christ. Now there are You'll see advertise a particular mainline Protestant denomination, and they have a little slogan, goes don't put a period where God has placed a comma I don't know if you've seen that uh in advertising or even on a banner in front of a church in town. That says, Don't put a period where God places a comma. And what they're saying is that God gives additional revelation. And as it turns out, for this denomination, all the revelation he gives just happens to comport with their social agenda. Now If you say you believe in the Apostolic Church, you're saying don't put a comma where God has put a period. Because the Bible ends with a period, and our understanding is that the Scripture is sufficient, and we do not add to the Scripture Our job is to seek to understand the Scripture by study and through the illumination of the Holy Spirit, and then to apply the Scripture in fresh ways to our ever-changing world. And so, yeah, Peter is the rock, as well as the apostles. They are the rock upon which the church is built. Now let's move on to verse 19. Chapter 16, verse 19. Jesus said to Peter, I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. So what are the keys of the kingdom of heaven? And we just went over that in the Heidelberg Catechism, fortunately Now the keys of the kingdom of heaven, it says, are two things. The preaching of the holy gospel and second Christian discipline toward repentance. It goes on, both preaching and discipline. Open the kingdom of heaven to believers and close it to unbelievers. So let's think about these. First of all, the first key to the kingdom of heaven is the preaching of the gospel, right? What's the gospel? The message. Christ lived a perfect life, and then he died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sin. If you acknowledge your sinner, if you repent of your sin, if you If you trust or rest on Jesus Christ, then you're forgiven and you're clothed in Jesus' righteousness. And so the gospel isn't something you do, it's something you believe. And if you believe this gospel message, then the door to heaven is unlocked. So that is the key to the kingdom. This key also bars the door to heaven or locks it from those who do not believe this gospel message. The second key to the kingdom Is the authority to exercise church discipline over those who enter the kingdom? Now, where do I get that? Jesus says nothing about church discipline in chapter 16. Am I speculating? No, because if you turn to chapter 18, well, first of all, chapter 16, verse 19, the second part of the verse. Jesus said, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. You turn over to chapter 18. And you get to verse 19. Now chapter 18, verses 15 to 20, Jesus is speaking to now all the disciples And he's teaching them about discipline of Christians or discipline inside the church. And he says, listen If somebody sins against you, go to that person. If they won't listen, take another with you. If they still won't listen, tell it to the church. So this teaching also applies to the church, not just to the twelve disciples, it applies to the church And Jesus says, where where was I in verse 18 of chapter 18? We see the same language. Jesus said, Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. So the context of that verse is the context of church discipline. And so Jesus is talking about placing someone under discipline And that would be binding them or forbidding them from entrance, not entrance to the church, but uh entrance or participation in the Lord's Supper To r lose someone is to uh release someone or permit them into the church. And so I think I don't I did not say that as clearly as I'd like. Let me say it again. When Jesus talks about binding and losing He's saying that the church, because remember chapter 18, he's talking to the church, the church has authority to admit people and to exclude people from their membership. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Now here's something that I want to make clear. Jesus is not saying that heaven will ratify the church's decisions. But rather, as the church makes declarations that conform to God's word, it's declaring those decisions that have already been made in heaven. And so I want to make that clear, the church's authority does not originate within itself. That would be putting the church above God's word, right? Above God Himself. But rather, the church's authority is declarative. And what do we make declarations about? We make according to we make declarations according to the teaching in the Bible. And so for example When someone becomes a member of the church, the elders interview them. And when they say, I'm resting on Christ, I'm trusting in him alone for salvation, and I'm endeavoring to live a life that honors him. That we would say that's a credible profession of faith in Christ. And of course, we don't know the person's heart, but we can only go on their outward profession. But that profession agrees with what the scripture says constitutes a Christian. And so that person then would be received into church membership. We're just making a declaration based on God's Word. Of course, we're not infallible, but to the extent that that that that's a true declaration, then we're ratifying uh heaven ratifies uh what we have all r just there. declared. And so the preaching the gospel excuse me, keys to the kingdom are the preaching the gospel in the exercise of Christian discipline. I'm going to give a couple more examples, okay, in a minute, because it It's a little bit tricky there. But before we do that, before we s uh elaborate, to who I want to ask the question, to whom has Christ given the powers of the keys or the power of the keys. Who has this power to make these declarations? Are you inside the kingdom or you're outside the kingdom? Now we all, I imagine, agree that because Jesus Christ is the only King and Head of the Church He alone has absolute power to bring people into or forbid people from coming into his kingdom, right? He alone can forgive sins. He alone can sentence the unrepentance, the unrepentant, to eternal damnation. So that's why in Revelation 3. 7, Jesus We read, Jesus has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens. In other words, Jesus has The absolute authority to permit or to forbid someone from entering his kingdom There's a secondary sense, though. He says right here, back in chapter 16, verse 9, he entrusted the keys of the kingdom to his apostles. And we certainly see the Apostle Peter exercising the keys of the kingdom. Acts chapter 2. Peter preached the gospel in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. 3,000 people believed in him. They were saved. In other words, his preaching the gospel unlocked the door of heaven to these people who believed. And so, and um when it's preached and believed, it's opened. When it's preached and rejected, it's closed. And in Acts 4. 12, Peter said There is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. So if you don't believe this gospel, then you're not going to be saved. Jesus used or Peter used the key there in Acts 4. You turn over to Acts chapter 5, and we find Peter exercising the power of the keys through the administration of church discipline The story of Ananias and Sapphira, they tried to defraud the Lord. Peter confronted them about their unrepentant hearts. They did not repent. And then Peter disciplined them in the severest manner, right? The Holy Spirit struck them dead. And so again. Peter was exercising discipline inside the church, saying, your repentance indicates that you're not saved, you're not regenerate And so you're not in the kingdom of God. And then in a dramatic lesson to these early Christians, Ananias and Sapphira, were struck dead. So in a secondary sense, the keys are given to the apostles, but then there's also a sense where the keys of the kingdom have been entrusted to to the church of Jesus Christ. And that's an implication we find in chapter 18, verses 15 to 20. Jesus is speaking to the church. When you share the gospel with a friend who's not a Christian, and that friend sees and believes and rests on Christ for salvation, you have just used the key of the gospel to open the door of heaven to that Christian. And then in chapter 18, we see the church has authority to exercise discipline over professing Christians. And so you see that because in 18 verse 17, Jesus says, if this person will repent, tell it to the church. For the church has authority to bind and to lose. In other words, to permit admission to the kingdom and to forbid Admission to the kingdom of heaven. 1818, truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loose in heaven. Again though, the church is not infallible, right? The church can only go on outward behavior, on the person's actions, and even even on their words, but the church is not infallible. But to the extent that uh we're making correct calls, whatever you bind on earth is bound in heaven. So that's that's quite an authority that God has given to the Church of Jesus Christ. Some people don't like that. I remember years ago when I was pastoring in North Carolina Had a conversation with a man. He professed to be a Christian, and uh he was seeking something from our church. Uh And I uh had a an uncomfortable conversation. He said, listen, I've been a Sunday school teacher for forty years. What do you believe about Jesus though? Well, he was a great man. Do you believe he was God? No. Why did he die on a cross? Well, to show how much God loves us and to To provide an example of self-sacrifice that we should imitate. Do you believe that Christ died for our sins? No, uh he did not accept Christ's death as an atonement. But he was an upright man. He was a retired judge. He was very proud. I had a neighbor like this once. But I had to say, you don't sound like a Christian according to the Bible. Now what do you think somebody who taught Sunday school for forty years or thinks about a young pastor who says something like that Uh he we were not fast friends. Um but is that being judgmental Absolutely. 1 Corinthians 5, like 11 to 13, Paul says, are we not to judge those inside the church? Not from a stance of not from a stance of moral superiority. But from a stance of saying, here's what the Bible says about what constitutes a credible profession of faith in Christ. Here's what the Bible says about what it means for a Christian to live a life of ongoing repentance. And if there's someone in the church and we all sin and we all fall, and an honest Christian Can fall into scandalous sin. We understand that, right? That's why we need Christ. But if there's no repentance, if there's no coming back to Christ, if Then there comes a time when the church, after working with a person for many months, says, you know what? We see no evidence of repentance, and a Christian should be the chief of repenters. And so you should not take the Lord's Supper until you make things right with God. And um so what when we say you shouldn't take the Lord's Supper, we're making a declaration. We don't think you're a Christian. We don't think you're going to heaven. And that should alert the person uh to their perilous uh spiritual situation. And when that is a Christian, they wake up and they turn in time, right? But oftentimes They just leave, they have they want nothing to do with this stuff, and they and they go their own way. But the church, when it's done in humility, when it's done with great care, When it's done with concern for the people and not for the leader's position, then it's done in a way that accords with Scripture and it should be heeded. So let me now, as we close or begin to close, just draw out two implications of the fact that God has given the church The power of the keys, right? That God gives the church a government. If you read in Philippians 1, Paul writes to the saints in Philippi. That's to the believers in Philippi. Then it says to the elders or the overseers which means elders and the deacons. You see in 1 Peter, sorry, 1 Peter 5, you see in Acts 6, Titus 1, 1 Timothy 2. You see instructions concerning elders and deacons in the church. And so the church does have a government, and to the church, God has given the power of the keys. But two implications of the fact that the church has the power of the keys. And the first implication is this: it should make us tireless evangelists. Because we have the key. Now some keys you hide it under your doormat, right? You don't want other people to see it. But this is the key that uh we should make known uh wide and far. And we should engage people in friendship and and try to explain. Here's what scri not what I say, but here's what scripture says. Then have your friend like look what this verse says. You have them read it And then after they read it, now what is that saying about who Jesus is, or about what he's done, or about uh how you're made right with a holy God? Lead him through it. Show them the key to heaven. This is why we love this Christian Explorer seven weeks, just going through the Gospel of Mark with people who are not Christians but are curious. Think about your friends who aren't Christians. Think about inviting them, having a conversation. Hey, is this something you'd be interested in? And so we do need to tell Unbelievers that we engage in conversation with, listen, Christ died for sinners. He makes sinners righteous If you rest on him, he will clothe you in his righteousness. He will remove from you your sin. So that's the first implication. We have the key of the gospel. Here's the second implication. It reminds Christians that God has given churches rightful authority. There is such a thing as authority in the Christian church, okay? Let me give you some examples. And this these are words that speak about authority given to elders, right? They're the shepherds, they're the leaders of the church. This is something for Those who might one day be elders are to consider, but for all church members also to hear. First Peter five, verse one to five. Peter commands elders. Shepherd the flock of God, exercising oversight. So elders are to be shepherds, and they are to exercise oversight over God's people. 1 Peter 5, verse 5 admonishes youth. Youth, young people, look at me. It says to youth, be subject to the elders. Be subject to the elders. It speaks about authority. Verse 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, Paul writes to this church, respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. So they say, you know what, there's such a thing as admonition in the local church. And the in the clincher is Hebrews 13, 17, the writer says Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give in account. Now I have to qualify this, right? The authority of elders, and the pastor is an elder, amongst others, the authority of elders is not absolute. It's delegated by Christ. It's regulated by his word. And if you're in a church and the authority is being abused, Then I think it's time to move on after you confront them about the abuse of authority. That's why it's good to be in a connectional church. If there is an abuse of authority in the Presbyterian church He appealed to the uh presbytery. And that's happened in our presbytery. Uh when pastor was counseling somebody and said, You should do this, and he was going beyond uh the bounds of scripture. He was just given, you know, saying, I think this would be the best course of action. And the individual thought, I don't think that's right at all. And so this individual appealed to the Presbyterian and said and they said to the pastor, listen You're going beyond what's clearly stated or implied in the Bible. And that's you should not you cannot cannot conduct a ministry like that But nonetheless, that qualification made, there is such a thing as a legitimate church authority. And Americans bristle against us, right? Because we want to do our own thing. We want to do it on our terms. And if we don't like it, we're going to go our own way. But um Well if you're like that, don't join a church. Do not join this church. We don't want those kind of arguments, right? And you say, yeah, I want to join a church. Then I don't have to submit. Well if you're if your attitude's like that though, then you're putting yourself in a position Well, you're making it impossible to obey what we're commanded in Hebrews 13, 17. I just said, we're commanded, obey your leaders and submit to them. But if you don't join a church, who are your leaders? Just some nebulous group of you happen to be with for these three months and you go to some other church for a year? I mean, who who are the elders to whom you submit? And so I think there is a good case for formal church membership in the Bible. Yeah, there are dictatorial pastors. There are churches that abuse their authority. That's not the problem in most churches in America, right? In most churches, the problem is the repudiation of any real authority uh by the leadership in the church or to fellow Christians in the church, because our arrangement is one of mutual accountability, right? Matthew 18, 15 fifteen and seventeen. If your brother sins to him, go to him. If I sin against you, talk to me at the back door, hey, you know you said this or you didn't do that. And uh what are you gonna do about it? And if you're right on, then I need to say You're right. Will you forgive me? I shouldn't have done that. And so there's mutual accountability in the church. Um But before well I'm going to conclude, I just want to say just say one more thing. Um so I said, here's a good reason to join a church Because you need to be under someone else's authority. Well, I'm an adult. I don't need to be under anybody's authority. I read the Bible, I have my prayer time What do I need to well you need to be under somebody's authority? We need to be under one another one another's authority in a sense. It's Ephesians 4, or Ephesians 5, submit to one another And that comes in the covenant of church membership. But when you join a church, you're saying, yeah, I need to be under authority. I can't live the Christian life on my own. It's not just me reading my Bible and listening to podcasts and going to church for a Sunday morning spiritual lift. I need some accountability. And that's how you make it in the Christian life over the long run. That's how you persevere in the Christian life. And I want to close with a story. A Baptist pastor in California by the name of Earl Blackburn uh told about uh one Sunday morning after the worship service, they excommunicated a member of their church Now when you excommunicate somebody, that's usually the Sunday when you have all the visitors. And that was that was the case in his church. So there's this family visiting for the first time. And after the service, this man who had been visiting, he came up to this pastor and he said, I want to be a member of this church. I need to be a member of this church. And he said, I've never seen anything like this. But I believe it is so biblical. And here's what he said. I'm just going to read it. He told the story. He said I'm on the worship team in a mega church in this area. I've committed adultery on my wife. Two times. By the mercy of God, both times, she took me back. The senior pastor in the pastoral staff all knew about me having an affair with a woman in the church, but they didn't stop me from being on the worship team. I had two different affairs with two different women Everyone on the pastoral staff and everyone on the worship team knew about me having these affairs. I continued to play every Saturday evening and every Sunday morning on the worship team, and no one said a word I had no fear of God. And after they did nothing the first time, it was easier for me to do it the second time. The church knew about it, and the church condoned it. They didn't like it, but they didn't do anything about it, and no one came to me. It was a brother with whom I worked, who was not a member of the church, who kept confronting me with Scripture. And this is what led to my repentance. So do you see the importance that God has given the church the power of the keys to heaven? We have the gospel. That's the key. And we should be sharing it indiscriminately, that others would find the door to heaven opened to them And we do have the authority to exercise church discipline that's done in love and humility, regulated by Scripture, all those qualifications. But nonetheless, this is a key, this is some authority that God has genuinely vested. in the Church of Christ. And so I hope I hope looking at this little text, I know it's a little tricky there, and I wasn't entirely clear about the keys. But I hope this has elevated uh your esteem uh for the local church as Bauerhead. Thank you, Lord, for the good news of the keys, that there is an answer and there is a way that we can be made right.