Folks with us, so we're we're going through the book of Romans, paragraph by paragraph, sometimes just a few verses at a time This morning uh we are in chapter twelve, verses nine to sixteen, nine to uh sixteen. So Paul writes to the Christians in Rome and also to the Christians in Frederick County. He says Whoops, I was in I had the wrong bookmark there, I'm sorry. Here we go. Romans chapter nine, verse twelve. Okay. Let love be genuine, abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good, love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. Bless those that persecute you, bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly, never be conceited So I went to Westminster Seminary in Philadelphia. For those if you're completely new to how things work, To become a Presbyterian pastor, you go to college and then you go to seminary. And so after a couple years after college, I was looking at different seminaries. I went up to one in Massachusetts, very good seminary, Gordon Conwell Seminary. And I was like like visiting and I was talking to one of the New Testament professors and I asked him about Gor, I was asking him about Gordon Connell, of course. Then I said, well, I also visited Westminster. How does Gordon Conwell visit compared to Westminster Seminary? And he said, I'll tell you what, Gordon Conwell is a great place. But there's no place in the world like Westminster. And so getting that testimony and other things, I went to Westminster Seminary. That was good, right? Great Bible teaching, great theology, it's like this bastion of Reformed Orthodoxy. Well it wasn't perfect. Fowler went there. Uh Tom Fortney went there. And um it'll be interesting to see what their take is But some of the students, they had all this knowledge, not all of them, but some of them had all this knowledge about the Bible and theology, and they loved to talk about it and debate about it and so forth. But it didn't always show up in the way they treated others. So I'd be walking down the sidewalk across the campus. I'd do this little experiment. I'm going to say hi to everybody. I pass And like half the guys would even look up and notice you and uh respond. It's like that's not something something's not right there. Uh or in the uh dining hall Uh on those days where they would have like soup and sandwiches, so there'd be this big pot of soup and people would come in and they'd st they'd lad ladle their own soup. And something was screwy there because the first people in line, some of these guys, would dredge the bottom of that pot, you know, with the label ladle, get all the meat and all the vegetables than the poor saps in the end of the line, you know, they were just left with the broth. And that so it's these kind of things. One afternoon I'm in the administrative building. I'm talking to this older lady, the receptionist. Her name is Dorothy Creeky. Not Dorothy Creakey, Dorothy Noble. And um She was a Baptist, and here was her observation about Westminster Seminary. She said, you Presbyterians have all your theology straight, but we Baptists know how to love. And um I said, yeah, I I think I think you're all I think I I think I see what you're saying there. Okay. Why'd I bring this up? Well that leads us to the structure of the book of Romans. So the first eleven chapters of Romans Is theology. It's explaining the gospel. Right? The gospel. We're not saved by our efforts. We're not saved by our religion. But God saves us by his grace. And the first three chapters explain our need of the gospel We're sinners. We have no hope of getting to heaven or being right with God by our religion. And then once you get to the middle of chapter 3, he explains the good news. Christ died for sinners. But he doesn't just explain it in one sentence. He explains the various facets of this gospel From all eternity, God elected a people unto salvation. And by his grace, he predestined them to salvation. In other words, so that when they hear the gospel, they can recognize as the truth and believe. And so there's election, predestination. He talks about calling. God draws us to himself. And then faith. He gives us faith and repentance. And as in that we're justified by faith, we're declared righteous by God. And he's given us the Holy Spirit, he goes on, to change us, to sanctify us. So another doctrine, sanctification. And he enables us to persevere. And then in the end of the day, we're promised We will see God face to face. And so there's a doctrine of glorification. And so you have in these first eleven chapters this soaring theology. And it's a declaration again of the various facets of the good news, the gospel. You get to chapter twelve. Now he turns a corner. And so from chapters twelve to sixteen. Paul explains how all this truth, all these great doctrines should affect us, how they should pan out in our relationships with other people, how they should uh transform our conduct. And this so we we've already started chapter twelve. And in verses 9 to 16, our passage this morning, Paul identifies love as a mark of the Christian. You might say the mark of the Christian. And he's really echoing what Jesus said. Back in John chapter 13, verse 35, Jesus said to his men, he said By this, all people will know that you're my disciples if you love one another. And that's the same thing Paul's talking about in this passage. So in verse 9, we have this general principle that Paul gives. He says, love must be genuine. And the way I understand the rest of that section is that the rest of this is the description of what it means practically to love. And I'm not just making that up as because but I've seen this in a couple of the uh very good commentaries. One commentator, Colin Cruz Said that we have in this passage a series of short practical examples of how the principle of love should be expressed in the Christian community. So we're going to go through this. And if you'll notice in the bulletin, there are 13 points to this sermon. Thirteen points. Don't worry, I I'm only gonna spend ten minutes on each point. We'll be fine. Oh wait a minute. No, we're good. We'll be good. So, what is love? First of all, he says our love should be characterized by sincerity, right? Love should be genuine. There should be uh no pretense. So you could you could have translated it, uh love must be without hypocrisy. Right? It's not it's not enough uh to be kind to somebody's face and then to savage them behind their back. And I lived in the South for fifteen years. And I love the South, but I saw a lot of that. People would be really nice to your face. Then whoa, things that would come around. The corner, things that have been said. And so Paul says to Christians We're to be different. We're to have a sincere love even toward those whom we find trying And then last night we were reading this after supper. And my wife said, Yeah, that applies in the family too. That's a that was a good observation, right? That because Especially in the family, this is this can be a challenge. And so our love should be characterized by sincerity. The end of verse nine, the second point, love should be characterized by discernment. Abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good And so it's not enough to say, oh yeah, we love everybody and everything. Sure we love everybody But nonetheless, we should not condone certain behaviors, certain lifestyles. We want everybody to come to our church But we're not going to say what you're doing is right. We want you to come, but we want you to hear the gospel. We want you to come and know Jesus Christ. And so we just can't wave love as a banner that covers over or condones every kind of immorality. And um we can't separate love uh for other people uh from a love for God's holiness And I think that's important for our young people to recognize. You're going to meet somebody someday, you're going to fall in love with that person. That's great to be in love with that person, but that does not give you the liberty uh to sleep with that person until you get married. That is an illegitimate way to express your love. And so we'd say that's wrong. That is immoral. That is a sin, not only against God, but against yourself and against that person, and that's going to come back and bite you when you get married, whether it's to that person or somebody else, because there's going to be a lot of guilt uh there's going to be a lot of blue movies uh going through your head. And so that's why Paul said, yeah, we're to love, but at the same time, we must abhor what is evil And so Friday nights we're oftentimes home and we're we're we have Comcast and they have a list of the free movies, free classic movies, free drama movies. And you know you go down this list And m most of the movies are just degraded, either trivial or immoral And you gotta you have to say, wait a minute, I'm not gonna watch that stuff, right? My my moral and my spiritual temperature is low enough as it is I don't need to be wasting my time on that feeding, feeding that part of me. And so Paul says, abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Here's the third trait of love. Verse 10. Affection. Love one another with brotherly affection. Excuse me. Now, when Paul says love each other with brotherly affection, he's telling us something about what the church is, right? The church isn't just a place where you go to hear a sermon or even where you go to worship God, although that's preeminently it's a place where we go to worship God But the church is a community. Even more distinctly, the Bible calls the church a family. You see that Ephesians 2. 19 He describes the church as the household of God, the family of God. And in a family There must be affection, right? So we need to make an effort. We don't all know one another, so we want to make an effort to become acquainted uh with one another because that acquaintance is the first step to developing a friendship and it takes many chit-chats and Saying, well let's go out for lunch and let's do this or that, and you meet somebody, the same person at different church events. And all of a sudden uh you discover there's an affinity and these relationships, these friendships deepen. So he says, love one another with brotherly affection. I'm not one to wave about Greek words, but I think this is a good occasion to make a little lesson here. How many times have you heard a preacher say? Maybe never. Maybe you haven't heard much preaching Uh but maybe some people listen to preachers on the radio all the time. And the preacher says that word brotherly affection is the word Philadelphia. And then you look at verse 9, he says, let love be genuine. That word is another Greek word, agape. Now tell me. Have you ever heard a preacher say there's three Greek words for love? You have agape, which is his highest, most elevated form of love, the kind of love God has for us, and a pure love. Then there's brotherly love brotherly love. Philadelphia, which we see, what was that in verse ten? Then there's this other type of love, physical love, eros. And that's like a lower type of more physical type of response to somebody. Has anybody ever heard that? Or am I wasting my time? Okay. Good. So I just want to say, this is a good example. of how preachers can read too much into words because the typical Greek word isn't packed with some hidden meaning that only the expert can disclose. Because I think I said this last week or two weeks ago. People are really smart in these languages translated the books of the New Testament. So Romans wasn't translated by Joe Schmo sitting in his basement. It was a committee of Greek scholars And this is a translation they came up with, so this is reliable. But even more so, this thing about three Greek words for love is just a wives' tale. Let me give you an example. In the Greek translation of the Old Testament, in 2 Samuel 13, 15, it refers to Amnon's incestuous love. For his half-sister Tamar, using not that bad word Eras, but the word agape. So um Amnon had agape for Tamar, but it wasn't this elevated love. 2 Timothy 4 10, Paul said, Demas forsook me, then it says, because he loved the world. And again, that's that word agape. How about in John 3, verse 35? John the Baptist said, The Father loves the Son. And he used the word agape there for love. But then in chapter 5, verse 20 Jesus said the same thing. The Father loves the Son, but he used the word Phileo. Okay? So If anybody ever brings this thing up about three types of love, you've been warned, okay? Let's not let's not let's not go there. So beware Greeks bearing gifts. Beware of pastors reading too much into Greek words. But anyway, where was I? That's what you're asking, right? Where was this guy and where is he going? Oh, let's go back to the verse. Love one another with brotherly affection. Now, many of you are familiar with the great Bible teacher, theologian R. C. Sprohl The guy, I mean, I think he's writ he he wrote about a hundred books. And everything he says is interesting. We had him on this morning when we were getting ready. Everything that guy says is interesting, and he has all these insights. So he's this great theologian and he knows the Bible, right? He died about five years ago. I heard a lecture about R. C. Sproll by one of his colleagues, Stephen Nichols, last October. And Stephen Nichols said that when R. C. Sproul would get into his car, get into the car after church and drive home with his wife, he would typically ask one question. The question he asked her after the sermon is this. He would ask her, was I kind? Was I kind to the people in the congregation? So he had the theology, but that affected how he treated other people. In fact, there's a the epitaph on his tombstone reads He was a kind man redeemed by a kinder Savior. And so Paul says, love one another with brotherly affection. At the end of verse ten he goes on, we're to honor, outdo one another in showing honor. And that's that's a trait That our culture has almost lost the capacity to demonstrate, to honor other people. But we want to do that right when we cross their paths. It's just an o it's a way to honor them to look them in the eye and to say hello or in conversation, to take a greater interest in them than you have in displaying yourself or talking about yourself or just showing basic courtesy, right? You open a door. When a man opens a door for a woman, he's not saying you're a weakling He's just saying, you know what? I'm willing to put you before me. Elizabeth Elliott described courtesy as sacrificial symbolism. I'm willing to lay down my life. for you. It's just a little gesture, but it's a way that we honor one another. Verse 11, trait five. We're going to start moving along here. He said, Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. You might translate that be fervent in spirit. You could translate it Be on the boil in spirit. That would be a literal translation. Be on the boil in spirit. So in other words, we're to work with spiritual energy. And I'm not saying you have to have this big, expressive personality. And there are Pentecostal churches and Our brothers and sisters in that those groups, they're very expressive. That's wonderful. Some of us aren't. Some of us have Presbyterian personalities, right? But nonetheless, uh we're still fervent, and I can I can look at people and I can name people in this church. Many people who have reserved dispositions, but they keep marching on. They keep pressing on. They keep serving. Never complaining, never looking for attention, but they have this zeal to serve the Lord. And here we are in the dark, cold days of winter, right? Last night, it's like, oh, this is sort of lonely. How do you stir up your fervor? Well, God has to stir it up, but there are things we can do, right? We want to be in a community of believers. We want to encourage one another We want to stay in the Word. I want to read this book and say, Lord, apply it to me. Help me to see new things by your Spirit. Use it to shape me. And it's not dramatic typically, but this is the means that God uses to enable us to march on with zeal. Talks about patience, rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Verse 12, and so rejoice in hope. And when the Bible talks about hope, it's not talking about wishful thinking. That's the typical definition of hope. But in the Bible, hope is something very definite Hope in the Bible is a certainty that God will bring his promises to pass because he's faithful to his promises And so he says, rejoice in the certainty, be patient in tribulation, whether it's physical affliction, marital conflict loneliness or the opposition of malicious people. Paul says affliction is to be expected in the Christian life Remember that guy Joel Olstein? He wrote this book, Your Best Life Now? Here's a good book title. 1 Thessalonians 3:3. Paul tells these Christians who are being persecuted, you were destined for this. That's a better explanation of the normal Christian life. You were destined for affliction Because we live in a fallen world. But we take heart because this life is not the last chapter, right? The last chapter has yet to be written. Number seven, prayerfulness. The end of verse twelve he says, be constant in prayer, even when you don't feel like it. Just Remember, build this habit into your into your schedule that you're going to pray. You're going to read your Bible and you're going to pray whether you feel like it or not. Just like when you brush your teeth. It's such a habit that it you just do it. And it's the same with developing these kind of uh ha these disciplines, excuse me. Um And um where was I? Oh, you know. And when you build them into your schedule, but also build into your schedule this habit of corporate prayer, right? Every Wednesday morning for a measly 15 minutes. We have a church phone call, it's a teleconference call, where we pray. It works. It works on the phone. Don't worry. It works. We pray every Wednesday morning. Let me know if you want to be on that. I'll send you the send you the prayer list. And then of course on the first Sunday this afternoon at 5 o'clock, we're going to pray for 30 minutes. We could do it. This is how God advances his church. Be constant in prayer. Verse 13. 8, be generous, contribute to the needs of the saints. So there's this idea that we have not only have social fellowship, But we share in, we have fellowship in one another's needs. This fellowship that we have should lead us to care for one another. Hospitality. That there's a I just railed against Greek words, if you'll indulge me. The word hospitality can be it's two words in Greek, love for strangers That's pretty helpful, right? It's not enough just to be hospitable to your friends. It's not enough just to be hospitable to your relatives. But biblical hospitality is kindness toward strangers. And so, yeah, having people over, inviting them out for lunch or a meal, and also just having that kind of disposition. You walk up to somebody you don't know You say, are you new here? And that's usually the beginning of a of a acquaintance and then a friendship. That's how it happens. I'm too shy to do that. We're all shy It's funny, I was talk last uh Saturday, one of our former members who lives down uh North Carolina, he came uh he was in town just for the morning, we had breakfast, and he was telling me about his wife. I was really encouraged. So when his they were in this church about five years ago, his wife was a wonderful lady. She was shy though, but she wanted to meet peop new folks in the church But she felt awkward about it. Once she said to Becky, hey, I want to meet some new people, but I'm not sure how to do it. Will you go with me? Becky went with her. And so she made this effort. And so anyway, last Saturday my friend's telling me, yeah, Christmas Eve we had 24 people over for uh for a meal. So it's like, yeah, she made this effort and she became more comfortable at it, and that's how it happens, right? And so yeah, we we want to exercise hospitality. Hebrews 13 verse 2 The writer says, Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unaware. And when you think about officers in the church and future officers, one of the qualifications is they have to be hospitable. 1 Timothy 3. 2, Titus 1, verse 8. That's one of one of the requirements, not only that we practice hospitality, but we have a disposition. We're interested in people. We're approachable. We like people. I remember telling that to one of our interns You need to talk to people. They need to know you like them. It's pretty important if you're a pastor. And we do that why? Not just because it's a requirement, but because God welcomed us. And so we need to welcome other people. Verse 14, goodwill, bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse them. And so we sometimes even in the church we rub each other the wrong way. What are you gonna do? You gonna hold a grudge? Talking about the South, I remember When I was s working in Savannah church for years an intern, one of the kids in the youth group, one of the girls in the youth group, she got mad at me. So she told the pastor's wife I'm not talking to him. And that's like, oh wow, she got me. She wasn't talking to me. But that's that's a that's what we could be like, right? I'm gonna show him uh I'll be passive aggressive. No Paul says, bless those that persecute you. Even if it's not this is persecution, even if you feel slighted, you want to be gracious. Uh verse 15, this is point eleven, sympathy. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. And um yeah, we we want to weep with those who weep. That's why I say it's really important when somebody in church loses a loved one. to make an effort to attend the funeral, especially if it's local. We want them to know. We care for them. You might not know them real well, but it's just a way to say, you know what We understand. We don't have words that can comfort them, but our presence says a lot. And um, you know, sometimes it's easier to weep with those who weep than it is to rejoice with those who rejoice because they something came in their life that we we've been longing for for many years. But still it's a sign of God's grace in our lives when we can uh even at that time where we feel our own deficit uh to r to step alongside them and share in their joy Twelfth point, harmony, verse 16, live in harmony with one another. The final point, humility, the end of verse 16, do not be haughty. but associate with the lowly. Right? The world has a pecking order. These are the winners, these are the guys in the middle, and these are the these are the losers. You don't we don't want that kind of pecking order, that kind of social pecking order in the church. Of course there's people you connect with better than others. Of course there's people that you form friendships with more easily than others But nonetheless, uh we should not ignore anybody in the church. And so Paul has set forth a vision for what the community of believers should be like, what our fellowship should be like. We're saved by God's grace. We've been redeemed by a very kind God And so Paul's saying that should pan out in the way that we treat one another. Back in 1923 one of the great Presbyterian theologians, uh Jay Gresham Machin, he was tre teaching at that time at Princeton Seminary, which at that time was a good biblical seminary And he saw what was going on in the church, and he wrote a book of Explaining the liberal theology that was coming into the church. The title is Christianity and Liberalism, not political liberalism, but theological liberalism. And um Machin, uh though he was such a stalwart fighter uh for orthodoxy, he also knew, excuse me, He also knew that the church should be a place of refuge It should be a place where you don't get beat up, but where we're kind and we're gracious to one another. And so in the end of this book, here's what he wrote, and I'm going to close just by reading this section He said, Weary with the conflicts of the world, one goes into the church to seek refreshment for the soul. And what does one find? Alas, too often, one finds only the turmoil of the world. Is there no refuge from such strife? Is there no place for refreshing where a man can prepare for the battle of life? Is there no place where two or three can gather in Jesus' name to forget for the moment all those things that divide nation from nation and race from race? To forget human pride, to forget the passions of war, to forget the puzzling problems of industrial strife. And to unite in overflowing gratitude at the foot of the cross. If there be such a place Then that is the house of God and the gate of heaven. So that's what we want to be more and more as a church Because we are redeemed in Jesus Christ. And we do want it to show forth more and more in our relationships in this church and in our home. So let's bow before God. Father in heaven, thank you for this good news, this gospel, that you accept us, you welcome us with genuine affection. And we thank you, Lord, that you've given us this your spirit and you've put us in this community of believers and help us, Lord to grow in our brotherly affection for one another, shape us. And for those who are not acquainted with Christianity In the message of salvation by your grace, by your undeserved favor. I pray for them that they'll search out the scripture and that they would see this good news. that God forgives them when they trust in Jesus Christ. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.