So we were off from John last week and we're back in Chapter nineteen beginning at verse sixteen This is leading up to uh the cross and the resurrection of course well this is the cross leading up to the resurrection. So John 19, verse 16, you'll remember perhaps Pilate, the Roman ruler, had handed Jesus over to the Jews to be crucified. And that's why we read in verse sixteen, so he delivered him over to them, to the Jewish authorities to be crucified. So they took Jesus, and he went out, bearing his own cross to the place called the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote it in an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews and So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but rather, this man said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts. one part for each soldier, also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one place from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. It doesn't make sense to everybody why Jesus had to die, why it was necessary. Many of you are acquainted with the name Richard Dawkins. He's a famous skeptic. He wrote a book some years ago titled The God Delusion. And he in that book described Jesus' death on the cross as, quote, as vicious, sado, masochistic, and repellent. And then he asked the question If God wanted to forgive our sins, why not just forgive them without having Himself tortured and executed in payment? And that's a fair question. I think people have that question. If God is God, why could He not just declare our sins forgiven? uh without sending his son to the cross. And the answer is that of course he could not have done that if we were to be redeemed. that would not satisfy God's just and holy character. And if he were just to say, yeah, I forgive your sins, that would be violating his holiness. And so that's why Jesus died, right? By his sacrificial death, he satisfied the requirements of God's judgment of God's justice while at the same time displaying His mercy, His grace toward sinners But there is a sense in which we can agree with this fellow Richard Dawkins, and we can we do acknowledge that Christianity, true Christianity, biblical Christianity. Is indeed a violent and a brutal affair. And nowhere I think in Scripture is a violence of Christianity more uh clearly displayed than in this passage uh we've just read. And it's the violence, it's the brutality of the cross that sets in relief the seriousness of our sin the holiness of God, and at the same time, as I said, it demonstrates the mercy and the love of God toward sinners. And so I know this is a familiar passage, our task. We're going to look at how Jesus suffered. We're going to discuss why Jesus suffered. And then we're going to consider the people who were at the cross at that event and the lessons that uh the interactions that they we see in them uh give to us. And so first of all, we're going to look at Jesus on the cross. And so from last time, the first sixteen verses of the chapter, We saw this Roman governor of Judea, Pontius Pilate. He had Jesus flogged. He didn't want to do it, but he's trying to satisfy the bloodlust of the Jewish leaders and also the Jewish mob. And uh then he uh he had um the Roman he handed Jesus over to the Roman soldiers, they spat on him, they mocked him, they slugged him, they beat him with rods And just to read again verse sixteen and seventeen, it says, He delivered him over to them. They took Jesus seventeen. He went out bearing his own cross to the place that is called the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. And so a condemned band would carry not the entire cross, but that that horizontal beam. He would carry that section And in the other gospels we would learn that Jesus was too weakened by the flogging, by the beating, to carry it all the way up to the uh to the place of execution. And so when he went out of the city Uh they enlisted a fellow walking by, a guy named Simon of Cyrene. And Simon carried it the rest of the way. But it's interesting in verse 17, if you'll note It says Jesus went out. He went out. And that that's a that's uh I think that's an allusion to the Old Testament, because the Old Testament tells us, for example, in Exodus 29, 14 That the sin offerings uh were were made outside of the camp of Israel And Jesus was the final sin offering. And so, of course, that offering would take place outside of Jerusalem. The method of execution, remember, you might remember from a couple weeks ago, the Jewish method of execution was stoning But it was foretold in uh Deuteronomy 2123 that a hanged man is cursed by God, and so Jesus by hanging on the cross fulfill the Old Testament prescription of someone who was cursed by God. He suffered the curse that we deserved. And it says in verse 17 that he went out to Golgotha, and that's an Aramaic word. It means the place of the skull. Uh there's uh the Latin translation is Calvaria, from which we get the word Calvary. But why was it called the place of the skull? Nobody knows. Nobody knows. We could speculate. Some say, well, because the hill on which that cross was staked, uh, that had the shape of a skull. But that's only speculation. Uh nobody's sure And then with measured understatement in verse 18, John just merely writes, There they crucified him. And for G John's first century readers, there was really no need to elaborate on what this was about. They were well, his readers were well acquainted with the horrors of crucifixion. And so when the victim arrived At the place of execution, he was made to lie down on the crossbeam and uh nails were driven right straight through his wrist, right through the median nerve, the largest nerve going out to the hand and Uh I I read that because this this was such an excruciating experience, they came up with a new word, the word excruciating. That's what it means uh literally. And then after he was nailed, his wrists were nailed to that cross beam, the soldiers would take that beam and they would hoist it up and attack attach it to uh the vertical beam, and then of course, once the victim was suspended, uh his weight uh would disjoint his shoulders, fulfilling the prophecy in uh Psalm 22 verse 14. Where David said, All my bones are out of joint, the victim's feet would either be tied or nailed to the beam. Sometimes I read that they would place a little uh half of a seat on the vertical bar so that uh the victim could uh s a little support himself a little bit But this was not an act of mercy. It was rather to procla to prolong uh the death process And so there out in the hot sun, the victim would languish uh for hours, sometimes uh for days, uh breathing, required the victim to push himself up with his legs and his arms and muscle spasms It would rack the body, but because the lung would collapse otherwise, uh the struggle would go on. I want to read a little comment uh one uh uh w one person uh used to describe the process of crucifixion. He wrote it represented the acne of the torturer's art Atrocious physical sufferings, length of torment, the effect on the crowd gathered to witness the long agony of the crucified Nothing could be more horrible than the sight of this living body, breathing, seeing, hearing, still able to feel and yet reduced to a state of a corpse by forced immobility and absolute helplessness Stripped of his clothing, unable to even brush away the flies that fell on his wounded flesh, already lacerated by the preliminary scourging, exposed to the insults and co curses of people who can always find some sickening pleasure in the sight of the tortures of another The penalty of crucifixion combined all that the most ardent torturer could desire certain death Distilled slowly, drop by drop. And that's just a survey of the physical sufferings of Jesus But then of course more important were were the was the way that uh Jesus suffered spiritually in that he was separated from his father. The other gospels report But Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So that's the how, or something of the how of the crucifixion. More important though is the why. Why did the Father subject his son to this? Why was Jesus willing to undergo this these horrible miseries? And the Bible's very clear, Jesus didn't die merely as a show of how much God loves us and to get us to respond to love him back. But rather fundamentally, uh Jesus' death on the cross uh was an act of penal substitution. He suffered the penalty that we deserved for our sin in our place. That was foretold in Isaiah, for example, Isaiah 53, verse 4. Isaiah wrote about the suffering servant. He took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him And by his wounds we are healed. And so Jesus died in our place. I assume we're all clear on that. We've been here. If you've been here, you've heard it many times over, but you never know. If I could quote John Calvin, he he he has something nice here He commented, when we behold the disfigurement of the Son of God, when we find ourselves appalled by his marred appearance. We need to reckon afresh that it is upon ourselves that we gaze, for he stood in our place. He suffered the penalty that we deserved for our sin. And so why did Jesus die? It was an act of penal substitution. It was also the giving of a ransom. That's what Mark 1045 said, where Jesus spoke, the Son of God, the Son of Man, came to give his life as a ransom for many. A ransom in implies that we are under the rule of another. We need to be purchased. We need to be liberated. We're under sin, under under Satan, under death Jesus purchased us, he bought us back. And I would say also it does demonstrate the great love that the Father has toward his people. Right? Romans 5. 8, Paul said that God demonstrates his own love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so it's an amazing thing that the Son of God uh would so love us, would give himself for us and it should humble us, it should it should lead us to be thankful, to be worshipful, to endeavor uh to walk in a way that honors our Lord. And also, it should spur us on to holiness, right? Because the cross underlines the seriousness of our sin. It tells us Our sin must be paid for. And if you're not a Christian, this should awaken you. There's no way that you can earn God's favor by being a nice person or a churchgoer or a moral person. Your sin must be paid for. And what the cross does is it offers a way for another to take the penalty that you deserve for your sin. And so there's Jesus at the cross. Let's look at now the various uh individuals who we encounter in this passage, one Old Testament uh uh scholar referred to these uh little uh subplots. He called it the uh he called it the incidental music of the cross. Here's some of the incidental events uh taking place. First of all, of course there were the true the two criminals uh around uh that that Jesus was uh crucified next to. Matthew twenty-seven tells us that these men uh were robbers And um we wonder uh why was he crucified between these two criminals? Maybe this was, as one uh commentator said, maybe this was the final indignity in which Jesus was displayed as a common criminal. And also, of course, the fulfilled scripture, Isaiah 53. 12 says that the Messiah was numbered with the transgressors. And it's with these two criminals that Jesus had his famous interchange. You might turn there. Luke 23. Luke 23, verse 39 to 43. I'm going to read that. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. And so that's a familiar passage and it's given hope to many, right? Because it gives us this hope of deathbed conversions. We have loved ones for whom we pray. And um you never know, right? So we continue to be a witness, we continue to pray, we hope at some point they'll come to know Christ, even if it's in uh their final uh days or even their final hours. And so yeah, this passage gives us the hope that that could always happen But we also have to recognize that death true deathbed conversions are rare And so it would be foolish for somebody to say uh presumptuously, yeah, I'm gonna live my life, and then when I when I'm old or when I'm on my deathbed, I'll receive Christ. It's highly unlikely. Yeah, one thief was converted to give us hope, but only one so that we don't grow presumptuous. Because Somebody who says, you know, when they're in their teens or in middle age or whenever, I'm going to believe in Christ later on in life. Who's to say that you will have the desire to do that? Who's to say that you'll have the ability to genuinely believe in Christ. Who's to say that you will not have grown hard and crusted over and cynical toward the things of God? Things that you have a sense now that, yeah, this stuff rings true. I believe this. I see this. Who's to say that 20 or 40 years down the road, you're going to have that ability? And so that's why the scripture tells us now is the day of salvation. And so there are the criminals. Then we look at in verses 19 and 20. The Roman ruler, go back to John 19, the Roman ruler, Pilate. Ian his interchange with the Jewish priests. Let's just read those verses again Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross that read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So it was written in these three languages so that every segment of the population would take note. I need to keep my nose clean because I don't want to end up hanging on across like those guys. And um And anyway, in verse 21, we Pilate or the chief priests, the pre sorry, the chief priest of the Jews said to Pilate. Do not write the king of the Jews, but this man said, I am the king of the Jews. What's Pilate's response? Verse 22. What I have written, I have written. Do you remember why Pilate was so disturbed about these Jewish leaders? Because back I think in verse 12 They had threatened to denounce him to Caesar as as as supporting Jesus, who they claimed was an insurrectionist And so Pilate was about to put his fist through their face. He couldn't do that, and so he just said, What I have written, I have written. And then we go down to the soldiers. So here Jesus Christ is being crucified. These soldiers are completely oblivious to the significance of this event. And so in verse 23, just to review it When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier, also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece, from the top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture. And again, a quote from Psalm 22, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. And so these men were oblivious to the fact that they they had a front row seat to the most uh notable event in history. Um but they weren't like the Jewish religious leaders. They weren't hostile. They were just indifferent. They they just didn't care. They had uh silly trivial things that they were concerned about And um and they were clueless. And there's a lot of people like that, right? They've heard the message of Christianity over and over and over, but it just doesn't make a dent because they're too wrapped up in trivial concerns. Finally, there are the women and John. John refers to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved. And so that's in verses 25 to 27. And it's notable that of those standing at the cross, it was only there was only one man there, the rest were women. Uh that's oftentimes the case. Uh women are oftentimes more spiritually minded uh than men. In fact, uh years ago I read Alexander Solzanitsin's book uh the Gulag Archipelago about these um prison camps under Stalin and uh uh Sulzan Sulzanitin said that uh Stalin uh was able to break everyone except the Christian women in the early years of his regime regime. And then in the 1920s and 1930s, uh Stalin arrested the more ordinary believers, and he wrote, particularly women who were the most stubborn believers of all, and who for many years to come would be called nuns in the transit prisons and camps Right? And so we thank the Lord for these stubborn Christian women who continue to fight, the good fight. And then in verse 27, It says, Jesus said to the disciple, this is to John, behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own uh to his own home. And so isn't that interesting, even as Jesus is suffering uh the the the torment of the cross, uh he's concerned about his mother And certainly there's a lesson there about the importance of honoring our parents. So I was at the chiropractor uh last week We have conversations. He calls me Pastor Peter. I call him Dr. Cole. He can't call me Peter. I can't call him Cole, because I guess that's He's only like 30 years old. But anyway, Pastor Peter, yes, Dr. Cole. And he said, uh, do you believe Jesus is the only way? And I said, yeah. I mean and I said, if there were another way for a holy God to save a sinful person, surely he would have done that, right? He would not have sent his own son. to the cross and Dr. Cole said, Yeah, uh I I I see I can see what you're saying there. But yeah, Chris like I said in the beginning Biblical Christianity is not sentimental sayings in pastel colors and being nice, right? True Christianity is a brutal and a violent affair. But it as I said, it shows the seriousness of our sin and the length that the governor of the universe went to to redeem us that we could be right with him. And so the message is super simple, isn't it right? To be right with God, you must receive what Jesus Christ did on the cross for you. And that's my question. Have you owned Jesus Christ as the Savior of your soul? Let's bow our heads. We do bow before you, Lord. We thank you that you gave up your life for us. We're thankful, Lord, that we now have a future. We have a hope We have an inheritance, and no matter how discouraging our lives may be, we know that you have conquered death And we will see you face to face, and we will be fully redeemed. And the penalty for our sin has been completely paid. And so thank you for the liberation you give us from guilt and shame and sin. And we pray, Lord, that by your Spirit you'd help us to walk in a way that honors you, that pleases you. that demonstrates our thankfulness. I pray, Lord, for any here who do not know you as their substitutionary sin bearer that they would be uh uh convicted, they would be persuaded of the truth of the Bible message And that you would enable them to repent of their sin and to rest on you as their Savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.