See a couple new folks, I'm glad you're with us. We're marching through uh the letter called Revelation, the last book of the New Testament. And huh? Oh yeah. Uh any children, if you can walk and you're not and you're age four or younger, you can go to worship training with whom? With Kelly. Okay, welcome back, Kelly. Good. Great. Okay. Alright, so here we are, uh Revelation. Uh the second and third chapters of Revelation consists of, if you haven't been here, seven letters written to seven churches in Asia Minor. So this would be modern-day Turkey, that that region And um but these aren't just historical artifacts. Uh these are letters written to churches down through the ages, and that's why The commentators who note that Revelation is full of symbolic numbers suspect that there were seven letters that were given to these uh seven ancient churches and in fact uh the order in which the letters are are stated uh go they make a circle and so it's as if it's a postal route and so it was probably One guy probably a courier took it to this church, then to that church, then the next church. And the last church on the route is the church in Laodicea, chapter 3, verse 14. That's our passage this morning. And it's interesting at the end of each letter, well, each letter has a standard format. It begins with a statement of who Jesus and says something about his character, his glory. And then each letter ends with this statement, let him who hears, or let him who has an ear hear what the Spirit says to. The churches, okay? So this is to us, uh this is to churches around the world down through time. Let's bow our heads Our Lord, we pray that we would hear the message that you gave 2,000 years ago. And that you still speak today to your people around the world and in this setting this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Chapter 3, verse 13, and to the angel of the church in Laodicea, write. And this is Jesus speaking. The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation. I know your works. You are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold I will spit you out of my mouth. For you say I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich in white garments So that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen. And salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. Those whom I love I reprove and discipline. So be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him, and he with me The one who conquers I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches It's the letter, of all the letters in Revelation, there's only one about which Jesus has not one good thing to say, and that is this letter here to the church in Laodicea And I would add, of the seven churches, I think no church more resembles the church in our day in America. And John Stought had the same observation. He said the letter to the Laodiceans vividly describes the respectable sentimental, nominal, skin-deep religiosity which is so widespread among us today. The problem in Laosia, I think you saw it, the problem with these people is that they were lukewarm. It was a lukewarm church I want to give a little background on the city, just so we'll see how the church reflects the culture of its day. Laodicea was a first century city. uh in what I said uh in the area that makes up modern day Turkey. And uh there was a city there because It was at the junction of three major roads, and so uh this city grew to be a major commercial and financial center. It grew in wealth. And its people were of such wealth uh that uh Laodice City wa Laodicea was able to uh build these very opulent uh public uh structures, a gymnasium a stadium, theaters, covered walkways, public baths, a massive city gate, and towers around the city. And uh Laodicea, in fact, was so well off that uh when an earthquake devastated uh the city in A. D. 60, the Roman government uh offered to provide uh financial aid so that they could rebuild in the Laodicea and said, uh we don't need your money. Uh we have plenty of money. We'll rebuild the city ourselves And that in fact is what they did. And so this letter was written around A. D. 95. The earthquake was A. D. 60. And so everything was going swimmingly In Laodicea, the citizens were fat and happy. And that same outlook we see was mirrored in the church. And that's why Jesus said in verse 17 You say, I am rich, I have prospered, and need nothing. And so the church was just like the culture. We see that in our own day, right? And of all the things I read about Laodicea, it was this one comment that I think sums up best. the situation in the church. The writer said that the church in Laodicea reflects the self-sufficient Christless Church of the Affluent Society. The Church in Laodicea reflects the self-sufficient Christless Church of Affluent Society. And that is true of some churches in America. I became a Christian in my teens. I was in a mainline Protestant church. And it was the church. I became a Christian through the youth ministry of that church. But in the pulpit, and uh as I grew older and understood the Bible, I discovered that The teaching ministry of the church in general, the Sunday schools and whatnot, they were not preaching uh Jesus Christ. And so I think that is what the what was going on in this church in Laodicea. But nonetheless Even churches that endeavor to teach Scripture, that teach the basics of Christianity, still We can see there are ways that this letter applies to us because we can develop a sense of complacency and a sense of self-sufficiency. If things are running smoothly, and things are running smoothly in our church at the moment, if the budget's being made, and if we have relative peace in our homes, then uh we can fall into an attitude of self-sufficiency. And um when that happens, uh we don't pray as we should because we don't have the sense of our utter dependence on God. We may not join in the public uh prayer gatherings, whether it's in person or on the phone. Uh these uh this phone prayer meeting we have on Wednesdays Because we conclude things are fine, and if I pray, it's not really going to make a difference in outcomes. And so why waste my time? We have little sense of thanksgiving to God. We have little desire to wrestle with the words in this book, to take a passage, you know, tomorrow morning. and read it closely and reflectively and to say, you know, what is this about? And what are ways this applies to me? How should I be repenting? How should I be asking God to change my behavior? To show me how I can be pleasing to Him. And in our complacency, we also have little a little sense of urgency to reach out to people who aren't Christians to try to build bridges to them because we're not so concerned about their eternal destiny. And so the problem in Laodicea is a problem that exists today in Christians and in churches. And let's face it. in many of us. And that is the problem of lukewarmness. So that's what I want you to consider. Now before we go further, and I hate this, this happens on a Tuesday. That's when I usually start the passage, and I I bump into something in a passage that I can't figure out. And what I bumped into is this question. Were the Laodiceans merely lax Christians, or were they unconverted churchgoers? I think most of us would say, well they were Christians, but they were lax, they were slaughter, they were lukewarm. Well that's the $64 question Um I haven't come I'm not I haven't come to a conclusion uh that I'm going to stake my life on. And um in fact most commentators, in fact the greatest commentator, a guy named Gregory Beale, He just retired from Westminster Seminary. He has this huge commentary and revelation. Don't get it. It's too big. There's too much in it. But nonetheless, if you have a really hard question, he's the guy to go to. But um He says that he believes the Laodiceans were Christians, but they were slack. They were half-hearted Christians. And um Many commentators agree with that. And so with fear and trepidation, I go with the minority of commentators. Who say that Jesus was not merely rebuking a lax church, he was rebuking an unconverted church. So that's something entirely different. John MacArthur called the church in Laodicea an unsaved, unregenerate, false church. So why do I think that may well be the case? Well let me give you three reasons. Number one, in verse seventeen He calls them poor, blind, and naked. Poor, blind, and naked. Well, that's the common New Testament terminology for somebody who's not converted, for someone who's not a Christian, for someone who is unregenerate. Right? The unconverted person is poor. He doesn't have the riches that Christ offers to the spiritually poor. And so yeah, Jesus would call was such a person poor. And throughout the Gospels, uh the blind were a picture of what we are spiritually outside of Christ. We don't see the truth of Christ if we're spiritually blind. We're naked. We're lacking the righteous garments that Jesus Christ gives to cover our unrighteousness. So that's one reason it seems to be talking about an unconverted church. In verse 17, Jesus calls them poor, naked, and blind. A second reason, it seems like Jesus is speaking about not merely a slack Christian, but an unbeliever, an unconverted person, is that in verse 20 Jesus speaks of himself as being outside the church in Laodicea. What is it that makes the church the church? Well, not merely that it has a government, or that it has a structure, or that it has some kind of doctrinal statement, or that we gather together. But the essential thing that makes the church the church is that Jesus Christ is in our midst. He is in our presence. As we gather this morning, Jesus Christ, by the ministry of the Holy Spirit, is with us. But Jesus in verse 20, he's outside the church in Laodicea. And here's a third supporting argument, not as uh strong. It's an argument from silence, but I would add that unlike the other six churches Even scandalous churches mentioned. The church, it was a excuse me, it was The church in Laodicea about which Jesus did not have one good thing to say Now the other bum in this list of seven churches, or big bum, was the church in Sardis. He said in chapter three, verse one, they were dead. He said, nonetheless, though, in verse 4, they still had a few believers in their midst, and they still had something, this is chapter 3, verse 2, there's there was still something that remained. That could be built upon. But concerning the church in Laodicea, we see not the slightest evidence of spiritual fruit in this church. Now, some of you are observant readers, and you're going to say to me, You're saying it right now. I see it in your eyes. And you're and and a couple of you gonna come up after the service. And that's fine. All right? And one guy's gonna send me an email. He's on the Zoom this morning. I guarantee ya. All right. But anyway. You're going to say, what about verse 19, where Jesus says, those whom I love I reprove and discipline. And that's a quotation from Proverbs 3, verse 11 and 12 that Andy just read. And I would say that that does pose a problem, and that's why I go back and forth. That does pose a problem uh because Jesus says, those whom I love I reprove and discipline. And so I understand uh the weight of that uh that verse uh uh uh concerning what we're uh we're wrestling with uh this morning But I still think compared to those other three considerations, I'm still more persuaded that Jesus here is speaking about unconverted believers And God, the scripture does speak about a general love that God has for all people. And I can't resolve that entirely, but I'm saying I still lean in this in the direction. that Jesus is speaking to unconverted churches. Now sometimes, and I don't know if there's that's the case with anybody here this morning. Well it's probably a case with kids. Because this when I was a new Christian, this was stunning to me to learn that there were churches that didn't believe the Bible, that did not teach the Bible That had unconverted pastors, pastors in the churches who weren't Christians. And um that had unconverted people. And so um There are unconverted churches, and that may well be surprising to some. Now Only God knows a person's heart, right? We don't know whether or not someone's converted. Okay, we understand that we're not judging where people are spiritually. But nonetheless, we can look on the outward evidence and draw a tentative conclusion. There are churches that deny the most basic teachings of Christianity, and you wonder how can they still be a church in the Bible sense of the word If they deny the inspiration and authority of the Bible, if they deny the deity of Jesus Christ If they deny the substitutionary atonement that Christ accomplished on the cross for our sin, if they say there are many roads that lead to heaven and Jesus, believing in Jesus is just one way amongst many, if they say that what the Bible teaches about hell is just a myth that was used in the uh ancient world uh to keep people in their place And if they deny the supernatural character of the Christian faith. Well, these are some of the essential elements of Christianity. And to deny any of these elements is to deny the plain teaching of Jesus Christ. And yet there are many of the main mainline denominations, these churches in these mainline denominations, the mainline Presbyterian Church, the mainline Episcopalian Church, and so on There are many churches, congregations in such denominations that are full of very nice and caring people. But nonetheless, they're not preaching Scripture, and the membership, for the most part, is unconverted And some of you, if you've grown up in these churches or have experience, you can say, yeah, they're really nice people, they're caring people, but they do not know the gospel And so I believe that this letter speaks precisely to such churches. And when I retire, one thing I say I'd like to do, I don't know if it'll work out, because I started out in the mainline Presbyterian Church when I started seminary. I realized they would not ordain me But I think when I retire, wouldn't it be nice to go to some mainline church for a couple years and and just teach the Bible and see what happens? You never know. Because most people in the pews, I found, most people in the pews want to learn the Bible. And uh it's the clergy, it's the leadership, it's the bureaucracy in these denominations that are that are killing uh these churches, but I found many people. They just want to learn the Bible. Even a church that we have a lot of contact with right now. I'm stunned talking to these people They want to learn the Bible, and yet they're in this really her apostate uh denomination. But one of the lessons we learn here And we're still on, what are we on, point two, okay? Sort of going around on a couple things here. But one of the lessons we can draw from this uh letter, this discussion Is that we see the importance of a converted membership. We see the importance of a converted membership. Instead of becoming a member of a Bible teaching church such as our church The main thing we're looking for is not that you're a great person or how much you know or what you do or how much you'd serve what different ways you'd serve the church. The main thing we're looking for is the main thing Scripture looks for, and that is for Christian conversion. In other words, an understanding of the gospel. And in many churches, especially mainland Protestant churches, um they'll have something for the kids when you get thirty you're thirteen or fourteen the law for a communicance class or they may call it a confirmation class, which is great. It teaches the kids the basics of the faith. But how it often works in practice is that Once you're of that particular age, you just go to that class. And once you're done with the class, you join the church. It's like a herd. Okay, we're taking this in this herd of 10 kids or 20 kids because they're thirteen years old now, they took the six lessons, and they joined the church. Uh that's that's doing those kids a miser uh a disservice We do have a communicants class in our church, but the way we do it is that when a young person or their parent says, yes, so-and-so understands the gospel, And he's ready to understand what commun the communion communion's about and the sacraments and the obligations and commitments of church membership Then I say, well let's have a communicance class and we get those kids together and we do six or so lessons just to make sure they're clear in the gospel and they understand some of the b basics of the Christian life. And then those who can clearly explain understand and and state to some degree that they underst they're trusting in Christ, then we receive them into church membership. They could be six years old, they could be eighteen years old But what we're looking for is just a basic understanding and trust and commitment to uh Jesus Christ And so the way we do it in our church, also for the adults in, we have an inquirer's class Uh nine grueling weeks with me. Uh no, it's enchanting really. Somebody who just went through it rolling his eyes. But um so we have an inquirer's class. And in the first few lessons we just go over the basis of Christianity. Because I want everybody to understand here's what Christianity is about. And um then when someone You know, when we're done with the class, we say if you're ready to join the church, uh we'll interview you for church membership. And um it's not an inquisition. Uh the elders just meet with that person and we say, what are you resting on for your salvation? If they can say, I'm trusting in Christ, not my good deeds, not my moral record, but I'm trusting in him alone. Then we say, well, that is a profession of faith in Jesus Christ. We're happy to receive you into church membership. And uh so it's pretty simple. Now, of course, just because somebody says that doesn't mean that they're truly a Christian, right? But it's not our job if somebody says, I'm trusting in Jesus Christ for my salvation It's not our responsibility to say, I'm not so persuaded. Uh can can you know can can you c can you convince me? Uh that's not our job, uh, you know, and in the church in the In the church, you know, there's a parable the wheat and the tares. Uh you don't no church uh well some churches surely, but You know, many churches don't have a completely converted membership. We understand that, and it all gets sorted out in the end of the day. But what we're looking for, we want people to understand the gospel. That's job number one. uh of a church and we don't want to mislead people by saying, oh you're a nice person and you're religious. Join the church. No, because that would give them a false sense of assurance of their salvation And what we need to do is make sure people are clear. You're saved by faith in Christ alone, not by your church connection or anything else. You're saved by faith So that's why when somebody joins the church, we ask amongst the questions, do you acknowledge yourself to be a sinner in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure, without without hope, save in his love and mercy And some people say, I'm not a sinner. Well then you don't understand the gospel. Do you see you're a sinner? If you say yeah, then the next question is, do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners? And you receive him and trust in him alone for salvation as he's offered in the gospel. If they could say yeah, then that's a really good thing, right? This is a person who's ready to publicly say, I'm a Christian and I want to join the church. And so that's job number one. Okay? Anyway, let's go on. Look at the end of verse 15. Jesus says to this church. Now you think Jesus would say, you know, you guys are a church and we're still in the same camp. But Nestetti says in the end of verse 15, would that you were either hot or cold? He's saying And I think we can agree. It's good to deal, of course, with hot Christians, right? Fervent Christians, and There's a sense, and this is what I like about the North compared to the South and a pastor ten years in the South. What I like about the North, if somebody's not a Christian, they don't pretend they're a Christian They'll say that's a bunch of baloney. Well at least we have a starting point for a discussion, right? They're not there's no pretenses And so it's good if somebody's spiritually cold, but it's the lukewarm. It's the respectable churchgoer. who who oftentimes is the most difficult person uh to deal with because the religion has inoculated them to Christianity. You know, uh Do you know Jesus Christ? I'm Catholic. I'm Episcopalian or whatever this is. Or I'm Presbyterian. Right? They've been inoculated. All right. Well end of the end of the discussion there Well, Jesus Christ finds these people difficult too. In fact, he says they make them want to throw up. Look at verse 16. So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. And the people in Lausia picked up on the image there, and all the commentaries make this note. You know, there are three cities in this uh in this, it was called the Lycas Valley. There was Hieropolis. And that was a neighboring town known for its hot springs. So people would go there for the for the physical benefits of sitting in the hot springs And then you had nearby the town of Colossae, right? Remember the letter to the Colossians? Well that had a cool mountain stream. But Laodicea had no public water supply, and so the water had to be piped in, I forget, from one of these other uh cities, but by the time it it ran through the pipes and made his way to Laodicea, the water was lukewarm and unpleasant to drink. And so when Jesus says, You're lukewarm, I want to spit you out of my mouth the people had that sense immediately of how unpleasant uh they were to him. Let's go on. Point number three, and I know it's not real structured. Point number three, we see the council uh that Jesus gives. Jesus tells the unconverted Laodiceans that the solution to their lukewarmness is not to try to work themselves into some kind of spiritual fervor. Now maybe let's have a little music in our church service that's pulsating. And the strings come in the end. And uh it really gets me gets me uh feeling spiritual and emotionally engaged. No. Rather he says um Don't work yourself into a fervor. He says, look to me, look to me for true riches. Receive from me The righteous garments that will cover your sin. Allow me to give you spiritual sight. That's exactly what he says in verse 18. Says, I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich in white garments. So that you may clothe yourself, and the shame of your nakedness may be seen, and salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see. So he says, Come to me, buy these things from me. But these are not things that we purchased with anything that we have to offer, because it says in Isaiah 55 verse 1 So Jesus is just saying figuratively, when he says, buy this from me, he says, obtain this from me. Isaiah 55, 1 God said, come by wine and milk without money and without cost. And so Jesus is merely saying Take possession of the salvation that I freely give. In the the image of Salve, having salve to to heal your blind eyes. That was another image that the Laodiceans would have appreciated because there was a school of medicine in Laodicea, if you call it such a thing as school of medicine in the first century, but that's what it was called And one of the things that it produced was salve for weak eyes. And so we see Jesus throughout these letters picking up on images and figures uh that the local people would have appreciated. Then he says, repent. Look at the end of verse 19. Be zealous and repent. That's just to do a U-turn. You're going this way, you're living for yourself, you're completely f turned in on yourself. Well Jesus says, quit marching that way. Do a U-turn and follow me. And then we have, of course, in verse 20 this invitation. In verse 20, where am I? Let me read it. Jesus says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him and he and me. And that's a very familiar verse, especially if you've ever been to heard an evangelist speak at some kind of special service, and they'll quote this verse and they'll say, Jesus is knocking on the door of your heart. But you have to turn the handle. He can't do it. You have to turn the handle and let him in. Yeah, I just want to a couple comments here on that, uh or two comments. First of all It doesn't talk about Jesus knocking on the door of anybody's heart. Rather, he's knocking on the door of the church. But nonetheless It's to individuals in the church that Jesus is calling to respond to him, right? Because only Churches only change when God changes the people in it. You see it would need to start. But nonetheless, we can appreciate this command that we do need to respond to the gospel call. You do need to turn uh to Jesus. God is we talked about this a few months ago, right? God is sovereign in conversion, and yet we do have a responsibility We could go through the New Testament, the Gospels in the Book of Acts. We're called to believe. We're called to repent. Jesus said, You must receive me. You must look to Christ. You must come to Christ. You must call on his name. These are all this is the language we see throughout the New Testament So we're not passive in the process of conversion. God calls us to respond, but in the end of the day, the only way that a blind, dead, hardened person could respond is if God by His Spirit gives sight and gives spiritual life. And so really it's a mystery, right? But our responsibility is to hear if you're not a Christian, is to hear the call of the gospel and to respond. And then you'll say, and then we talked about this a few months back again, how do I respond if I'm spiritually dead? The Bible doesn't explain it. Doesn't matter. It just commands you to respond. One of the forefathers of our denomination, a Scottish pastor by the name of Ebenezer Erskine, gave a great analogy He said, as Jesus told the light, excuse me, as Jesus told the lame man to stretch out his hand, and the Lord gave him strength to do so. So sinners must attempt to believe in Jesus, trusting that God will give them the strength to do what is natively impossible for them, right? When Jesus So pick up your mat and walk. The guy didn't say, But I'm blame. He just responded to Jesus' command and he did it. And so Those whom God regenerates by His Holy Spirit, they're able to open that door. And so if you are not a Christian And you recognize this is the voice of God. You recognize that Jesus Christ is a savior of sinners and that you're a sinner. Then Jesus says, respond, open that door, receive me, rest upon me, believe upon me, and you'll be saved. And then you'll reign with him also. Verse 21. The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat with my father on his throne. But just remember the context, and then we're almost done. Remember the context. Jesus is knocking on the door of an apostate church. And that's sort of one of the reasons I want to try one of these uh shot take a shot at one of these churches in retirement. Um because you never know. And uh let me tell you a story. So I have a good friend in Savannah, Georgia, Joe Van Pufflin. He's an older man now. But back in the nineteen eighties, he was an elder at the Independent Presbyterian Church in Savannah. The Inde Independent Presbyterian Church Right in the middle of downtown Savannah, its steeple is the ornament of Savannah. One person told me But they had visited that church years before. I was there I was there in nineteen eighty-seven, eighty-eight. One person said, I visited that church some years back. That was the deadest, coldest church I ever walked into. It had a 1,500-seat sanctuary and less than 100 people in it. Joe Van Pufflin was unconverted. He was one of the elders. And there are many other elders there who are big wheels in Savannah, but they were unconverted. Joe Van Pufflin heard the gospel and in his 40s, I guess late 30s, he believed in trusting Christ. And that began a movement in that church where they ended up calling, and it was an independent Presbyterian church, never it's like a married bachelor, but um they they they They weren't lined up with any denomination, so they could call whoever they wanted. And they called a Bible teaching pastor there, who's been there for now since eighty six I think. And that church was transformed. It's this huge force for the gospel in Savannah and around the world. And our church is modeled after it, our modeled ministry, because that's where I learned so much. uh in a in an internship in an internship there. And so um Jesus Christ Does love his church and he does knock on the door of churches that are that are apostating. And so we pray, Lord, for the church in our country that more and more would turn. But going back to Laodicea, this once opulent city has now been consigned to the dust heap of history. One commentator wrote latest of Laodicea, the fragments of aqueducts and theaters spread over a vast extent of country. Tell of excuse me, let me say that again. The fragments of aqueducts and theaters spread over a vast extent of country tell of the former magnificence of the city But of its once famous church, nothing survives. So the city is no more, just some archaeological evidence But there's nothing, there's no nothing of that church, right? And Turkey is largely an unchurched uh country. Jesus spat the church and Laodicea out of his mouth. And so I think there is a personal lesson that we can take from this. The personal lesson is that we too should beware of self-sufficiency and grow complacent. So Paul in Romans 12. 11 says Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. And so I say to you, You have to exert yourself in a Christian life. We can't be passive, right? Have to exert yourself regarding prayer. regarding the word, regarding avoiding those things that would dull your spiritual appetite. that would crush you with guilt and push you away from the things of God and you don't you never want to absent absent yourself from the public gatherings of God's people. We need to encourage one another. We need to hold one another accountable. And we need to see spiritual reality in the lives of other people. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we are uh most of us are quite comfortable and self satisfied. We pray that you would awaken us, give us a hunger to know you, to learn your word Help us to delight to walk in your ways. And even this afternoon, there are many things that can draw our attention and whittle away the day. Help us, Lord, to redeem every hour that you've given to us. For those who aren't yet Christians, we pray that they will seek you out, that they would understand the scripture And that they would be persuaded and they would trust in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Let us stand and