And I want to ask you to turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 8. Good to have some new faces amongst us. And good to have the old faces too. We're going through Romans. We're now in chapter 8, verses 1 to 11. So this is no, I think somebody said a Romans is the Mount Everest of the Bible And uh chapter A is the peak of the book of Romans. And so here we are, we're going to look at the first eleven verses Paul writes, There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death For God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemns sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the spirit set their minds on the things of the spirit. To set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit of life, the spirit is life, because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you Now last week we looked at the second part of Romans 7, chapter 7, verse 23 to 25, where Paul expressed very well the contradiction that exists in the Christian. So he's not talking about his life before he became a Christian in chapter 7. He's saying, here's what it was like for me Or what it is like for me as a Christian. I have this ambition to obey God. But still I struggle uh with my sinful desires. And um We read that we read that, and I think anybody who's a Christian said, yeah, that's me, right? I can I can relate to that. And in the end there of chapter 7, Paul's like, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me? What am I going to do? Then he says, Thanks be to God through our Lord Jesus Christ. You get to chapter 8, verse 1, and we have this resounding declaration. Where Paul says, there is therefore now no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus. And so this is a huge corner that Paul crawl goes around from chapter seven to chapter eight. And Paul says to the Christian, take heart, okay? You're secure. in Jesus Christ. Because look what God has done for you. And this is a hard passage. And my eyes were glazing over, my eyeballs are rolling in the back of my head Trying to go through this, and I still don't have a handle about how the flow goes perfectly, but there are two at least two big markers we can put down. As far as understanding what Paul is saying in this chapter, in 1 marker is the first thing, or the first thing is the first thing God's given us. God has given us his Son so that we might be pardoned. And then he goes on to say, God has given us the Holy Spirit that we might be transformed. So by the work of Christ we're justified. And by the work of the Holy Spirit, we Christians are being sanctified. We're being shaped more into the image of Jesus Christ. So if I get you confused, it's because I think it's a hard passage to work with, okay? Don't be discouraged. At least we have these two markers. And there's going to be a lot of things we throw out there, a lot of truths from this passage. We might not see the real the flow perfectly, but we can still grab on to many statements that we read. So the first idea or the first point Is Paul saying to the Christian, God gave you his son that you might be pardoned? And that goes back to verse one, right? That revolutionary declaration that there is no condemnation for those who are trusting in Jesus Christ as their Savior Now I want to make four comments under that head, okay? First one is this. He says in verse 1, to those who are in Christ, to be in Christ means you belong to him More specifically, it means you have entered into spiritual union with Jesus Christ. In other words, it means you're a Christian, right? If you're not related to Christ, if you don't have spiritual union with Christ, then you're not a Christian. And Paul says, for those who are in Christ, there is no condemnation. It's not that God looks the other way, right? But it's that God placed our sin on Jesus Christ He was punished in our place. And so Paul's saying, you're secure. And in fact, in the end of chapter 8 He says, nobody can condemn you. That's sort of helpful because I know some of you have tender consciences. And you and you condemn yourself and you hear what others say and you feel like, hey, you know what? Maybe I'm not a Christian. Paul reminds us, listen, no matter what anybody says, if you trust in Jesus Christ, you are right before God. So don't listen to them. Look at verse 33 of chapter 8. Paul asked the question: Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. And so you're good, okay? We're still being shaped, we're still being sanctified, but as far as your standing before God is concerned, there is no condemnation. Why is that? Well, look at verse 3. God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do And when we're in chapter 7, we said that Paul's reference to the law refers to his moral law, summarized in the Ten Commandments. And those commands are good. They show us our sin, our need of a savior. Once we're saved, they instruct us in how to live a life pleasing to God. So there's nothing wrong with the law But the problem is the sin that still dwells within us, even as Christians, leads us to rebel against God's law. And this is a major problem for the unbeliever, because his whole posture is one of rebellion against God. Look at verse 7. We're going to stop there for a moment in verse 7. Paul said, the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. That is a description of the unbeliever's disposition Toward God. The mind that is set on the flesh is hostile toward God. You know, typically people will say, well, I'm I'm open-minded I want to hear what the Bible has to say. You know, I'm I'm I'm keeping uh I'm keeping my options open as far as my belief in Christianity. And I don't have any beef against God. Uh I'm I'm neutral. This passage tells us that unless the Spirit of God is at work in an individual, is at work in an unbeliever, drawing him to Jesus Christ. That individual may be, may pretend to be open-minded, but in his heart of hearts, he's hostile toward God. And he may not even be aware of it. So that's a problem. And he may not even see uh his sin and his need of a savior, and he might even say, I sort of like that, yeah, I I love God. And he might be really thinking about this false portrait that he has of God as a grandfather in a sky or a God who's just this great power and he set the universe uh in action and then he stays back and then if you have a problem he'll help you if you call on him but he really makes no claim on your life. Well Who wouldn't be interested in a God like that? But this is saying, everybody knows in his heart that there's a God. You saw that back in chapter 1, verse 18 and 20. Everybody knows there's a God. God's given us a conscience. I think it's around chapter 2, verse 15. We know there's this God. We know he's holy in our heart of hearts. And we recognize that we do rebel against him. And so our disposition toward this God is that we don't want anything tort, anything to do with him. And in fact, we're hostile, and at every juncture, we break his commands. That's what Paul writes in the end of verse 7. He does not submit To God's law. And so we suppress the knowledge of God and way deep down But the unbeliever has this hostility toward God, which raises the question, right? You have friends who are unbelievers, or family members who are not believers. So what do you do Well, when you try to have conversations as they arise, you try to have these conversations. Sometimes they're like, you know, I don't want to talk about this stuff, right? It's just it's it's the it's an occasion for conflict But there's other times, there's other opportunities, and so you try to bring Scripture in. If you have a friend, you might say, Hey, did you ever think about let's read the Gospel of John together? And we'll Read a couple chapters each week, we'll get together for lunch, or we'll go up for coffee. And we'll just read through it after we've read it each on our own And you could ask questions and I'll make a couple comments and and see what happens there. You might say, you know, that's that's how I came to believe. I read the Bible and it brought me to faith. And it does say in Romans 10, faith comes from hearing the word of God. And so right, we're we're at one time unbelievers, now we're believers. Had that happened? It was a work of God's Spirit and his ordinary means as he uses the Bible. And so we'd even say, hey, come, listen to the Bible taught at church. Our church is a great guy. The pastor is a great guy, the nicest guy you'll ever meet. And um come to our church And uh you could ask questions. And there are people sitting here this morning, right? They came for years and they didn't believe, and now they believe, and that's how that's how God works. And we also pray, Lord, help my friend, help my loved one to see, because it is a work of God that opens a person's eyes. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Verse 14, Paul wrote, The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. They're folly to him, and he's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. And so what we want to do is pray, Lord, help my friend to see. Use your word and by your spirit, bring my friend, my family member to faith. Let's go back. Let's go back now to verse 1. And um I just want to make sure this registers. Where Paul says there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And we're just going to read verse 3 and 4 now, because I didn't touch that. Paul says, For God has done what the law weakened by the flesh, so he's saying, right? Like I said, nothing wrong with God's commands, but it's our flesh, it's our sinful nature. But the law weakened by the flesh could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh for sin Right, so Jesus took on our humanity and for our sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, not according to our sinful nature But according to the Spirit, according to the Holy Spirit. And so here's the bottom line as far as the first point is concerned. If you are trusting in Jesus Christ, then no matter what you've done, no matter how heinous, no matter how shameful God has gone on public record right here in verse one, and he says, I don't hold that against you. You will not be condemned for that. I look on you, because you're trusting in Christ, as being a perfectly pure, righteous person. That's the gospel. We saw that in Zechariah 3, right? God's angel took away the priest, this representative's sin, and clothed him in righteousness. You see in Isaiah chapter 6, where the angel comes to Isaiah, who is crushed with his guilt. And the angel says to Isaiah, see, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. And so there's no condemnation for those who are resting on Jesus Christ. We didn't sing it because I think we just sang it recently. And if I could sing, I'd sing it now, but I wouldn't put you through that. But Charles Wesley and his great hymn, And Can It Be, what's he say? No condemnation now I dread, Jesus and all, and him is mine Alive in him, my living head, and clothed in and clothed in righteousness divine. And then he says, Bold I approach the eternal throne and claim the crown through Christ my own. So that's the wonderful message of the gospel. God has pardoned us in Jesus Christ. And then he goes on, okay? He's not only pardoned us, but he's given us the Holy Spirit. that we might be transformed, that we might be changed increasingly into the image of Jesus Christ. So let's skip down to verses 9 to 11 And the y the idea there is if you read that passage and you squeeze it down and you wring it out a little bit, you find that when you get to the bottom of it He's saying basically the Holy Spirit dwells in Christians. This means that if you're not a Christian or before you became a Christian, You did not have the Spirit of God. You were a spiritual corpse. And what happens when God brings someone to have this life in Christ is that he breathes life into him, right? That's why Jesus said in John three, you must be born again. He was saying To see the kingdom of God, you must receive spiritual birth from God. And that's all that a Christian is. A Christian isn't someone who's tried harder, who became spiritual, religious. A Christian is someone who was dead and God breathed spiritual life into him. Look at verse 2. He says the law of the Spirit, and the word law there means not God's commands, but like it means like the principle or the power. He says, the law of the Spirit of Life, the principle of the Spirit of Life, has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Okay? And so the Holy Spirit has set us free and is increasingly setting us free. And so a Christian is someone who has received the Holy Spirit. And it's interesting, like we say, there's one God, there's three persons in the Godhead, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. These are three distinct persons. And yet they work together, they work in harmony. And so that's why in verse 9, the Holy Spirit is also called the Spirit of God and the Spirit of Christ, because they're working together. You see the same harmony. Look at verse 1 and verse 9. In verse 1, we're described as being in Christ Jesus. What are we described as in verse 9? As being in the Spirit. Okay? So if you're a Christian, you're in the spirit. You might not feel real spiritual, you might not be having these esoteric experiences. That's not what it is. It's that God is working in you and He is changing you more into His image. And if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not a Christian. Remember last week we were talking about those who say Well, first you become a Christian, and then if you're one of the elite, or if you're sort of spiritual, God will baptize you in the Holy Spirit, and then you'll be really on the road, okay? You'll be making progress. That's not what the end of verse 9 says. Paul writes there: anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. And so if you are a Christian, you have received the Holy Spirit. And if you haven't, you're not a Christian. And the Holy Spirit does come into us to shape us more into the image of Christ, and one day we're going to receive new bodies and we'll be free from sin. Verse 11. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus from the dead will also give life. to your mortal bodies through a spirit. So here's a promise. You've been given a spirit. That's like the down payment. That's the first fruits of this great harvest. You're being transformed, and one day you'll be completely transformed and you'll receive a new body. Now Let's go on, and this is where we're gonna focus. Not I'm not saying I just getting started Uh we're we're starting to we we know where the airport is, but I I want to focus on this now. Verses nine to eleven. So the first idea in verses 9 to 11, I'm sorry, is the Holy Spirit dwells in Christians. The second theme we see, you go back to actually verses 5 to 8. And that's saying The Holy Spirit enables us to set our minds on the things of the Spirit. And so what he's saying is that when somebody becomes a Christian, uh when someone's regenerated by the work of God's Spirit, This gives you a new mindset. This will happen. This is an evidence of Christian conversion You will focus your attention on different things. I'm not saying completely different things. You might focus your attention on some of the old things, but you'll see them differently. You'll have a different perspective on them And you'll adopt new priorities. And y and this that's what it says there right there in verse five. So let's yeah, verse five. Let's read verse five again. Paul says, for those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh He's just saying that if you're not converted, if you haven't been changed by the Spirit of God, if you're not a Christian Your orientation is to set your mind on worldly things. But those who whoops awesome talk. Set your mind. Okay, middle of verse 5. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. And so all Paul is saying here is that there's a there's a fundamental difference between the outlook Between the mindset of an unbeliever and the mindset of a Christian. And when a person becomes a Christian His priorities, his ambitions, his desires undergo some manner of alteration. And I'm not saying it's complete, and we know that because we just did chapter 7 last week, right, where Paul talked about this inner struggle. We know this in our own experience. But there is a change in a person's outlook. And if I I mean I I didn't have I wasn't radically converted. But I became a Christian in my late teens, and I can look back and I'm going to say, yeah, I see that happen. I grew up in front of the TV. I mean we didn't read. Uh reading wasn't encouraged and there were no books in our house. And then I became a Christian, and all of a sudden, I want to try to understand the Bible. And you know, starting out in the Bible, for those who are newer, right? This is confusing, but uh there was something. I knew this was from God. I want to understand this. And then I started reading books. I wanted to read books to help shape me uh into a Christian who's useful and who is upright. And I had new interests. I wanted to go to church. My brother became a Christian too. We started going to church. And um that's sort of weird. My dad says, where are you going? Well, going to church. But and then like we want to point our parents to Christ. We want to point our friends. uh to Jesus Christ. And then always want to meet Miss Wright. Took took me a long time, but um I had certain things I was looking for. Then all of a sudden, well those things aren't more so important. These things are more important. Because I I see this now in the Bible and I see this from these Christians. I met at church And so there's this change. And then, you know, I'm a new Christian. Christians pray. Why is that? Well, because we understand There's more to life than meets the eye, right? Christianity is a supernatural religion. There's a God. He's at work in the world. And so I began to pray. Well, these are all changes, right, right, that come into somebody when they become a Christian. There there's a there is a shift, right? We still struggle with our old nature. We still and it doesn't mean that everything we did or we're interested in is bad or evil, but we still continue those same things, that those things that are noble or neutral But we see them in a in a different manner. And so that's what Paul's saying here. When you become a Christian uh you adopt a new mindset. There is this change. You're still raising your family or you're going to school or you're going to work. Hey, that's all great. That's all noble. But you're seeing these things now through a different lens. So Paul's just saying in verse 5, that's the way it is. Let me read that again. Those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. That's just the nature of being an unbeliever Those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. That's just the nature of a Christian, okay? That's the way it is. However, if you turn to Colossians chapter three, and we are getting closer to the airport, if you turn to Colossians chapter three, Um, Paul says that's the way it is. There is this fundamental shift in your mindset once you become a Christian, once God saves you. At the same time, God calls us to cultivate that mindset. Look at Colossians 3, chapter verses 1 and 2 Paul says to Christians, if then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above. For Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on the things that are above, not on the things that are on earth. And so while we do have this mindset, all he's saying there in Colossians is that's something we need to cultivate Uh because it there is a shift, but it's not a complete shift. So we do need to cultivate that. And that's important. Back in 1961, 60 years ago, there was an English theologian, his name's Harry Blumyers. He just died a couple years ago. But he wrote really a very important book. The title is The Christian Mind And in that book, he laments the fact that in his day, he said, there's really not much of a difference Between the way that many churchgoers view the world compared to the secular ver the secular person And he said in many cases, the only difference between the mindset, the worldview of a churchgoer, and I said and they use the word churchgoer instead of Christian, right? But he said the only difference between the mindset of a churchgoer and a secular person is that a churchgoer It has more of a grip on Christian ethics and he believes that there is an afterlife. But you know what? As far as their outlook There's really not not much of a difference in how we view political uh political and social and cultural issues and uh moral issues and or I shouldn't say that But there's really not much of a difference in their outlook or in their ambitions or in what they think is important. And what Lemyers is saying and what Paul is saying in Colossians 3 Is that this should not be, right? Being a Christian uh should really be uh bring about a revolution in the way that we look at life. It should change our conduct, it should change our priorities, it should change Our ambitions, and it should change our desires. Because we do have the spirit And we do have the word and it should be transforming us. In fact, Paul said in uh Second Corinthians ten verse five, take every thought captive. to obey Jesus Christ. And that's what we want to do. And I want to say to our young people, you're going to school, you're learning different things, what you want to do Is you want to look at history through the lens of scripture and a Christian worldview. You want to look at literature and art and science and so on. Through this lens, you want to have this bigger, more expansive understanding of how all this fits together under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And so just to be practical, it's about time. Or to be practical, one way That we can cultivate this Christian mindset. One way we can learn to set our mind on the things of the Spirit is by reflecting on life through the Word of God. So we want to reflect on Scripture. Our forefathers would use the word meditation. They would say a Christian should meditate on Scripture. Now that's a word that's been ransacked of you know in recent generations because when we think about meditation Oftentimes we would think about the Eastern religions and the the their meditation as sort of emptying your mind of of your thoughts. But Christian meditation is just mulling over the truths of the Bible. So th repeatedly uh we're told to meditate on God's word. You read Psalm 119, it's all through it. Uh um Psalm one verses one and two. The psalmist says, Blessed is the man who delights in the law of God, and on his law he does what? He meditates on it day and night. Or in Joshua chapter 1, verse 8, God said to Joshua, This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth But then he says, you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything that's written in it. Same idea in Colossians 3:16. Paul says to these Christians Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. And so one of the ways that God's Word takes up residence in our lives. is that when we reflect on it, we we dwell on it. We don't just dwell on what it's saying, but then we look at different things going on in our lives, different relationships, different issues We try to shape our outlook to be more in line with the way that Scripture would have us to think about. And it's good to meditate on sermons, the larger catechism. Question 160, it says it's required of those who hear the Word of God preached that they meditate on it. Then it says in confer of it, which means have a conference about it. So in other words, at lunch today Have a conference about this scripture passage. Right? Don't have roast pastor for lunch. But rather, uh you take the passage and you think about, hey What's something that was helpful here? I want to I want to think about this passage. So there you have it. I think that was a challenging text. I hope I didn't uh go in too many different directions But remember, what's the bottom line there, Paul saying to these Christians? He's saying to us. Take heart. He says, take heart for two reasons. Number one. God gave his son that you may be pardoned. So there's no condemnation. Okay? And that's good news not only for the Christian. But for the unbeliever, because it says there is pardon, you can be forgiven, all you have to do is rest, trust, lean, recline on Jesus Christ. And then the second reason we should take heart is because though we struggle, right? Our ambitions are to do that which is pleasing to God. But still there's a sinful nature within us. We take heart because God has given us His Spirit and He is renovating us. He's continuing the work. And so we should not become discouraged, but we want to go on. And yet we also want to exert ourselves, right, by staying in the Word of God. So let's bow our heads.