Let's turn well we'll let the uh four to five year olds be excused to worship training with Miss Lindy and Miss Becky, my wonderful assistant. I'll try not to dribble. Yeah. That's right. Patrick uh Abbott has a terrible joke. You might ask him later. Took me a while to figure it out. It's taken me a while to figure out Patrick Abbott though, right? Okay. Dum dum dum. Alright. Well let us turn to the book of Philippians, chapter three. So we're marching through Philippians, when we come to chapter three There's a lot in this passage here. Verses one to eleven Paul writes, Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me, and is safe for you. Look out for the dogs. Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the real circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus. and put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh I have more, circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. As to the law of Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness, under the law blameless. But whatever gain I had, I count as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss. because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ the righteousness from God that depends on faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share in his sufferings. Becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. There's a lot in there, right? A lot of what Paul speaks of here is unfamiliar to our experience. a heretical sect whom he refers to as dogs, uh circumcision as a religious rite Then Paul's recitation of his Jewish religious credentials. So a lot of unfamiliar themes or concepts. But there are two, I should say, the two main issues of which these verses speak are at the core of Christianity. And so really when you boil this p passage down, it's really basic. The first thing, and this is the dominant theme, It's the gospel. How is a person saved? What must you do to go to heaven? How is a sinner made right with God? So that's the overarching theme. And then toward the end of the passage, Paul answers the question, what is the purpose of life? Now, is there any more basic question? I'm not sure. But that's what we're covering here, these two basic themes. We're going to spend more time on. The first theme, the gospel. Okay? Now, the gospel, there's a word you hear all the time. In fact, what's good news Presbyterian Church? Gospel, Presbyterian Church. The Gospel concerns how a person is saved. The word gospel doesn't appear in these verses. You do find it 11 times in the book of Philippians, but the concept is here. So I want to take a little time just to make sure that everybody understands what I'm talking about when I say the gospel. Because most Christians don't understand it. I told a story years ago. They did a survey at the Christian booksellers convention. So these are people who write Christian books and publish Christian books. Some guy went around asking people, what is the gospel? Like one out of fifty could give a clear answer. They say, oh, asking Jesus into your heart, uh stuff like that. Nothing clear We want to be clear on the gospel. And in a nutshell, the gospel refers to the free salvation we have in Jesus Christ. God gives it to us as a gift. We don't attain it. We don't earn it because of our human effort. And I said the word gospel is not in this passage, but the concept is there, and especially in verse 9. So let's go back to verse 9. Paul speaks about being found in Christ and be found in him, and then he says, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. So in other words, not having a righteousness that I attain by my own effort by keeping the Old Testament commandments the law, okay? But that comes through faith in Christ. Whoops, a little that comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness from God that depends on faith. Okay? So that's a great summary of the gospel. And so Jesus, by his death on the cross, paid the penalty for my sin. He cancels my sin. Jesus, by his perfect Righteous life was righteous in my place and gives me all his righteousness And so here's a good summary. You have the law, what God requires, versus the gospel, what God gives. Here it is. The law is everything that God commands. The gospel is everything that God gives. And everything that God gives, in the gospel, Is everything is everything that he has demanded in the law? Do you get that The gospel is a righteousness that God gives you, and it's received by faith alone. You don't have to do a thing. to earn it or to receive it. Okay? And so Paul's making the point that if you think That you can earn the acceptance of a holy God based on your achievements or your record. I was baptized or I'm a member of the church Or I try to live a good life, or I try to help other people, or I engage in various acts of religious observance. If you think that's going to get you to heaven You don't understand the gospel, you're still lost in your sin, and you're headed for hell. And so it's so important that we be clear on the gospel. So we're saved by believing Jesus Christ as he's offered in this gospel message. Okay? And he goes on. The gospel is something we're fighting to preserve. And so here's where we are. We're in verses 2 and 3. Paul issues a warning about a heretical sect. uh known as the Judaizers. They were denying the gospel. The Judaizers, so that means, or they were Christians, or they were professed Christians, but they were from a Jewish background, and they were telling non-Jews who became Christians that they had to keep all the Old Testament laws, including the Old Testament ceremonial laws, the dietary laws. They had to observe the religious holy days in the Old Testament. They had to be circumcised. And so in a nutshell, they said It answers the question: how are you saved? Well, believe in Christ plus keep the Old Testament law, be circumcised. The Apostle Paul had been at odds with the Judaizers all through his ministry. You see it in Acts 15. He's dealing with them there. You see it in the book of Galatians. And The commentators think that Judaizers had not yet, or had not, I should say, infiltrated the church in Philippi. But Paul is merely warning the Philippians, be on guard against these people. Watch out for them. Don't let them in. Do not let them influence you. And so three times in verse two, Paul says, Look out! Look at verse two again. Look out for the dogs. Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh. And when Paul said, look out for the dogs, he wasn't talking about Fluffy the Poodle. He was talking about these wild dogs, right? In the ancient world. Dogs were not admired. They were wild, they spread disease, they spread destruction, they were vicious. And Paul is saying that is what these people are like And so they will pervert the gospel. And so you be on your guard against the Judaizers. Well, why am I bringing this up? Has anybody ever met a Judaizer? Not to my knowledge, right? But the principle Is that there are those who will pervert the gospel by saying you must add something to the message of free salvation by faith in Jesus Christ? Many here are from a Roman Catholic background. And you were taught, yeah, believe in Christ, but then also you have to do the seven sacraments, you have to do penance. uh you have to pray to to uh mother mary and so on. How about Bible teaching churches? Do we ever add to the gospel? Now I was thinking about that. I mean, do we ever say there's things you have to do in addition to believing in Christ to be saved? We say, well, like maybe some fundamentalist churches will say you have to believe in Christ, but then you have to do all these other things, dress codes and uh abstain from alcoholic beverage or whatnot. So maybe there are there are churches like that. I was reading this little article uh by uh Jay Gresham Machin, great New Testament scholar, Westminster Seminary back in the early 1900s. And he said a huge thing in evangelical churches is that Whenever we're told, whenever we tell people to seek salvation by surrendering to Christ instead of by faith, That's destroying the gospel. Whenever we say to people who are unbelievers, believe in Christ and make Christ the master of your life, we're destroying the gospel. Now, we do, of course, we're to take up our cross, we're to follow Christ, we're to surrender to Christ. Once we become a Christian, right? We're to make Christ the master of our life. Once we become a Christian That's part of Christian growth. That's part of sanctification. However, the gospel, though, is a free salvation. All you have to do is receive it. Another great theologian, B. B. Warfield, said, the gospel is not good advice. It's good news. And by that he was saying The gospel doesn't advise you what you must do to earn your salvation. Rather, he said, it proclaims to us what Jesus has done to save us. It's a salvation, a completed salvation, that the gospel announces to us, right? Gospel, good news, glad tidings. Here's the good news: Christ forgives sinners. You don't have to do anything except lay hold of him, and you do that by faith, by trusting in him. And so the gospel is something worth fighting for. And if any religious leader says that you can be saved on the basis of your human achievement. Paul doesn't say, well, you know, to each his own in God likes variety. But he says, no, those people are evil, they are dogs. Look at Galatians 1:9, even stronger language. He says, if anyone's preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received Let him be accursed. Let him be damned. That's what Paul's saying. Even a really nice religious person. Paul says, let that person be damned, because he is misleading people and he is leading them. to hell. And so this is pretty this is a pretty forceful passage, huh? Uh let's go on. Uh 1C Paul goes on to say to these Gentiles, for those who are new, newer to the Christian faith, a Gentile's a non-Jew. Somebody said, What's a Gentile? Just somebody who's not a Jew. So you have Jews and Gentiles, okay? And in this passage, Paul writes to the Christians in Philippi. That was Greek, they were Greek-speaking people, right? They were Gentiles. He writes to the Christians in Philippi in verse 3, we are the real circumcision. We're the real people of God. Wait a minute. In the Old Testament, who were the people of God? Who was the circumcision? It was the Israelites. Paul is saying now. That the true people of God are those who are resting on Christ alone for their salvation. Whether you're from a Jewish background or a Gentile background. If you're trusting in Christ as your Savior, then you are the true people of God. Very interesting. And it's interesting, I think, because in the in amongst Bible-believing Christians, there are some who say there are two peoples of God. You have the church, those who are trusting in Christ. Then you have the Jews. The ancient the Jews, they're the other people of God. And so there's two parallel tracks that God has by which you can be saved and be right with God. Either be born an Israelite or become a Christian. I don't see that in the New Testament. I think that might even be the majority view, but I don't see that. Ephesians 2 talks about you have the Jews and the Gentiles. Christ came to take down that barrier, and now there's one people of God. Or Galatians 3. 29, Paul writes to these Gentile Christians, If you are Christ, then you're Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. Galatians 6:16. Paul says to these Gentile Christians, you are the Israel of God. And so it's those who believe the gospel, regardless of their background, they are God's people, the number one category and the only category of God's people. Now let's move on verses four to seven. And this is really, I believe, the heart of the passage. The gospel is something that Paul came to cherish. And um it's interesting that Paul's making this argument because if there is anybody Who is in a position to put confidence in his personal righteousness, in his religious attainments? It was the Apostle Paul. So let's read the second part of verse 4 down to verse 6. Paul, speaking of himself, says, if anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, in other words, in who you are outside of Christ. I have more circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. A Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness, under the law, blameless. Okay, so he was a Jew, and he wasn't just a convert to Judaism. He was born into it. He was circumcised on the eighth day as the Old Testament required. He was of the tribe of Benjamin. And so uh the tribe of Judah, that was a royal tribe. That was a tribe from which King David came, uh that was a tribe from which the succession of kings would come. But it was Benjamin that was the only tribe that was loyal to Judah. The other ten rebelled against Judah. And it was from Benjamin the king, Saul came. So he was he was he had a pretty good background there. Benjamin, as to the law of Pharisee, the Pharisees were highly respected Jewish order, and they sought to keep not only all the Old Testament commands, but they added commands to the Old Testament. They had an oral law. Paul was a Pharisee He was a Hebrew Hebrews and an educated one of that. He was trained under under the great rabbi Gamalael. Astazeel, he says in verse 6, I was a persecutor of the church, right? So he wasn't one of those milktoast kumbaya Jews. He was out there stoning the Christians And so Paul was a Jew of the first rank. But then he realized that when he met Christ, that all his attainments were worthless. Compared to what Jesus Christ did for him. So then you get to verse 7. He says, Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. So he's saying, you know, if you're an accountant, right, you're m you have this column of all your religious attainments, then you have this column. of all the things that Christ is and has done for you. And he says, you don't even have to balance it out. Your attainments are completely worthless. And the only thing that accounts for anything is what Jesus Christ has done Verse 8, indeed I count everything a loss as loss, because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I've suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish. Who has the King James? It says done. Extreme. It's a very strong language. Junior High Boy should like this passage. I can't um to pr I count everything as lost compared to him. I count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. And so Paul's argument is real is rather clear, right? If anybody could appeal to his religious attainments, to his his spiritual credentials, to his moral record uh it would have been the apostle paul, but he realized when he understood the holiness of God It was worthless. But that's okay because Christ lived the holy life that Paul couldn't live, and Christ gave Paul his holiness. That's sort of important. And it's interesting. It's sad. There are church-going people that will be offended. If you say you're a sinner, you don't say it mean, you don't say it in a condescending way. I remember one guy, he was so offended. And I wasn't like, I'm a sinner too. But you're a sinner. He didn't see it. I taught Sunday school for 40 years and I've been doing this and I've been doing that. The guy had a fit You have relatives? You ever try to engage them? And they're offended? When you try to point out, even in a you're trying to be gracious, you're a sinner and you need a savior. But if you don't see that about yourself, then you don't yet understand the holiness of God, and you don't yet see the gospel. And so the gospel is this good news. Jesus Christ is your righteousness. John Bunyan in one of his books titled Grace Abounding, The Chief of Sinners, he said, you know I was walking through a field one day, and I'll read it. He says, I was walking through a field one day, and this sentence fell upon my soul. It's like he had this this understanding, this uh insight. Thy righteousness is in heaven. And with the eyes of my soul I saw Jesus at the Father's right hand. There, I said, is my righteousness. God could not say to me, Where's your righteousness? Because it's always right there in Jesus Christ at his right hand. Then he went on. I saw I saw that it is not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness righteousness better. Nor yet my bad frame that made my righteousness worse. Why? Because Jesus is my righteousness. So when the Father looks upon you, he looks upon you as having the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That should be a great relief, right? And we feel guilty, we feel shame, we feel marked, tainted, things we've done in the past. You've got to remind yourself, Jesus is my righteousness. Let's go on, just briefly now, okay? Um going on. Just a real short question: what is the purpose of life? Let's just try to knock that out in the next five minutes, right? We can do it though, right? Because the Bible. The Bible does it. Whereas we get I put in the outline, what should be the Christian's supreme ambition? So, once you're saved, our ambitions should be reordered, right? There should be a reorientation And Paul says, my supreme ambition is to know Jesus Christ. Verse 8, I count everything as lost. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. He wants to know Christ. Verse ten. He says what? That I may know him in the power of his resurrection and may share in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection of the dead. Now think about this. Paul wrote this 30 years after he was converted. And he's still saying. I want to know Jesus Christ more. He's not content where he is. A lot of people say, oh, you know, I was converted when I was 18. I got my Bible, and I know John 3. 16, and that's about it. That's not how we should look at it, right? Paul was, he still wants to go deeper. He wants to go further. But he wants to know Jesus Christ more and more. And so the Christian life, if you just say, yeah, I'm a Christian, my sins were forgiven, I know I'm going to heaven. You know, where do you want to eat? You don't get the whole purpose then of the Christian life. The Christian life is to walk with Christ. To know Jesus. Think about Adam and Eve in the garden, right? They had unhindered fellowship with God. They walked with God. And that's what Paul wants to do. You think about Psalm 27. Uh he the psalmist says, you know, I want to know you, Lord. I I forget the language now. Um Oh, where God sa the psalmist says, My heart says to you, Your face, O Lord, do I seek. Jesus even defined eternal life in John 17, 3. He said, This is eternal life, that they may know you, the true God, and Jesus Christ. Whom ye have sent. Or think about Jeremiah 9. I have that on the header of the bulletin. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast of his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might Let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this, that he understands and knows me, that I'm the Lord. So that should be our ambition. We have other noble ambitions and they're all good. But d the Bible is telling us that this should be preeminent. And so we're saying that a Christian life It's not just an intellectual thing, but it's a relationship. And so we want to know God personally. How's that happened? Well, as we as we take the scripture, right? We take it, we we study it, but then we reflect on it. And we say, you know what, I read this passage, and it's like it just sort of went in and out. That happens to me all the time. So we we take time Go back, reflect on it. Even if there's one thing, what does this tell us about God? What does this tell us about the Son, God the Father? What does it tell us about God the Son? It takes place where, like that psalmist in Psalm 27, Lord, I want to seek you, I want to know you, but I'm dull. And so please impress. The reality from Scripture, the truth of who you are, upon my mind, upon my heart. But it also happens, you know, not just you're sitting in your chair, you're reading your Bible, you're praying. But it happens, it takes place as we walk in God's ways. And even look at verse 10. As we share in his sufferings. In verse 10, Paul is saying that as we suffer on account of our allegiance to Jesus Christ, We are at that time living in the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so there's a spiritual spiritual dynamic that takes place in our lives as we press on As we trust God's promises, as we obey Him, as we call out in prayer, as we worship, take the sacraments, stay in the Word. And look at verse 11. He does all these things, verse 11, that by any means possible I may obtain the resurrection of the dead. So he reminds us there's a there's a goal, there's an end uh to our lives here. And if you trust in Christ You'll be raised up by the one who said, I'm the resurrection and life. He who believes in me will never die. You'll never die if you're trusting in Christ. But one day you will enter into perfect fellowship with Christ and will also have perfect knowledge, fellowship, harmony. with one another. And so the best is yet to come. And so Paul has reminded us of the gospel. You know what you contribute to your salvation? One thing. The sin that makes it necessary. The gospel is a gift from God. All you have to do is receive it by faith. So I ask you, are you resting on Christ alone for your salvation? And then here's the purpose, you know, and I say this to our young people too. You're in school, middle school, high school, maybe college age, you know. And you see everybody running after this and running that and trying to say, I'm somebody, I have an identity I'm going somewhere. Well, preeminent, supreme, uh should be uh the ambition to know Jesus Christ. If that's your ambition These other things will fall into place in a rather nice way. And so let's rekindle that ambition. We want to know Christ, encourage you. uh to resolve, yeah, you know what, I need to be more deliberate about engaging the scripture. Um if you're able to come to Sunday school, most of you are Come to Sunday school. Come to a Bible study. I know you can't get involved in 20 things. But be in the fellowship of believers. Nurture yourself at home. Nurture your children. But also be a part of the group. Then we persevere as we bow our heads