If I need something, I'll just call you, okay? All right. So let's turn to Revelation. Revelation chapter six. For those who are new, we're glad you're here. We're marching through the this uh letter. So this revelation is an epistle. But it's also uh an epistle written in a certain kind of uh genre. It's called apocalyptic, and so as I said, uh there's a lot of imagery, a lot of vivid pictures And um even even if you don't get every detail, you you can still uh learn a lot just the from the big messages coming across. And it's almost better to be a kid than an adult when you read the book of Revelation, because you you I think a kid gets more of the the punch in the nose from it where sometimes we get wrapped up in trying to figure out did I get all these details correct Let's see what we can do. Revelation chapter 6. It's in the bulletin if you don't have a Bible, but I encourage you to bring a Bible. So John, remember, uh John's on this island he was exiled to and God disclosed uh this information to him. And John says in chapter 6 verse 1, Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures say with a loud voice like thunder, Come. And I looked, and behold, a white horse. In its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering and to conquer. Then he opened a second seal. And I heard the second living creature say, Come. And out came another horse, bright red Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that men should slay one another, and he was given a great sword. Then he opened a third seal, and I heard the third living creature say, Come And I looked and behold a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand. And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, Come, and I looked and behold a pale horse. And his writer's name was Death, and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a fourth of the earth to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by wild beasts of the earth When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne And they cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth Then they were each given a white robe, and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed, as they themselves had been. When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake. And the sun became black as sackcloth The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree sheds the winter fruit when shaken by a gale The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones And the generals and the rich and the powerful, and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves. And among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and the rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? There ends the reading of God's word. It's sort of windy. Oh my. There's a magnet. So last week, uh Becky told me she said she said I'm too negative. You probably find that hard to believe. But she said I'm I'm too negative. And what I'm negative about is I see these guys laughing, but I know you the same way. Um You know what I'm negative about, I get negative, I get discouraged about the it seems like the downward spiral in our culture. And she said, I know this is all true, but you're wearing me out. And so uh she said, Yeah, and she said, you know, you need to have more of a biblical perspective on things. And uh and I know I see some of these guys looking at me like, you're and these guys I know you're the same way because I've had many conversations with you guys. You're wearing me out. In fact, uh it's funny. It's funny. Can I name a name? So John Andrew. John Andrew said, You're negative. You're like Pollyanna compared to me. And so um But uh it's in this sense that this passage is is helpful uh because we have good reason to decl to grieve what's going on in our culture and young people have no sense of perspective. They don't know what it was like, you know, 30 or 40 or 50 years ago. But those who've been around, there's a sense of there's this great sense of loss about what's going on. But even with that, uh what this passage reminds us Is a sovereignty of God. God will accomplish his purposes in our nation, around the world, and in history. And that purpose is to bring to consummation all things in Jesus Christ. That's the lesson of this passage. And so we can quit now, or I can fill in a couple extra details. I think I'll fill in some details. Really, that's the message of Revelation, and uh that's very evident in this chapter. In this chapter, God through the or Jesus Christ through the Apostle John assures Christians who are living in a in a in the Roman Empire under a an authoritarian government Where there's much idolatry and wickedness, he reminds them, he reminds Christians down through time And he reminds us here this morning that all the tumults of this fallen world are merely the judgments of God. They're the chastening hand of God by which He teaches us as people to depend on Him By which he awakens unbelievers to their perilous condition, and by which he judges the unrepentant. Now let me give you the context because it's been a few weeks. In chapter 5, God disclosed to the Apostle John a vision of heaven itself. And in this vision, John sees God the Father seated on a throne, and the Father is holding a scroll. This scroll is a book or a scroll that discloses God's plan for history. In other words, his acts of judgment and redemption. And in chapter 5, verse 2, an angel asked, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals? And they could find no one worthy. And so they're alarmed by this. Who will execute the Father's good purposes for history? And then finally, in chapter 5, verse 5, we read, and one of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold, the line of the tribe of Judah, the root of David has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. You get to chapter 6 to chapter 8, and they are called, those chapters, um, excuse me uh include what are called the seven seals. Or in other words, the seven seals on this scroll of God's plan for history that Jesus Christ by his worthiness and authority is able to slit. And so Jesus Christ is the one who slits the seals on the scroll one by one And in chapter 6, we're looking at the first six seals that are open. Notice verse 1. John says, I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the living creatures say, and so one by one, Jesus opens these seven seals that disclose God's plan and purposes that will be carried out in history. And these and these uh seals are largely a series of judgments. And um so but I said, I think I said there are seven seals, but we're only going to cover chapter six. And so just the first six seals, chapter seven is an interlude. We're going to look at that next week. And the purpose of this interlude is to remind God's people that God's going to protect them. Okay? Then you get to chapter 8 and the seventh seal is opened. So let's do this. You'll notice on the outline I have the first point is the first four seals because they're a package. They are four manifestations. of God's judgment on the world. And uh these seals consist of four horses with four riders. Uh these this has been these have been called the four horsemen of the apocalypse. And we read Zechariah chapter 6 because that's where this imagery is drawn from. Zechariah also speaks about four horsemen. Each of the four horses is introduced by one of four living creatures. These are angels, and they call the horses and the riders to come and to bring the judgment or the destruction that has been decreed. And these four horses bring four kinds of disasters on humanity. Conquest, war, famine, and death. And so I said to Becky, she said, when she said you have to be more positive I said it's going to be a little tricky this Sunday in Revelation 6, since the theme is conquest, war, famine, and death. But I will try my best here. So these are and just uh who's the audience or who who will these be visited upon? These will be visited upon Christians. in the entire Roman Empire. These will be visited upon people living down through history, and then also there will be an intensification of these uh these tumults. before Jesus returns. And so that's the framework by which we're reading Revelation. It's not a f merely a futuristic book. It's not merely a book addressing Christians in the first century, but my understanding of it is that, yes, it was to the Christians in the first century, but it applies to Christians down through time And then there will be an intensification of these events also before Jesus returns. So let's go through the seals. I'm talking a lot. Uh let me just look at the clock here. I don't want to wear you out. Alright, we're good. Okay, I'll take my time. Um Fir Seal is the white a white horse who represents conquest. And so look again at verse 2. And I looked, and behold, a white horse, and its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out what? Conquering And to conquer. And so this first horse represents conquest. And there's all kind of interpretations of this and uh a popular interpretation is that, you know, who does this white horse represent, or this horseman? And many would say it w represents Jesus, because if you look at chapter nineteen, uh verse eleven There's a description there of Jesus riding on a white horse. Well, that sounds pretty convincing because that's all in the same book. But then you've got to step back and think, wait a minute. There's four horsemen, and the theme of the four horsemen is the disasters, the different kinds of disasters. that God brings on this world in judgment. And so I don't think it's referring to Jesus. I because you know in the Bible you can have the same symbol referring to different things. Chapter 5 verse 5 Jesus is called a lion, then I think 1 Peter 4. 8, uh Satan's called a lion. And so just because a symbol means one thing here doesn't doesn't mean that it means a second thing there But rather so my understanding is that the white horse, if you look at it uh in balance with the other three horses, the white horse merely represents The disaster of nation-conquering nations. And that makes a lot of sense if you if you consider it through the lens of history. Because what is history but the story about the rise and fall of empires, right? Nations that conquer today are conquered tomorrow So you had the Egyptians and the Babylonians and the Persians, the the Ro the Greeks, the Romans The British Empire, right? The the sun would never never set on the British Empire. Well it does now because many of those territories have been conquered And then in our day, the United States, China, the Soviet Union. So Shakespeare wrote about the rise and fall of the great ones that ebb and flow with the moon And so the white horse tells us there will always be war, there will always be conquest in this fallen world. You go on verses three and four. The second seal is about a red horse representing slaughter. So again, look at verse three. John says, when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, Come. And out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth So that men should slay one another, and he was given a great sword. So slaughter, the slaughter brought upon by war, by abortion, by criminals By the persecution of political and religious minorities. When I was a seminary student in Philadelphia, there was an elder in the church by the name of Keifa Sempangi. Kefa Sempangi He had been a pastor in Uganda in the 1970s when Edi Amin, the dictator, was butchering hundreds of thousands of Ugandans. And I remember uh Kafer wrote, he said, just as there is a boundary beyond which human beings cannot comprehend the glory of God He said, so there is a boundary beyond which they cannot comprehend the evil in the world. And there are wicked things going on, many of which were not aware. But we should not be surprised because this has all been foretold. This is all part of God's purposes. He is allowing us as he accomplishes his greater purposes. In history. Verses 5 and 6, we read about the third seal. When slit, we discover a black horse. So I read verse 5. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come, and I looked, and behold, a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand. And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius and three quarts of barley for denarius, and do not harm the oil in wine. And so this uh black forest represents famine and the need to weigh bread, you know, something as uh uh y typically uh as uh as uh uh abundant as wheat and barley. Now they need to weigh bread uh the wheat and the barley because the commodities are scarce. So a quart of wheat for denarius, well denarius was an average day's wage for a laborer, but now he can only uh afford enough wheat to provide bread for himself and not his family. If they went with the barley, uh they would get three quarts. And uh so it's a time when there's inflation Uh something we're acquainted with and it's a time where there is uh deprivation. But there would be some luxury items, there would always be the rich and they could afford uh the uh uh the uh with the the the oil in the wine. And so that's what they say. Don't harm the oil in the wine the oil and Here I go again. Uh the oil and uh the wine. But this too uh has been a story down through history, right? The sufferings of the masses uh due to famine. And I remember reading uh one account of Joseph Stalin, the Russian dictator, 30s, 40s. And uh it it revealed that he had implemented intentionally a famine in the Ukraine. He he had orchestrated this famine and it killed four million Ukrainians. And there was one antidote about a Ukrainian woman woman whose six children had died within the span of three days. And she lost her mind. And she was starving too. She lost her mind. She took off her clothes. She unbraided her hair. And she went around just saying, the red broom is taking my children. The red broom. The red broom of communism. that has just swept away so many, and it took her children as well. Let's go on, verse 7 and 8, we read about the fourth seal, which is a pale horse. And we know that would be the color of the corpse, the color of death. Verse 7. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, Come. And I looked, and behold, a pale horse, and its rider's name was Death, and Hades In other words, the grave, the abode of the death. Hades followed him, and they were given authority over a fourth of the earth to kill with sword and with famine and with pestilence and by wild beast of the earth. And so they were given his authority by God. And so God was still over all of this. And we don't understand his purposes, but he's still sovereign. It's interesting So there are four four disasters that came. The sword, look at the end of verse eight, the sword, famine, Pestilence, right? Bubonic plague, the Spanish flu, AIDS, coronavirus. Then it says wild beasts of the earth, whether people were torn apart in the open field or in the Roman amphitheater. But again, this goes back to another Old Testament prophet, Ezekiel 14, 21 and 22, speaks about these four Kind of disastrous acts of judgment. Sword, famine, wild beasts, and pestilence. So I'm just getting you reminding you the unity unity of the Bible. This whole book fits together. This testifies to his divine authorship. So there's these uh the four seals, uh these four horsemen of the apocalypse. And uh it is dire, but we have to remember, and this is what I brought up in the beginning, that when we become uh too negative about what's going on around us and what's gone on down through history. We have to remember, you know, this was all foretold. This is all the execution Of God's purposes in history and also of his judgment of the world. We often think about judgment as something that'll come on the last day But Romans 1 verse 18 says the wrath of God is being poured out from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And so this is what's this is what's going on. And why does God do this? To awaken people, to chasten, and to uh uh disciple his people and to get us to turn to him, but also to execute his righteous wrath upon the unrepentant. Now I mentioned when you get to chapter 7 next week, we'll see that even as God's pouring out his judgments, he's preserving his people. And so that's our encouragement there. God will always protect his people. Even if we lose our lives, he is for us. Let's go on now. Turn the corner here. The fifth seal. That is the martyr's cry. So notice, so we're in verse 9. Notice the setting of this vision. What does John see in verse 9? He writes, when I opened the fistiel, I saw under the altar. So it's a vision of this altar in the heavenly sanctuary. And he says, I saw under the altar where typically in the Old Testament the blood of sacrificed animals was poured out. But John sees under the this altar at the base, not the blood of sacrificed animals, but he sees the blood of the martyrs. And so verse 9, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness They had born. And so this indeed is Christian speaking about Christian martyrs. And it's fascinating in verse 10. What are they asking for? What are they crying out for? They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. That doesn't sound very Christian to me. Then Jesus command us to forgive our enemies. Then Jesus on the cross say about his executors, Father, forgive them. But we have to remember, uh you could be you can have a motivation for justice, not because of your desire for personal retribution. But because you're zealous for the honor and the and the name of God and that he be glorified And so these people are calling out that God's honor be vindicated. And so um and it's interesting uh that uh Well look at verse eleven. I'll read and then I'll make my comment. Says then they were given a white robe and told to rest a little longer So they're anxious. So this seems to be what we call the intermediate state. They're united to Jesus Christ. And Jesus assures them, he says, just rest a little longer. And he assures them that in his good time judgment will come. So then they were given a white robe, told to rest a little longer. until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been. And so this says, I think it's sort of interesting, God has a set number of Christians who will die, martyrs' deaths. This is all part of God's purpose. It's horrific to hear some of these accounts about how Christians are suffering. But even this is within God's sovereign purposes. Then he says When that when the number of martyrs are complete, that's when Jesus is going to return. So what do we do with that? Well, we need to humble ourselves and say, this is above me, your purposes, but we also need to be praying for Christians around the world I read and I've read this more than once, the twentieth century uh was the was the most uh the bloodiest uh century in the history of the church As far as persecution and martyrdom is concerned, uh one Christian leader, uh George Robinson, told about his experience. He said in one sout one South Asian country where I've worked, there was a mass shooting at a Christian school, multiple church bombings and countless stories of brothers and sisters who have been threatened and abused because of their faith in Jesus. I have served alongside a dear friend and encouraged him in his work only to see him forced out of the country by those who felt threatened by his gospel ministry. In another country, I worked alongside a brother was tied up, beaten, and left for dead by his own family members because of his decision to leave Islam and to follow Jesus. What do we do? Well, there's not a whole lot we can do, but what we can do is we can be informed so we don't go just live our lives in happy ignorance And we can pray. So I encourage you to pray for these people. Get their their different websites and our missionaries, our World Witness missionaries, send out prayer updates. But yeah, we want to pray. We're praying on Wednesday mornings and encourage you to be a part of that. And hopefully we'll get our Sunday afternoon prayer time started soon. Here's the sixth and final seal, or at least for this morning in chapter six, the sixth seal concerns the final judgment. And so the first five seals Describe history between the resurrection and the return of Jesus Christ. The sixth seal concerns the last day, the return of Jesus Christ. And so we see in verses 12 to 14 that when Jesus returns, there's going to be a shaking of the old order. John writes, When he opened the sixth seal, I looked. Behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Now remember, and I don't say this to soften the blow, but I just say this to say this is a this is symbolic language Not to tone it down, but just to say, John, in this vision, he's reaching for language that we can understand. to describe the the degree of cataclysm uh that we'll experience when Jesus Christ returns But it's probably symbolic, right? The earth is too small for the stars from the sky actually to fall to the earth. But the point still stands that this is going to be a cataclysmic event. And when Jesus Christ returns, this is the important part, for the unbeliever, for the person who has not Turn to Jesus, it's going to be a horrifying event. People are going to plead for death to come upon them rather than to face the wrath of a holy God. Look at verse 15 Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful And everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks. Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who seated on a throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? And that is the question. Who can stand? The psalmist In Psalm 76, verse 7, that's the same thing. Who can stand before you once your anger is aroused? And I hope you know the answer to that question, because that's the most important question in life. Who can stand before the righteous God? Who can stand before Jesus Christ when He returns And we say, not the person who's trying to become religious, not the person who's trying to reform himself and turn over a new leaf. You'll never make yourself holy by your moral efforts and your religious exercises. But the only one who can stand is the person who has heard the good news and recognizes that the good news is about what Jesus did for us, right? He lived the perfect life where we fell short, and then he died on the cross, and he bore that penalty. He bore the righteous wrath of the Father that we deserved. And so who can stand? Only the person who says, I'm resting on Jesus Christ and Him alone as my substitutionary sin bearer. And so let me just end with a verse from Psalm 2, verse 12. Fowler just preached on this. The psalmist says Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is easily kindled. But then he says Blessed are all who take refuge in him. And so really that's what Revelation 6 is pointing us to. It is giving us the bad news so that we can, against that back black backdrop, see the sparkling diamond of the gospel. A free salvation that is given by the grace of God to all who would say, I look to you, Lord Jesus, as my Savior. And when you're looking to him, you're going to stand. In fact, I should have found that verse in chapter 7 The believers, it says, are standing before the throne of God, worshiping Him. Let's bow our heads