Any four to seven year olds who have an interest may go with Mr. Rundell uh to worship training. And let's turn to John 10. So for those visiting or newer here today, or new here today, we're going through John's Gospel. And we are now at chapter 10, beginning at verse 30. Jesus is in a dispute with the Jewish religious leaders It's the called the Feast of Dedication or Hanukkah. It's in Jerusalem. And we're picking up in the middle of that encounter And this will be, this sort of rounds out Jesus' public ministry. So chapter 10, verse 30, Jesus says to these men. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answered him, It is not for good work that we're going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you being a man, make yourself God. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law? I said, you are gods. If he called them gods to whom the word of God came, and scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him, Whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you're blasphemy because I said, I am the Son of God If I'm not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe me Believe the works that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father. Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained, and many came to him. And they said, John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true. And many believed in him there. So there's a famous theologian. He is a heretic, but he did get one thing right. And so I quote him adorably just this one time guy named uh Swiss theologian by the name of Karl Barth, he said, what you think of Christ will determine ultimately what you think about everything else. And so this passage has to do with the identity of Jesus Christ. And it boils down to What do you think of him? What do you make of him? Because many would say, well, he was a great moral teacher or he was an inspirational uh spiritual man, uh but they don't go so far as to acknowledge that he is God incarnate. In our passage, you see it right there in verse 30, Jesus claims to be God. And so that's really the thrust of this passage. There is a second claim he made that I want to uh uh talk about in the in the second part of our the message this morning. It's just an incidental comment, but really it is fraught with significance. Right there in the middle of verse 35, where Jesus said, the scripture cannot be broken. And so that's our that's our our task this morning to consider the person of Christ and also to consider the authority of Scripture. Real simple way to break this passage down. So let's uh first of all, the deity of Jesus Christ. And just about everybody says Jesus was a good man. Some pe many would say he was the greatest teacher who uh ever lived. He was a wonderful example of uh selfless love, but they don't accept his claim to be God. And that is really a brazen claim. And as Christians, what are we saying? We're saying that the God we worship is the true God in all these other religions in the world are false, uh they're misguided, and uh even go so far as to say uh they're evil, they're satanic in their origin, but we believe that Jesus Christ is God. And so is that true? And I want to say to our young people, You know, how did you know so you're probably thinking, why do Christians say that they have the truth and nobody else? That sounds a little arrogant. That sounds a little bit proud Well, it comes down to what do we make of Jesus Christ? And I would say to you, what do you make of Jesus Christ? I'm a Christian, and others here are Christians because we're persuaded that this stuff is true, that Jesus is God. And you cannot be a Christian And deny the deity of Jesus Christ. You can't read the Bible and deny the deity of Jesus Christ. Just looking at John's Gospel, it comes up again and again, right? The very first verse, John said In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And it goes on later in verse 14. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. A real clear statement of Jesus deity, uh John 1 verse 3. John said everything, I think it says everything was created through him. Who's the creator? God. John chapter 5, verse 17 and 18. We've been through this gospel up to this point. 5, 17, and 18, when Jesus is in a dispute with the religious leaders He said to them, My father is working until now, and I am working. This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath But he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Or Habet, you remember back in chapter 8, verse 58, where Jesus said to the Jews, before Abraham was I am, I am, the name by which God in the book of Exodus described himself. And so, and the Jewish leaders got it. That's why it says they picked up stones to stone him. And here we are now in chapter 10, verse 30, where we have one of Jesus' most direct claims to deity. in that he said, I and the Father are one. And it's funny, I don't know if you you some of you know have had conversations with Jehovah's Witnesses I've had conversations and they deny the deity of Jesus, and I say, well, what about this verse here? And then their stock answer is, well, Jesus is just saying he's one in relation with God. And then we'll say, well, if that's all Jesus was saying, that he's one in relation uh with God the Father, why is it uh that uh they picked up stones to stone him in verse thirty-three. And so the Jews understood exactly what Jesus was claiming, not merely to have a close relationship with the Father, but to be the same in substance with the Father, equal in power and glory with him. Well, I want you to stick your nose in this passage. There's something we have to cover, and it's a little obscure, but we're going to muscle through it. Then we're going to draw some applications. This is verse 34 and 35 Where Jesus debates these Jewish leaders on their own terms. Okay? So looking at verse 34, or before verse 34, in a nutshell he says You know, even if I were a man, you shouldn't stone me for blasphemy, because there are places in your scripture, our Old Testament Where men are referred to as gods. And that's like, what's going on here? Well, look at verse 34. There's where he he makes his statement Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said you are gods So that is a quotation from Psalm 82, verse 6. And I'm going to read that quote. Psalm 82, 6. I said you are this is God speaking. I said, you are gods, you are all sons of the most high. But you will die like mere men. You will fall like every other ruler. What's going on here, right? Well In Psalm 82, God, I this is my understanding, God is speaking to the corrupt judges in Israel, and he calls them gods, not because they're divine. but because they speak on God's behalf in their role as judges. And I think a good comparison would be Now the British speak about uh certain men as being lords, right? The house of lords. And I think that's that's sort of the theme the the way we should understand that. But Jesus is making a point to these Jewish religious leaders. He's saying, Listen, even if I'm not God, um You shouldn't stone me for blasphemy, because even in the Scripture, men are called gods. And so Jesus is making a how much more kind of argument. If the title sons of God may be used of men, how much more should it be used of me? So let's read verses 35 and 36 where he says that. If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him, whom the Father can consecrated and sent into the world, you are blasphemy because I said, I am a son of God. So he's just saying, listen If you want to handle scripture rightly, you have no grounds to stone me, because even men are called gods. However, this is a footnote I really am God. But he doesn't want to take that up right now. He just doesn't want them to stone him. And in verse 38, uh he goes on to say, if I do them, if I do miracles, Even though you do not believe me, believe the works that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father. And so Jesus understands anybody can claim to be God. However, Jesus backed up that claim, right? He healed the sick. He gave sight to the blind, he cleansed lepers. So there was all these there were all these miracles that the Jewish religious leaders witnessed. But they didn't want to acknowledge that Jesus was indeed the promised Messiah. So all I'm saying so far, and now we're back on track and we'll be a little more, I'll be a little more clear Is that, and I don't I don't think anybody disputes this, the Bible's really clear that Jesus is God. We you can read John's Gospel And you'll see that several times, dozens of times. You read the rest of the New Testament, Titus 2 verse 13, Paul speaks of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Or in Hebrews 1. 8 It says, of the Son. This is the Father speaking of the s of the Son. And the Father says to the Son, Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your throne. So there the father says to the son, your throne O God is forever and ever. Romans 9:5. Paul speaks about Christ, who is God over all. And so we have these claims to deity, we have these assertions of Jesus' deity, and also in more indirectly The Bible not only calls Jesus God, but it attributes characteristics to G uh divine characteristics to Jesus Christ. John chapter one verse four. John says, in him was life. So who's self-existent? Only God. Who's everywhere present? Only God. But Jesus said in Matthew 28, I'm with you always. Who's all-knowing? Only God. What did Jesus say to the woman at the well in John 4? Go call your husband. How did he know that? Because he's God. He knows everything. Only God is all powerful, and yet in Revelation 1. 8, Jesus is referred to as the Almighty. Only God has the authority to forgive sins And yet Jesus claimed that authority. Only God can rightly receive our worship And yet Jesus willingly received worship, and he asserted that only God should receive worship. Remember in Matthew 4 with the devil in the wilderness? It says, when Satan tempted him, he quoted the Old Testament scriptures. You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. So Jesus understood that, and yet he freely, will it, he gladly received the worship of others. And so anybody who says And when you get older kids and you'll you go off to college or you're with your friends at the uh Burger King or wherever and you have friends who are skeptics, some will say Well Jesus never claimed to be God. It's like you should say, no, au contraire, Monfreire, I remember what Peter Kemney said uh years ago. He was such an interesting guy. But he said we have all these statements, and you need to open up your Bible and see what it says. So there you have it. So as soon as you tell them that the Bible says Jesus is God, they're going to go, oh, I see it now, and they're going to become a Christian. No, they're not going to do that, right? Well, what you can do then You can say, the Bible asserts this, and of course, just because the Bible asserts it, that doesn't make it true. But I would just say to your friend, who's a skeptic, read the Bible. And you see if it has the ring of truth. But we could also add corroborating evidence, and that's why we had read that catechism question about the scripture. How does the scripture show itself to be the Word of God? Um but anyway, I got ahead I got ahead of myself, sorry. I want to go back to something else. Okay. So you say to your friend Or I'll say to you, you're an honest person, but you're you're not so sure this stuff is true, that Jesus is God. Well then you have to consider what the alternatives are. And many have heard this this uh setup. You know, we refer to this as the great trilemma. There's really only three alternatives for who Jesus is. Either he's God Or he was a liar or he was a lunatic. And so they say Jesus is Lord liar or lunatic. So we could just go through that in a nutshell. Now was Jesus a liar? Some people will say, well he was a great Jesus was this great moral teacher, but I don't believe he was God. And then at that point, you need to just slam the brakes on and say, wait a minute. You believe he was a great moral teacher, but you don't believe he was God, but he claimed to be God. Well then he was a liar. And if he was a liar, he wasn't a great moral teacher And um you read the gospels and Jesus doesn't really come across as a liar. One of the historians, a guy named uh Philip Shaif, said uh or asked this question How could an imposter, a deceitful, selfish, depraved man, have invented inconsistently from beginning to the end um maintained the purest and noblest character known in history with the most perfect air of truth and reality. Like You read the Gospels, he's just saying he doesn't come across as a liar. But if he was a liar, then he's also a hypocrite because he taught other people to be honest He's also evil because he asked men to stake their eternal destiny on him, and he's also a complete fool Because he allowed these people to be to nail him to the cross over something that he knew wasn't true. So it was like, well, it doesn't sound like he was a liar Well then maybe he was crazy, maybe he was a lunatic, maybe he was deluded, but again You read the gospels, you hear Jesus teaching, you you look at how he responded to people, to his opponents, and to all other kinds of people. And he doesn't come across as somebody who was mentally unstable. And so it doesn't seem like he was a liar. It doesn't seem that he was a he was a lunatic And so the only option is that Jesus is who he claimed to be. He is the promised Messiah. And this is why I say to those who are not so sure about Christianity, you read the Bible and it starts to come together. And it's hard to explain it away. And so what I said in the beginning was What you think about Jesus will determine what you think about everything else. And so, and I want it so I want to say this to our young people because You get so many messages from the world and from your peers, and that's understandable, but there are so many messages that it's easy just to deal with Christianity as sort of a side of your life and not really the center of it. But it's important that you wrestle with this, that you think about this, that you with all your things, other things that occupy you And you have a lot of free time in the summer, with all the other things that occupy you, it's really important that you take time every day and Wrestle with the scripture. And if you're starting out, there's a lot you wouldn't understand, but if you stay at it every day, it starts to come together. And so that's the main thrust of this passage. But there is some red meat in it. And so I want to make a second point. It's just an incidental phrase But it's huge. And so that has to do with the inviolability of Scripture. And so in verse 35, Jesus makes just a side comment. Where in his this deb his debate with these leaders, he refers to or he cites Psalm eighty two Where God spoke to the human leaders, the human judge, the judges of Israel, he called them gods. And so Jesus is in this debate uh with these with these leaders and he makes an argument as to why they should stone him for blasphemy And he and he bases his entire argument on one word found In one of the more obscure Psalms, Psalm 82, what was it, verse 5. And so let's go back there just to rehearse it, and then I'll make my point. So in verse 34 Let's see. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said you are gods? If he called them gods to whom the Word of God came And scripture cannot be broken. And then he goes on, right? But he but I just want you to note there that he just makes He bases this whole argument on this little verse, this what part of a verse from Psalm 82, but then he says, right, it's just a side comment Scripture cannot be broken. Why not? Well, because It's the very Word of God. And so Jesus affirms the inspiration and the authority of the Old Testament. So remember I said this is red meat? So ah here's an opportunity. I'm not really going off on a tangent. I'm just sort of going, I want to go a little bit deeper now on that statement where Jesus said The scripture cannot be broken. So let's think of it from a couple different angles. How does the Old Testament view itself? Does it view itself as just a history of Israel, as sort of a a chronicle of the travels and the ups and downs of the nation of Israel and God's teaching down through the ages? Not at all The Old Testament views itself. The Old Testament has this conscious awareness that it's the Word of God, right? You read the prophets. What kind of statements do you have? You hear the prophets saying, well It seems to me. They don't talk like that. What do they say? Thus saith the Lord, or God spoke, or um The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Those kind of statements, right? And so the Old Testament prophets Never give the impression that they're just putting down their own thoughts. So that the Old Testament viewed itself as the Word of God. From another angle, the New Testament views the Old Testament as the Word of God. Let me give you a couple verses. 2 Peter 1, verse 21. Peter, writing of the Old Testament prophets, said, No prophecy was ever produced by the will of man. But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Or think about how Jesus constantly referred to the Old Testament As the source of authority for his ministry, right? Constantly, Jesus was saying, it is written. He's referring there to the Old Testament Matthew uh I mentioned uh Jesus in the wilderness in Matthew four. Uh Matthew four verse four. When j when Satan tempted Jesus to turn stones to bread He quoted Deuteronomy 8. 3. It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Here's an interesting one. I think it's interesting. You might turn to Matthew chapter 19, where Jesus is talking about marriage and divorce. And in chapter 19, verses four and six, and you have to look at this closely, Jesus said to the uh Jewish leaders, Have you not read, so he's referring back now to Genesis, have you not read that he who created them from the beginning, made them male and female, and said, Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Jesus is quoting Genesis chapter 2, verse 24. But if you turn to Genesis chapter 2, verse 24, You'll notice it's not God speaking, there's no quote from God, it's just the writer of Genesis. And yet, back in Matthew 19, verse 4. Verses 4 to 6, Jesus said, Have you not read that he who created them said thus and such? And so Jesus is saying, God said this in the book of Genesis. So my point is Jesus doesn't distinguish between the words of God and the words of the author of Genesis. Why is that? Because they're one and the same. And the most common statement about the authority of the Bible is 2 Timothy 3. 16, right? I think the King James all scripture is given by inspiration of God Well, in our day, people say, well, Shakespeare was inspired, Milton was inspired, and so the translators and more recent translators, uh more recent translations have uh been more clear. Uh my translation to ESV says all scripture is breathed out by God. If you have the NIV, that's a wonderful translation of this verse. It says Excuse me. All scripture is God breathed, and that's one word uh in the Greek, theonustos, and so That's literally what the what the Bible is saying. All scripture is God breathed. One of the great theologians, Benjamin War Benjamin Warfield, said Scripture is the product of a specifically divine operation. And so the Bible Isn't just the a composition of men who were really spiritual and had elevated thoughts. But rather the Bible is God's word spoken through men. He didn't override their personalities and their experiences and uh and quirks and background and everything But rather, God in his providence so guided the writers of Scripture that what they put down in those original documents is precisely what God intended them to put down. And so that's how the New Testament views the Old Testament. And one more, if you'll just hang with me, okay? The New Testament views itself as the Word of God, and I'm just going to give you two sec two verses, okay? So because and I bring this up because there are some people who say and they think they're so sophisticated because they read something in Time magazine before Easter or they saw some documentary on uh PBS right before Christmas And they'll say, nobody would have been more surprised at the view that the letters of the New Testament were inspired by God. than the New Testament writers themselves. And again we say, no, not so fast, buddy. Because In the New Testament, we see that the writers, those the authors of the New Testament uh documents They had this awareness. Here's the first verse, 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. Written by Paul, he said to the Thessalonians, we thank God constantly for this. That when you received the word of God which you heard from us. So he's saying, you heard the word of God from us. We were just really good preachers or something We were speaking God's word. When you heard the word of God, which you received, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men, but as what it really is: the word of God. Which is at work in you believers. Or here's a really nifty one, okay? I want you to feel like you got your money's worth. 2 Peter. Go to the end of the New Testament. 2 Peter. Some people say I still don't get my money's worth. Well, alright. 2 Peter 3, 15 and 16. So here's Peter, right? This is the early church in the 60s. And he's referring to something that the Apostle Paul writes. So 2 Peter 3, verse 15. And he's on a subject which we'll just gloss over, but I want to later in the section. So he says, Count the patience of our Lord as salvation. Just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you, according to the wisdom given to him, as he does in all his letters, when he speaks in them of these matters. Now here's what I want you to notice. So Peter says about Paul's letters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand. Which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own to their own destruction, as they do the other scriptures. So notice, even at this early point. in in uh in the Christian church that Peter lumps Paul's letters with the Old Testament, with the other scriptures. And so the New Testament writers recognized the Old Testament as Scripture. They also recognized that their letters, Peter recognizes Paul's letters as on the same level as the Old Testament. And so while while the canon of Scripture, that's the sixty-six books of the Bible, they were not formal formally stated or articulated as a list until the fourth century, why did it take so long? It's not because the church was trying to figure out which books of the New Testament are scripture and which are not, but rather it was at that point that there was a heresy for the church had to respond by saying these books and no others compose the New Testament. But anyway So, but even though I was saying, even though it wasn't until the fourth century that the canon of the 66 books of the Old and New Testaments were defined, uh Largely, the scriptures were recognized as soon as they were written by the early church. That's all I'm saying. We see evidence for it here. And now, and so here we go, and we're almost done. So, Jesus says he is God. Is there any corroborating evidence? Yes. The Bible says it's the Word of God. Is there any corroborating evidence? And that's where I was talking about the catechism question. Absolutely, right? We know that just because the Bible says it's the Word of God, that doesn't make it the Word of God, but it sure fits everything else about it. So the catechism said the scriptures manifest themselves to be the Word of God, first of all, by their majesty and purity, right? Its teaching is too wise, it's too God-centered It's too counterintuitive, you might say, to have been just the composition of men. Right? Read the Psalms. Read the Sermon on the Mount. Read Isaiah chapter 40. Does this sound like something man would come up with? And I would say no. Again, it has the ring of truth. The confession goes on to say, or the catechism goes on to say The scriptures manifest themselves to be the Word of God by the consent of all the parts. That just is saying The Bible is a unity. It's consistent within itself. It was written over fifteen hundred years by forty authors on three different continents and three different languages through a variety of genres, right? You have poetry, you have history, you have travel diaries, uh, you have law, you have prophecy, you have family trees. You have an Exodus, uh, architectural uh blueprints, Song of Solomon, uh Love Stories, Ruth love stories. You so you have all these different genres of literature And yet there's a unity and a coherence to the Bible, and from Genesis to Revelation It's one unfolding story of God's plan to redeem his people, right? You get to the end of Revelation, you see everything's fulfilled. How do you explain that? Well, it's because it's from God. Another piece of corroborating evidence is that The Bible knows you better than it knows yours you know yourself, right? You read Proverbs, you read the Sermon on the Mount, it's like, oh boy Uh it's like God can look into my heart. He understands my motives. He exposes my motives. He understands my Aspirations. So there are stories about Puritan churches, members of Puritan churches, accusing their pastor of paying informers To tell them the secrets of their hearts. How did you know that about me? Why did you bring that up in a sermon? The pastor is like, I didn't know that. I'm just preaching the word of God Well, Hebrews 4, right? The Scripture is like a double-edged sword. It pierces us. And that's what happens when we read the Bible. And so In John 10, Jesus' public ministry is drawing to a close, and John again reports The divided response. And so the Jewish leaders in verses 31 to 39, they rejected him. They wanted to stone him. And they couldn't stone him. At least they wanted to arrest him. Jesus goes across the Jordan to the Jews out in the country who had been ministered to but earlier by John the Baptist. And they believed that Jesus was the Messiah, even though John did no miracles. And so it's the word that persuades people But in reporting, why did John bring this up? Remember, it's not a travelogue. In reporting on this contrast between those who believed in Jesus Christ and those who did not believe. John again is pressing his readers for a decision. He's saying in so many words What do you make of Jesus? What do you make of Jesus? And what do you make of the Scripture? And because as I said, what you think about Jesus will determine how you think about everything in your life. And so John is pressing us. He's pressing those who are unsure. He's pressing those who are skeptical to deal with this and to make a decision. And if this stuff is true, then you need to follow through on the implications. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you have revealed yourself as the true God, as the way and the truth and the life. Help us, Lord, to be consistent in our response. For those who are unsure, for those who waver, for those who are skeptical, we pray that they will search these things out. And they'll let the let the chips fall where they may and follow through on what they're convinced of And we also, Lord, thank you that you've given us the Bible. It is a light in the darkness. Help us, Lord, to feed on it. and to treasure it. I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. Okay, we're gonna sing