Please to Romans chapter five. So we're marching through uh Paul's letter to the Romans and we come to a an interesting section this morning. I think it's interesting because I think it's really I mean the concepts throughout Scripture, but it's only stated explicitly I think here in 1 Corinthians 15, it's and it's really uh one of the keys to understanding how God relates to his people, to, uh and also to humanity in general. So we're in Romans chapter 5, verses 12 to 21. Keep your Bible open, of course. I want you to do that every week. I want you to Be able to see it right there in the scripture. Uh make sure that what I'm saying is on the up and up. Chapter five verse twelve. Paul writes, therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law Yet death bringed from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type who was a type of the one who was to come But the free gift is not like the trespass, for if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift of grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation But the free gift, following many trespasses, brought justification. If because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death, grace also must reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. There's a lot there. Now, we read Genesis 3 earlier. I imagine this question has crossed your mind. When you think about the fall of man, it certainly has crossed mind. How is it that the whole of the human race must suffer the penalty For Adam sinned, right? He's the one who sinned. I didn't sin, and yet I get his sin pinned on me. And so, why do I have to suffer the consequences of actions taken by a guy who sinned generations before I was born? Then you can flip you could flip it over and uh you could ask the same question. And this is a more pleasant question. How is it that the benefits of Jesus' perfect life in sacrificial death is credited to me? Well, that's a pretty good deal. Well, the answer to those questions is found in this passage. And if there is one term I would throw out there, it's the term representative headship. That's really the key to the entire discussion here. That's the key to this passage and that's really one of the most basic principles for understanding the covenant or the relationship that God has by covenant to mankind and to his people in particular. Okay? And so we have here in Romans chapter 5 a statement that there were two men and two deeds and two destinies. So the two men, Adam and Jesus, the two deeds, Adam's disobedience, Jesus' obedience, and then the two destinies Adam's disobedience brought about condemnation and death. Jesus' obedience brought about justification and eternal life. Look at verses 18 and 19. That sums it up nicely. So Paul writes: Therefore as one trespass, one trespass led to condemnation for all men. So one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. So by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. Now There's a lot in this passage, right? And I think when we read through it the first time, you're like, whoa, this is there's a lot there's a lot of connections here being made. We're not going to go through every detail But we're going to go through quite a bit. But I want you to see, I want you to focus on what it says about two representative heads. Adam and Jesus Christ and the consequences of their deeds, okay? So this is really going to give you a framework for understanding the Bible. There will not be a lot of warm devotional thoughts this morning. And I know I don't exactly exude warm uh uh devotional thoughts on any morning, but even but today it'll be even a little more uh rigorous, okay? So first of all We want to consider the first Adam in the consequences of his disobedience. So like I said, Adam was our representative head. Look at verse 12. We find this troubling assertion. Paul writes, sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men, because all sinned All sin in Adam, that's what he's saying. Our moral disfigurement is a consequence of Adam's first sin. And the fact that we're going to die and suffer, if we're outside of Christ, suffer the wrath of God as a consequence of Adam's first sin. You may object understandably. Wait a minute, that's not fair. Why should I be saddled uh with the consequences of Adam's sin. I didn't I didn't eat the forbidden fruit. I wasn't even there at the time. Remember in fourth grade? Uh some kid was bad that morning in class and the teacher said, nobody's going out for recess today. You're like You know, if kids have anything, they have a sense of justice like, bang, right? That's not fair. In that in this Concept pushes the same button. Okay? Well, you may object That's the way it is. God's ways are above our ways. We don't want to question the goodness, we don't want to question the justice of God, but we cannot fathom How why it is that God created the universe in this manner, but he did. Adam was our representative head. And his guilt and his corruption has been imputed, has been credited toward us. Wait a minute, I'm an American, we're individualists. I don't care what you are. Let's look at what the Bible says here, okay? And you think about this idea of representative headship, you find it throughout life. Was anybody there when Thomas Jefferson drafted the Declaration of Independence? No? Okay None of us were there. Yet Thomas Jefferson represented you And we still live under that declaration. Or when the president enters into a treaty with another country, or when he declares war on a foreign nation Can you just check some box? I opt out. No. You're an American. The president, by those actions, represents you. You also find this idea of representative headship in the Bible, right? The priests represent the people of God, Israel, before God. Think about Israel. One example, Joshua chapter seven. When the people of Israel conquered Jericho God told them, don't take any of the treasures from Jericho. This is to be devoted to destruction. Achan stole some of the treasure, right? Now, what did God say in Joshua 7 verse 11? He did not say, Achan has sinned. He said, Israel has sinned. And so they were pinned with Achan's sin. Or think about David when he went out to fight Goliath. David wasn't going out and doing his own thing. He wasn't being Charles Bronson. He wasn't being Rambo. Rather, he was a representative of God's people. And Goliath was the representative of the Philistines. And so those two, representing their people, did battle. Okay, and so this is saying that when Adam, our federal, had sinned, we came to share in his guilt and in his corruption. Now look at verse the end of verse twelve. Excuse me. Sorry. The end of verse twelve. Paul writes Death spread to all men because all sinned. How is that we weren't there? Well, we humanity were one with Adam. Same thing in verse 19. By one man's disobedience the many were made sinners. Well, how is that? How is it that we sinned in Adam? How did we participate in Adam's sin? And some people will say, well, it's because when we were born, we chose to sin too, and so that's how we participated. No? In fact in Psalm 51 David said we were sinful from our mother's womb so before we were born. So we did inherit his his uh his sinful nature But rather, we stand condemned, not because we sinned like Adam, but because we sinned in Adam. In other words, Adam and mankind are one entity. And so that's how we say Adam's sin is our sin. Now it's interesting this doesn't this uh idea of representative headship doesn't come up very often in the church. I mean we preach through the Bible, right? I don't remember it coming up but in 1 Corinthians 15. So you see it in Genesis 3, of course. But um But it's a huge concept to help us understand how God works with humanity. In fact, in fact uh the the New England primer, right? This uh little reading guide for teaching your kids to read in the 17th and 18th century. Yeah, every American had the New England primer And you'd learn the letters. In the first letter, A had a little saying, In Adam's fall we sinned all. Okay? And so there's this understanding. John Wesley or or Charles who was it Charles Wesley when he wrote Hark the Herald, right? We we sang that stanza. He recognize this is what the Bible teaches. And so this isn't some novel doctrine. This is just basic uh Christianity. So Have I answered your question? Have I satisfied your sub objection that some have about Adam being our representative head and him and us taking the hit for his sin? Well no, I can't I can't satisfy, I can't I can't answer that question in a satisfactory manner. But I think I have asserted from script or I have shown that from Scripture, uh that is what the Bible teaches. It just doesn't explain it all and how it all fits together and why God did it like that But that certainly is the assertion of Scripture. Alright. Well, before you get mad and ruin your day, um this principle of representative headship Is more appealing when you look at the other side of the coin, right? Because look at verse fourteen. The end of verse fourteen. It says the first Adam was a type of the one who was to come. So Adam was just a type. He was just a figure pointing forward to a greater figure. And in fact, in 1 Corinthians 15, 45 and 47, This one to come is identified, quote, as the last man, or excuse me, as the last Adam and the second man. And so now we turn our sights on Jesus Christ, the last Adam, the second Adam, as he is clearly designated in Scripture. And the Bible presents Jesus as the second Adam, and we benefit in the consequences of his obedience, okay? Think about it. Adam, the first Adam was tempted in a paradise, a lush garden, abundant food. But nonetheless, he disobeyed, he plunged humanity into sin. And because of Adam's one act of disobedience, the human race was cast out of the garden and was removed from the presence of God. Now, after Jesus was baptized in John 3, that was to inaugurate his public ministry After he was baptized, where did he go? Did he start teaching? Did he start preaching? Did he start healing Well, no, before he did that, he did something else. Yeah. Matthew 4, verse 1. Jesus was led up by the Spirit. Into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And so by facing Satan's temptations Jesus was going back to the beginning. That's what was going on there. He was going back to square one. And he was presenting himself as a second Adam who would withstand the onslaughts and the temptations of Satan. And so what we have in the wilderness is that Jesus Christ fulfilled God's law where the first Adam failed. And by uh overcoming, by withstanding Satan's temptations, Jesus inaugurated the process By which we would be restored to fellowship with God. When I was in college and took an English class. And um we read this really fat poem. It was a book, Paradise Lost by John Milton Anybody read that? Yeah, I read it because I had to read it. But um looking back, I mean it is brilliant because Paradise Lost describes Adam's fall and the corruption of the human race. But John Milton, I think he lived in the 1600s, he understood something, or excuse me, he understood that Adam's fall wasn't the last word. So four years later, he wrote a poem about Jesus' temptation in the wilderness. And he gave that the title, Paradise Regained. So what he understood was that Jesus was standing Satan's temptations, he was the second Adam, and he opened the way to our being restored to fellowship with God. Let's look at verses 15 to 21, okay? And um and I'm just gonna throw I'm just gonna look at a couple, make a couple notes in these verses. But it's interesting if you go home and read these, you'll see that Paul contrasts Adam and Jesus with almost mathematical precision. And in every way, Jesus is shown to be superior to Adam. Okay? In fact, we're going to sing. Our final hymn is going to is called The Marvelous Grace of Jesus. And it speaks about God's marvelous grace, it says, that exceeds our sin and our guilt. And that's what Paul's saying in these verses. Okay, look at the end of verse 15. Remember, he's talking about Adam and our corruption that followed. The end of verse 15, talking about Jesus Christ, Paul says How much more have the grace of God, in the free gift by the grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many? And so the idea is that God's grace in Jesus Christ is greater than the corruption caused by Adam's sin. And there's also this idea throughout Romans. I mean Romans is a missionary document. You see that in the beginning, I think it's verse chapter one, verse five, I can't remember. And then the end in the end of chapter six Chapter sixteen. The whole purpose, one of the main purposes, is to bring about the obedience of the nations. And here's this idea that God's grace and that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many, right? This reminds us, many will be saved from every nation. from every tribe, from every people, from every language. And so verse fe verse verse 15 talk about God's grace abounding for many. The end of verse six verse 17 Speaks about uh the abundance of grace. At the end of verse 20, Paul says, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So the great Reformed theologian Charles Hodge said The and tell me if you can understand this. We can't understand how it can be, but it's remarkable he said The benefits of redemption shall far outweigh the evils of the fall. And then he says Christ exalts his people to a far higher state of being than our race, if on fallen, could have attained. How is that? The garden was perfect. Life was perfect. And yet Hodge makes the claim that because of our redemption and Jesus Christ. We're going to receive a higher, a more blessed state of being. We don't understand that. But when you read the book of Revelation talking about the new heaven and the new earth, there is this idea that this is a splendid place. Not that the first heaven and earth wasn't a splendid place But there is this abundance of grace where sin increased, grace increased all the more. And so you should lift up your head, right? You get discouraged about things in your life and your family in our culture, we should still lift up our heads because we recognize the sovereignty of God, the providence of God. in nothing takes God by surprise, he is accomplishing his good purposes in redemption And so we're not going to sing another Christmas song, but if we were going to pick one, I'd pick Joy to the world because it says, Christ has come, what? To make his blessings flow for as the curse is found. And so there will be this great restoration. So let's go back to verses 18 and 19 again, just a little more closely. Where we read about the acts of each man determining the destiny for many. Verse 18 and 19 again. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification in life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Okay? And so Oh, then it goes on. Talks about the law. We're not going to talk about that much until we get to chapter seven because it's it he speaks about it in verses thirteen and fourteen. Then in verse twenty, just one comment. Now the law came in Now the law came into sorry, let me try that again in English. Now the law came in to increase the trespasses But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. Well, he's saying that God's commands, God's law uh they not only define sin, uh but there's a sense once you once you know what's wrong, what you should be doing, you're tempted to do it And then that fits with um or the first part fits with uh uh chapter three verse twenty, where Paul said, Through the law comes knowledge of sin. Okay, we'll talk about that when we get to chapter seven. But what I want to underline is we don't understand this concept of representative headship how why God had Adam represented us, right? We we're not big fans of that, actually, with Adam. But To tell you the truth, I sort of like it when it comes to having Jesus as my representative. Anybody here want to stand before God representing yourself? You want to show God some statistics about your righteous life and what a great person you are? Of course you're gonna have to bring in a record of your sin too. It's like, nah, I'm good. I think I'll have Jesus be my representative. His perfect life, his holy character. Let's do two more things, okay, quickly. Um two questions and I uh I'm bringing this up because it might come up. This passage teaches us two very helpful things in addition. Number one It teaches the historicity of Adam. In other words, it assumes that Adam was an individual, he was a historical person. And I say that because not every church teaches that there was a literal Adam and Eve. They say, well that doesn't sound very sophisticated or very nuanced. Well But it has to be what the Bible says. They'll say, you know, Genesis 1-3, the creation narrative. That's just a myth. Adam and Eve, they were symbolic figures. They weren't historical people But listen, that didn't work. Because Paul in Romans 5 and also in 1 Corinthians 15, he sets up this analogy The first Adam, and then Jesus, the second Adam. And the analogy is only valid If Adam was a historical person who sinned at a point in time and plunged the human race into sin. And so, for the analogy that Paul's making to work, Adam's disobedience has to be as historical as Jesus' obedience. And here's something else if you look closely at this passage. And it has to do with the scope of Jesus' work. In other words. How how many did Jesus come to save? And the reason I asked this Is because the passage teaches, and we all know, Adam's sin brought about the fall of the entire human race. And Paul setting up this analogy between Jesus and Adam. And so we might conclude that as Adam's disobedience plunged everybody into sin So Jesus' obedience then would redeem the entire human race. And if you look at verse 18 on its own without looking at any other verses in the Bible That's what it seems to be saying. Look at verse 18 again. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for him. For all men. Then you have that statement buttressed by First Corinthians fifteen twenty-two Where Paul wrote there, for as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. And so if these two verses were the only things that the Bible had to say about the scope of Jesus' work. We would be led to conclude that Jesus' death is sufficient, or if is efficient, to save everybody. We would conclude that the Bible teaches universalism, that everybody goes to heaven. All you have to do is be born, and you get a free pass to heaven, because Jesus died for all people. But we know that's not true because when you look at the Bible, you compare you have to compare scripture, the scripture. And the Bible is clear that not all are saved, and so we need to go back to that word all in verse 18. And we have to conclude that Paul's not talking about all people without exception, but he's talking about all people without uh distinction, in other words, all categories of people, Jews, Gentiles, people from all nations, from all ages, from all social strata. Because Romans itself teaches that not all people are saved. Chapter 2, verse 8. Paul said, For those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness There will be wrath and fury. Chapter 5, our passage, look at verse 17. Chapter 5, verse 17. Paul said it's only those who receive the abundance of grace And the free gift of righteousness, who will reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. That said, and that's just a qualification, but that said We have to appreciate, or we must appreciate, the emphasis that Paul's making, though, on the broadness of Jesus' redemption. Many will be saved. Many will be saved. That should make us confident, right? To go out, share the gospel. God has his people out there. They haven't all yet come to faith. But Christ died for the many. And so we should we should be uh not reckless, but we should be indiscriminate about sharing the gospel, because you never know in how many of you became a Christian after the first conversation with a b with a believer Probably not many, right? It took many conversations, relationships, uh building trust in what somebody's saying. And so we we need to be indiscriminate about sharing the gospel. And we need to be fervent in praying for friends and loved ones to come to Christ. A lot there. But to summarize, right, two men, two deeds, two destinies. An Englishman back in the seventeenth century, his name was Thomas Goodwin. He put it like this He said, These two men, Adam and Jesus Christ. They're the only two, and these two men have all other men hanging on their girdle string. Which he means they're hanging on their bell. You either Hanging on to Adam, or are you hanging on to Jesus Christ? And so my question is: who is representing you? If it's not Jesus Christ, you're not right with God. You're being represented by Adam. You're still in your sin. And you will die in your sin, and you will face the wrath of a holy God. But if you're Grabbing on to Jesus Christ. And how do you do that? By faith, trusting that He died for your sin. If you've trusted in Christ, if you've turned from your going your own ways. Then you are connected to Jesus Christ. You have nothing to worry about. God is for you. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you did not leave us to perish, but in the fullness of time, you sent your Son to live the perfect life where we failed. To redeem us from the consequences, from the corruption of sin. Thank you, Father, that we don't have to represent ourselves. I pray for those who are not yet resting on Jesus, for those who are not yet who have not yet latched on to Jesus. That you would convince them of these truths and work in them repentance and faith. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.