Forgot to turn that recorder on. Excuse me. For it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two talents made two talents more But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Now, after a long time, the master of those servants came and settled accounts with him And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents. Here I have made five talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, Master, you delivered to me two talents. Here I have made two talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little, I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. He also who had received the one talent came forward saying, Master I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed. So I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground Here you have what is yours. But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I have not sowed, and gather where I scattered no seed. Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest. So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents For every one who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has nothing Even what he has will be taken away, and cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Now, you may remember that Jesus spoke these words just a couple days before he was crucified. And he was going to die. He was going to die as a suffering servant. But in chapter 25, he assures his disciples that his death does not constitute the last chapter. He's going to come again. And when he comes it will not be as a suffering servant, it will be as a conquering king. When he comes back as the king, he's going to judge the world What we find in chapter 25 is just a couple days before the crucifixion, Jesus is talking about his return and about the final judgment. And so the parable we looked at previously in chapter 25, the parable of the ten virgins, is a call to vigilance. Because Jesus told us back in chapter 24, concerning the day or hour of his return, no one knows. Since no one knows, he told his disciples to be vigilant, to be ready. Now we come to the parable of the talents, and that is the call to diligence. Jesus tells us in this parable, we need to labor faithfully. You must labor faithfully, Christian, with all that God has entrusted to you And you must endeavor to bring forth proof so that when your master returns, he will approve of your stewardship. And so we're going to look at this parable, and there are really five themes that I think are prominent. And the first theme is the master's ownership. The master's ownership. And so Jesus likens himself in verse 14 to a man going on a journey. That's exactly what Jesus did, right? He was crucified, buried, he rose, he ascended to heaven, and it is some time before he returns. So this is about Jesus. He likened himself to a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. Now it says his servants, it could also be translated slaves, because the master owned these men. And in the ancient world, slaves could have great influence and rise to positions of responsibility, but nonetheless, they had no rights of their own And this master gave to each of his servants a certain amount or a certain number of talents. Now, talent they say wasn't a coin, but it was a measure of weight And um it could be uh a weight of various metals, so for that reason nobody can really figure out how much the talent was worth But they would say the commentators say it had to have been worth thousands of dollars by our reckoning, even the servant who received only one talent Uh nonetheless, he was entrusted with a great deal of his master's wealth. And so the master gave these servants a certain amount of his wealth And he gave it to them to invest. And the reason we say that is because in verse 19 It says that when he returned, he settled accounts. So apparently the servants understood that they were to be stewards and they were to invest this wealth. But what I want to underline just at this point is that this was their master's money. This was not their money They were merely stewards of what the master had given to them. Now if you want to make an application here. You have to say, well what is a talent? Well I mean what's the what is Jesus saying a talent is in this parable? Because he's say not saying merely that we're to use the money that God provides us for His glory. I think J. C. Ryle uh gave the most succinct explanation of what Jesus means in this parable when he talks about a talent. He said a talent is anything Whereby we may glorify God. That's a good simple definition. A talent is anything whereby we may glorify God. God has given each of us particular privileges and abilities and opportunities. Right? We're blessed. We're a blessed people. And God has called us to use these privileges and abilities and opportunities for His honor. Uh I think about not everybody knows that there's a young man in our church, Leo Sena. He's not here this morning, so I I can talk about him. Um he has good reason not to to be at church every Sunday. Um but hey you know Leo, he's got a very winsome and uh uh welcoming uh personality. And he uses that. He invites people to church. He shares the gospel with unbelievers. Kendall, Court, and Leo, they're sort of the leaders of our Tuesday Night Young Adult Bible study. And Leo's always inviting people, and I I sent Leo a text uh earlier in the week and I said, Hey Leo, thanks for reaching out to the new folks. And Leo's reply was, it's my responsibility. I thought, that's exactly what this parable is about. You have certain uh strengths, right? Some people are hospitable, uh some people are super they have sharp minds. Uh Sam and Mary Jane have a farm, you know uh We have most of us have good health, but we have certain um privileges and abilities and opportunities that God's given to us And we are to see them, these as as gifts from God, that We have a sacred obligation to employ for his glory and for his honor. And um so you know, whatever your strength is or your your advantage, it's not something uh to to be proud about or to feel a sense of superiority about But rather uh is something that God has given to you. 1 Corinthians 4 7. Paul asked the question. What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? What do you have? That is not from God. I mean, why is it that you have your particular personality where you can connect with certain kind of people? Or your financial assets, uh or your your your understanding of certain uh aspects of life uh your perhaps your mechanical uh or ability to work uh with your hands or your your understanding of scripture, reform theology. I mean Uh what is that from? The fact that you live in America in the twenty-first century and not in outer Mongolia in the fifth century. Did you have any influence over that? And we say, well No, I mean ultimately it's from God, right? Where you grew up, your parentage, uh, your your early training, your education, uh the the experiences, good and bad, uh that you went through These are all from God, and God allowed these things to shape us, not just so that we can have a sense of satisfaction about what we've accomplished or where we've been. But that we might use these gifts for our master's glory. Well that leads to the so the first emphasis is the master's Ownership, and that leads to the second emphasis we see here, the servants' responsibility. That's what Leo said, right It's my responsibility. God calls us to make most of the privileges and the abilities and the opportunities that he's given us. It says in verse 14 that the master entrusted his servants with his property Two of the servants took their responsibility seriously. The third servant did not. He squandered the opportunity that his master had given him. He squandered it. One of the most interesting uh autobiographies I read uh was back in the years ago, uh Malcolm Mugridge. He's a British journalist. And I thought, this guy is so accomplished with everything he's done in his life. But he titled his autobiography, Chronicles of Wasted Time. Chronicles of Waste of Time And he said he looked back on his life and everywhere he had been as a as a reporter and as a journalist and all the great people he had met And he said, I really wasted most of my life. He became a Christian uh later in life. And um I think that's a that's a warning Especially the young people. You know, you you have y the years of your youth, uh years to develop spiritually, uh years to serve others by through your friendship uh years to prepare yourself for future service, whatever uh that may be. And um you don't want to waste it, right? It goes quickly. You don't want to look back on your life and say, you know what? I I just wasted. uh a whole swath, years of my life, uh not really accomplishing anything, uh for for the service of others and the service of God's kingdom. And so that's what I want you to think about. I want you to think about what God has given you, what got what privileges and abilities and opportunities uh God has endowed you with. And am I using these to honor Jesus Christ and to extend his kingdom? Now we could use a a couple more homes for these home groups we have on Sunday afternoons. Maybe you have a home that's large enough where you can hold 10 or 12 people That'd be great. Now there is a commitment there, right? Uh two Sundays a month. That's sort of blocked out. But if you could just do that one Sunday a month That would be using what God has given you for his glory. Where once we, you know, once this plague uh goes away, we want to start Sunday school Sunday school again, we would like to start uh some kind of children's ministry, a dedicated children's ministry on a maybe a Sunday afternoon or a Wednesday night It'd be good to get somebody who's not extended in ten areas already in this church to say, yeah, this is what I'm going to focus on. I like doing this kind of stuff. I'm good at this kind of stuff That's an area where we need someone to serve. And we could all serve others, right, by just welcoming newcomers, inviting them over, getting to know people we don't know I think we should all have the mindset. If you're a member of this church, if you've been here a while, your mindset should be, I'm a host. I'm not a member, I'm a host. Now think about that. When you have a group to your house, you have a different mindset than when you go to somebody else's house, right? If you're the host, you're there, you're welcoming the guests, you're introducing them around, you're making sure everybody's comfortable. That's what we who are members of the church, we who especially we who are leaders of the church, we need to have this mindset. God has put me here. I know what's going on here. I want to have the mindset not of a guest. but of a host. And so the the lesson here, the second point is that your ambition should be to channel everything for the service and the honor of your returning master So what do we have here? We've seen thus far the master's ownership, the servant's responsibility. And a third thing that's prominent in this parable is the uneven distribution. I'm talking about the master distributed the talents In varying amounts. Go back to verse 15, please. To one he gave five talents. to another two, to another one, each according to his ability. So some are in doubt in We can't deny this. Life's not there. Some are endowed with greater abilities and opportunities and responsibilities than other people, right? Some people are really smart. Uh some people are healthier. Some people have better connections. Some people are better at earning a living and uh accumulating wealth. Some grew up in Christian homes. They sat under the preaching of the gospel From their earliest years. And they were taught the things of God, and more than that, they learned Christian habits, what you could call habits of holiness. Things you do when you get up in the morning, you get up early, you take time, you read your Bible, you pray. Well that's a habit. Somebody becomes a Christian later in life They have to develop all these new habits, and it's a struggle, especially when it comes to temptations, right? And so some people are more privileged than others But the important thing here that this parable teaches is that we must be stewards of whatever amount of talents that God has given to us. And I can I can look back when I was a student at Westminster Seminary, and uh there are two students that I want to mention. One was Philip Reichman. Super sharp guy, uh understandably so. He grew up in a Christian home. His father was Leland Riken. He's an author and an English professor at Wheaton College in Illinois. And so Phil Riken was educated from his earliest years in the classics, and he learned how to write and how to speak and how to think. And he attended the college church in Wheaton, Illinois, which is a a uh extraordinarily uh sound church After Westminster he went to I think to Oxford and he got a PhD in something, and then he came back to the States and he became the pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia And he writes these his sermons are put into books. Every time he preaches a sermon is found in a book because the sermons are that good And now he's the president of Wheaton College in Illinois. But there's a guy who has given many talents, and he's using them responsibly and faithfully for God's glory. And think about now another guy I went to seminary with, a fellow named Samuel, I forget his last name. This was years ago, but in a winter term, uh he was my roommate, and he was a pastor from India And he came over to the States. He was working on uh some kind of uh degree and he was just there for January at Westminster Seminary. And he he was broke. I mean we would go out and I'd I'd I'd buy him food. I'd I'd get him a coat. He didn't have a winter winter coat. And um he he was converted out of Hinduism, uh he was poorly educated, but nonetheless he was faithful, and he's back in India He's pastoring in obscurity. These two men were given different abilities and opportunities and privileges in their lives But they're both extraordinarily faithful servants of Jesus Christ. And so that's They're going to be commended and I believe they will be commended when they see their master. But this is how it works. God distributes uh abilities and opportunities and resources As he's pleased. And we shouldn't envy those who have more. And we shouldn't look down on those who have less. But rather, uh we should make the most of that which God has given to us. That's the important thing. We should endeavor, you know, in our little corner of the vineyard, whatever that may be, wherever that may be. We should endeavor to make the most. Francis Schaefer said in God's eyes there are no little people and no little places. Only one thing is important. Only one thing is important. To be a consecrated person in God's place for you. That is the important thing. That is the lesson of the parable of the talents. Let's look at number four, fourth emphasis of this parable. The sin of laziness. Now many people will say laziness isn't a sin, it's just a character flaw. That's just the way I am. I'm just I'm just A little slow on the on the draw. And I would say, oh contraire, mon frère. That's not what the Bible teaches. When the master returns In verse 26, he condemned the third sermon. And what did he say to him? He said, You wicked and Flawful servant. And so his thoughtfulness is a manifestation of his wickedness. So no, it's not you didn't the bass would say, well, you know, Bob, he's just a little he's not too sharp about investing. He said, You're a lazy bum. That's a moral evil Proverbs 15 verse 19 also makes this contrast or makes this statement uh or excuse me implication uh that laziness is a form of wickedness. Proverbs 1519 sets up a parallel, a contrast It says the way of the sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the but the path of the upright It's a level highway. And so he contrasts the sluggard with the upright to say that Laziness isn't just a disposition, but it's a moral evil. And so we want to beware of laziness. I'm not saying you can't relax. But we don't want to be slothful. And I think that's a huge obstacle uh to our to our spiritual growth, right? Going to bed at a reasonable hour so that you can get up. If you do this in the morning, so that you can get up And you can have a little bit of time in the morning to prepare your soul for the day, to endeavor to know God through scripture and through prayer. Sometimes we're slothful about reading a scripture. Yeah, I read my chapter, I read my two chapters or whatever your routine is. Or I read some little devotional booklet, you know, a little warm thought uh for the day Well that's kid stuff. You know, if we're gonna grow uh deep in Christ, if we're gonna know Christ, if we're gonna be prepared to fight uh the good fight when adversity comes We're gonna have to go a little deeper. We're gonna have to wrestle with the scripture. We're gonna have to seek to understand it. One of our high school girls, her mom told me she's studying the book of Romans And she said, Do you have any commentaries you'd recommend on the book of Romans? And I said, Yeah. And so I gave her a couple of commentaries to look at But that's that's what we wanna do. Uh we we wanna wrestle with the scripture. We don't want to be slothful. You know, some people say everything I learned about uh Christianity I learned in uh kindergarten Sunday school class. Uh That is so uh vacant. Uh you're not going to get far with that. Here's another one. So we're talking about the about laziness. And if I could extend that uh a little more broadly and talk about complacency. I think sometimes we're complacent. We're complacent about evangelism Uh we're complace we can be complacent about uh reaching out to people even in the church that we don't know. Um some people For years. You know, you come in, you know a couple people, and that's fine. That's all I need. But we find in the scripture a number of commands called the one-another commands Encourage one another, pray for one another, serve one another, admonish one another, build up one another, show hospitality to one another. If you're complacent, if you never or if you seldom extend yourself toward other people, in the church or outside of the church, you're putting yourself in a position For you cannot fulfill those commands. And you say, well I'm a little bit afraid. I don't want to take a risk. I don't want to be rejected, or I don't want to feel like a fool, or I don't want to be awkward, I don't want to make that And sold that person. Well you're playing it safe then. And that's complacency. One commentator said to have done no harm is praised for a stone, not for a man. And so beware the sin of laziness. And that's a that's a reminder for our young people too, right? God's God has called you to be a student. Even on that painful screen that many of you are stuck on right now, God has called you to be a student. So press on, work at it with all your heart. Because God is preparing you for future service. Finally, number five, the fifth emphasis, and I'll be brief because we we're going to look at more closely at this next week The fifth emphasis of this parable is the coming judgment. In fact, that's an emphasis in each of these stories in chapter twenty-five. But the parable teaches That when the Master returns, he will reward and he will punish. And one day We're going to have to give an account of how faithfully we serve Jesus Christ during his absence. Look at verse 19. Says, now after a long time, the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. So there will be a day And we're going to settle it, and God's going to settle accounts with us. 2 Corinthians 5. 10. Paul said, We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ So that each one may receive what is due for what he has done. What's going on here? Thought we were saved by grace. We are saved by grace. We contribute nothing to our salvation. All we can do is say, I'm a sinner, I recognize Christ as my Savior, and I receive Him. And what he's done for me, his righteousness, and his death in my place. But nonetheless The Bible teaches that if you have been saved by grace, if you do know Jesus Christ, then it will show, it will issue forth in a life that desires. to honor Jesus Christ and to serve him. And there will be for those who are saved. rewards. And so the Bible talks about rewards that will be given to those who Jesus Christ has redeemed. And the Bible says it won't be measured by how much you accomplish, but it will be measured by how faithful you've been to your master. And so the master commends the two servants who faithfully invested what he'd given to them. The Bible doesn't go into detail about the rewards. But we do see here that these rewards will consist in greater responsibility. And so to the servants who invested wisely their talents, the master said in verse 21 and 23. Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. You will be given great responsibility. And so even though and so we'll receive these rewards based on our faithfulness to Jesus Christ But even then, we can say that these rewards are still all of God's grace, because they're going to be way out of proportion to what we deserve. But the the man, the servant who squandered his talent, the master condemned. Go back to verse 26. But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I am not sowed, and gather where I scattered no seed. Then in verse thirty he says, cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And so as it turned out, uh this servant uh was not a believer at all. Right? He had no interest in serving his master and using the talents he'd given him, and that as it turned out, he was not a believer at all. And so, what did I say in the beginning? I said the dominant theme of chapter 25 is the return of Jesus Christ. He's going to come back, right? He's about to be crucified, but he's telling his disciples, he's going to come back. Every time we have the Lord's Supper, We remind ourselves that yeah, Jesus is coming back. Remember First Corinthians eleven? Jesus said, When you take the Lord's Supper You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. So we need to be remembering, you know what? This isn't all there is. There's something more to come The terrible of the ten virgins said what? Be vigilant. Be ready. The terable the talents tells us what? Be diligent. Labor faithfully with whatever privileges and abilities and opportunities that God has given to you. So what I want you I want to ask as we close, I just want to ask you a question. I want you to think about this today. What abilities and opportunities has God entrusted to you And then how faithfully are you employing those abilities and privileges to serve him? That's something I want you to think about. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Father in heaven, uh thank you Lord that you've been gracious to us and you have uh given us many advantages in our lives Forgive us for beings thoughtful in the use of many of them. Give us the heart, Lord uh to employ all of our advantages for your glory. We pray for those who are not Christians That they would see that you've called them to a life of purpose and bring them, Lord, to lean on you, to receive forgiveness. And to receive salvation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're coming to the Lord's table and to prepare. We're going to sing the song of the Bulletin. When I survey the wondrous cross, so let's stand and sing. What do you do?