Okay, so let's turn to uh John chapter 14. John chapter 14, beginning at verse 15. So good to have some new faces here. We're going through John's gospel and Jesus speaking to his disciples. Says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. And I'll ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. But yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I'll love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word And my Father will love him, and we will come to Him and make our home with Him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I've spoken to you while I'm still with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and bring to remembrance all that I have said to you Peace I leave with you. My peace I give you. Not as the world gives, do I give it to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. You heard me say to you, I'm going away, and I'll come to you. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I'm going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. And now I have told you it before it takes place, so when it does take place, you may believe. I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me, but I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here. Alright, let's bow our heads. Our Father in heaven, we're thankful for all the truth you've given us in this passage. Help us to absorb it. To comprehend it and help it to shape us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we often say the Apostles' Creed and one aligns it, I believe in the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit. But that's a little bit vague. Who is the Holy Spirit? And what is the ministry of the Holy Spirit? Well, We've come to a good place in the Bible. John 14-16 is, I think, probably the most comprehensive exposition of the person and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. This is the eve of Jesus' crucifixion. Jesus is with his disciples in the upper room, this is their final time together before Jesus arrests, and Jesus has just told them back in chapter 13. I'm going to be leaving you. And when the disciples heard this, and they had been warned, they had been forewarned over the three years of Jesus' ministry that he would leave But when they hear this now, they are confused and they are frightened. And Jesus chapter 14, verse 1, says, Let not your hearts be troubled He instructs them why they should not be troubled. Chapter 14, verse 2, he says, I'm going to go and prepare a place for you. And then in verse 3 he says, I'm going to return, and I'm going to take you to be where I am. And now, in the verses we just read, Jesus gives his disciples another reason why they should not be troubled. He's going to come to them after the resurrection, he'll come to them, and also After he ascends to heaven, he will come to them in the person of the Holy Spirit And so this is good news for Jesus' disciples, and it is good news for us, because if you're a Christian This tells you you're never alone. God is always with you in the person of the Holy Spirit. If you're not a Christian, I want you to hear what Jesus says in this passage. And I want you to recognize just something very basic. In this discussion of the Holy Spirit, we learn that Christianity is not primarily a moral code. It is not primarily a philosophy of life, but rather Christianity, and I know this is obvious, but I feel like I should say it. Christianity is a supernatural religion in which the God, the Maker, the ruler of the universe comes to his people. And if you're not a Christian, right now, you're on your own. You need the God of the universe to be with you. Yeah, so let's look at our text. Two basic questions. The first one's brief. Who is the Holy Spirit? So I didn't ask the question, what is the Holy Spirit? I asked, who is the Holy Spirit? Because the Holy Spirit is a person, not a power. The Holy Spirit's a he Not an it. Sometimes we fall into the language of speaking of it. That's wrong. It's a it's a he. Wait, he's a he, right? The Holy Spirit is a person, a divine person. The Holy Spirit is God. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. So Christianity teaches there is one God. Deuteronomy 6. 4. Hero Israel. Hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, but we also teach that there are this one God, there are three persons in the Godhead The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, they are equals in their person. There is no subordination in their person. And deity is ascribed to all three members of the Trinity. Just one example. I mean, this is Books have been written on this topic alone, the person or the the members of the Trinity, but just one example in Acts chapter five, uh, verses three and four we have a statement about the deity of the Holy Spirit. And so Peter, after Ananias lied about an offering he made, Peter said to this guy, Ananias, Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? And then a couple words later, Peter says, You have not lied to men, but to God. And so, who is the Holy Spirit in a nutshell? The Holy Spirit is the third person in the Trinity. Now we're going to spend the rest of our time beginning to answer the question. What does the Holy Spirit do? What is the ministry of the Holy Spirit? And in a sense, we could say, well, everything the Father does and the Son does, the Holy Spirit does. So for example The Holy Spirit was active in the creation of the world. Genesis 1 verse 2 says something like the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. This Holy Spirit is active in redemption. So the Father is the author of our redemption. The Son accomplished our redemption. in the Holy Spirit applies the redemption that Jesus achieved. And so and also the Holy Spirit is active in sustaining the universe. And so there are Everything the Father and the Son does in on one level, the Holy Spirit does, and yet Scripture does ascribe different primary roles to the three members of The Trinity. So what is the primary role or activity of the Holy Spirit? And I have four things from this passage. It's not exhaustive, but this passage says quite a bit. So, first of all, we would say the Holy Spirit Brings the presence of Jesus Christ to us. The Holy Spirit makes known to Christians the personal abiding presence of the risen Christ. So let's look at a couple verses, okay, verse 16. Jesus said, I'll not leave you as orphans, I will come to you. Or look at the end of verse 23. Jesus says. We will come to him and make our home with him. So he's saying, the Father and I will come to my disciples, and we will make our home with him. And so the Holy Spirit comes to God's people. In the end of verse 16, the Holy Spirit is, Jesus refers to the Spirit as another Helper. That's the translation I have, the ESV. And I'm just just to spend a little bit of time on this word. It'll help us appreciate something of the Holy Spirit's activity. So in my translation, he's called the helper. The Greek word is perikletos, which means one who is called alongside. And so And the ESV translates it helper? Well that's okay because the Holy Spirit helps us, but we don't want to think of it in the sense that the Holy Spirit's like uh second man next to Jesus Christ, so there's no sense of subordination, but the Holy Spirit does help us. In fact, Jesus calls the Holy Spirit another helper. Who's the first helper? Jesus. King James, anybody have the King James? King James translates it, okay, there's a one real Christian back there. Good enough for Paul, it's good enough for Tom Fortney. King James translates it comforter But that's a little confusing, but not in the sense of like you comfort somebody who's grieving, but in the old Elizabethan sense of strengthener, right? Like comfort, fortress And so the Holy Spirit uh is our strengthener. That's true. The NIV uh uh translates this word pericletus as Counselor, but not in the sense of like a marriage counselor or a can counselor, but more in the sense of a a legal counselor. This is picked up in 1 John 2, 1 John speaks about Christ as our legal counselor when he writes, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ. The righteous one. And so like Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit provides expert counsel, pleads our cause before the Father's throne, testifies on our behalf. motivates us and embens us to press on when we're discouraged or when we're down And I just want you to note in verse 16 that word when Jesus says another helper, another counselor, another strengthener. And so Jesus is the first helper, counselor, strengthener, but Jesus said says, I'm going to send you another helper, because Jesus, after his resurrection, right, ascended into heaven. And so he's in heaven. But he is with us in the person of the Holy Spirit. Luther called the Holy Spirit another Christ. That's a good way to understand the person his person And so by the Holy Spirit, Jesus is with his people. Jesus is in his people. Look at the end of verse 17. That's what it says. Jesus said, he dwells with you and will be in you. Go down to verse 20. In that day you will know that I'm in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. And so there's this discussion or this language of union, of fellowship With the risen Jesus Christ. And so Christ dwells with in believers by the person of the Holy Spirit Same idea in 1 Corinthians 6. 18, Paul said, flee from sexual immorality. Why is that? Because your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit. uh within you. So the Holy Spirit is in us. And um because of that, you can know if you're a Christian You're never alone. God is always with you. He comforts you in your loneliness hour, right? You have the Holy Spirit. You read the scriptures. And you find comfort. You have the fellowship of the Christians. You find comfort. God is with us in our moments of temptation. to convict us and to strengthen us and when we fall to convict us again so that we repent. By the person of the Holy Spirit, God is sanctifying us, shaping us into the person of Jesus Christ. I think it's Ephesians 3 Verses 14 to 19, where Paul prays this prayer that we would know God and that the Holy Spirit would dwell in us and that we would know all the fullness of God. And it's by the Holy Spirit that we can say with David, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, ah, fear no evil, for you are with me. How is God with us in the person of the Holy Spirit? And so the Holy Spirit brings the presence of Jesus Christ to us. Secondly, the Holy Spirit glorifies Jesus Christ. Look at verse uh or chapter 16, verse 14. Jesus says about the Holy Spirit, He will glorify me He's not going to glorify himself. He's going to glorify Jesus. For he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Jay Packer, great theologian, died some years ago. He wrote a book on the Holy Spirit titled Keep in Step with the Spirit Some publisher must have come up with that title. That doesn't sound like J. I. Packer. But anyway, it's a great theological book, but He likens the ministry of the Holy Spirit to a well-placed floodlight. You know, think about a floodlight. uh focus on a statue or uh maybe a a church side of a church or something. You don't if it's placed well, it's behind a shrub or something You don't see the floodlight, you see the object on which it is aimed. And that really is a good e example or picture of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit does not draw attention to himself. He draws attention to Jesus Christ. You just read it in chapter 16, verse 14. What Jesus is saying? He will glorify me Chapter 15, 26, He will bear witness about me. And so the Holy Spirit has been called the shy member of the Trinity. He's not drawing attention to himself. So Packer makes this comment. The Spirit's message is never look at me, listen to me, come to me, get to know me But it's always look at him and see his glory. Listen to him and hear his word. Go to him and have life. get to know him and taste the gift of joy and of peace. And so now uh charismatic churches, Pentecostal churches, I think this is this is a A area in which they're an error because there's so much direct attention given to the Holy Spirit But that is really not the disposition of this passage, the Holy Spirit's ministry is to point to Jesus Christ. I'm not saying that we can't pray to the Holy Spirit. I'm not saying that's heretical. No, I'm sure there are prayers in the Bible I should have looked where people pray to the Holy Spirit, of course, because he's a member of the Trinity, but I'm just saying the weight in Scripture or and the focus on Scripture is toward the Father and toward the Son. And this is the reason, because of um what Jesus says here about the Spirit's ministry. Here's a third thing about the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit guides Jesus' disciples into the truth. Verse 17, he's called the Spirit of Truth. That makes sense. Why else what else would he do? Chapter 16, verse 13, Jesus speaking of the Spirit's work, said When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth. Now we need to take note here. Who's Jesus speaking to? He not speak he's not talking to you, sorry. He's speaking to his apostles, okay? He's speaking to the twelve It was the Holy Spirit who enabled the apostles to understand the meaning of Jesus' actions and his teaching. When he was with them, they looked back and they go, Oh, now I get it. When Jesus was with them during his earthly ministry, it didn't click. Here's an example. Chapter 12, verse 16. John writes, his disciples did not understand these things at first, what he was doing and saying. But when Jesus was glorified, right, when he was ascended to heaven, when he gave the Holy Spirit But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him. It's like, oh, now I understand it, because Jesus gave the apostles the Holy Spirit, and it was the Spirit who enabled them to recall to comprehend, to teach, and to record what Jesus did and what Jesus taught when he was on the earth. So chapter 14, verse 26. The helper of the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, what does he say to the apostles? He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said. To you. So, why is it that we believe the Bible to be the Word of God? Because Jesus told his apostles that they would know and understand what he taught. Go to chapter 16, verse 13. Jesus said, when the Spirit of truth comes, He will guide you into all the truth For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He'll glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you And so the Holy Spirit inspired the apostles. The Holy Spirit gave them understanding and clarity about Jesus' life. in teaching, and what they wrote down was by the Holy Spirit's inspiration. And so we trust the Bible. And the prophets in the Old Testament were guided, inspired by the Holy Spirit. 2 Peter 121 Peter says to these Christians, no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. And so this is why we believe the Bible is reliable, because God has given it to us by the Holy Spirit. Some people say, well, I only believe the words of Jesus, the red letters. That's really important. Well, who wrote the words of Jesus in the Gospels, right? Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And Jesus says, everything you teach will be from the Spirit. Now So that was Jesus telling to the apostles. How's about us? Well, we can say the Holy Spirit enables us to recognize the Bible's God's Word. We we speak about this as Illumination, okay? Here's what one theologian, the guy named Scott Anniol, he explains this illumination. Illumination does make excuse me. Illumination does not make scripture clear. Rather, illumination enlightens a regenerated Christian to recognize the truth. Authority and significance of what is already clear, but is veiled to those who are perishing. Years ago, I was a intern at a church in Savannah, Georgia, and there was a German exchange student in our college Bible study. And we she was coming for months and I could tell nothing was going on there and there she wasn't getting it. And then one Tuesday night before Bible study, a bunch of us went out for pizza, and this girl Claudia said Peter, I get it now. I understand it. I became a Christian last week. And she says This makes sense now, this book. She wasn't saying that she was ready to become an academic theologian, but she was saying, hey The pennies dropped. It's like God removed a veil from her eyes. And that's what the Bible says of the unbeliever. 2 Corinthians 4 3. The gospel is veiled to those who are perishing. Why do Christians accept the Bible It's not because we're so smart, but it's because God just removed the veil. And when you read this, you go, this is from God. This is the voice of God. Ephesians 1:18, Paul speaks of Christians having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. You have a loved one who's not a Christian. What do you pray? What do I pray? I just pray, Lord, open their eyes, remove the veil, help them to see. Because Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 2. 14 The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for their folly to him, he's not able to understand them. Why is that? Because they're spiritually discerned. And if you're not a Christian, a good prayer would be, Lord, if this stuff is true, open my eyes, allow me to see it. And so I've said quite a bit. The Holy Spirit brings Jesus' presence to us. The Holy Spirit glorifies Jesus, not Himself. The Holy Spirit guides Jesus' disciples into the truth. Finally, the Holy Spirit grows us in conformity and obedience to Christ. Romans 1 4. The Holy Spirit's called the Spirit So one of the Holy Spirit's ministries is to take us and to put us through the gymnasium So that we grow in holiness. And if you if you're a Christian, you have the Holy Spirit, you cannot but grow in holiness, at least in some measure. If you're not growing in holiness, you need to slam on the brakes because that's a bad sign. That's a sign that you have not been regenerated By the Spirit of God. That's what Paul says in Romans 8:9. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. And so there's no such thing as a Christian who doesn't yet have the Holy Spirit. Our charismatic friends sometimes tell us that, but no, if you're a Christian, you have the Holy Spirit, and you will grow. In your love for Jesus. And this is the final exam of the reality of your conversion. So let me dump three verses on you, okay? We're getting toward the end. Just three more verses, chapter 14, verse 15. Jesus said, if you love me, what will you do? He'll carry a black Bible round with gold gilding. No. He said, if you love me, you will obey my you'll keep my commandments. Verse 21 Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. Verse 23 If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. So there you have it. Now Of course we stumble, of course we fall with with distressing regularity. But this passage is teaching that if you truly know Jesus Christ, there's going to be some progress on the road to holiness, right? If you're if you're sleeping around, if you're lying If you're a cheat and you're not repentant, that's a bad sign. That's the time to say, was I really converted to faith in Jesus Christ? If you show little interest or love toward those people who are outside your little circle, that's not a good sign. Maybe you should question the reality of your conversion. If you don't confess your sins and ask others for forgiveness when it's painfully clear that you've sinned against them. Then maybe you should question, was I really transformed by the Spirit of God? If you're indifferent In your commitment to God's people. That's a really bad sign, according to chapter thirteen, verse thirty-four and thirty-five. Because here's how you know that you're one of God's people. You love the brother. And so the final proof, according to these verses, That you belong to Jesus Christ, that you have the Holy Spirit, is a measure, some measure of obedience in your life. 1 John 2 verse 3, John said, By this we know we've come to know him. How? We keep his commandments. That's our disposition. That's our orientation. So, whoa. I don't know. I think I've that's a lot of stuff I put out there. But um Getting back to where we started, the disciples were troubled because Jesus said, I'm going to be leaving you. And Jesus said, Let not your heart be troubled. I'm going to come to you. And then he said to these very disturbed men in verse 27, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. So Jesus is saying I give you true peace, not as the world gives, as the world give peace. Oh, medicate yourself with prescription drugs, with illicit drugs, with alcohol. by entertainments, by just being coming a zombie in front of your gaming count console, or medicate or or just deny that there's anything such thing as Absolute truth, you have your truth, I have my truth, so whatever I do is fine because that's according to my truth. That doesn't give people peace. People go down those roads And they're they're not happy, they're not content, they don't have peace. And so as Jeremiah 6. 14 said about these false prophets, They've healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, peace, peace, when there is no peace. These are fraudulent offers of peace. But Jesus says, you can have true peace if you know me. And so that's why Peter said in Acts 2. 38, Repent, be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. Then he says And you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. What do you have to do to receive the Holy Spirit? Repent of your sin, rest on Christ, and you will receive this gift. And for those of us who are believers, we have this great comfort that he is always with us. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, that you've not left us alone. And some here I know have heavy hearts and discouragements. Lonely hours, I pray for them that you would minister to them by your word, by your spirit, by your people. And I also pray, Lord, for those who are not yet Christians, I pray that you would open their eyes. to recognize the light of your glory in the face of your Son, Jesus Christ, that they might acknowledge their sin But they've been going their own way, it doesn't work, and it's an offense to your holiness. Bring them to bow before you as their Savior. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.