Chapter eight is full of uh riches, so we're taking this chapter a little bit uh slower, taking smaller chunks. So we uh my my idea is always to take a unit of thought, and some of the units of thought are large where we cover half a chapter a week And sometimes the units of thought are more compact, and that's certainly the case when you get to chapter 8, verses 15 to 17. For Paul writes to Christians, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the Spirit of Adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. Let's bow our heads. We do bow before you this morning, and we ask, Father in heaven, that you would open our eyes to recognize the great privileges that we enjoy as being numbered amongst your children. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So as I said earlier, we know that Romans teaches the doctrine of justification by faith, right? Romans 3. 28 Paul said, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So that's the great declaration. uh the gospel is not going to church that makes you right with God. It's not trying to be a better person that makes you right with God. It's Jesus Christ who lived a perfect life in your place and then died on the cross to pay for your sin. And all you have to do is trust in Him. So that's why we say God justifies us, He declares us righteous when we have faith in Jesus Christ. What a wonderful privilege. But what we'll see this morning is that's not the highest privilege that God confers on those who are resting on Jesus Christ. The highest privilege is not justification, but rather is what Paul speaks about in these verses. He speaks about our adoption as sons. So again, look at we'll go back to verse 14, in fact, where Paul writes, for all who are led by the Spirit of God, so in other words, if you're a Christian, you've received the Holy Spirit All who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the spirit of adoption as sons. And so this is the great privilege, the I should say the greatest privilege. Now think about An orphan peasant boy out back in the Middle Ages. He's uh he commits some crime. He's Arrested, he's thrown in jail, some kind of dark dungeon, and he's awaiting his execution. And then the king of that realm issues a pardon. He pardons this peasant boy, and he says, You can go free now. That would be wonderful. But this king not only pardons him, he says, I'm going to adopt you as my son. Well, that's an even higher privilege than pardon, right? Now this peasant has a new identity. He's the son of the king. And as his son, he has immediate access to the king. He is a father to guide him, to protect him. A very powerful father. All that belongs to the king now belongs to him. And one day he is going to enter into a great inheritance. That's what we're talking about when we talk about the superiority of adoption even to justification. And so that's why John wrote in John 1 12 To all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And so if you're a Christian, you're a child of God. We want to reflect this morning from this passage on the privileges entailed in our being children of God. So the privileges of adoption. And I want to underscore from these just uh these three verses, uh three privileges. And the first one, Paul writes about in verse fifteen, is that we now have intimacy with the God of the universe. So go back to verse fifteen where he says You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. So in verse 15, Paul's saying there's two aspects to this. Number one, he says, we need not fear God. Right? You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. I think that's really notable. My observation, and you correct me if I'm wrong later on. My observation is that many, if not most, unconverted people who are religious Are religious because they fear God. I'm not talking about a reverential fear, but I'm talking about they have a sense of foreboding. About God. And so they go to church or they go to Mass and they try to walk the straight and narrow. But they do this in an attempt to appease the God whom they fear. Because they rightly have a sense of God's holiness, and they rightly have a sense of their moral deficit. And so what they do is they try to make up for it by their religious efforts. The doctrine of adoption teaches That if you're trusting in Christ, God accepts you, He receives you And he delights in you as his child. And so you need not fear God. You need not be driven by fear. But you can have now. You can relax and you can know that God truly loves you. And it's not because you're so great, but it's because you are have been made righteous in Jesus Christ. Uh years ago I had a friend. I don't I haven't seen this guy in years. I had a friend. I once had a friend. All right. Years ago I had a friend. When I lived in Philadelphia. His father was the president of a big insurance company in Philadelphia. And my friend said, Yeah, once one day I took my kid downtown because I wanted him to see his granddad And so we went up to the elevator. The father, the president of the company, he had the top floor of that building, and his office was down the hallway. a big big reception area, a big waiting room, a secretary posted between the waiting room and the president's office, because nobody could just walk in. They had to wait and they would have their briefcases on their lap and they would be waiting for their big opportunity to meet the president. But my friend said, when we get off the elevator, my son ran down the hallway. He busted open the double doors into that uh reception area. He ran right past the people sitting there, right past the secretary. She was all up in arms. He busted open the uh door to his uh granddad's office And he ran right in and he jumped on his grandfather's lap. And what did his grandfather do? He received him, right, with a big grand uh with a big bear hug. This is my grandson. That's the idea, that's the picture that we should see the God of the universe as. The God of the universe accepts you, but not only accepts you, if you're Christian, he delights in you as his child. Psalm 103, he knows our frame. He remembers we are dust, but still the God of the universe delights in his children. And one of the things Paul prays in Ephesians 3, halfway through the chapter, he prays for the Christians in Ephesus that they would begin to comprehend the breadth and the length of the and the height and to and the depth and to know the love of Christ. I think it's Ephesians 3, 14 and following. It's a prayer. It's a great prayer to read and to pray for yourself. Lord, help me to begin to understand that you love me. You favor me. There's nothing I can do that would change your regard for me. That's a great message for a Christian to preach to himself regularly Uh John or Char Charles Wesley in the in the hymn that we often sing, Arise my soul, arise one one stanza says My God is reconciled, his pardoning voice I hear, he owns me for his child I can no longer fear. Then he goes on, with confidence I now draw nigh, I now draw near to God, and Abba Father cry. And so what a privilege. So Paul says in verse 15, you need not fear God. You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. You're no longer a slave, but you are marked as God's child. Here's something else in verse 15. Now we can have true fellowship with God. Now we can have, because we are sons of God, We can have intimate fellowship with God. Look at the end of verse 15. Paul writes there: You have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry. Abba Father. Same thing, Galatians 4, 6. Paul wrote there. Because your sons, God has sent his spirit into our hearts. crying, Abba, Father. So you you probably heard that word Abba, it's an Aramaic word. It's a term of intimacy by which we address God. You know, some people say it's like calling God daddy. I think that's too casual. Uh more respectful but yet intimate is the is the term uh papa. And so this is saying there's a difference between the way that a Christian instinctively addresses God and the way that an unbeliever addresses God. You know, if you're an unbeliever, why do you address God? Well, because when you're in trouble, unbelievers tend to oftentimes will say, Oh God, help me. Well, they they do that because they have the sense that there's a God, but they're calling out to God. But what this verse is saying is that when a Christian is in dire need, His instinctive call is Father. He has a sense that God cares for him, that he looks out for him That He's God's child. So we don't just say like, oh God, help me. We say, Father, help me Think about Jesus calling out to the Father in the Garden of Gethsemane. He used that same word, Abba, Father. So this is this is pretty useful, I think. It seems like we're always talking about when we get in conversations here and there around the table with different folks, Christian folks and whatnot, just Friday night We're always talking about how discouraged, how discouraging it is to see developments taking place in our culture. And it is, it's hugely discouraging. But this is a reminder, you know what? There's a God. Everything he says in this book is true. He is sovereign. He is in control of history. He is working out his good purposes. And This God is our Father. If you're resting on Jesus Christ, He's good He's favorable towards you. He will work things for his glory and for the good of his people around the world. Here's a great line from Martin Luther. He said, although I be oppressed with anguish and terror on every side, and seem to be forsaken and utterly cast away from thy presence Yet I am thy child, and thou art my father for Christ's sake. And Luther suffered horribly. He persecuted in vicious ways But he was stalwart for the gospel. And one of the reasons he could press on is because he knew that God was his father. And so the first privilege of adoption we see in verse 15 is that we need not fear God, but rather, if we're trusting in Jesus Christ, We can know him as our Father, and we can have intimate, excuse me, fellowship with him, knowing that he cares for us. Here's a second privilege, okay? The second privilege of adoption is that you can have assurance of your sonship from the Holy Spirit. Now, have you ever doubted that you're really a Christian? Right? I think I'm a Christian. I understand the gospel. I believe in Jesus. But like was that a genuine faith? What did I is my faith real enough? Was I really converted? Or am I just sort of deluded about my spiritual condition? And so what I'm saying is honest Christians Oftentimes struggle with having assurance of their salvation. Some do, some don't. You know, we're all different, right? Of course, there are people who are unbelievers and they think they're Christians. You see that in Matthew 7, Jesus said, Not everybody who says to me, Lord, Lords, can enter the kingdom of God, right? They think they're Christians because they're nice people and they go to church or whatever they do. No, that's not it. Are you trusting in Christ for your salvation? But I'm saying, talking here about people, you understand who Christ is, what he's done, you understand you don't contribute anything to your salvation And yet still, am I really a Christian? I don't see much change in my life, or I don't know if my belief's genuine enough. Well, the Bible teaches that you can have confidence that God really saved you. Okay? And um in fact, 1 John, read sometime the book of 1 John. John says, one of the reasons I wrote this book, it says in chapter 5, verse 13. was so that you may know that you have eternal life. So God wants us to know, that's one example. God wants us to relax, to know we're right with Him, we'll be with Him when we die. So, how do you gain this assurance? And uh the Bible sets forth three basic uh pillars by which a Christian can attain assurance of his or her salvation. So and I I did in the inquiry's class to go over this, I say, think of it as a three-legged stool, okay? So three legs on this stool by which we can have assurance of our salvation. The first leg is simple. It's just the promises in the Bible that if you're resting on Christ, you're saved, you're forgiven, you're right with God. One example. John chapter 5 verse 24 There John says, truly, or Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Okay? So if you're trusting in Christ God has gone on public record in the Bible and He says, listen, you're forgiven, you've crossed from death to life. Okay, if you get hit by a bus when you walk out this door, you're good. Okay? You don't have to worry about where you're going. So that's the first thing. The second leg on the stool of Christian assurance is the evidence of growing obedience to Christ in your life. And so there's you know, it's one thing to say, yeah, I believe, but When you become a Christian, as Paul's been saying in the beginning of Romans 8, you receive the Holy Spirit. And so you cannot but be changed Right? Galatians 5, 22-23 calls this the fruit of the Spirit, this character transformation. And he lists some examples. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Then you go back to 1 John. There's a whole other list. Here's how you know you've crossed from death to life. Here's how you know you're really a Christian And in that little letter he gives all these evidences. You don't love the world. And then he says, you love your brothers. Not perfectly, but you're making some progress, right? You don't continue to sin in your old way, but now you're more repentant. You're making some progress there. You acknowledge the deity of Christ. 1 John 4, 6. You heed God's word. John says, whoever knows God listens to us. He listens to our the apostles. We find the apostles in the Word. And so the three legs on the stool of assurance, you understand the promises of the Bible. Very objective And then you see some measure of character transformation. Not that you're perfect, right? We still struggle, we still sin in many ways, embarrassingly, but there's some change. The third leg on the stool of Christian assurance, Paul speaks about in this passage. The ho and I need to explain this, alright? So stay with me on this, and then we're just about done. The Holy Spirit Confirms in our hearts that we are children of God. What is this? Well, look at verse 16 The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. What does that mean? I can't explain it with scientific precision. J. A. Packer referred to an old Scotswoman who said, you know what? It's more easily felt than telled. So we can't just put this out on the blackboard. But we can say some things, okay? I'm going to say four things. Then we'll we'll be ready to get on the bus and go home. Four things. Number one, about verse sixteen, about the testimony of the Holy Spirit. So when it says in verse 16 The Spirit bears witness with our Spirit. This phrase bears witness means Confirms. The Holy Spirit confirms to you that you're forgiven and that you are a child of God. Here's what John Calvin said. When we have received the Spirit of God, his promises are confirmed to us. And no dread is felt that they could ever be revoked. Okay? So this phrase, when it says the Holy Spirit bears witness, is just saying He confirms to us the promises of God, okay? Second thing I want to say about the testimony of the Holy Spirit, and this is from the verse: the Holy Spirit testifies in conjunction with our own consciousness, right? The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit. Why does he bring that up? Not entirely sure. Here's one thing that some of the scholars would say. In the Old Testament In a court of law, it was required for two witnesses to give testimony to establish a truth. Deuteronomy 19. 15, if you want to look it up later. Well, I think it's just a play on that idea that there are two witnesses here now in verse sixteen. Establishing the truth of our sonship, the Holy Spirit and our Spirit. Okay? So the Holy Spirit testifies in conjunction with our consciousness, our awareness that we're children of God. Here's a third thing. This is a really important, not just about this topic, but in general, about the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's testimony that we are children of God. Is not something that occurs separate from God's Word. Why do I say that? Okay, here's what I said. A lot of Christians talk about the Holy Spirit as operating in this realm, and then the Word of God as operating over here. And so they'll say, I read the Bible, I learn from the Bible, I learn about God, God changes me through the Bible. So there you have the work of the Bible Then over here, you have this more nebulous, uh mystical, uh immediate experience. That you get from, that you receive from the work of the Holy Spirit. And it's almost like never the twain shall meet, the Word and the Spirit. That's not how the Spirit works. The Holy Spirit always works through with the Word of God. And that's how the Holy Spirit confirms our sonship, okay? So the Holy Spirit, when it talks about the Holy Spirit confirming our sonship. That we're God's children, he works in conjunction with the Word of God. It's like this. You read the Bible, And the Christian says, Yeah, that's for me. That's just how a Christian responds to the Bible. You're encouraged by the words of the Bible An unbeliever doesn't see it, and it's more a book about how God works But there's this change. And there had been folks in our church. I'll say, you know, they're not Christians, and I'll say, uh, where are you? And they'll say, well, I'm not there yet. And then a day came for some of them and said, yeah, I get it, I see it, I believe this stuff. You know, this is for me. That's what we're saying here. The Holy Spirit enables us to read God's Word and say, yeah, that promises for me. That's my God. I'm not an outsider. And so, if you want a greater assurance of your salvation, then, because like I said, right, many Christians struggle with having assurance If you want a greater assurance of your salvation, don't look at your belly button and just pray, Lord, give me this assurance. But rather, it's through the reading, it's through the reflecting on It's through learning and sitting under the teaching of God's Word that the truth of our salvation I should say our confidence in our salvation and our sonship is solidified. Here's the fourth thing about the confirmation of the Holy Spirit. And I think this is important too. Everything I have to say is important, or else I wouldn't I would have just cut it out, okay? And I spend Friday and Saturday and Sunday morning cutting things out. It'd be terrible if I didn't cut things out. Alright, so you need to listen. Well, the Holy Spirit confirms in our hearts that we're children of God. This assurance can vary in intensity amongst Christians. I mean there are great pillars of the faith have struggled with having assurance of their s of y of their salvation. So it doesn't mean you're a lousy Christian if you struggle with assurance. We all have different outlooks and constitutions and backgrounds and everything. Even the Westminster Confession of Faith, right, a summary of our understanding of Scripture It says, true believers may have the assurance of their salvation in diverse ways shaken, diminished, and intermitted And yet, there's a fundamental difference between the sense of assurance that a Christian has and the sense of assurance that an unbeliever has. And it's basically because the Christian has this instinctive sense, God is my father, while the unbeliever is still alienated from God. And so do you have do you have a confidence? If you're a Christian, you trust the gospel, you trust in Christ, you believe the gospel. Do you have confidence that you're right with God, that God's your Father? If you don't, let's talk about it, because this is God wants us to have assurance, okay? He wants us to rest at night and to know that we're right with Him. Let's do one more thing briefly, verse 17, the third privilege, and it's brief because uh this picks up next week in verse 18. The third privilege of our adoption is that we have a great inheritance. So there you have it in verse seventeen. Paul says, and if children, then we are heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Okay? So if you're a Christian, you have a great inheritance. It says in 1 Peter 1:4 An inheritance that's imperisable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Okay? And this inheritance includes seeing God Himself. It includes being on a renewed earth, where there's no more death or mourning or crying or pain. And it includes the full manifestation of your sonship. So jump down to verse 23 real quick. Paul says, we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. And so, yeah, we've been adopted. We are God's children, nothing will change that. But the full manifestation of our adoption. Has not yet been fully realized. And that's why it says in the end of verse 21, one day we're going to enjoy the freedom of the glory of the children of God I don't know everything that means, but it's saying something good. There's something better to come. Paul gives a qualification to verse 17, the second part. He says, provided we suffer with him. In order that we may also be glorified with him. So there's this idea, and this is really what verse or chapter 8 is about. Suffering precedes glory. We will suffer, but God is still working all things for His glory and for all our good. So that should give us some perspective. on our current trials. And we'll look more at this when we get to verse 18 next week. But What I just want you to walk a home go home with is to remember the sovereign if you're a Christian The sovereign King of the universe not only pardons you your sin, but he has conferred upon you all the privileges. Of sons. So that's why in 1 John 3 1 I like the King James here, John says, Behold what manner of love The Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called sons of God. And so that's what I want you to preach to yourself. John Wesley. He was an evangelist before he was a Christian, before he was converted. He didn't know. But then when he was converted, after excuse me, after he was converted, he looked back on all his religious activity, everything he did, and he said, I had even then the faith of a servant, though not the faith of a son. So, is your faith the faith of a servant, fearful, or is it the faith you know God is your Father? You know you're accepted in Jesus Christ. And if you're not a Christian, you can move very easily from being a servant, from being an orphan, to being a son. Of the God of the universe, right? That was the promise back in John 112. To all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to be called sons of God. Hey, it's a great message, right? Great Everything's well with the universe. God is for us. Let's bow our heads. We do thank you, Lord, for the great privileges that belong to us. We need not fear you. Help us to relish in your love. We thank you that you've given us your Holy Spirit to confirm in our hearts the fact that we are right with you. And we also have this great inheritance to look forward to. And so help us, Lord, to have faith, the faith of sons. To find hope, to find joy in our salvation, and in your fatherly disposition toward us. And for those who aren't yet Christians, we pray, Lord, that you'll give them your spirit, that they would recognize the truth of Scripture and your claim on their lives. And that they do need a Savior. And that Jesus is that Savior. We ask this in His name. Amen. Amen. Well we're going to sing