Good to have some new folks amongst us. Uh we're going through uh this letter. And takes quite a bit of explaining some parts. This is a wonderful chapter. There's a lot of symbols that we need to discern But it's uh it's manageable. And uh I think it's a it's a it's a key chapter in the book of Revelation. So I'm gonna read chapter twelve. Keep your Bible open after I read it because you're not gonna follow uh what's going on if you don't have your Bible open. John writes, and a great dragon appeared in heaven. I'm sorry, a great sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun, with a moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth. And a dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it. She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule the nations with a rod of iron. But her child was caught up to God and to his throne. And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for twelve hundred and sixty days. Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against a dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who was called the devil, and Satan the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power in the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down who accuses them day and night before God. And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb. and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives unto death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short. When the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman and swept her away with a flood. But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river by the drag excuse swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth Then the dragon became furious with the woman, and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea. Now, there's a New Testament commentator by the name of Robert Mouse And he said that this chapter is really the theological heart of the book of Revelation. And it makes a lot of sense because here we have, you know, this is re Revelation is very repetitive, right? It's talking about spiritual conflict taking place. Some of these uh Cycles last for a couple chapters. You had uh the cycle of the seven seals and then the cycle of the seven trumpets And now we have in one chapter a summation of history between the time that Jesus was born and lived and ascended to heaven and the time he returned. So that's what chapter 12 is. And so in a nutshell, we have a picture of history. And this chapter answers two fundamental questions. Uh if you were to make a list of like the ten big questions in life, I think these two would be in that list, that top ten. The questions this chapter answers are number one, why are things difficult for God's people? Then the second question it answers is, what must we do to survive? Pretty simple, right? And once you get the main characters in this passage, even though it's obscure the first time you read it, it falls together. And it gives us some very clear answers to these questions. So the first question, why are things difficult for God's people? Now, this was a question that the original recipients of this letter were asking, right? Because they would not indulge In the perverse sexual rights of these pagan religions, they were called enemies of mankind. Because they would not partake of the idol worship associated with these temples and membership in the trade guilds They lost their ability to make a living. Because they would not bow down and say, Caesar's Lord, they were pasted as being enemies of the state. And those who remained faithful to Christ paid a bitter price. First century Roman historian Tacitus wrote. That besides being put to death, they were made to serve as objects of amusement. They were clad in the hides of beasts and torn to death by dogs. Others were crucified. Others were set on fire to illuminate the night. And so, to the question, why are things difficult for God's people? And this is addressed to these first century Christians, and it's addressed to all Christians down through time. Right chapter 1, verse 3 or 4, it says, Blessed are those who hear the words of this prophecy. So this is written to us here and now. Why are things difficult for God's people? The answer that this passage gives Is that behind our earthly conflicts, there rages a spiritual conflict in the spiritual realm? And so the church's conflict with the world is just a manifestation of this greater conflict in the spiritual realm Between God and Satan. And so, as I've said many times, let me say it again, I'll make me feel better. Revelation is not primarily a book about things to come. But it's a book about things that are taking place right now, that were taking place in first century Rome, and that is taking place Around the world, down through history. And so what we have here is a look at history in this chapter. Here's a look at history From the time that Jesus was born to the day that he returns. The veil is pulled back, and we get to see behind the scenes. And it discloses by use of vivid imagery, and that's one of the traits of apocalyptic literature, vivid imagery, symbolism Symbolic use of numbers, right? So this is just to give us this idea about what's going on It discloses this raging battle taking place between God and Satan, between the minions of Satan and God's people. Now here's a couple things we have to remember so we don't become discouraged. Number one, it's not a battle between equals Right? Satan can only do what God allows him to do. He's not sovereign. He's not omnipresent. He doesn't know everything He can only allow what God allows him to do. That's the first qualification. The second qualification is the battle has already been won. Okay? The battle has been won. First Corinthians 15, 58. Paul said, Thanks be to God, he gives us the victory in Jesus Christ. When Jesus died on the cross, what do he say as he was about to die? It is finished, right? The victor uh our redemption has been accomplished. And the victory over Satan has been secured. It has yet to be consummated, though. And so that's how we should understand history. The battle's been won, even in the end of verse 5. We read that this child, referring to Christ, was caught up to God and to his throne. And so he has ascended, Jesus Christ has ascended to heaven. And so let's take a closer look now at the passage, okay? And then we're going to draw some uh very clear lessons, okay? And so The setting, this is a vision that God gave to John. He opens John's eyes in this vision to see into heaven, it says in verse 1. A great sign appeared in heaven. And when it speaks, the Bible speaks about heaven, it's not talking about a geographic location, okay? It is talking about the spiritual realm. Ephesians 6. 12 talks about the heavenly places. Okay? And so when it talks about heaven It's talking about the spiritual sphere that exists, okay, even now. There are three characters in this passage. The woman, the child, and the dragon. Two of the characters are obvious. The dragon and the child. But who is the woman? We say, well, the woman represents Mary. She gave birth to Christ. But wait a minute. If you pause and you look at how this story unfolds here, you realize That the woman represents not Mary, but rather she represents God's people. God's people in the Old Testament, Israel, then God's people fulfilled in the New Testament the church. Look at verse two. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains in the agony of giving birth That's an allusion to the people of God throughout the Old Testament history longing for the Messiah. Isaiah chapter 26, verses 17 to 18 uh pictures Israel as a travailing woman. And Jesus came from the line of Israel, right? The Messiah was born of the line of Israel. That's why Matthew and Luke and their genealogies take great pains, right, the very first part of those books, to say, Jesus came. From the line of Abraham and the line of David. He was the Messiah. He was the Israelite who was coming. And then in verse 1, uh it picks up uh an imagery or grabs imagery from um from Joseph's dream in Genesis chapter 37, verse 9 and 10. The woman is described in verse 1 as clothed in the sun, right? Who's this woman? Israel, describing her glory, with the moon under her feet, representing her dominion. On her head a crown of twelve stars. That was a crown denoting her royal status, and twelve stars denoting the twelve tribes of Israel, and then fulfilled in the twelve apostles. of the Christian church. And so a woman is pictured as giving birth. This is Israel, okay? Or the line of Israel from which the Messiah came. Then of course uh the Messiah I'm sorry the child represents Christ. Verse 5 she gave birth to a male child. Then it says He is to rule the nations with a rod of iron. Remember last week we read Psalm 2 talking about the coming Messiah? And it says, he'll rule the nations with a rod of iron. The end of verse 5. Her child was caught up to God and to his throne. So this again is speaking about Jesus' ascension to heaven. A dragon, pretty obvious, right? Not a good guy, you know that, right? And so the dragon represents Satan. Uh Why is that? Because it sounds right, no, because it says in verse nine. Just that, that the dragon is a Satan And he's depicted in this kind of literature as this deformed monster because he is holy and completely evil. In verse 3, it says he's blood red to speak of his destructive behavior. He has seven heads. to represent his cunning wisdom. Ten horns. Horns are a representative of power. You see that in scripture throughout scripture. So horns to represent his destructive power. And then seven diadems or crowns To speak of his rule over the world. Verse 4. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And so he in other words, he attacks heaven itself, the end of verse 4. The dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth. so that when she bore her child, he might devour it, right? And so Satan stood ready to lunge at Jesus Christ when he was born. And so what happened when Jesus was born? Herod sought to slaughter all the male children in Bethlehem. Why? Because he wanted to kill the Messiah, all the children under under age of two. And then when Jesus began his earthly ministry, what happened? He went out into the wilderness. Why? To do battle against Satan And then throughout Jesus' earthly ministry, Jesus had these brutal encounters with demons. But in the end Satan could not get to Christ because the Father snatched him up to heaven. And so that's again talking about the ascension. So Jesus Christ was snatched up to heaven, he ascended to heaven, and he was victorious over Satan. And so what did Satan do? Did he throw his cleats in the closet and say, I guess I've I guess I lost this. No. He's a madman So he can't get the son, so he goes after the son's mother, the church. Verse 6. The woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for twelve hundred and sixty days. Now that's You see that number, you see the number in other places 42 months, you see the number three and a half years, you hear the phrase a time, times and half a time. All those phrases add up to three and a half years, okay? What do the three and a half years represent? Well, we see it here It represents a time between Jesus' first coming and his second coming, between his resurrection and his return, just to say to the church. There's a limited period in which you're going to face persecution. Alright. You weren't out yet? If not, let's get started. No. Okay. So you get to verse 7. There's always a payoff, I promise, okay? There's always a payoff In verse 7, the scene now changes, right? He had a vision in the first six verses was from heaven. But it was a vision of what was taking place on earth, right, when Jesus was born and the uh people of God being persecuted by Satan and his dominions. But now you get the verse 7 And we are to look to heaven. So let's read verses 7 to 10 again. Because this like pulls back the veil now. Here's what's going on, okay, in life and down through history. Now there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent who was called the devil and Satan the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ has come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. What is this talking about? Satan being thrown out of heaven. You might say, well, talking about what happened in Satan from the beginning of the world. He was expelled from heaven. No, that sounds reasonable, but this is talking about what happened to Satan as a result of Jesus' death and resurrection. Okay? And so he was expelled uh from before God's presence, and now he goes on the attack against God's people. Verse 12 Therefore rejoice O heavens, right? Because he was expelled from heaven. Rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. But Woe to you, earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short. Verse 13 When the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. And so what did Satan do when he was defeated by Christ? Again, the same thing. He went after the church He went after the woman. He went af the the offspring of the woman. It's completely irrational He's been defeated, but nonetheless, that's why there's evil in the world. That's why there's suffering. That's why Christians are persecuted. That's why people are miserable. Because Satan has been defeated, but he's still having at it against humanity It's sort it's like um, you know, world the outcome of the Second World War was decided uh With the Allied forces victory on D-Day. And many of Hitler's generals were pleading with Hitler, we've lost the war. Let's this is crazy. Let's just surrender. But Hitler forced Germany to fight on. And so there's a battle of the bulge. And then there was this The assault on Berlin, where Berlin was destroyed. Hitler knew that his time was short But his sure defeat only enraged him more. And so he did whatever he could to destroy his enemies And he launched a thousand rockets over into England and wreaked terrible destruction on London, killed thousands of people Why would he do that? He had lost the battle. And the answer is, well, because he was a madman. And it's the same with Satan. It says in verse 12, he knows that his time is short. And so what's he doing? He is inflicting as much harm as possible on God's people until Jesus returns. So we're asking the question. Why are things difficult for God's people? Well, here it is. Because when you pull back the veil You see that there's this convulsive battle taking place in all earthly conflicts on the personal level and on the corporate level between nations and whatnot. They have at their epicenter this more real battle taking place between God and Satan. So Abraham Kuiper, you may have heard that name, he was one of the great Christians who ever lived. He was the prime minister. of the Netherlands in the early 1900s, a great writer, great theologian. He started newspapers. He started the Free University of Amsterdam. The guy was accomplished. And uh and he was a Christian. And he said, If once the curtain were pulled excuse me, if once the curtain were pulled back And the spiritual world behind it came into view, it would expose to our spiritual vision a struggle so intense So convulsive, sweeping away everything within its range, that the fiercest battle on earth would seem by comparison a mere game Then he said, not here, but up there. That is where the real conflict is engaged. And our earthly struggle drones in its backlash. So there you have it. This is why life is oftentimes sad and miserable, and there's so much suffering and there's so much evil. Paul said in Ephesians 6. 12, right? We struggle not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the spiritual powers of this dark world. And so if you don't recognize that, you don't know what you're up against. You must recognize who the real enemy is. And so now, a little more briefly, second question, what do we do? How do we survive? And there's three things in this passage. It's not exhaustive, it just gives us a couple things. There's other things we would add. But let's look at the passage, right? Three things we must do to survive. Number one. If you're Christian, you must find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ. If you're not a Christian, you must find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ. Look at the end of verse 10. It says a voice in heaven saying, I'm sorry, way down to the end of verse 10 talks about the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down. who accuses them day and night before our God. The word devil means accuser And one of his chief methods, one of his chief tactics, is to attack us by way of accusation. Go home read Zechariah chapter 3, second toward the end of the Old Testament, Zechariah chapter 3. He's accusing this priest, this guy who had gone through all these rituals to represent God's people. He accuses us. You know, sort of like this. I'm not I'm play acting, okay? I'm not just wanting to look at you. I'm just play acting. You're a filthy rotten sinner. The thoughts that have crossed your mind this week, the things that you you have said, uh your resentments Are you sure that you're a Christian? Yeah, you said you're leaning on Christ, not your own righteousness. Are you sure that you're a Christian? Here's something else. You're such a lousy Christian. You're such a hypocrite that you really shouldn't serve in the church Because if people found out about you, uh you'd be humiliated. So it might be better If you slip in late and you slide out early and you just stay toward the back and you try to keep a distance from other people, don't be known. And don't volunteer to do anything because you're really not fit to do it. That's what he does. accuses us in for some the guilt is crushing. For some it's just a low level uh tinge of guilt. But nonetheless, uh it it hurts the church, it hurts families, it hurts marriages, and it hurts you, right? It makes you miserable This passage says in verse eleven, Satan, the accuser of God's people, has been defeated. Look at verse 11. They have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb. And so because of Jesus' atoning work on the cross, Satan's accusations Have no merit. That's what you have to remind yourself of, right? We find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ. Great story, Martin Luther, this is what the 16th century. He was holed up in a castle in Warburg, Germany. Because his enemies wanted to kill him, so he's out in hiding. But during this time, this time of hiding, he's churning out all these great writings. Plus to do, he said, you know what? I need to translate the Bible into German, right? And he didn't have a little computer program, but he translated it from Greek and uh Hebrew And he put the Bible into the common language. He was pretty, he was getting some good work done there, right? But he fell into a pit of depression. So he wrote to his friend, fellow reformer, Philip Melanchthon, a letter, and in this letter he describes a dream that he had. He said, in this dream Philip, Satan appeared before me with this long scroll, on which were written all of my sins. And he read my sins. He read down this list one by one. And then he told me, Luther, you're not fit to serve God. And uh Luther said, in my dream I recoiled in shame. But then he said he jumped up from his sleep. And he said, it is true, Satan, and many more sins which I have committed in my life, which are known to God only. But write this at the bottom of your scroll: the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, cleanses us from all sin. He grabbed off his desk the inkwell And he threw it at the devil. You go to Warpbourg Castle today, you'll see a dark spot on one of the stone walls. And so Luther, this great theologian who understood all the truths of the atonement and Christ's work, nonetheless, he was assaulted by Satan And he recognized more than we do, we're gonna I'll pick up this in a minute, in this him the a mighty fortress. He recognized the spiritual battle that's taking place But he was also assured of God's good favor toward him. And so that's what we do, how do we fight Satan's accusations? By the blood of a of the Lamb, by the blood of Jesus Christ. Remember, you're clothed in Christ's righteousness Remember what Paul said to Christians in Romans 8. 33. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies, right? We don't justify ourselves, we can't. But God declares us righteous, not because of anything we've done, but because of Jesus' work on the cross And so we're asking the question, how do we survive this wicked world? And the first thing that the passage tells us is that we should find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ, right? So in Jesus Christ, you can know that you're forgiven. And you can just leave all that guilt and that shame in the past because it's already been paid for by Jesus Christ. Here's the second thing Proclaim the gospel. So this is, do I have A, B, C in your outline? I forget. But this is uh this is number two under how do we survive? First thing is we find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ. The second thing is simple. Proclaim the gospel. Look at the end of verse 11. So it says, they have conquered him by the blood of Jesus by the blood of the Lamb, but then it goes on. And by the word of their testimony, for they love not their lives unto death. So it's talking about martyrs, right? But it's talking about whoever prevails against Satan prevails by the word of their testimony. Now that's sort of what is that talking about? Let me think, oh I guess it's saying that if I tell if I give my testimony, if I tell how I was converted, you know, I was this and then I'm that Then um that's how I prevailed. That's not what it's talking about. It's by this phrase, the word of their testimony It just talks about, excuse me, it just means by bearing witness to Jesus Christ, by giving testimony to Jesus Christ. In other words, if I could say it a third time without exhausting you, just telling others about who Jesus is and his uh saving work. That's certain that's certain Let me say it in English. That's sorta useful, okay? That's sorta useful. Because I'm tired of you. I'm tired of you saying What can I do to affect things in our country? Seems that whatever we do, it just gets worse. Here's the answer. What'd you learn in church today? You can affect what's going on in our nation and in our community by speaking the gospel to unbelievers. That's how it works. That's how we can have a tremendous influence. I was reminded of this yesterday, so Rusty stripes mom at her funeral down in Boyds, Maryland I was stunned that so Rusty's mom was converted when she was 32. And she was not a believer. She was a mom. She'd been married, I guess, about 10 years or so. And she was converted, I should have asked the story, but anyway. Um but um I said to Becky after the funeral, after hearing like all the grandkids got up and gave testimony to Joan Scheip. And then she had been in this Frederick County prison ministry involved in that for 35 years. Think about all the people she influenced for Christ. And so people came from Colorado and Buffalo, New York to to to honor uh Joan Because of her tremendous uh testimony for Jesus Christ. But I was saying to Becky, Good News Presbyterian Church Was affected by whoever that was that shared the gospel with Joan Scheip, because the Scheipes have been uh key people in the progress of our church for many years now. What was that? Whoever it was, I forget, that shared the gospel with Rusty's mom, you know, some uh many, many uh decades ago. And so that that's exactly what this is saying. When we proclaim the gospel of forgiveness in Christ, Satan's sway over people is diminished. We push back the frontiers of darkness. And when you remain silent, you allow Satan to maintain territory So it's not enough that we like all these truths and we see how it all fits together systematically, but we do need to be more proactive In engaging people in gospel conversations. So, how do we survive in this wicked world in which there's this spiritual battle? Well, we find refuge from Satan's accusations in Jesus Christ. We share the gospel, we proclaim the gospel, and then here's an encouragement. We should see. We should rest assured of God's watch care for his church. Look at the end of the beginning of verse 6. It talks about the woman, right? The church. The woman fled into the wilderness. Now that word wilderness, that's a huge theme in the Bible When the Israelites were delivered from bondage to Egypt and they were going to go to the Promised Land, there was this 40 years they spent in the wilderness So they had been liberated from bondage, but they had not yet entered into the promised land, but they were on their way. Where is the church? Now that's a type of what happens to the church. Okay, we've been delivered through Jesus' death and resurrection, right? We're forgiven. But we're not yet in heaven. We're not yet in the promised land. And so the book of Hebrews talks about The Christian experience in this world as this is our time in the wilderness, right? We've been liberated, we've been redeemed, but we haven't yet gotten to the promised land. Okay? Now in this wilderness, God miraculously provides for his people that happened to be Israelites in their wilderness journey. But God provided water from the rock. He provided the quail, the bread from heaven. Verse 14, look at this. But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness. This represents God caring for his church. Where do I get that from? Because I have a fertile imagination? No. Because in uh Exodus 19, verse 4, the same kind of language is used about God caring for the Israelites in the wilderness Exodus nineteen four God says you yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself So God's just this is just a reference to God's watchcare for the Old Testament church, Israel, and now it speaks about God's watch care for his New Testament people, the church. And so we should rest assured. Bottom line, in a nutshell, listen to this, kids, because your parents are going to ask you at lunch, what did you learn in church And you don't want to embarrass yourself. So the bottom line, there's more to life than that which meets the eye, right? A spiritual battle rages behind our earthly conflicts. So Martin Luther, he recognized this was taking place. So in the hymn we're going to sing, a mighty fortress. He spoke of this world with devils fill with devils filled. They threatened to undo us. He had this sense about the spiritual battle. But he also knew that in Jesus Christ, his people are guaranteed to prevail. And so he said, We will not fear, for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. And so hold to the forgiveness you have in Jesus Christ. Proclaim the gospel to unbelievers, and as you're doing all that, be assured of God's watch care over his people. Let's bow our heads.