So let's turn our Bibles to Romans chapter seven. For those new or making our way through this gospel. And we are in chapter 7, verse 13 to 25. And in the chapter, Paul has been explaining uh You can't be saved by trying to be good, by trying to be religious, by your attempts to obey God's commands. That's not going to work. God's a holy God, right? We fall short. So we're not going to be saved like that. But then he qualifies what he's talking about when he talks about God's law or God's commands. He says, this doesn't mean that there's a problem with God's law. The problem is in us. It's our sin. It takes God's law and it uses it to cause us to sin. So you see that, for example, in chapter 7, verse 7 Where he asked the question, what then shall we say that the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not have known what it is to covet If the law had not said, you shall not covet. God's commands guide us. They help us to see our sin. They help us to see how we should live to please God But they can't save us. In fact, outside of Jesus Christ, God's commands only incite or arouse our sin. Verse 8. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies dead. And so sin takes something that's good and it uses it like a full uses God's law like a fulcrum to get more leverage over us and tempting us and whatnot. And then, where am I? Verse 13 and 14. Well, we're starting our passage now, verse 13, Paul again says that that which is good then bring death to me by no means. He's talking about the law. The death the law didn't bring death to him by no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good. In order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. Okay, so he's he's he is defending God's commands. This is something that's good. But then he in verses fifteen to twenty-five This gives him occasion to describe a conflict that ra that rages within him. And this is a great conflict, because when you read this passage, you should be saying, yeah, I have the same struggle, unless you're completely blind. You're going to say, this describes me too the T, right? As a Christian, I desire to live in an upright manner But my sinful nature is constantly leading me to stumble. So let's read verses 15 to 25. This is Paul, the apostle. I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now, if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep doing. Now if I do what I do not want, it's no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God and my inner being. But I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. Now Paul's talking about the struggle, which I imagine we say, yeah, I see what he's saying, I feel it myself. But we can use this passage to uh point out that this addresses an issue that exists in some sectors of the Christian church Some of you have loved ones who are in these uh churches or under this teaching. Uh some of you have grown up. under this teaching. And these are Bible-teaching churches. These are not churches that dismiss the Bible. These are these are Christians, people of good will But they teach that a Christian can attain moral perfection, that you can attain a state of uh sinlessness and this passage is very useful for countering that claim. I just want to do a little background before we jump in jump into the text or usually we just jump right in Just a little bit of background, just so you can see what's going on in the uh Christian culture, and you can see a way that this text really addresses it. In the late eighteen hundreds, a movement arose in Christianity that taught that You can get to the place in a Christian life where you will completely overcome sin. You will attain a state of moral perfection. And you see this in the holy it's called the holy it's called the holiness movement. The Pentecostal churches are out of the holiness movement, so some here. are from that background. It was also called the Higher Life Movement, the Victorious Christian Life. Uh It started really going out in back in 1875 in England uh through the Keswick Bible Conferences. Those conferences are still going on. They don't have this emphasis anymore, I don't think But it spread uh far and wide through these popular Bible conferences in the late 1800s. You had the American evangelist D. L. Moody, many of you are acquainted with him another popular evangelist in the 1800s in America, Charles Finney. And so they were teaching this idea known as Christian perfection, also known as entire as entire Sanctification. There's a very popular devotional book, even to this day, titled My Utmost for His Highest. Maybe you've seen that, maybe you've used it. It's a in many ways a wonderful book, but Oswald Chambers, who wrote that devotional back in the 1800s, he was uh he was promoting This teaching of high of complete or entire sanctification, the founder of the Salvation Army, William Booth, was another proponent of entire sanctification. So I mentioned the Pentecostal holiness churches teach it to this day. The Nazarene churches teach it to this day. We're renting a Nazarene building. So I hope I hope nobody's tuning in from uh Nazarene headquarters, but that's something that uh they teach the Wesleyan churches. So they all claim uh that when you become a Christian, right, you believe in Jesus Christ, you're saved, you're right with God, but then There's a second baptism of the Holy Spirit to be sought after, the second blessing by which you can attain Entire sanctification. Now, there are teachers and there are members of these churches that'll say, Yeah. I don't think I've sinned in seven years, or I haven't sinned in the past three years. Now, you're just a regular schlub Christian and you're listening to them. Like, ooh, maybe maybe um maybe they have something I don't have. And we say, no. They've either watered down the definition of what constitutes sin Or they have a complete lack of self-awareness. And those who sit under this teaching though, they run into a problem. uh sooner or later and that problem's called reality, right? It's your own fallen, corrupt, sinful nature. And um and you start to think, wait a minute They haven't sinned in all these years, and here I have a daily battle with temptation and my sinful nature. What are you going to conclude about yourself? Maybe I wasn't really converted. Maybe I'm not really a Christian. Maybe I maybe I'm self-deceived. Well, Romans seven addresses this issue. And um and we're still like we're still in a plane, we're circling the airport, we're not really hitting a runway yet to deal with the passage. So one more time around, uh one more circle around this The question we want to answer as we seek to handle this passage or rightly interpret it is: Is Paul describing his life? before he became a Christian, where he had all these struggles? Or is this a description of his present life as a Christian? And so those who would teach entire sanctification would say, yeah, of course Paul had the struggle, is before he was baptized in the Holy Spirit, is before he received the second blessing. But when you get to chapter 8, you discover he's in victory now. There's no condemnation in Jesus Christ. He's walking with Jesus Christ. So that's their take on it And so that's what I want you to think about before we jump in. Is Paul describing in Romans 7, 13 and 25, his inner conflict before or after He became a Christian. Okay? So those who teach this victorious Christian life would say, Paul's talking about before he became a Christian. And they garner some fairly convincing evidence in chapter verse 14. He describes himself as of the flesh, sold under sin In verse 23, he calls himself a captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. In the end of verse 25, he groans. With my flesh I serve the law of sin. Well, yeah, it sounds like he could be describing his pre-Christian, his pre-conversion state But my understanding is that Paul is describing his present struggle as a Christian. In other words This is a description, and I hope you find some comfort in this. You should, or else you are of another uh planet or something spiritually. You're way above us. You should find some comfort in that Paul is describing the normal Christian life. And this reminds us that a Christian will not attain in this life a state in which we no longer battle against indwelling sin. So what we're asking in verse 24, he says, Oh wretched man that I am, who is this wretched man? Is it Paul before he became a Christian, or is it Paul as a Christian? Okay? And as I'm I'm making the case, and I want to go back one more time, and I want to say Paul is speaking of his present experience as a Christian. So let's look at some evidence from the text. Hey, first of all, he's speaking in the present tense, right? Look at look at verse 15 I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. And so he's talking about his present experience. In verse 22, Paul says, I delight in the law of God. Have you ever met an unbeliever who says, I delight in the law of God? No. An on-believer says in chapter 8, verse 7 It's hostile to God's law. They don't want anything to do with it. Um same thing in the end of verse 25. He said I I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. So there's a struggle, there's a tug of war that Paul is undergoing. It sounds sure sounds to me like he's speaking as a Christian Verse 28, he said, I know that nothing good dwells in me. I'm believers Unless you're being convicted by the Spirit of God, don't grieve their corruption. They excuse it. They justify it. They're okay with it, okay? A godly person, you ever hear a godly person say, I'm a holy person, I'm a good person? No, that's not how true got truly godly people speak, right? They they say, uh I fall short. I I see my sin. I I I see that Christ is my only righteousness. And even in verse 24 Paul speaks about his desire to be delivered from his sinful body. That sounds to me like the cry of a Christian, right? Wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? Now it's interesting. Go to chapter 8, verse 23. And um Well, let me read it. He says, not only creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Grown inwardly as we eagerly await for adoption as we as we eager sorry as we eagerly await for adoption as sons the redemption of our bodies. Now that's clearly a Christian that's saying this, right? I'm groaning. I want my full salvation to be manifested. That comes when we see Jesus Christ. And back in chapter 7, verse 24, where Paul groans, Wretched man that I am, that's just an expression of what Paul's talking about in chapter 8, verse 23. And so I say to you, this is Paul's description of his present conflict as a Christian. And there's some relief there, because we can relate to it, right, if we're Christians. Yeah. And that describes my conflict as well. And so While we are in Jesus Christ, our sinful nature has not been eradicated. Anybody see that otherwise? If you do, we'll have a little shrine out there in a certain church lobby for you. Look at chapter 7, the end of verse 6. He says, we serve not under the old written code, but in the new life of the Spirit. And so if you're a Christian, you do have the Holy Spirit. You are united to Jesus Christ, as we read in chapter 6, right? And the Holy Spirit is changing us, transforming us uh more and more into the image of Jesus Christ, but at the same time, sin remains in us. Okay? Now the big news from Romans 6 is that we're no longer under the dominion of sin. We're no longer under the rule of sin. We are united to Jesus Christ. Now we can make some progress. In the school of holiness. But still, we struggle against not the dominion of sin, but the presence of sin And our sanctification won't be complete until we see Jesus face to face. And that's why John said in 1 John 3, verse 2, and the end of the verse he says To the tr to Christians, when he appears, we shall be like him. But not until then. Okay? And so we will continue to struggle against sin, though we're not controlled by it. Now we can make some progress. A good verse that sums this up and I put it on the uh the top of the worship order is Galatians 5. 17, where Paul wrote there, the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these two are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. Okay? So there will always be this battle. It's not a battle between equals because Christ and us is more powerful than sin in us, but nonetheless, uh there is this struggle. So let's go back now. I know we're sort of flitting here and there. Look at the end of verse 18 and 19 And you know, there's basically one point, the verses 15 to 25, so we're not going through it verse by verse, but just basically pointing out how this thing, how this passage says the same thing over and over. And you see it again in the end of verse 18. Paul says, For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not is what I keep on doing. Okay? And so You know, you look at yourself and you you stumble and you have this talk with yourself and you say How is it that I've been a Christian all these years and I'm still falling into the same sinful habits? I still have the same foul thoughts. I still have a I I say things uh that are cruel and uh self-centered and um And the way I use my time, you know, it's it's really criminal. How is that? I remember a friend once saying to me, he came up to me, he said, I still struggle with sinful thoughts. Do you think I'm not a Christian? And I said, no, I think it shows that you're a member of the human race. Uh we just have we just have a long way to go uh in this life. And the fact that you're grieved by your sin and you wanna you wanna make progress, that's a sign that you're Christian. You're not justifying it. You want to please Jesus Christ. So in other words, if you're resting on Jesus Christ for your salvation, that's a good sign, okay? And we're going to talk about fruits, evidences that you're a Christian. And an evidence that you're Christian is not that you've attained moral perfection. Okay? So two lessons. Here we go So that I just did the passage that didn't do every every nook and cranny. But I want to draw two lessons from this, okay? And the big lesson is I want you to have a realistic view of the Christian life. And if you sit under the teaching that you can attain moral perfection in this life, it will only lead to despair. And it will only lead you to question the reality of your salvation. We're all going to struggle. And I'm not making saying that so that we have an excuse for our sinful ways. But I'm just saying this is re reality. An old Scottish pastor, Alexander White, said, he said to his congregation, He said, as long as I'm your pastor, you're never getting out of Romans 7. Right? That you're going to attain moral perfection. No, you're going to be in ro we're all going to be in Romans 7 until we see Jesus Christ face to face. Okay? Now, like I said, that doesn't give us excuse to be morally lax, but all I'm saying is we need to have a realistic view of the Christian life. And we the the but we don't want to excuse our sin, right? But there's also, and some people have very tender consciences. We don't want to beat ourselves up too much either. That's what I'm saying to those you know, it's not it's a minority typically. But to those with very tender consciences, you don't want to beat yourself up because you're still not fully redeemed. You haven't seen Jesus face to face. And we don't want to beat other people up too, right? Your husband, your wife, they're still doing the same things. Or your parents, they go to church and they say this and that, but Yeah, they're sinners too. They're still struggling. They're typically good, honest people, and they're trying to make progress. Your pastor, your elders, or deacons, right Well, yeah, they're still human too, and so, you know, you gotta cut them some slack also. So the sign that you're Christian, you're a Christian is not that you've attained moral perfection, uh, but that you're making some progress, right? You rest on Jesus Christ alone for salvation, not your record And you do see some measure of change in your life. If you don't see any change, that's not a good sign, right? Jesus said in Matthew 7, You'll recognize my sheep, or you'll you'll recognize my people by their fruits. And so do you see some some change in your life, right? What did Jesus say? I mean, or fur think about, go home and read 1 John, the letter of 1 John. Gives a number of signs of conversion. One is You love Jesus, you love God, you want to please him. And um you don't love the world so much. Your love for the world is receding. You're still drawn to it, but you're you're you're struggling now and you're trying to not be so invested in the world and in the approval of the world and so on. An old missionary Henry Martin he looked back on his conversion and he said The whole current of my desires since I became a Christian is now altered, and I'm walking in quite another way. But then he added, though I am incessantly stumbling in that way. Well that's an honest Christian, right? I want to go in this direction, but I stumble. Then I repent, I get up, I keep moving. The endeavor, this again from 1 John, are you endeavoring to obey God's commands? Or do you completely ignore those commands that are not convenient? 1 John 2. 3. We know we have come to know him if we obey his commands, not flawlessly. John himself says in 1 John 1. 8. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth isn't in us. So we're not claiming to be without sin, but we're desiring to please God. Do you love other people? 1 John 3, 14. We know how we've passed. Sorry. We know that we've passed from death to life. How? Well, because I could quote John Calvin in Latin. No. We know that we passed out of death to life. Why? Because we love the brothers. And we're not always going to find it easy, right? But we're not going to have a settled animosity toward another Christian. We're going to try to root that out. We're going to try to deal with that. We're going to talk to that person. We're not just going to go on nursing a grudge. And so all I'm saying, I think you got it by now, right, is that we'll always struggle Within dwelling sin. But take heart, right? So you get to the end of chapter 7, you go around a corner, chapter 8, verse 1. Paul says the good news. There's therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So that's the first lesson. Romans seven thirteen to twenty-five gives us a realistic view of the Christian life. Realism. Here's a second R. I'm not even a Baptist and I'm starting to alliterate. The second R is responsibility. Okay? And I already said this, I think. The reality of our sinful nature does not relieve us of the responsibility to pursue holiness. Right? So you look at verse 20. Where Paul said, I do sorry, if I do what I do not want, it's no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. Right? So I can't be a complete jerk and then say, and then when my wife gets mad, say, hey, it wasn't me, it was sin that dwells within me Or you can't say, well, you know, that that's just the way I am. You know, I'm still a sinner. That's the way I am. That's the way it goes. No. We still have a responsibility, right, to use all God's appointed means for our spiritual growth, right? Staying in the Word, participating or partaking the sacraments, calling out to God in prayer, right? Jesus said in John 15, apart from me, you could do nothing When we recognize this our spiritual bankruptcy, that should lead us uh to call out to God in prayer. And then to take seriously the instruction that the Bible gives us for dealing with temptation. It says, flee temptation. It says avoid temptation. I think that's Proverbs chapter 4 verse 15. Just don't even go down that road if you're going to be tempted by something there. Just go this way. You're not that strong. Well, sometimes you can't flee it, you can't avoid it, you have to resist it. And that's a command, many commands, that we need to we need to exert ourselves Uh we need to struggle against these desires, these this this sin that remains within us. Let me give you a couple verses. 1 Peter 2. 11 Peter says to Christians, abstain from the passions of the flesh. Just don't even do it. Don't have a conversation about it. Just don't even do it. Colossians three verse five, Paul said put to death therefore what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness He just says, put it to death. Same thing in Romans chapter 8, verse 5, verse 13. By the Spirit put to death the deeds of the body. So this these exhortations, put these things to death. The old word that they would use is mortify them. We talk about the mortification of sin. Put sin to death, right? Don't set your eyes, your thoughts, your affections. on those things that cause you to stumble. Just just get away from it. Think about do just do something else. And so This is the normal Christian life. This is a battle we must fight Constantly. So John Owen, a Puritan, he said, we must be exercising mortification every day In every duty. Sin will not die unless it be constantly weakened. Spirit, and it will heal its wounds and recover its strength And then when you fall, what do you do? You don't wallow in it. You don't say, Oh, miserable, look at me, I'll never make any progress. What do you do? You ask God's forgiveness, right? You repent. You remember that in Jesus Christ, God sees you as righteous, and He's given you His Spirit. And stay in fellowship with other people, too, right? We can't do it on our own. We need to encourage one another. We need folks praying for us and just knowing what's going on so that we will press on in the Christian life. So that's a great passage. I think I've uh beat it to a pulp. I think you got the main point, right? We'll always struggle with sin. Nonetheless, we need to press on. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you that uh we're not in the battle on our own. You've given us the Spirit to change us, and we pray that you would continue to work in us. Help us, Lord, not to compromise in the way the things that we tolerate in our lives. Help us to structure our days in a way that helps us to avoid and not so much encounter the things that uh bring us down in particular. I pray, Lord, for those who aren't Christians that they would see That there is a Savior, Jesus Christ, and He takes away our sin. And He helps us, Lord, to grow, to be the people that we were designed to be. And so for those who are not yet believers, we pray, Lord, that the point would come where they see that Jesus Christ is the Savior of sinners He is their Savior and bring them to rest and to trust in Him. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.