And I'll ask you please to turn in your Bible to Philippians chapter three. Philippians chapter three. Good to have a couple new folks here this morning. We're going through Paul's letter to the Christians and Philippi, and also to the Christians in Frederick by way of application. We're in chapter three, uh verse seventeen to chapter four, verse one. Paul writes, Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him. even to subject all things to himself. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown Stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. Now it's interesting. There's a number of uh commentaries in the book of Philippians. And they say Philippians is an is the epistle of joy. It's about joy in the Lord. And that's a theme that comes up But I think as we go through Philippians, we see it's really more about dealing with problems in the church and Sanctification growing up as Christians and a number of the sections we've gone through pertain to Christian growth. How do you grow as a Christian? And there's a really good summary we saw back in chapter 2, verses 12 and 13. How do you grow as a Christian? Well, you can boil it down to what Paul says in chapters, or verses 12 and 13 in chapter 2. First thing Paul says is, God grows us. God sanctifies his people. And so chapter 2, verse 13, Paul said, It is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. So in other words, sanctification is a work of God. That's a great relief to know that God's going to grow us despite ourselves But at the same time, Paul says in verse 12 that we must exert ourselves. And so he says, work out your own salvation. with fear and trembling. And we saw the same thing last week. Look at chapter 3, second part of verse 13. Paul speaking about his own experience wrote, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on. Toward the goal for the prize of the effort call of God in Christ Jesus. And so, yeah, Paul says God grows us, but nonetheless I strain and I press on because I know that God calls me to exert myself in the Christian life. Which brings us to our passage this morning, chapter 3, verse 17, where we have three further exhortations. about how to grow as a Christian. And you could sum it up with three phrases: look to, look out, and look toward So he says, look to the example of credible, upright Christians, and then look out for those who oppose Jesus Christ. And then finally, look toward your final reward in heaven. And so there you have it. Let's go through these three exhortations he gives us. First of all, Paul says. Look to the example of upright Christians. Chapter 3, verse 17, one more time, okay? I gotta fix that mat. They I have a mat here I stand on, it's really nice, but it wasn't straight. Um chapter three, verse seventeen. Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. And us is apparently Paul and Timothy. And maybe he's also talking about Epaphroditus, the guy who delivered this letter from where Paul was to the people back in Philippi. And same thing. Look at the Apostle Paul, how he talks about himself. So he says, join in imitating me. And then in chapter 4, verse 9, He says, What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So you might be saying, well that's sure humble. Imagine one of us saying, hey, you want to know how to Christian how to live the Christian life? Just imitate me and um you're on you're on Easy Street. You think, wow, uh this guy needs a lesson in humility Well, the apostle Paul was a humble guy, right? Remember in 1 Timothy, he said, he called himself the chief of sinners, 1 Corinthians 15. He said, I'm the least Of all the apostles. So he was a humble man, but he had made some progress in the Christian life. And thus he saw the value of holding himself up as an example for others to follow. Now it's interesting I don't think I've ever heard a Christian say, you know, follow my example. In fact, in the contemporary American Church. The supreme value, if you look at some websites, they'll have like, here are our values, and they'll have like eight things or ten things. Nine times out of ten, they'll have as one of their values. Authenticity. That is the supreme value, or one of the supreme values in the American Church. Authenticity. Well that's legitimate, right? You don't want to pretend you're something you're not. However, um We should also say that those who've been Christians for 20 years or 40 years or 60 years, you should be able to say I'm not just authentic, showing people all my sin. I'm just a regular struggling sinner. Well, we're all of course we're regular struggling sinners, but there's a way you can frame that That doesn't reflect that you've made much progress in the Christian life. Yeah, we're we want to be authentic, but we also want to see some progress in our lives. And maybe we should be not pointing to ourselves or putting ourselves on a pedestal, but we should have an attitude about ourselves that conveys, you know what? I need to be an example to other Christians. Because I've been a Christian for 45 years almost. Maybe I need to start thinking myself as someone who should be concerned about being an example. And when you have Christian leaders always saying, don't look to me, look to Jesus, well that sounds, that's good in one sense. But it can be an excuse for moral laxity. And maybe we need to take more responsibility on ourselves And the Bible commands us to do this very thing. The Bible commands us, Christians To live lives that are worthy of imitation. Let me give you a few verses. There's a bunch. Here's just a few. First Corinthians four, verse sixteen Paul wrote, I urge you then, be imitators of me. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1. Paul again says, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. First of Ephesians 5. 1, I think it says, be imitators of God. Well yeah, we want to be imitators of God And then we want others to see our example as reflecting Jesus Christ and them to be imitators of us. 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 7. Paul says to these Christians, you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with you. So he's saying to them, hey, we work, and you need to work too. Follow our example. 1 Peter 5, verse 3. Excuse me. I'm getting all choked up over this. 1 Peter 5. 3. Peter exhorts the elders in the church. He says, be examples to the flock. And I would say we all need the examples of others. And I and why do I believe Christianity is true? I would say one of the reasons I believe Christianity is true. is because I see other Christians whose lives have been changed. And I see there something about their kindness, their love, their selflessness. Uh the their hopefulness. That spurs me on. There's other reasons, right? But see, that's why we're in the church. We need to see uh the examples uh that we give to one another. When I was a new Christian, I mean I could I could list three or four people that I look back on uh in my Christian life and I say, you know what? I want to be like them as a new Christian. I want to be like them. And so we want to endeavor by God's grace, God's changing us, to be examples to others and our young people. certainly need examples of of spiritual reality because they're getting all these messages from the world, and so we want them to see that there's something different about us. And when you think about the tens of thousands of young people who have just abandoned the Christian faith, Because of the hypocrisy and the moral failures of Christian leaders We should be praying, Lord, allow me to be a credible example. Allow me, I know I'm not perfect, right? But allow me to go the distance. And P and Jesus warned us in in uh Matthew or Luke 17, he said, it'd be better to have a millstone hung around your neck. And to be cast into the sea, then to cause one of these young ones to stumble And so we should all be thinking that. We should be praying. And I I've the thought has crossed my mind, Lord, take me out before I do something that will discredit My testimony for Jesus Christ, because it has such a ripple effect upon uh young people, people of all ages In the Christian Church. And so we should look to the example of upright Christians, and we should strive to be examples ourselves. And and along this line, I think it's wonderful to have young Christians and other Christians into your home. Uh many people don't have any kind of Christian background. You have them into your home. And they see an example. They see your idiosyncrasies. They see your worts and all that. But hopefully they also see something different about you If you're married, if you have a family, they hopeful hopefully see something different about your home life. And I think about the young people that We've had the most influence on are those who've spent a lot of time in our home or even have gone on vacation with us because It's just that long-term exposure that people who don't have a Christian background, they get to see uh something that looks different. And I also say some before I go on, I'd also say to our young people Everybody look up at me. I know kids get mad at me. They say you do this every time, but I need your attention. Okay. First Peter, not first Peter, 1 Timothy 4 verse 12. Paul says to young people, to kids, that you should be an example to other young people. Here's what he says. Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech and conduct and love. in faith and in purity. And so we're talking about how does God grow us? Well We need to look to the example of credible Christians, they're not perfect, but credible Christians, and we want to be useful to God. So we want to try to live a life that shows some change, right? And so that we can be an example to others. And then he says, uh after he tells us uh to walk according to the example you have in others, or have in us He says, look out. So not only look too, but look out for those who walk as enemies of Christ. And where am I? Verse 18 and 19, okay? Let's go back. For many of whom I've often told you, and now tell you, even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. Who are these people? Nobody knows. We're not sure who these people all are that Paul's referring to. They may have been false teachers who were in the church, who were one time at one time a part of the church Uh they may be traveling evangelists, uh we do not know, but whoever they are, uh they have their counterparts in our day, both inside the church and outside the church. And it's a it's a riveting description we have. He says their end is destruction. And so there's no doubt about what is going to come of them. But then he says, their God is their belly. They just live to have their desires satisfied, and they glory in their shame. We should hide the things that were sh shame that are shameful, right? We should be humiliated But Paul is saying, here is a sign of a corrupt, godless culture. When those things that should bring upon one shame Become an occasion for bragging and boasting and glorifying these things And this is the culture, right? In which in which we live. People no longer feel shame. They know uh you re see the movies and the commercials. And they celebrate their drinking binges and their sexual conquests and even their infidelities And you think, in a sane world, that we're all sinners, but we wouldn't celebrate these things, but this is where we are The humorist P. J. O'Rourke. He wrote, You can't shame or humiliate modern celebrities. What used to be called shame and humiliation It's now called publicity. And forget and forget traditional character assassination. If you say a modern celebrity is an adulterer, a pervert, and a drug addict All it means is that you've read his autobiography. And so and then you think about what's going on with the uh the latest um how sh how how do you say it W those who promote and prov uh parade sexual perversion now, our culture likens them to likens them to civil rights crusaders when really is it's just uh it's deviant behavior and it it should not be celebrated. And so Paul warns Christians, he says, look out for those who walk as enemies of Jesus Christ. So look out for them. Stay away from them. Stay away from the social media that celebrates such perversities. Proverbs 4. 14. The writer says, don't enter the path of the wicked. Do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on. And this is also a warning to churches. Some churches Uh they should or churches should be aware of wolves in sheep's clothing. They there are leaders in churches, there are clergy with their vestments and their medallions and all their uh ornate robes and everything, but they're wolves and sheep's clothing. Uh they are not teaching uh the scripture, they are not upholding uh a biblical ethic. And um Churches need to be churches need to be aware. And how many I was up in uh New Jersey uh yesterday at a cousin's funeral. And I was just looking at the church landscape in the uh on the uh in the phone book. Or not the phone book on the uh what do you call it The the I know it's called a telephone. Smartphone. Yeah, alright, whatever. I was looking up the church landscape because I remember some of the churches up there. What's going on? Not much. It's just a spiritual wasteland. North Jersey is a s is a spiritual wasteland. And there are churches that were once vibrant churches, but uh so much there has been so much uh declining uh over over the uh over the decades. And so we want to be careful in our in our church We want to pray for those who are outwardly churches, but really do not have biblical leadership in the church, and not they don't have biblical teaching. We want to pray for our land. I was reading Greg Rothermill's teaching Amos in Sunday school, but I was looking at Amos chapter 8 last night. It says there is a famine. of the Word of God in the land. And really that's what's come upon our nation. There's a famine for the Word of God And so Paul says, rather than setting our minds on earthly things, as do the pagans, as do the pagans, Paul exhorts Christians to have your eyes set on your eternal reward. So look toward the fact that there's something more to come. Verse 20. Paul wrote, our citizenship is in heaven. Now we have many people here from various countries. And your citizenship's back there. You're just here, some temporarily, some uh this you're here for good, but this isn't really your home. And this is how the Bible says to Christians we should look at our life here on earth. The earth is real, our earth, not our earth, the church on earth, is really just a colony from heaven. We're here for a while, but this is not our true home. Our true home is with God in heaven. One of the commentators, William Hendrickson, elaborated on this. He said It was heaven that gave us birth, for we are born from above. Our names are inscribed in heaven's register. Our lives are being governed from heaven, and in accordance with heavenly standards, our rights are secured in heaven. To heaven, our thoughts and prayers ascend. And many of our friends, family members are there now, and we'll follow shortly. And in verse 20, Paul goes on, and from it we await a Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ. Two titles, right? Jesus is our savior. In other words, He saves us. He rescues us from the penalty and the power and the pollution of sin. So he's our Savior. We don't save ourselves by what we do by going to church and whatnot. And then he's also called our Lord, right? He is our master. He has a claim on our lives, and we're to follow him. And so Paul reminds us, look to your eternal reward. Our citizenship is in heaven. And We will one day receive new bodies. Verse 21. Who will tran so 22, Jesus Christ who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. And so You know, it's interesting. Most Christians, what are you going to be like in heaven? And they have this idea that we're going to be disembodied spirits. selling it, you know, just in some kind of vague, maybe mundane, eternal bliss. Um Time magazine did a survey of people of Americans who believe in an afterlife, and they found that two thirds are under the impression that you're not going to have a body in heaven. Completely wrong. And this is why heaven's interesting. Heaven's a physical place. We're going to have bodies We're going to be who we are now, but without the effects of sin. So it's physical. T. S. Lewis said a great line. He said God likes matter. He invented it. And we need to remember that, right? The Bible talks about a new heaven and a new earth. In other words, a restored earth without the effects of sin. And Jesus by his death and resurrection not only atoned for our sin. But his resurrection, this is in 1 Corinthians 15, Jesus' resurrection, I should say Jesus' bodily resurrection guarantees our bodily resurrection. The Apostles' Creed, what do we say? I believe in the resurrection of the body and a life everlasting. And so we're going to be physical. And there will be we'll be who we are, but we'll also be different. Okay? So in heaven, there will be there will be continuities between who we are now. And there will also be uh discontinuities. So there'll be, like I said, there's there'll be a sameness. There'll be continuity between our present bodies and our resurrection resurrected bodies. We could see that in Jesus Christ, right? When he rose from the grave It took the disciples a minute to recognize him, but they did recognize him, so there was something the same About Jesus after his resurrection. Are summary of our Christian beliefs. The Westminster Confession says The dead will be raised with the selfsame bodies and none other, although with different qualities. Okay? That captures it We're gonna see each other? And you're gonna say, is that you, Peter? And I say, yeah, that's me. Yeah, I like that no good anymore. And and um and so on So there will be continuity. We're going to recognize each other. That's why in 1 Thessalonians 4, it's a great funeral passage. Paul and exhorts the Christians whose loved ones have already died and they were with the Lord. He says, listen. Don't grieve as those uh like the rest of people, because you're gonna see your loved ones again. So we're not all gonna be strangers, we're gonna continue uh where we left off, but we will not be tainted uh by sin. And then there will also be discontinuities. There will be differences. between our present bodies and our future bodies. If you want to turn, look at, we're almost done. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 42 and 40 to 44. So Paul writes, our resurrected bodies will be of a different order than our earthly bodies, 1 Corinthians 15, 42. Paul says, what is sown, that's talking about burial, or you think about something being put into the ground. He says, what is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable. It'll live forever. Verse 43, it is sown in dishonor, right? There's nothing honorable about having your dead decaying body lowered into the grave It is sown in dishonor. Then he says, listen, don't worry. It's going to be raised in glory. 43B. It is sown in weakness, right? Some of us are getting old. We're not the men and women we were once were. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. 44. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. And when Paul says your resurrected body is a spiritual body, he doesn't mean it's ethereal or ghost like but rather that your physical body will be transformed by the Holy Spirit, and thus shall be fit for the kingdom of God. And that makes sense because when Jesus rose, remember, he uh not only not only did his disciples recognize him, but he ate. He was physical, he had a physical body. He's a now reigning with a physical body. And so Paul says to the Christians in Philippi, don't get discouraged by everything that's going on. This isn't the last chapter. The best is yet to come. And so you see this tremendous emphasis that the Bible puts on the afterlife. Now it's interesting, I was reading an article last week, and it's on our website, it's by writer David Wells. And he quoted two sociologists an observation they made. They wrote a book, and their observation was about religion in America, religious movements, churches. Sex and whatnot. He said, He said, however they said, however successful a religious movement is in the short term It will never survive over the long term unless it has what they call a vivid otherworldliness Did you hear that? You know, they're saying there's a lot of churches, they make a big splash because there's a lot of excitement and just a lot going on. But the people who are part of it, they're not going to be able to persevere. Through the trials and the setbacks and opposition they're going to face in life, unless there's also this emphasis That there's something more to come. That this life and having the best life now is not all there is. And um yeah, you look at where where our nation seems to be heading, there will be trials. And so we want to grow strong. We need to keep our eyes on the fact that this is not the last chapter, but there's something more to come. And so Paul exhorts us: here's how you grow. Look to the example of upright Christians and endeavor by God's enabling to be a credible example. Look out for those, no matter how regardless of how religious they present themselves, look out for those who are enemies of the cross of Jesus Christ. Then he says, look toward your heavenly reward. Look how, look at chapter 4, verse 1 now. Paul concluding his thought, he says, Therefore, my brothers. Whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. And I was talking to Becky yesterday. We were driving in the car back from New Jersey. I think it was then I was saying, you know, there there's something to that statement where Paul says The people in the church are his joy and his crown. And I I would say that. Um when I get to heaven, what will be my joy or crown? I hope it will be that I've had some influence uh for the gospel uh on uh this congregation. And I say you're my brothers, I love, I love you, and I pray the best for you. As power hits. Father in heaven, we do pray, Lord, that you'd help us to grow and to be able to be credible examples to one another. To those outside the kingdom and to young people. We pray, Lord, that we would be vigilant and not be deceived by those who uh purvey false philosophies of life and uh g uh uh unworthy values. We also pray that we will look forward to the fact that we're going to see you. We're going to be fully redeemed, fully sanctified, we'll be glorified. And we're going to dwell in a place where there is no more sorrow or sin or misery. Help us to look that way. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.