Second Corinthians chapter eight. Second Corinthians chapter eight. So I'm going to read the first, I think, fifteen verses there. Let's see. Yeah. Okay. So Paul is writing, of course, to the church in Corinth. And um he's writing this, he's taking a collection, he sent Titus there uh to take a collection, and he talks about the churches in Macedonia, that's Greece. How they, even though they were poor, they gave toward this collection. Now Paul's exhorting the Corinthians, the chip in as well, to help the uh collection they're taking for the poor believers in Jerusalem. So Paul says, chapter 8, we want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia. For in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part For they gave according to their means as I can testify, and beyond their means of their own free will, begging us earnestly For the favor of taking part in the relief of the saints, in this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, excuse me, and then by the will of God to us Accordingly, we urged Titus as he had started so he should complete among you this act of grace. But as you excel in everything, in faith, and speech and knowledge, in all earnestness, and in our love for you, see that you excel in this act of grace also. I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. And in this matter I give my judgment. This benefits you, who a year ago started not only to do this work but also to desire to do it. So now finish doing it as well, so that by your readiness and desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have. For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness, your abundance at the present time should supply their need. so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness, as it is written. Then he quotes from Exodus 16. Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack. And so this is the second of two sermons on a stewardship And as I mentioned last week, I use usually comes up. We're preaching through the book of the Bible. We talk about it. But since we're starting the building campaign We thought it would be would be good to reorient ourselves to what does it mean uh to be a disciple when it comes to how we use So last week we looked at Malachi chapter 3. And it said one of the effects of conversion is that it changes how you use your money. And now what we're going to do this morning is we're going to look at several principles in the Bible. concerning uh the why and the how of Christian generosity. So it's a topical sermon. Bad thing. Don't preach topical sermons. Once in a while, we do it, right? We're going to cover a lot of so we're going to bicycle. Through the Bible. Next week we'll start the book of Philippians. We'll march through. It's a great book. So topical. We'll ask the question, why give? And I can make a whole list from what the Bible says But I can give I'm going to give three reasons this morning. The first reason is found in the passage I just read. And if I could put it in a nutshell, it's this. Give to express the reality that you've given yourself to God. Okay? So as I mentioned about what's going on here in this letter Paul appealed to the Christians in Corinth to contribute to a collection that he was taking for the Christians in Jerusalem. They were suffering, okay? And so he mentions how the believers in Macedonia, they were giving sacrificially, he says, and they were dirt poor. And you guys in Corinth, relatively speaking, you're rather well off. And so that's what he says there in the first four verses But then he raises the issue, what moved these believers in Macedonia to give so sacrificially? They didn't know the people in Jerusalem. Why did they give? And um you find the answer to that in the end of verse 5. He says in a nutshell, Paul says the reason they gave is because they had first given themselves to God. So look again now at verse 5. He writes, and this not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then by the will of God to us. Okay? So he's saying that the reason that the Macedonian believers were so generous is that their giving was an expression Of their allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so they had this basic attitude that we should all have, right? We're not our own. We belong to Christ. And we want to we want to serve him, uh we want to honor him, and all that we do. You ever hear the name George Mueller? Started this is in the 1800s, started several orphanages in England And then um what did I read? 117 schools he started. How did this guy do it? Well he was a committed disciple, he was very capable, of course. But he but there was a spiritual aspect That made him so effective as well. And he said about himself and his conversion and what motivated him. He said, there was a day when George Mueller died. He said, There was a day when I died to my opinions, my preferences, my tastes, my will. I died to the world. To his approval or censure, I died to the approval or blame of my brothers or friends And since then I have studied to show myself approved unto God. Well, that's what Paul's talking about. When you give yourself to the Lord, it shows in how you spend your time, right? How you spend your money, right? And um so that's an evidence. And so we're gonna say, why why give? First reason. Well, give as an expression That you've truly given yourself to God. Here's a second reason, okay? Bicycling through the Bible, turn to Psalm 96, okay? A second reason we should give. So the first reason, give as an expression of your allegiance to Jesus Christ. A second reason is we should give as an act of worship. So why do we do what we do in the church service? Well, because all the things we do are commanded in the Bible, right? We read the Bible. We preach it, we sing songs, we pray prayers of thanksgiving and praise and confession. We do all the we have the Lord's Supper. All these elements in our worship service are in the scripture. How about the offering? Why do we take an offering during the service? Why not just put a collection box at the door, like some churches do, and if they think that's sort of a a good way to do it? Why don't we do that? Well, because in Scripture, giving is an act of worship. It's a very tangible, very concrete act of worship. Psalm 96, verse 8. The psalmist says, ascribe to the Lord the glory to his name, bring an offering, and come into his courts, worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness. Okay? So part of worshiping God is bringing an offering. Same thing Philippians, I'm sorry, Proverbs 3, verse 9. Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your produce. And so we honor God. We worship Him with our wealth. Philippians 4. 18 Paul called a gift that the Philippians gave. He said, it's a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable. and pleasing to God. So Paul uses the language of worship in regard to uh giving an offering. Now people ask uh why don't you have fundraisers at Good News Presbyterian? In fact when we did the uh closing on the property Some of the folks from the uh Lutheran church uh they said, hey, here's a good fundraiser you could do to raise money for your building I'm thinking a fundraiser, we've got to raise a million dollars. You know, if we sell we're gonna sell we're gonna sell peanut brittle or have a car wash to raise a million dollars Uh that was just beyond me. But we said, well, we don't do fundraisers. We sort of squirmed a little bit. But the reason uh we don't do fundraisers is because in the Bible, giving is always connected with the worship of God. That's why. So we don't we don't do we've never done that. In fact it's in our bylaws. You you want to give uh to the church as an expression of worship. So that's another thing we don't do here, right? I was when I was going for my walk this morning, I was thinking about that. Then I thought about the Merle Haggard song, you know what they don't do and uh Muscogee? No. No, I'm just an Oki from Muskogee. We don't do fundraisers at good news. Then I thought Our pastor don't wear no skinny jeans. I can write a book on all the things we don't do. But um anyway. So why do we give? To express the reality that we've given ourselves to God, we give as an act of worship, a third reason for giving. is we give, because those who benefit from the gospel should contribute toward its maintenance. So turn to 1 Corinthians, right? So you were in 2 Corinthians maybe. Turn back to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. First Corinthians chapter nine. Okay? So Paul is defending his apostleship. And in this uh in this passage, uh he asks a series of rhetorical questions uh to show that it's right for the Corinthians uh to prov to provide for him as an apostle. Uh chapter nine verse seven Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without calling, without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk? Okay? Soldiers don't provide their own rations. Uh farmers they get to eat some of the crops that they that they plant. And cultivate herdsmen, uh, they're welcome to drink some of the milk from the sheep and the goats. And so Paul's argument Is that the apostles have a right to be supported by those to whom they minister. Now in this chapter, Paul's saying, I didn't assert that right, but nonetheless, it's a right. And then he goes on, and he points out how the Old Testament teaches the same thing. And so verses 8 and 9. Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law say the same? For it is written in the law of Moses. And they quote some the Old Testament. You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Is it for oxen that God is concerned? And so no, Paul's saying that this applies to Christian ministry. Verses 10 and 11 Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the ploughman should plough in hope, and the thresher should threshen hope of sharing in the crop. If we've sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? Get the same thing in Galatians 6 verse 6. Paul says, let the one who's taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches. Okay? So ministers, missionaries, people who give themselves uh to full-time uh sowing the seed of the gospel, he's saying they have a right uh to receive f physical sustenance uh for their labors And our church is very generous toward me and toward my family. So I thank you for that. But the point Paul's making or the lesson here is for those who don't give or for those who are stingy in their giving that if you receive benefits from the church, then you should contribute toward its maintenance. That's pretty pretty Sensible, right? Have you benefited from the ministry of this church, of this congregation? Or the past 22 years or however long that you've been here, has your marriage benefited it? Have have your kids uh benefited? Well, when the deacons get together to make the budget, it becomes really clear it costs money to make a church run, right? You have to pay for the pastor, you pay for the administrator, you pay for the rent. You pay for the programs, you pay for the outreach ministries, and so on. So it takes money to make these things happen. I think it's a good use of money, right, for the for expanding the gospel, developing Christians and and also for outreach. Not everybody sees it like that One writer, Kent Hughes, he was a pastor out in Wheaton, Illinois, but he he called some churchgoers ecclesiastical hitchhikers. Ecclesiastical hitchhikers. They're happy to go along for the ride as long as somebody else pays for the car and for the upkeep and for the insurance and for the gas. Sure. I'll go along for the ride. And so he says, here's their attitude. They say, you go to the meetings, you serve on the boards and committees, you grapple with the issues, you do the work of the church and pay the bills. I'll come along for the ride, but if things don't suit me, I'll complain, I'll probably bail out, and I'll tell you what, my thumb is always out for a better ride. That is the consumeristic mentality of many churchgoers, okay? And so why do we give? Well, there's three reasons, okay? How to give. Okay? Well, let me give four things here. A couple of things I touched on last week. Number one, give secretly. Give secretly. So turn to Luke 21, Luke chapter 21. We're going to look at Luke 21 and Matthew chapter 6. Now, in Luke 20, Jesus was teaching in the Temple of Jerusalem. And this was the week of the Jewish Passover. So all these worshipers, all these pilgrims had come to Jerusalem. For the Passover in three days, Jesus is going to be crucified. And in chapter 20, Jesus engages in a verbal scuffle with the Jewish religious leaders. And then in the end of that chapter, look at chapter 20, verses uh 40, beginning of verse 46. He condemned them, these religious leaders. for making a show of their religion. So 46 and 47. Beware the scribes You wonder why they crucified Jesus, right? Beware the scribes who like to walk around in long ropes and love greetings in the marketplaces, in the best seats in the synagogues, in the places of honor at feast. who also devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation. And so Jesus condemns these religious leaders for making a show of their supposed piety. You go down now to chapter 21, verse 1. He contrasts the phony righteousness and the unscrupulous greed of the scribes. With the humble, sincere devotion of a poor widow. Okay? And just remember, everybody's going to Jerusalem, they're going into the temple. They were making their offerings, they were paying their vows to God. So the temple's packed with worshipers. Chapter 21, verse 1. Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box. What was the offering box? Well these were actually uh brass receptacles shaped like uh horns, and they were called trumpets, okay? So when you made your offering you'd drop your offering into the slot and there'd be this delightful little tinkling. of your coins going into the this brass receptacle. They didn't have paper money back then, right? Somebody used coins. Well somebody's rich And they put a handful or even a bag full of coins into one of these brass containers, that's going to cause a lot of clinking and clanging That's going to be really impressive. There are going to be some heads that are going to turn. And Jesus in this passage, he's One of the things he's implying is that, you know what, such ostentatious displays of generosity may have impressed the other worshipers But Jesus saying, this kind of stuff turns my stomach. Look at verses 2 and 4, okay? He saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins and said, Truly I tell you, this poor woman has put in more than all of them. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had to live on So that's one of the points that Jesus is making in the story. We'll look at the other point in a second. But one of the points he's making is that uh we should give in secret. And that's even more clear if you go back to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6 Verses 1 to 4. I know many of you know this passage. Chapter 6, verse 1. Beware practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. For then your father who is in heaven will reward sorry for then you will have no reward from your father who is in heaven. That's the theme verse that covers the first 18 verses of this chapter. And he gives three examples of putting your righteousness on display. One is fasting. when it's praying for show to impress others. But in verses 2 to 4, he talks about giving in a way that seeks that seeks to draw attention And so in chapter uh six uh verse two, thus when you give to the needy Sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. Whoa. So what is he saying there? He's not only saying, don't give in a way that you'll be seen by others, but he takes it a step further. He says, don't even privately congratulate yourself. Don't let your left hand know what your right hand's doing. Don't bask in the glow of knowing what a big-hearted soul you are. I gave this much money to the church, and nobody knows about it. Am I a great guy or what? That's what he's saying. Martin Lloyd Jones in his his sermon is he said, don't take your little book and put down, well I've done that And I haven't told anybody else I've done it. But then he says, but you put an extra mark in that special column where exceptional merit is recorded. So he's saying, don't do that. He says, when when you give, forget about it, right? That's the end of it. Don't let your left hand know. what your right hand's doing. So how to give, number one, give secretly, and then secondly, uh give sacrificially. I touched on that uh last week, right? This uh going back to Luke twenty-one, the lady gave the uh the poor lady gave just two small copper coins. Uh there's a a The those coins were called lepta, which means like appealing. So it's just a real thin coin. One of the commentators said it's worth like an eighth of a cent. So it was worth practically nothing. But that's the point Jesus is making He's saying in uh chapter 21, verse 3, uh, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. And um why is that? Well, because she because she gave uh sacrificially Go back to Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Here we go, I know. Bouncing around here. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Paul commended the uh Christians in Macedonia and Greece for their sacrificial giving. And uh there had been in the book of Acts it says uh there had been a uh persecution against the Christians in Macedonia, but still, chapter 8, verse 2 of 2 Corinthians, whoops Hold on there. Okay. Here we go. Um he says about these Macedonian Macedonians, in a severe test of affliction, for they are persecuted. Nonetheless, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part. So in the verse 3, they gave beyond their means of their own free will. Then what's verse 4 say? They begged Paul to give to the uh to help the Christians in Jerusalem. That's a remarkable thing, right? They didn't know the Macedonians didn't know the Christians in Jerusalem. I did a map quest. It's like a thousand miles away Then this past Monday, uh Kelly went to the church P. O. box. She said somebody from or she gave me uh some news, uh a couple in Arkansas sent our church, our building fund, a thousand bucks. So I had to do some figuring out who are these people? Uh because they didn't put a note in. But um I found out they go to an ARP church in Arkansas, one of our sister churches, they heard about our building campaign through the denominational uh email blast that goes out. So wow it's really that's really kind of call found uh their number. They didn't put a phone number or anything. I found their number. I tracked down their church and got their uh information. Um just a warning for visitors to the church. You'll save me some time if you just fill out one of those cards. But um no. They there why did they do that? Well, 'cause they're they said I called her up or this couple up and the and the wife said, Well It's going to take a lot of money there. So wow, you know, there's a there are a lot of kind Christians out there. So God commands us to give sacrificial Here's the third thing. 1 Corinthians 16, we're to give systematically. Okay, so secretly Sacrificially, systematically. Starting to sound like a Baptist pastor, all the alliteration. But I'm going to mess it up on number four. But anyway, uh give systematically. Chapter uh 1 Corinthians 16, verse 2 On the first day of every week, each of you is to put in something, is to put something aside and store it up. Then he says, as he may prosper So that there will be no collecting when I come. So Paul says on the first day of the week, and I don't think it it has to be on the first day of the week, but he's saying there needs to be a regularity. Maybe for some people it's monthly, for some people It's quarterly. But the point he's making is that you should have a plan for your giving. Some people will give when there's a big emotional uh speech giving something or giving somebody uh something tugs on their heart springs or or they say, you know, I'm only gonna give on the Sundays when they come to church. Hey, it snowed this Sunday, we didn't have church Ooh, right, we'll go out to dinner or whatever, right? Uh so that's that's not what this is teaching. Uh it's the person who gives systematically who typically uh gives more because they're deliberate and they have a plan and they've thought this thing through. Now one thing I find interesting about 1 Corinthians 16 Verse 2 is the matter-of-fact way that Paul uh brings up the issue of giving. He just says, this is just many instructions in this letter, and this is just one of many. He just says, on a weekly basis, set aside some money As the Lord has prospered you. Right? No pressure, no gimmicks, no spiritual extortion. He just says he just lays it out. Here's a need. You're in a position to help with this need. Will you do that? And so when we talked about the building campaign Like, how do we approach this? We don't know how to do this, but if you look at the tenor of Scripture, it's I think it's pretty low-key. We could have gone the route that many churches take. They hire a consultant. That costs tons of money, tens of thousands of dollars sometimes. Why would you do that? Well, because they guarantee results. But is that a is that a wise way to conduct it? uh in some of their techniques. So they'll say, okay, we're gonna have a big dinner. We're gonna treat you all like kings. We're gonna kick off this campaign. We're gonna have a steak dinner, a really nice banquet hall, then we're gonna put the squeeze on you. Right? No, you don't see that in scripture. What's the approach you see in 1 Corinthians 4 uh 16? It's basically here's the opportun the talk let's put it in terms of the building. Here's the opportunity Here are the benefits to constructing a building, and here's our responsibility as Christians, not to give the building. But to give, to be good stewards, to be generous toward the work of the kingdom, toward the work of the church in general. So that's what we do, right? We're laying out two stewardship sermons. Why? Help you understand. Hey, we all have a responsibility, including the kids, okay, before uh to use our income to serve the Lord, okay But we say, all right, we trust your mature believers. Take that information, pray about it, respond in a responsible manner. Number four, how to give, real briefly. Give cheerfully. 2 Corinthians 9, verse 7. Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion. For God loves a cheerful giver. So what is it saying? You don't give out, you shouldn't give out of a sense of obligation. You should give out of uh out of love for God, right? Out of gratitude, right? Out of out of as I said, out of worship, out of a desire to see God's people built up and edified and And also to see the gospel go to those who don't know Jesus Christ. Professor up at Grove City College, T. David Gordon said God loves the one who gives cheerfully, and if God has not cheered your heart with the gospel, so that you delight to think you can contribute to gathering to the gathering perfecting the faith of So let me say that again. I'll try it in English, okay? God loves the one who cheers God. It's like, all right, take three. Alright, then we're gonna pray. God loves the one who gives cheerfully, and if God has not cheered your heart with the gospel So that you delay to think you can contribute to the gathering and perfecting of other saints. He says, work on that issue first, work on your heart first. Once you get that straightened out Uh the giving and everything else takes care of itself. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you for your many kindnesses to us, for how you've preserved us and Blessed us these many years for how you've given us a church family to serve together, to fight the good fight, to encourage one another And we pray, Lord, that our stewardship would be an expression of our love for you. It'd be an outpouring. It'd be a byproduct. The fact that we know Jesus Christ and we want your name to be published far and wide. And also, Lord, help us to be cheerful in our giving. For those who are strapped, we pray you'll provide for them. For our young people, we pray that they would develop the grace of giving, that they would develop this habit young. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen