What do you do? We're in Philippians chapter uh Philippians chapter 1, beginning at verse uh 18 or the second part of verse 18. So take your Bible and let's open to Philippians chapter one Remember where Paul is? He's in a Roman uh he's under house arrest in Rome, I should say. So he's confined. And he's writing to the Christians and Philippi, beginning at the end of verse 18, he says, nonetheless, he says, Yes, and I will rejoice. Why is that? For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose, I cannot tell I'm hard-pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith. so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus because of my coming to you again. So there ends the reading of God's Word. Imagine yourself in downtown Frederick. You're one of those street corners, those busy street corners. And you see a fellow standing there right on the corner, and he's got a clipboard in his hand. And you can tell he's taking a survey. He walks up to various people, approaches the first guy. He's a research scientist at the National Cancer institute. He asked him the question, or he asked him to complete this sentence. For me to live. How would you answer that question, sir? For me to live? Fill in the blank. And he says, well, for me to live, it would be to make progress in our search for a cure for cancer. And then uh he fills it out. Sir, hey, thank you, sir. A young couple walking, holding hands, comes up toward him and he says, Hi, good to meet you. He introduces himself. Then he asks them the question, how would you fill in the blank for me to live is? And the fellow says, well, for me to live is to know the love of my girl. And she says the same thing about him. And then there's a resale shop still downtown, the hospital auxiliary. The lady comes out of there and she has her bag as an older lady And the uh the fella asked her the answer that question, how would you fill in the blank? And she says, Well, for me to live is to treat other people kindly and to leave the world a better place. And he talks to a mom pushing her stroller and his mom says, well for me to live is to have my family and to be with them. Then there's a young lawyer. He's walking walking down the way and he's got his cell phone open, but the uh the inquirer stops him long enough, he gets him to put his phone down and he asks him, What how would you answer the question? This young attorney says, well for me to live, uh it's to advance in my career How about you? How would you answer that question? For me to live is what would you say? So that's what this passage brings up. You know, it's asking the question, what is your meat and your drink? And all the answers that this fellow who took the survey received, they were commendable in many regards But from a biblical perspective, uh there's a better answer. There is a best answer. And the best answer uh comes from the words of the Apostle Paul in verse 21. He says, For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. And you can almost say that's The definition of a Christian. A Christian is someone who prefers Jesus Christ above all other things, above all other good things, above all other noble things. He finds Christ to be his supreme ambition to know him, to serve him. To view every aspect of life through the lens of honoring Him So that's what this passage is about. This is a two-point sermon, if ever there were one, because everything hinges. on what Paul says in verse 21, for me to live is Christ, point one, to die is gain. I want to make two introductory comments before we look at that more closely. First of all, just uh just a comment about the context. So I said I said it last week, I said it week four, I'll say it again. It's a Trinitarian universe, I should say it three times, right? Um Paul's in Rome He's under house arrest. He's living in a rented house, and he's chained to a Roman soldier around the clock. In verse 19 and 20, he talks about his expectation that he will be acquitted. So he's going to be facing trial in Rome. And he says, I expect to be acquitted. If I'm not, that's okay too. Look at the end of verse 18 again. He says, yet I'll rejoice. For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance, as is my eager expectation and hope. That I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. So he expects to be acquitted But he's not sure, right? He could be executed. If that happens, well, that's okay too. In fact, look at chapter 2, verse 17, he adds Even if I'm to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I'm glad, and I rejoice with you all. And so there's the context, and the second thing I want to say by way of introduction is just the confidence that Paul expresses in the importance of prayer. And so it's interesting in verse nineteen, why is he confident of his acquittal? Excuse me He's confident that God is going to work through the Christians in Philippi. So in verse 19, he says, I know that through your prayers And the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance. Okay? So Paul's confidence in his coming vindication is based on the fact that the Philippians are praying for him. And God's given his Holy Spirit, who is working all things, for the honor and glory of Jesus Christ. And so God's sovereign, right? Don't we teach that? God is sovereign over all things. No one can thwart God's purposes for history. And yet, Paul says he's confident that through your prayers, things are going to work out for the best. So how does this all fit together? I have no idea. The Bible doesn't explain it, but the Bible does teach. That God chooses to advance his purposes. God chooses to execute his purposes Through the prayers of his people. And so that's why I harp on the importance of personal prayer, family prayer Coming to the prayer meeting first Sunday, four o'clock. Oh, that's what today is, October 2nd. Okay. First Sunday. Same thing in uh 2 Corinthians 11. Paul says To the Corinthians says, you must help us by your prayer. We have all these needs we talk about, right? What do we do? Well, we can wring our hands. That's a waste. We need to pray. Okay? So let's get back to our proposition. My proposition is that as Christians, we should have a peculiar view of life and of death, a Christ-centered view. Of life and of death. So let's look at this, uh cut it in half, okay? So the Christian, number one, the Christian lives primarily and preeminently For Jesus Christ. This is different from the popular conception in the American Church. The popular conception of becoming a Christian is that when you become a Christian, it adds a new dimension to your life. Which is true, right? You get a new ethical system. You probably went a lot by these ethics before, but now there's other aspects that you add to your sort of your personal moral code. You get a new dimension to your life in that you receive guidance from the Bible. to help you as you face various uh struggles and relational uh challenges. So that's an ad addition. And there are new time commitments, there are new financial commitments, there are new obligations that you have to other people. Because now you're Christian. Well that's sort of um that's not quite up to what the Bible's saying. uh what it means to be a Christian. The Bible teaches that to be a Christian or to become a Christian uh should bring about a whole new way of viewing your life. It's saying it changes everything. In fact, uh 2 Corinthians 5. 17, Paul says If anyone's in Christ, he's a new creation. The old has passed away, and the new has come. Or to put it another way, you die to yourself and you live for God. So you're not just merely adding something, but you are dying to who you were, and now you're living for Jesus Christ. Galatians 2. 20. Paul says, I've been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me And gave himself for me. Well, that's pretty dramatic. Here's a more succinct way to put it. Colossians 3:4. Paul writes, Christ is your life. Like, what's he saying? Well, one thing he's saying, he's the source of your life, right? And that's what Jesus said throughout his ministry. He said, I'm the bread of life, right? You cannot be sustained apart from me, he says. I'm the bread of life. He says I'm the resurrection and the life. He said, I'm the way and the truth and the life. And so at the most uh primary level You have no spiritual life apart from Christ. And that's what Jesus said in John 6. 53. He said, These people, these religious people, you have no life in yourselves. 1 John 5 12, John said, Whoever has a son has life. Whoever does not have the son does not have life. In other words, You're a spiritual corpse. You don't know what life's about. And so a Christian If someone who has this life because he's united to Christ, and you see this in the New Testament epistles, you find these two words. Repeated dozens of times, where Christians are spoken of as being in Christ. So we're to be a Christian is to be in spiritual union with Jesus Christ He is the source of our life, and now our lives center on him, on knowing him, on serving him, on obeying him, and on honoring him. And so when Paul says to live is Christ and to die is gain, he's saying Not only here's how I view life and death, but here's how any Christian should view life and death. One of the British commentators, Alec Mateir, uh put it like this. He said, Paul's saying That life means Christ to me, as I more fully know, love, and serve him day by day. And death means Christ to me. when I will finally possess and eternally enjoy him. So this is this is this is this completely different perspective about what life's about, right? Remember the guy with the survey? What what what's preeminent for you? And uh Paul says it's not my comfort, it's not my pleasure, it's not my sense of fulfillment or accomplishment, it's not to make a name for myself. But rather is to serve Jesus, is to build up his people, and it's to spread the renown of his name. And I say to our young people, this is completely countercultural, right? We don't, and not only the young people, the old people. We don't look at life like this, but this is the demand of the gospel. I was reading a book last night, it had a great line. It's all about the difference between a boy and a man Oh he said a boy is someone who serves himself. A man is someone who serves others. And then the writer said, you could be a man at 18 or 17 or whatever, if you serve others, you're a man. Then there are a lot of boys in their 50s, 60s, and 70s, because they're still serving themselves. Now we could look at that statement and we could view it through the lens of this passage and we could say A man is someone who serves others in the name of Jesus Christ. That's what a man is, and that's what a woman is. Someone who serves others. In the name of Jesus Christ. That's the perspective Paul had, and that's what God calls us to. So Paul says, you know what? I'm happy to go on living. That will allow me to continue to spread the gospel and to build up the Christians. Look at verse 22. He says, if I'm living the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Go down to 24. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you for your progress enjoying the faith. so that in me you may have ample cost of glory in Christ Jesus because of my coming to you again. And so And then I could go on. Chapter 3, verse 8. Chapter 3 talks about his religious pedigree. He says, I was an advanced Jew. I was a rabbi. I was one of the great uh rabbis. uh in Jerusalem. But he said, you know what? All that's worthless. Look at chapter 3, verse 8. He says, indeed I count everything a loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. And so we read these passages We see this conception of what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. We have to ask the question. How do you get to that place? How do you get to that place? And I've met people, I've met Christians who To a great degree, reflect this outlook. How'd they get there? And I think there's a couple things that they have in common. And one thing we discover in these people is that they learn to look to Jesus Christ when they've gone through affliction They've learned to look to Jesus when they've gone through affliction and they have seen that Christ is faithful. Christ showed himself to be faithful. That's a huge thing. And of course, there are people who take this book at its face value. They believe these are the words of God In they trust them. They stake their lives on the words of this book. But They also pray that God they pray so that God would apply it to them. God would use it to change them. Excuse me They reflect on what this book says about who God is, his attributes, his person, his works. So they have an elevated and exalted view of God. And they read the Gospels, and they discover the person of Jesus Christ, who is not only fully man, but also fully God. And all the while, as they're living their lives, going through pleasant seasons and difficult seasons. They put their own interests on the backburner and they march forward. And in doing so, It's as if the all the things that they committed to validates what they're doing. God confirms to them that this is right. There's a sense of oddness about what they're doing. And so that's the first part of this phrase. To me, to live is Christ. So Christ is he they put Christ primarily and preeminently above all of everything else. And then the Christian also, secondly, As a Christ center view of death. So Paul says to die is to gain. So let's think about this. We're all gonna die, right? Everybody believes that. We're all gonna die. Sometimes I'm not gonna die, I'm gonna live forever, right? I'm 10 years old Uh 70 years, this is what I was like. I will never be old. Time moves too slowly. That day will never come. There's nothing to worry about. Then I'm like, oh, um I guess I was wrong there. So but we're all gonna die. What will happen? Where will you be? What will your state be one minute after you die? And uh the secular man says, well, I will be no more. One of the atheist philosophers, Bertrand Russell, said, When I die, I rot. You know, that is it. Then uh the Hindus and Buddhists um they believe in reincarnation, right? So you're gonna come back. Um you might be a horn toad or a salamander or a cricket or whatever. Uh Seventh day Adventists? Well they'll say if you're I think they say if you're a non-believer, you're gonna be annihilated. If you're a believer One day you'll be resurrected, you'll receive a new body, but when you die, you enter into a state of soul sleep. You have an unconscious existence. Until Jesus Christ returns, then the Roman Catholics say, well, you'll go to purgatory to get some uh atone for your sin. But what does the Bible say? The Bible teaches that when you die, if you're Christian, you will enter into conscious Spiritual fellowship with Jesus Christ. So you will not receive a new body until Jesus returns. He judges the world. He consummates his kingdom. Then that's when we receive our new bodies. However, you will be in fellowship with Christ, and it will be better than it is right now. And so the theologians refer to this period between your death and your receiving your new body as the intermediate state. What does the Bible say about the intermediate state? When the Dutch theologians said it says nothing more than a whisper. But it does say a couple things. So this is an improvement. That's why in verse 21 Paul said, To die is to gain. That's why Jesus said to the thief on the cross. Today you'll be with me in paradise. That's why Paul could say in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 8: to be away from the body is to be at home with the Lord. Where in Revelation chapter 6, verse 9 and 10, it talks about the Christians who had been martyred They were conscious. They had not yet received their new bodies. Revelation 6, verse 9. John writes: the souls of those who had been slain for the Word of God. And for the witness they had borne, cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true. How long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? So we see there But they were conscious, they were in Jesus' presence, they were calling out to Jesus. Okay? So we call this the intermediate state, the Westminster Confession, chapter 32. It says the bodies of men after death return to dust, and see corruption. But their souls which neither die nor sleep immediately return to God who gave them. The souls of the righteous, being then made perfect in holiness, are received into the highest heavens, where they behold the face of God in light and glory. waiting for the full redemption of their bodies. And so don't worry about it. One minute after you die They're going to be in the presence of Jesus Christ. Think about loved ones who have died in the Lord. Where are they? They are in conscious, blissful fellowship with Jesus Christ. So Charles Spurgeon said As you look over the list of those beloved in the Lord who departed from you to your utmost grief, let the words of these texts be a handkerchief to your tears. How about the unbeliever? Well when he dies, he too will be conscious. Excuse me. But he will be in hell And so, if you're trusting in Christ, the day you die will be the day that you enter the presence of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 21. For me to live as Christ, to die as gain, and then 23, my desire is to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. You're going to have a great life here There's something better to come, right? There's still dessert. So be encouraged. You're just going to get more of Christ. You know Jesus Christ now Well yeah, we're sort of like pygmies at Harvard. We're not getting everything. But um you're gonna you're gonna see Christ. You're going to be like Christ. You're going to be liberated from the sin and the darkness that ails you. And so the question then is are you ready to die? And uh let's read about an antidote about Stonewall Jackson during the Civil War, and so that he was the most famous person in the world during the Civil War. uh during that period in history. Famous most famous person in the world. I didn't realize that. And uh and they say you know, he's such a strategist on the battlefield. uh that they still study uh the things he did. Uh military strategists still study the things he did. But it was at the height of his success at mere thirty-nine years old that he was taken down in battle, the Battle of Chancellorsville by friendly fire, his own men. They didn't realize who they were shooting at. And he took two or three uh two or three slugs. They had to amputate his arm. They thought he was going to recover. And after a couple days he contracted pneumonia. And um and and he took this turn for the worse. And it fell to his wife, Marianna, to tell him that he was going to die. So she went to him and she said, What if I were to tell you that it's God's will for you to die today? And Jackson was a Christian. And he said, Marianna, if it's God's will for me to die today, then I prefer to die today. I will be an infinite gainer. And at that, his wife just broke down. She fell across his bed in tears. He put his hand on her and he said, Marianna, don't weep. Don't weep for me. Have you and I not always asked the Lord that we can meet him on the Sabbath? Today is the Lord's day. I shall see him. Will you not rejoice with me that he in mercy has shown his providence to us? In that afternoon he died. But it's remarkable, right? Here's a guy who believed that stuff. And he had things he wanted to do. But he believed this stuff. He trusted the sovereignty of God over his life and over his death. And that's where we wanna that's where we wanna be, right? We wanna be able to say to die is to gain. John Wesley would say the early Methodist excuse me John Wesley would say of the early Methodists, our people die well. That was a boast he had. They believe this stuff. Now it wasn't my job as a pastor. I got a frog in my throat, or cat, or fur ball or something, excuse me. I mean my job as a pastor, we need to put this on the job description for the next guy, because it wasn't online, but I figured it out. Um part of my job as a pastor is to prepare you to die is to give you this outlook on life and on death. Is to help you, and I know it's not up to me, it's up to God by his word and spirit, but I'm saying this as your pastor It's up to me to help you become persuaded that this book is reliable and that you can stake your life on it. And if you're not a Christian, to persuade you, to help you see your spiritual bankruptcy and your need of a savior And the efficacy of Jesus' work in conquering death. That's really important. You need to be ready to die. So are you ready to die? And if you're not, it's pretty simple how to get ready, right? You look to Christ, you recognize you're a sinner. You rely on him for his righteousness and for his paying the penalty for your sin. And then you can say you'll be able to say I should say to die is the game. Let's bow our heads So Lord, we do pray that you'd help us to see things more clearly. Help us to trust you. During the dark seasons of life, fretful seasons, help us to remember your good providence over all things. Help us to be prepared to die, to recognize, Lord, that we will be the great gainers when we leave this world. But in the meantime, help us to fight the battle with all our might, to seek to build up your people, to seek to advance the honor of your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We have the perfect hymn for this passage. It's number 518. Christ of all my hopes, the ground. Number 518. Let's stand and sing. Christ all my also, Christ has bring all my joys Still in you may I be passing for you my power, still for you my Let your flame be your baby for my sight We all praise my name. We your given life. We yours my china. Right down May I know my prayers, may I prove Christ you may prove Christ you Say me I shall say we never say me to never Let me know it to die. Well the joys of the Christian life is being able to come to the table that we come to this morning. It is a feast table for those with the eyes of faith to look upon this table and see here elements of the feast that is our Lord Jesus Christ, both in food and drink. It is a table for all who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. have determined to live before God and to die to sin and have publicly professed their faith through membership in this or some other Bible-believing gospel preaching church. Any adults or children who have not received, been received by the elders of this church or another church into the communicant membership of the church by publicly confessing their faith in Christ, as he's offered in the gospel, should let the bread and the cup of this sacrament pass them by. But we do urge you to learn By careful observation of this feast of which we partake this morning. We gather around this table to remember Our Lord's death until he comes again. He has given us in this table provisions to sustain our faith, hope and love, to increase our faith, hope and love. And so as we move from this world to the next, of which we just heard, we remember our Lord's death because in his death we find that nourishment. He came from heaven, as you know. from heaven to earth to live the sinful life sinless life that we sinners cannot live And he came to die, the atoning death that we cannot die. And so we read from 1 Corinthians 11, the words that the Apostle Paul wrote when he said That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also he took the cup after supper. saying, this cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Then the apostle adds, For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Let us then proclaim the Lord's death until he comes as we partake of these elements. You know that the bread is the first element of which we partake. And let us now give thanks for this bread that we will partake of. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do give you thanks for this emblem of our Lord Jesus' sinless life unleavened by sin. It is a life that you have told us in your word that we cannot, we have not, we will not live Apart from the enabling of his work on our behalf, we pray then our Father that we would receive this bread as an emblem of Him who is for us the bread of life. We pray this for Jesus' sake. Amen. Oh the colour. Jesus said, this is my body given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us eat together. In a similar manner, after supper, the Lord Jesus took the cup and said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this in remembrance of me. So let us pray together. Heavenly Father, as we take this cup, we are again reminded that this is a cup pointing to his atoning death, his sacrificial death Is bloody death, of death, of suffering even unto eternal death We pray, our Father, that you would be pleased to grant that we would see here our deliverance. It is a death that we cannot die. And so we embrace his death as a death of the wrath of God, bearing that wrath for us. We pray that you would make us mindful of his suffering. We pray this in his name. Amen. Well it was fast whether it was fast.