To Revelation chapter 21, Revelation chapter 21. So we're almost through Revelation. Next Sunday will be our last uh message on this fasting Also next Sunday we're going to start taking the offering during the service, just to remind us that that's That's an act of worship. So we won't have the box there at the door, but we'll have it, we'll be passing the offering uh bags. So Revelation chapter 21, I'll read the Or I'll read this chapter, then we'll come back and look at a few verses in chapter 22. So remember we were looking at um Babylon, right? City of Man. City against God compared to a harlot. Now we have uh the city of God, the new Jerusalem, likened to a bride. John writes, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away in a sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying or pain anymore For the former things passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down For these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless The detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, adulterers, and all liars. Which is the second death. Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the land And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel. Like a jasper, clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square Its length the same as his width, and he measured the city with his rod. Twelve hundred, twelve thousand stadia. Its length and width and height are equal He also measured his wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass. Then the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was Jasper, the second Sapphire, the third Agat, the fourth emerald, the fifth, Onyx The sixth Carnelian, the seventh, Chrysolite, the eighth barrel, the ninth Topaz, the tenth, Chrysoprace, the eleventh, Jason The twelfth amethyst. And the twelfth gates, the twelfth gates were twelve pearls. Each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass. And I saw no temple in the city For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb, and the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. For the glory of God gives it light. In its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. And its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it. There were anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. Like, wow, that's a huge chapter, a lot of details, fascinating. Um so this is uh in highly symbolic language of course. Here here's a picture of heaven. And uh by way of analogy, I think about a a a something that C. S. Lewis wrote about our future as as far as our present condition compared to what we will be like when we're redeemed But he said the dullest, most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it in heaven, you'd be strongly tempted to worship. The same can be said from this chapter about the future glory of the church. Not that we're going to worship the church. church but that we're we're gonna be stunned and that's that that's really what God is telling us in this book because the first three chapters of Revelation If you remember way back months ago, uh was uh was these letters, these seven letters to seven struggling Compromised, persecuted, discouraged churches, right? The seven churches in Asia Minor. Now you get to the end of Revelation. Chapters 21 and 22 and John get with Jesus Christ through the through the angel, through the apostle John gives these seven churches, right? The seven churches of Asia Minor, but also all the churches down through time He gives them and us a glimpse of our future glory And so in this section, the church is pictured as the bride of Jesus Christ, the borrowed words of Ephesians 5. 27. Standing before Christ in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, holy, you know, without blemish. So one of the great uh scholars on the Book of Revelation is Gregory Beale, who just retired from Westminster Seminary, but in his massive commentary He said that the purpose of these chapters is, quote, to highlight the contrast. I'm talking about chapters 1 and 3 and chapters 21. The purpose of this contrast or these chapters is to highlight the contrast between the imperfect church read about in the first three chapters and the church perfected. And so here he's saying to these first century Christians, here's your destiny. So don't become discouraged. Here he's saying to these 21st century century Christians. Here's your destiny. Don't become discouraged. Or think about Admin last week talking about the church, the Christians in Pakistan, right? Many of them out in the villages, many of them These Christians are so untaught that they don't know that Christmas is a holiday in which Christ's uh birth is celebrated. And so there's almost complete ignorance of what the Bible teaches. Or you think about uh the church in America, we were talking in Sunday school today About how our freedoms and how the privileges that we've enjoyed for generations are quickly slipping away and eroding. And so in this section, John is telling Christians, beleaguered Christians, and Christians who have it going smoothly, he's telling all Christians, listen Never be discouraged. Never lose heart. Here's just a glimpse in highly symbolic language. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to take a little survey of this chapter and then a couple verses out of chapter 22. to about the future of God's redeemed people. The future that you will one day enter into. Okay? So this isn't just some kind of episode Esoteric exercise and symbolism, but John's saying, listen, you're going to be there. You're not going to disappear. That day will come and you will be there and you're going to see something of this. Okay? So the first thing we see is that God's people will inhabit a restored creation, right? Because the fall corrupted not only Man, but it corrupted the entire world, right? After Adam and Eve sinned, right? The the there were weeds and thorns and thistles. As the poet said, nature is now red in tooth. In Claw, as Paul wrote in Romans 8 20, the creation was subjected to futility. But the redemption Is not only redemption of human beings, but the redemption is a redemption of the universe, of the entire created order. And so that's why in chapter 21, verse 1, echoing the language of Isaiah 65, 17, John says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth For the first heaven and the first earth have passed away. So there's going to be this new heaven, this new universe. But if by by saying it's new, he's not saying he's created creating an entirely different uh universe or he's starting from scratch, but rather the Bible teaches That the old earth, the old universe, will be renovated, will be redeemed. So he doesn't say I'm making all new things, but rather I'm making all things New. And as it says in Romans 8. 21, the fallen world will then be free from its bondage to corruption. And so the only reason I point that out is to say that there is going to be well think about our bodies, right? The Bible says in First Corinthians fifteen The resurrection body is different from the current body, but there's also continuities. There are also things about us that will be discussed. Same. Uh first Thessalonians four assumes that we're gonna see each other in heaven. We're gonna recognize each other. So our parting when somebody dies, we're you know we're gonna see Ken Luco again And so, hey, Ken, good to see you, right? There there will be continuity, but also we'll be different. We'll have this resurrection body as Jesus Christ has had a resurrection body with different properties, so it will be of of a new universe. Uh it'll be restored, but there will be continuities. And so it'll be reminds us, one thing that reminds us Reminds us of is heaven's physical, right? And there's activity. So it's not this wispy, ethereal, uh tedious, uh painful existence of of A boredom, but it's life. It'll be life in all its fullness. The end of verse, uh chapter 21, the end of verse 1. Says in the sea was no more. Why does it say that? I don't know if this is so much a geographical uh point as it is a theological point To say there will be no more evil, because in the Bible, perhaps uniformly, I'm not sure, the sea represents the realm of evil and rebellion against God, right? In the book of Revelation Chapter twelve, verse seventeen. Satan stood on the sand of the sea and he raised up uh chapter 13 verse 1 the beast from where out of the sea jesus walked on the waters remember in the gospels What was he demonstrating? He was demonstrating his lordship even over the realm of evil and chaos. So there will be no more seed. And maybe that's just a symbolic point. I don't know. We'll check on that one day. Chapter 22, verses 1 to 5, here's a description of heaven. That uses the language of the Garden of Eden. And so, you know, the beginning of the Bible talks about the Garden of Eden. Now we're at the end of the Bible. Here's a re So twelve chapter twenty-two. Let's read verses one to five. John says, then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city Also on either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed But the throne of God and of the land will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their forehead. And night will be no more. They will need no light of of lamp or sun. Why? They will reign forever and ever. And so you know in the beginning, right? Lush, lavish a garden at the end, at the consummation when Jesus returns, we will again be in a garden. But this is a garden. If you read it, it says in verse two, it's also a city, okay? And so um and then you have in this section several references to Edom, right? Verse one, the river Remember, remember that in Genesis 2? From Genesis 2, there was the tree of life. Interesting. Ezekiel 28, verses 13 and 14. Tells us that Eden was a mountain. And that's the same thing we see here. Look at chapter 21, verse 10. John says, He carried me away in the spirit to a to a high I a great high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. However, it'll be even this section Or chapter twenty two is telling us the garden to come will be even better than the garden of Eden. Which was a perfect garden. But it says it'll be even an improvement on that. Uh chapter twenty two verse five. Uh night will be no more. Remember Genesis There was morning and there was eve on the first day. No more in heaven in this garden to come. Chapter 21 verse 2 or 22 verse 2, I forget where I 212 says it'll be a city. Same thing with 22, verse 2. It says there will be community. There will be work. Remember there was work in the original garden, so there's nothing wrong with work God g gave man the garden to develop. There will be work, there would be progress, there would be artistic endeavors and uh technology and commerce and so on. And so so heaven will be an urban paradise that will exude beauty and And delight. So you might say, Well, I'm a country person, I don't like the city. You're gonna like this city. Uh it's gonna be a garden uh that's a city. Um and look at chapter 22, verse 2. Here's something strange. It says on either side of the river, the tree of life, singular, with its 12 kinds of fruit. Somebody explained that one, right? So the singular tree seems to be a reference to trees. Now where does this come from? Is John just a really good writer and have twelve, which speaks of trees growing on both sides of the riverbank, so Ezekiel wrote, and on the banks of both sides of the river There will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. And so the tree of life in the Garden of Eden has become now an entire park with whole rows of trees growing along the rivers and along the streets. And so again, this commentator, Greg Beale, he said, the garden in heaven is going to be an escalation. uh of the Garden of Eden. It's going to be the Garden of Eden, you know, improve the Garden of Eden on uh steroids, uh you might say And so God's going to take the sinless paradise and make it even better. The end of verse 2, the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nation. Right? Everybody's wounded, physically, psychologically, emotionally. Some people are really wounded, and some nations have been really wounded, but the leaves of this tree are for the healing of the nations. And then verse 3 of chapter 22, the very center of this garden will be God himself. So that's something of the environment. Now, this is symbolism, right? Why is that? Because we can't grasp it. We can't, this is something beyond our experience. But we get a pretty good idea. It's something worth looking forward to. It's something worth being there to enjoy. And then uh let's move along now. to God's people, right? So God's people will be perfected and there are in this this this section several images about the future glory of the church. So start with chapter 21 verse 2. It says the church will be like a bride, a beautiful bride. He said, John said, I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride for her husband. Then go to chapter 21, the second part of verse 9. This is confusing. Um I still won't have it. I can just say affirm what it's says um come the angel said i'll show you the bride the wife of the lamb okay The bride is the church, right? But then verse 10, and he, the angel, carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain. It showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. So do you see why I think this is confusing? I thought about Jerusalem Is a place. But here the New Jerusalem is likened to the bride, which is the people of God. So which is it? We say, I don't know. Uh well, it's both. And so I think one of the keys to reading Revelation is that we should not see these as pictures to be visualized as so much as as symbols to be interpreted. Because imagine saying this bride is like a city. would not always be complimentary. Beautiful bride. She reminds me of Bayonne, New Jersey, right? And so um we can't we can't interpret this with a with a mechanical Type of logic, but rather we just have to see that the city or the place and the people are now seen as represented in a singular manner as newly created And um and also uh to say that the church is the bride of Christ not only speaks about the future glory of God God's people, but it also underlines what? The relationship, the intimacy uh between Jesus Christ and his people. We will have honor Unhindered fellowship uh with our bridegroom uh Jesus Christ. And so here's a reversal of the fall. Remember Adam and Eve, they sinned, they hid from God, and then they were banished from the garden. In other words, they were put outside or away from God's presence. presence, but in the world to come there will be this restoration of this fellowship. And so uh and again this is all answering what took place in the Book of Genesis, Genesis 17, verse 7. After Adam and Eve sinned, God could have just said, I'm done with humanity, but he called Abraham and He made a promise to Abraham in Genesis 177, he said to Abraham, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. And what was the substance of that covenant? It goes on there in Genesis 17, 7. God says to do what? I'm going to be God to you and to your offspring after you. Well, you look at Gen uh Revelation chapter twenty-one, verse three. What do we read there? In the middle of the verse, Behold the dwelling place of God is with He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. And so it's saying, here's the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham that I'm gathering for myself a people from all nations, and I will I will be Their God. And so the first picture we see of our future as the Church of Christ, a church universal, that means the church around the world and down through the generations. is that we will stand radiant before Jesus Christ. We will have fellowship with him as his bride. Secondly, we see in this Chapter 21 is that the church, we've already touched on this, will dwell in God's immediate presence. And so you look at chapter 21, verse I know there's a lot of details not addressing, but chapter twenty-one, verse sixteen, the second part of the verse, it says about this New Jerusalem. Its length and width and height are equal. Okay, so the length, for those of you who've had geometry, our kids If the length and the width and the height are equal, what do you have? Don't write. Right. Not a circle, not a triangle, right? It's a cube. And um w why why does he bring this up? Uh you know, the writing materials are quite expensive. Throwing something extra in? Well no, of course not. Um this was the shape of the most holy room in the temple. Right? And so God put the temple in the center of his people, Israel, to show that he was with them. But even while the temple showed that he was with them, it also communicated Indicated that they didn't have easy access to him, right? Because only the high priest could go into the holy most the most holy room in the temple, and then only one day a year But here we're told that the most holy room in a temple with just an object lesson to say heaven, the whole place is going to be So that's why it says that the dimensions are equal, length, width, and height, because we're gonna dwell in God's presence. presence and earth and heaven, now we think about them as two different realms, but they will be joined, right? The new Jerusalem came down and came down to uh the earth. And so that's why, look at verse 22 and chapter 21. There will be no temple in the city, because the entire city is the temple. Verse 22 22. I saw no temple of the city. For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And while Adam and Eve were banished from God's presence, it says in uh chapter 22, verse 4, they will see his face. And so we're going to know God in the most present Personal way. Going on Isaiah chapter sixty, verse nineteen and twenty is fulfilled in chapter twenty-one Verse twenty three, because it says the city has no need of sun or moon or or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the lamb. So we're gonna see God. And might we might think well that's sort of uh quaint or whatnot, but that we're gonna be awestruck. We're gonna we're gonna be fascinated. Jonathan Edwards said to go to heaven to fully enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here Better than fathers and mothers, husbands, wives, or children, or the company of any or all earthly friends. These are but shadows But God is the substance. These are but scattered beams, but God is the sun. These are but streams, but God is the fountain. And so there's something something uh that we're gonna s we're gonna experience that is beyond our our most uh fantastic dreams. And we're gonna we're gonna recognize this is this This is aware you know we always have this sense of longing. Something's missing, right? Well, one day all those longings are going to be satisfied. God has placed us that sense of something's not Not quite full here within us. That's going to be fulfilled. The church will be composed of people from all nations. Chapter 21 Verse 20 Chapter 21, verse 24. By its light the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. And so this again is the fulfillment of God's promise. So in Genesis, just in this case, Genesis seventeen verse four, God told Abraham, You're going to be the father of a multitude of nations. That didn't even begin until Jesus Christ showed up on the scene, right? And then we're gonna see the fulfillment. Look at our church, I counted. There are eleven nations represented in our congregation. Wow, well that that's just the foretaste of heaven, right? There's gonna be this multitude of nations, and it says in verse 26 They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations. And so that's telling us, I think this is really interesting. That whatever people did in this life that glorified God will carry over into heaven Let me read something, then I say something here. So Anthony Hokema, Dutch theologian, he says, the unique contributions of each nation to the life of the present earth will enrich the new earth. We will inherit the best products of culture and art which the earth has produced. And so that the lesson there is that what you do right now counts forever You know th if you like different kinds of foods, just to be real concrete, right? Italian food, Greek food, Mexican food um southern food, right? Whatever you well, there's this continuity between this world and heaven. So what I'm trying to say Again, it's not this ethereal ethereal, uh just vapid existence, but it's material and there's a continuity. And so the accomplishments in this world will carry over to heaven. So kids, you why should you study? Why should you learn? Why should you work hard at your job? Because what you do now for the glory of God is going to carry over. That's what verse 26 is saying. The glory of the nations is going to be transferred into heaven. So we're not starting completely over. There's this continuity. Here's something else. The church is built, talking about the glory of the church, the church is built on the foundation Of the 12 apostles. Chapter 21, verse 12. It says, this speaks of the city having 12 gates, and on the gates were the names of the tribes of the 12 sons of Israel were inscribed. Okay? So you had the on these twelve gates, there were the twelve patriarchs of Israel representing the people of God, the church, in the Old Testament. And then in chapter 21, verse 14 It says the wall of the city had twelve foundations on and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the land. So they're the reference Representatives of God's people in the New Testament. And this all fits together with Ephesians 2. 20, right? Remember, Paul said uh the church is built on what? It's built on the foundation of the apostles. And the prophets. And so that's why we say we're we say in the Creed, I believe in the Holy, what the Apostolic Church or the Apostles' Creed, right? We're an apostolic church. Sound like some church Churches where you have the first apostle, you know, Peter Kemene, we're not saying that. We're an apostolic church in that we're built on the teaching of the apostles So everything we teach is in line with the apostles, right? Charles Hodge, one of the theologians from Princeton Seminary, when it was Orthodox 100 years ago He said a ne he said an original thought never came out of Princeton Seminary. And I've said that I think Here before. An original thought never came out of Good News Presbyterian Church. Oh, how tedious. No. All we do is teach what the Bible says, and of course Of course, we try to buy apply the Bible to the specific areas of our lives, and so that's original. But the teaching of the Bible, we're not coming up with the latest fad, right? churches, you know, there's the newest book, um, Wild at Heart or uh Purpose Driven Life or whatever. And um some of these books, they're not always in line with the Bible And so, but that's the latest thing. We're not doing that. We're just teaching the Bible, and we're we'll certainly use books to help us understand it, but we're not gonna we're not going beyond the Bible. The church is the here, here's another trick. Verse uh chapter 21, verse 12 says it had a great high wall. 2117 it says it was 144 cubits, 200 feet thick. Again, this is symbolic, but it's just saying that God's people are secure in their fellowship with God and they're safe from their enemies. So the song we're about to sing, Glorious Things of the Earth spoken, we sing with salvations, walls surround Thou mayest smile at all thy foes, right? We belong to Jesus Christ now and one day. will become will have no foes. And then it says the gates are open in this church, I think, to portray that, you know what The church has always been open for all to enter. We understand things the judge this will be after the judgment, but the open gates, I I think speak of the opportunity in this life and down through history that there has been for all who would come to enter into this fellowship with God. And this again is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy, Isaiah chapter 60, verse 11. Isaiah says of this heavenly Kingdom, your gates shall be opened continually, day and night. They shall not be shut, that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations With their kings led in procession. So that's a lot, right? And we, as it says in the Bible, we see through a glass darkly. Well we know it's going to be good. That's that's the Bible Bottom line, we know it's going to be good. We know that whatever discouragements we have now, whatever loneliness we face now, it's not forever. And even in the last season of your life, when things can be Very discouraging for many were no be sure that this is this season is not the last chapter But history has a beginning and it has an end, and it's progressing toward that consummation. When, as is said in chapter Lumbers fifteen. The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ. And He's the center of it, right? And he's going to reign forever and ever, and we're going to see him. And so you go back to the first three chapters of Revelation. These beaten up Christians in the first century, John is saying, it's not always going to be like that. One day you You're gonna be perfected. And so the lesson for us isn't just to take solace and comfort in our future um kingdom. But look at chapter 21, verse 7. It's an exhortation to press on through all your discouragements. The one who conquers will have this heritage. Jesus says, and I'll be his God, and he'll be my son. And so this is an exercise. Young person, when you're discouraged by the world about you or by your friends or an adult adults with all of our discouragements, right? Right? This is an exhortation to press on because one day things are going to change. So let's bow our heads.