Miss Lindy and I think with Miss Abbey. And let's turn so we're going through the book of Romans. We're gonna take a detour today. We're going to look at Acts chapter 1 because tonight we're beginning the book of Acts in our Sunday night services And Acts this passage is a great passage, and so I thought I'd preach it to everybody, and also maybe entice a couple to come to the Sunday night studies as we We're going to march through the book of Acts. And so we're going to look this morning to the first five verses. Then this evening we'll get up to verse 11. And so I'm going to pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for this book of the Bible that shows us your purposes for the church, and it shows us your power uh through your people uh when we're dependent upon you. And so teach us as we look at these verses and in this book. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts chapter 1. Luke writes, in the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach. Until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. To them he presented himself alive after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You heard from me. For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So let me start by really pressing on the big lesson of the book of Acts. And it has to do well, let me start like this. Go back to New England. Seven in seventeenth, eighteenth century New England That may have been uh the most Christianized place on earth in history. New England in the sixteen hundreds, uh seventeen hundreds. This was a land of the pilgrims. This was a land of the Puritans. This was a land of great Bible preachers like Jonathan Edwards. In the Christians in New England, if you read if you read the writings of the Puritans, one thing that stands out Is that these Christians recognize the providence of God in everyday affairs And they were aware of God's active presence in their lives. That's what strikes me most about the Puritans and the Purit uh the pilgrims and so on. So that was in the 1600s, 1700s, early 1800s, but by about the mid-1800s thereafter, this isn't across the board. But many churches, you know, hundred, hundred and fifty years after these men and women of God Many of the churches began teaching deism, right? Deism is the idea that, yeah, there's a God But he's far off, he's distant, he's not involved in our lives, he's not involved in the course of history, but rather God is like a a a watchmaker or a guy uh somebody who makes a clock. He builds this clock He winds it up, and then it just goes on its own, and the watchmaker uh no longer needs to intervene. Well that was deism and that was a short-lived movement and it gave way, so there's always this progression, it gave way to the philosophy of naturalism, the idea that Well there is no God and um we're on the we're on our own and matter is all that there is. And that's sort of the logical outcome of believing and deism and there are no deists today. Or I should say there are no formal deists today. Uh but there are plenty of practical deists, right? And where do we find these practical deists? Well We find many of them in Christian churches. And I'm not just talking about theologically liberal churches, but Bible-teaching churches. Many of us, well, many of us, all of us, I would imagine, to some degree Act like deists. We're practical deists. We're not persuaded that Jesus is active in the world today. How do how why do I say that? Well uh it shows in our prayerlessness we we know we're supposed to pray. But I don't know. It's probably a waste of time. And so we don't waste that t that much time on it. It shows in our tendency to worry. I think that reflects that we don't really trust the sovereignty of God. It shows in the church's dependence on techniques to draw a crowd We're not fully persuaded that God can bring people to Him and build up Christians by using the means that he has appointed, which are basically the Word of God in prayer Uh it shows in our grumbling. So last um week ago Friday, I got this email. We're gonna kick Good News Presbyterian to the curb uh january fourteenth. It didn't go exactly like that. But I'm like, oh, it's Friday night. I thought I was gonna relax. And so I grumbled, but understandably, but then My wife doesn't understand it. Yeah. Yeah, when I grumble, there's a good reason, right? I d I didn't mean to say that. Alright. Alright. I I retract that word understandably. So I grumbled And um but then I had to get a get a hold of things and I remembered, wait, this is the providence of God. Took a couple days to remember that. But this is the providence of God. And so I I was acting like a deist. I did not trust the providence of God that whatever He plans is for a purpose. Our deism shows in our reticence to share the gospel with people whom we size up or we presume would have no interest How do we know? How do we know their background, their experience, the influences they've been under, and the work of God's Spirit in them? And so I think the book of Acts is very important. And its message to us is God is at work in the world today. That's the message of the book of Acts. That's the first point I want to make. And this is from verses four and five, which we'll look at in a in a second there. But remember When Jesus was with his disciples, in John chapter 14, verse 18, he made them a promise. He said, I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Okay? So there's this promise: I'm not going to leave you alone. I'm going to be crucified. I'm going to ascend to heaven. But I won't leave you as orphans. Okay? How did he come? When did he come? Well, he came on the day of Pentecost in the person of the Holy Spirit. So look at verse 4 and 5 now. Luke writes that while staying with them, with the disciples, this is right, this is after the resurrection, while staying with them He ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You heard from me. For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. And that takes place in chapter two on the day of Pentecost. And so the Holy Spirit is not an it. The Holy Spirit is a he. The Holy Spirit is G, you might say, well, he's the third person of the Trinity. But he his ministry is to be the presence and the power of Jesus Christ with his people. And as you read through the book of Acts, you see Jesus Christ through the ministry of the Holy Spirit Bringing men and women to a knowledge of him, and you see Jesus Christ expanding his rule The kingdom of God. That's what the kingdom of God is. Jesus is expanding his rule here on earth. And so it's interesting if you look at the title of the book of Acts in your Bible, mine says, the Acts of the Apostles It could as well be titled The Acts of Jesus Christ, or maybe even more precisely, we can call this book The Acts of Jesus Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit through his apostles. And that's a good summary of what this book is about. In just a little bit of background, both the Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts were written by Luke, and so to appreciate the book of Acts need to know a little bit about the book of uh the book of Luke. Uh both were written to some fellow named Theophilus. I'll make a couple comments about him in a bit. But if you turn to Luke chapter 1 Turn to Luke chapter 1. This is worth it. First four verses. Luke explains, here's why I'm writing this uh this gospel. I'm writing this gospel, Theophilus. So that you'll can know about Jesus' ministry while he walked on earth. I'm going to read those first four verses, Luke chapter one. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, Just as those who from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, O mech O excellent Theophilus that you may have certainty concerning the things that you have been taught. Okay? So Luke in uh his gospel Writes about Jesus' ministry. Here's an orderly account of Jesus' ministry while he was with us on the earth. And in the book of Acts Theophilus, or Luke continues. And in Acts he writes to Theophilus about Jesus continuing ministry after he ascended to heaven. And what Jesus does in the book of Acts is he continues to minister on earth from his throne on heaven through the power of the Holy Spirit. So Acts chapter 1, verse 1 again. Notice. In the first book of Theophilus, I dealt with what all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up. And then he goes on in the book of Acts to say, here's what Jesus continues to do. Okay? So Acts picks up where Luke's gospel leaves off. And so really Luke and Acts should be read as one continuous work, right? In Luke we read about the start of Christianity, in Acts we read about the growth of Christianity And in Luke, we read about Jesus giving his life, and Acts we read about Jesus giving his power. And it's also interesting in Luke 3, Jesus was anointed with the Holy Spirit at his baptism. And then he went forth to proclaim the good news. Well what happens in Acts chapter 2? The church is baptized with the Holy Spirit. And the church goes forth to proclaim the good news. And so Jesus was at work, indeed, of course, in his earthly ministry, but what Acts tells us is that Jesus Christ continues to work in his people today and in the world today through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And so the first thing I want to say, and I think this this is really relevant, this is very relevant, is that we have in the book of Acts A much-needed antidote to our practical deism. And Jesus in Matthew 16, verse 18, he said. I'm going to build my church. Well, that was a nice statement, but there was no church before Jesus was crucified. The church came into existence after Jesus ascended to heaven, and that was on the day of Pentecost. That's when he began to build his church. And From a human perspective, the early church had nothing going for it. It had no money. Most of its people uh enjoyed no status. It did not have the technology and the tools that we have today. It didn't have buildings and it didn't have any proven leaders. And yet it's fascinating that within a generation Christianity grew from a backwater of the Roman Empire and it went into the very seat of worldly of worldly power, right? The city of Rome itself, right? That's what we're reading. uh in the book of Romans. And so the gospel spread throughout the Roman Empire within a generation. And we should know that this happened not by using uh the world's techniques, not On account of charismatic personalities, but this happened through the church, through the Christians employing The very the means that God appointed. In other words, they preached, they prayed They loved one another. They gathered to worship God. They lived not perfect lives, but certainly distinct lives. And they were Saul and Light in the world, and and God, through the power of the Holy Spirit use this to advance his kingdom. And something else I want to note as an aside is that the book of Acts is full of preaching and teaching. There are like 19 sermons and discourses in the book of Acts. And this tells us one of the main means that God uses. to build up his people and to spread the gospel to unbelievers is the preaching and the teaching of the Bible. So that's the first thing I want you to notice about Acts. Jesus continues to work today, and so we need not act like deists. Here's the second thing. Jesus is building his church on the foundation of the apostles. And before I elaborate on that, let me just make a note here. Ask the question. What qualifies someone to be an apostle? And this might be interesting because sometimes you'll pass a storefront church and the pastor is called the apostle, you know, Joshua Brown or whatever. That's something different. An apostle in the Bible, well, there are only twelve apostles. Add on the apostle Paul. What qualifies somebody to be an apostle? Well, Jesus chooses, or Jesus chose his apostles. Verse 2. It speaks about the apostles whom he had uh chosen. And then when they remember Judas betrayed Jesus, so they had to get a new apostle to fill the vacancy In in verse twenty four, it says they prayed and said, Lord, you know uh you Lord know who the hearts of all Show us which of these two men you have chosen. Okay? So it was Jesus Christ who was going to choose this new apostle. And then there's the Apostle Paul in Acts chapter 9. Jesus appeared to him, and in 915 we read that Paul was chosen by Christ to be an apostle. So that's one thing you need to have to be an apostle. You must be chosen by Jesus Christ. Secondly, you must be an eyewitness of the resurrection. You see that in verse 3. Uh Luke writes to them, the apostles, he presented himself alive after his suffering by many proofs. And so Uh an apostle had to be a witness to uh the resurrection. Paul saw the resurrected Christ in chapter nine on Damascus Road. And then uh the and then also a third trait of an apostle is that Jesus Christ had to have personally commissioned uh that man uh to be an apostle. And that's what it says in the end of verse 2. Jesus had given commands through the Holy Spirit through uh to the apostles, right? And the commands were, for example, Luke 24, to preach the gospel to all nations. So that's an apostle. In fact, that word means one who is sent out. These were the ambassadors sent out by Jesus Christ. But w what I want to underline In the second point is that Jesus Christ built and is building his church on the foundation of the apostles. In fact Paul wrote that in Ephesians 2 verse 20, when he said that the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. One of the great Reform theologians, uh B. V. Warfield, uh, said this about the apostles. He wrote, Jesus has chosen to found his church not directly by speaking the word of God in thunderclouds from heaven, but through the instrumentality of a body of apostles, chosen and trained by himself. Endowed with gifts and graces from the Holy Ghost, and sent forth into the world as His authoritative agents All the authority of the apostles stands behind the scriptures, and all the authority of Jesus stands behind the apostles. And that is why, for example, in the Nicene Creed, we say, I believe in the Apostolic Church. What are we saying? We are saying that our church is built on the teaching of the apostles. And so we are an apostolic church. And um one of the other great reform theologians in the 1800s, Charles Hodge, he taught at Old Princeton Seminary, which in the 1800s was the bastion of theological orthodoxy. And he made the comment once, he said, Princeton Seminary has never brought forth a single original thought. And his point was, everything taught at Princeton was merely an exposition of the Bible. Of course, there's new applications, right? There's new insights into the depths of Scripture. But it's not, there's no original thinking outside the Bible And I told the story, it's one of my favorites, so if you'll indulge me. Years ago, when we were meeting at Hillcrest School, there was this couple visiting our church. They came, I don't know, four or five months. And um we thought everything was fine, and then one Sunday they're going out the door, and she said, We won't be coming back. And I was like, oh, what's wrong? Did somebody offend you? What happened? She said, no, we're just not coming back. Uh There's no creativity to your preaching. All you do is preach the Bible. And I'm like hey that's the good. So I said thank you. No. But yeah, that's That's a badge of honor, right? We we we don't want to be boring. We don't want to drone on, but Yeah, we want to teach the Bible because this is God's word, and that's how he builds his church. Jesus Christ is building his church on the foundation of the apostles. And here's the third and final thing as we introduce the book of Acts. We see in the book of Acts that Christianity is rooted in history. Okay? It's not just some philosophy. It is a historical religion. And so to that end, let's let me just first make a comment to introduce Luke. and this fellow Theophilus. So Luke was not one of the twelve apostles. He was rather uh Paul's ministry partner. In fact, in Colossians chapter 4, verse 14, Paul speaks about Luke the beloved physician. Luke was the only Gentile who wrote a book of the New Testament, and uh he wrote more of the New Testament than anybody else, right? Paul wrote a lot of uh letters But Luke wrote more. John, think about the Apostle John, he wrote the Gospel of John, the three letters of John, then the book of Revelation. But Luke's work in writing his gospel in the book of Acts comprised about a fourth of the New Testament And Luke wrote this book to this fellow named Theophilus. In fact, in Luke chapter 1, verse 3 Luke describes him as the most excellent theophilus, and that's not just a nice way of putting things, but it's uh it would be the proper way, the commentator said. of addressing someone who was a member of the equestrian class, which would be the second highest tier in Roman society. And that has led some to speculate that perhaps uh uh Theophilos uh was uh uh uh Luke's literary benefactor. He paid uh for the hand copied uh publication of uh Luke of the Gospel of Luke in the book of Acts. So that's speculative but We don't know anything else about uh this fellow Theophilus. We do know why uh Luke wrote uh his gospel in the book of Acts, and it was to provide a very carefully researched and orderly account of the ministry of Jesus Christ. And so Luke was a historian, and being a historian in the first century wasn't the piece of cake. that it would be uh to be a historian today, right? Because now you can travel to different libraries and go through the arch archives and look at original documents and letters that were written that were saved And then you have the internet, then you could have all these uh you know, you could call your historian friends and get information. Not so for Luke, right? Uh he didn't he didn't have any of this. There were there there were a few libraries in the in the in the Roman world and those that did exist certainly didn't have any any documents about the work of Jesus of Nazareth. And yet what Luke produced in his gospel and in the book of Acts are fascinating. It's a remarkably, these are remarkably accurate descriptions of the life of Jesus Christ. in the expansion of the early church. And there's a little book, I think it's like about 120, 150 pages. By uh F. F. Bruce, and it's a classic. The title is The New Testament Documents: Are They Reliable? And his point is to get you to recognize that the books of the Bible, the books, excuse me, the books of the New Testament are reliable books. Well, how do you prove that? We provide evidence. And one of the uh lines of evidence that uh F. F. Bruce uses Is that he looks, for example, the book of uh Luke's Gospel in the Book of Acts, and he points out that the titles that Luke gave to rulers in the Roman world were accurate titles. In fact, uh there were times in the history of biblical scholarship where some w some skeptic would say Well, so and so could not have had that title because they didn't use that title in that period uh in that period in history. But then, you know, decades later, there would be some archaeological discovery that confirmed that Luke was indeed using the correct title or the names of little towns and places uh that Luke mentions all c are corroborated by other ancient documents or uh Luke's description of of uh local customs and moods in those cities. They all agree with what was writ recorded in other ancient writings. And so uh Luke uh wrote this uh this letter, this book, to give us an accurate and trustworthy account of the expansion of the early church And um we also want to ask the question, what would motivate Luke to undertake uh such a painstaking task? And his motivation was that he wanted to assure his readers about the truth of the Christian faith. And that's why in Luke chapter 1, verse 3 He said, It seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus Why? That you may have certainty concerning the things that you have been taught. Okay? So he wants his readers in the first century and down through history, he wants us to be persuaded That Christianity is historically accurate, the account, it's a historical religion, and It is rooted in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And you'll see that in Acts chapter 1, verse 3, where Luke said to them, to the apostles, he presented himself After his suffering, what? Then he says, by many proofs. He's saying, listen, this is a fact of history. It should be recognized. These men saw Jesus crucified. They later saw him alive. And so Luke says, I want you to understand. that what they're teaching is not merely a philosophy, it's not merely an ethical system, but but Christianity Is a movement rooted in a historical event. Many people can verify that Jesus Christ did indeed rise from the grave. And so Most of us, we waver between belief and unbelief. And perhaps some here are skeptics. And so what I encourage you to do then is of course immerse yourself in the Bible, immerse yourself in the book of Acts, immerse yourself in the Gospels Because this is what God uses to change weak faith to strong faith This is what God uses to move us from skepticism to certainty. And so there you have it. In the book of Acts, we're going to see Jesus Christ is alive. He is building his church amidst setbacks, amidst persecutions and divisions. And we're also going to see the primacy of proclaiming the gospel to believers. We'll see examples of what healthy churches should look like, not that the church in the New Testament was perfect. And we'll see, you know, what God uses, how how God uses ordinary schlubs. God uses ordinary people. uh to who believe his word and who act on it. And so the book of Acts should be a great encouragement to us. Hey, you know what? Uh it seems like our whole culture has uh has become secular, has abandoned uh Christianity. Well that's not the case. We need to look more closely Jesus Christ is still at work. He's still advancing his kingdom. In some places the world, in some times in history more than others, but Jesus Christ is still at work. So let's bow our heads. We do pray, Lord, that you'd help us to remember that you're not remote, you're not far off, you're not Distant, but that you are alive and you're active and your purposes and history are unfolding according to your plan And so help us, Lord, to have more confidence. Help us to use all the means that you've provided for our growth personally. uh for the spiritual growth of our families, uh for the nurturing of our congregation, and also for the expansion of the gospel. Help us to look to your word. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen, so we're