Good. We got a good sermon this morning. Sun humility. All right. We're in Genesis 18. I think most of you have been here. And we're taking, so we're read doing the life of Abraham, Genesis 12 to 25. And some of these passages are quite long, but I want to take whole, I'm trying to take whole chapters at a time, just because it's good to Wrap your arms around the whole narrative. And so this is going to require some concentration on your part as I read chapter 18 of Genesis. We read, and the Lord appeared to him, that's to Abraham, by the oaks of Mamreh as he sat at the door of the tent in the heat of the day. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the earth, and said O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree Well I bring a morsel of bread that you may refresh yourselves after that you may press on, since you have come to your servant. And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, Quick, three sias of fine flour, knead it, and make cakes. And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to a young man who prepared it quickly. Then he took the curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared, and set it before them And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. They said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, She is in the tent. The Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah, your wife, shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of woman had ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I am worn out, and my Lord is old, shall I have pleasure? The Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Shall I indeed bear a child now that I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid. He said, No, but you did laugh Then the men set out from there, and they looked down toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to set them on their way. The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him, to keep the way of the Lord, by doing righteousness and justice, so that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised him. Then the Lord said, Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and their sin is very grave. I will go down to see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to me. And if not, I will know. So the men turned from there and went toward Sodom. But Abraham still stood before the Lord. Then Abraham drew near and said, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city. Will you then sweep away the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous who are in it? Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked. Far be that from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And the Lord said If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake Abraham answered and said, Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes. Suppose five of the fifty righteous are lacking Will you destroy the whole city for lack of five? And he said, I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there. Again he said to him and said, Again he spoke to him and said, Suppose forty are found there. He answered, For the sake of forty, I will not do it. Then he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty are found there. He answered, I will not do it if I find thirty there. He said, Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord Suppose twenty are found there. And he answered, For the sake of twenty, I will not destroy it. Then he said O let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again, but this once. Suppose ten are found there. He answered, For the sake of ten, I will not destroy it. And the Lord went his way when he had finished speaking to Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place. Now there's a lot in here. Let's start with this appearance of these men in the first couple verses. This is what is referred to as a theophany, an appearance of God. The Lord himself came to Abraham. And this wasn't the first time he came to Abraham. We see this back in chapter 12, verse 7. And also in chapter 17, verse 1. So the Lord appeared to Abraham, but wait a minute, God's invisible, right? God is a spirit. Those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. So how is it then that God could appear to Abraham and the answer is found in Colossians 1:15. It says, Jesus is the image of the invisible God. And so Jesus makes the invisible God visible. So what we have here is a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ came in this uh in this uh passage here And so we could say this is more precisely not a theophany, but a Christophany, an appearance of Jesus Christ before he came. uh to be with his people. And then there are two other men, verses two and three, and we discover in chapter 19, verse 1, if you look there. It speaks about the two angels. So these were two angels that accompanied the Lord in appearing to Abraham. And so the Lord comes to his people. And what I want to do this morning, is I want to point out four things in this passage that tell us about how the Lord deals with his people when he comes to them. Okay? And so in verse 25, he's called the judge of all the earth. But we see many things about this judge. And the first thing we see in verses 1 to 8 is that this judge is a friend to his people. So let's look at the passage, first eight verses. It's the middle of the day, right? This is this is a hot place to live This is the time when they would take a rest. It would take a siesta. It says in the end of verse one, Abraham sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. Then verse two, he lifted his eyes and looked, and behold, Three men were standing in front of him. Now, probably not a good time for a visit, right? It's hot. But Abraham is not inconvenienced. If you'll notice he makes makes haste to offer them hospitality. Look how quickly he moved. The end of verse 2 it says, he ran to the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth. The end of verse 6. Abraham went quickly into the tent of Sarah and asked her to make some cakes. Verse 7, again Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tendered good, to uh prepare that for uh these visitors. Now you turn over, don't turn over, but Hebrews 13 verse 2 gives us command to exercise hospitality. It's based on this passage, I think, primarily, then a couple other Old Testament passages. So Hebrews 13, verse 2 commands, do not neglect to show hospitality for s to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares So I don't think Abraham's aware of exactly who he's dealing with at this point. But the point of the Hebrews verse Is that listen, if you exercise hospitality, I don't think it's saying that you may be entertaining angels, but it's saying that there are there are unexpected blessings When you open your door, when you cook a meal for someone, when you have someone out for a meal, there are unexpected blessings that come. uh through the friendship. And so the blessing will not only be to the person that you uh care for, but they'll push it back on you. Well that's very impressive, right? Abraham's hospitality But that's not the remarkable thing about this encounter. The remarkable thing is that The maker of heaven and earth came down to meet with Abraham, and he accepted his hospitality. And so in verse 8 It says, uh, then he took the curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared, that's Abraham, and set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. Now it's funny. I was reading a book yesterday that has nothing to do with this passage. It's a book about titled The Rise of Christianity by a guy named Rodney Stark. Really interesting. But um one one thing he s he says or point out is that pagans, these pagan religions Would never think of God as caring for them or being their friend. They would make sacrifices and they would do things to either placate the gods or to get something from them. But here's something revolutionary. We see in the Bible, God loves his people. God is kind to his people. God wants to have a relationship with his people. And so in fact in Isaiah chapter 41 verse 8, God is referred to as Abraham's friend. So think about Abraham. He came from a pagan land. He came from Ur the Chaldeans, or from the Chaldees. It was a pagan land, and now he meets the true God, the God of Israel, and God comes to him as his friend. And so here's an insight into the disposition of God at this early juncture in the unfolding of Scripture. And we see God wants to be with us. Well, we see all saw that in the garden, right? God was with Adam and Eve in the garden. Sin separated them, but God put into motion a plan to restore that fellowship. And then when Jesus came, what was he called? The Word, it says the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. And then what will happen at the consummation? Revelation 21, verse 3, oh we'll all be in heaven, everything will be great. No, that's just part of it. Revelation 21:3 says that God will dwell with them and they'll be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. And so here's the gospel. Even in the beginning here, right, our sin had alienated from us had alienated us from God. Says in Romans 5, we were God's enemies But Jesus Christ, by his death, removed that hostility that existed between us toward God and God toward us because of our sin. And so in John chapter 15, verse 15, Jesus says to his disciples, No longer do I call you servants. For the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. So this says to the Christian that if you know Jesus Christ, God is your friend. Just a simple reminder, right? He's for you. And so you call it, we should call out to him in prayer, right? We have our struggles. We have our burdens Call out to God. He cares for you. And remember, no matter what comes, He has your best interest at heart. He's your friend. Let's go on, verses 9 to 15. What we see here is that God keeps his promises. God keeps his promises. So look at verses 10 to 12. Is that right? Yeah, ten and twelve. Okay. So the Lord said, so he makes this promise to Abraham. He said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife will have a son. Now we had this promise before that Sarah would have a son, but never gave the timeline, but now God gives a timeline. He says, next year, she's going to have a son. And Sarah was listening at the door behind at the tent door behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of woman had ceased to be with Sarah. For sure, right, she was eighty-nine years old. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I am worn out, and my lord is old. Shall I have pleasure? And um indeed, uh Sarah did laugh. Uh it was a laughter of unbelief. But the next year Right on the money, right? She gave birth to a son, and uh he was called Isaac because that's what God had told him previously, to name your son Isaac. What does Isaac mean? Isaac means laughter. But this time, when Isaac was born, Sarah would laugh, but it would not be the laughter of unbelief, it would be the laughter of joy. So we see in verse 14, sort of a summary statement, is anything too hard for the Lord? Now that's one of those verses you can rip out of context, right? You can stick it on your wall and say, is anything too long, hard for the Lord? And I might say, yeah, I want to be a pole vault, or I want to I want to set a world record in the full in the pole vault. Is anything too lar hard for the Lord? I'm going to claim that verse. Now that would be taken out of context because that verse is saying that whatever promise God makes to his people, he will fulfill that promise. And so he's saying, listen Sarah's gonna be 90 years old, but she will give birth to the son, to a son, because I promised that she would. Is anything too hard for the Lord? And so the application to us is that, and I said this a few weeks ago, the Bible is a book full of promises that God makes to his people And there are some fantastic promises. There are promises that God makes to unbelievers. What does he say If you repent of your sin and rest on Jesus Christ, you will be forgiven. Now there are some people, some unbelievers who say Well, that's a nice promise, but I have lived a shameful life. I've done vile things. And so I don't think that would apply to me. But Whatever promise God makes applies to anyone who would but repent and believe in Christ. The Bible says for the Christian, death is not the final word. That's hard to believe, right? When you stand over the grave of a loved one and there's this tearing But God promises, Jesus promised in John 11, he said, Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. That's pretty helpful, even to the young people. Because death with its bony beckoning figure is reminding you, you have an appointment with him one day. But then here's this promise that God makes to you. No, even though you die, you shall live Forever. Is there anything too hard for the Lord? We live in a world and a culture that denies the supernatural. But we're persuaded that this document is true. It's from God. And so we remind ourselves Everybody says that's the end, but we don't say that because God has persuaded us by his word and spirit that this is the truth. God promises prayer changes things. Well, that's sort of a waste of time. Things don't happen when I pray. Well, some things happen, but not everything happens, right, when we pray. But James says, you don't have because you don't ask. If God makes that promise, nothing's too hard for the Lord. Couple weeks, I think, we're going to be talking about stewardship. I've been instructed to talk about that. It's pretty important stuff. In uh Sunday school and high school high school class this morning we read Malachi 4. 10 God says, maybe it was 310, bring the full tithe into the storehouse. Put me to the test. If I'll not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing. until there is no more need. So there's a promise, right? We don't teach the prosperity gospel. We don't teach the health and wealth. If you give this you'll get that. We understand that But nonetheless, we have to deal with a with a promise from God here that if you give generously, God says, I will provide for your needs. And so When you think about any of these promises, the question is, do you believe the promises of God were not? That's the question. So we see the judge of the earth, he's a friend to his people. We see he keeps his promises. Here's another one. Verses uh sixteen to nineteen point three. God uses negative examples to spur us on And so as Abraham's heavenly guests got up to leave, it says, look at verse 16, here's an omni Ominous. That's easy for me to say. Here's an ominous statement. They looked down toward Sodom. And at first, it says in verse 17, the Lord wondered whether he should tell Abraham of his plan to judge them. Now this is what they call anthropomorphic language. It's just this kind of narrative just to help the reader understand. You know, here's how, here's God thinking to himself. I don't think he's having this internal debate But it's put in terms that we can appreciate to build the drama. Verse 17, the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham what I'm about to do? And he determines, I'm gonna tell Abraham what I'm about to do to Sodom and Gomorrah, because it will have instructional value. It will motivate them to about the importance of of living upright lives and it will motivate Abraham to teach righteousness to his people. So verse 18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice. So that the Lord may bring to Abraham what he has promised him. And so Abraham says he's gonna, or God says he's gonna let Abraham see what happens here to Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham's going to witness the burnt-out ruins of these cities. He's going to have his his nostrils offended by the smell of sulfur. for many uh years to come, because this will be a grim reminder to him of of the perils Of rejecting God's ways and God's commands. And even 2,000 years later, the Apostle Peter points to Sodom and Gomorrah. It says in 1 Peter 2. 6, as an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. So what do we see here? We see here that God uses negative examples to spur us on That goes against uh pop Christianity. Uh Pop, even Pop Reform Christianity says, you know what We should only talk about grace. We should only talk about the benefits of obedience and the blessings of following God's commands. Well should we do that? Absolutely, right? That should be the focus. That should be the main thing we talk about. Well you look at the Bible, and the Bible uses not only carrots to motivate God's people, it uses sticks. It holds up Bad things. It says there are if you do this, that's gonna happen. And because of the way we're wired, and because of our the great pull of our temptation, and because of the crushing of our heart. We need it. We need the positive exhortation, the the promises of blessings for obedience, but also we need the warnings, right? When we train our kids, if you just say if you do this, everything Well, that's good, but it's also good to uh point out the consequences of disobedience, right? You don't just say don't walk across the road when the car's coming. If you walk across when it's clear, you'll have a happy life. You also say If you walk across when a truck's coming down the road, here's what's going to happen, and it's not going to be good. And so it is with the Bible, right? You read the book of Proverbs. You read Psalm 1. You read the Sermon on the Mount. And it says, here are the blessings of obedience, but also warrants, here are the perils of going your own way, of doing of disobeying. Same thing, 1 Corinthians 10, 12. Paul writing to Christians pointing to what happened to the Israelites in the wilderness, and he says, here's why they happened. It wasn't just for them. He says, these things came upon Israel, these punishments, quote, as examples for us that we might not desire evil as they did. And so it's okay to be negative once in a while, right? Some of us have, some of us um maybe we're tilted a little too much in that direction. But that's okay. Everything's not happy, right? And so we want to set forth the carrots. We want to set forth the sticks of Scripture. Here we go, number four, okay? And this is I'm I'm zipping through this, but I think I'm hitting the mountaintops. Uh verses 20 to 33. Verses 20 20 to 33, we see uh in a in a nutshell the heading is God spares the righteous, okay So in chapter 19, next week probably we'll talk about God's judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah. But you get, it's set up in chapter 18. We have the prelude to it. And it says in the end of verse 20, their sin is very grave. Now, have you ever heard it said? You've probably heard it said from pulpits and perhaps on radio preachers, you'll hear it said that all sins are the same. All sins are the same. Well, yes and no. I mean all sins are the same In that any one sin is enough to separate a person from God, right? You could be a paragon of virtue, but if you have one sin Then you're you you cannot be in the presence of a holy God. James 2 verse 10. Paul said or James said, whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at one point is guilty of breaking all the law. So all sins are the same, that anyone's sin is sufficient to separate a person from God, then all sins are the same in that Christ's death is sufficient to cover any sin, right? No matter how grievous it might be. So in that sense all sins are the same, but we would say, and we saw this in the catechism we just read, some sins are more heinous than others. Examples from 1 Corinthians that I just read earlier. Sexual immorality, 1 Corinthians 6. 18. Paul said, flee from sexual immorality. Why? Because he says there's something unique about that sin. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. It cuts to the very core of who we are. and also the effect it has on the person with whom we engaged in sexual immorality. And so that's um Uh it's not the only sin that's in the category by itself, but Paul's saying, yeah, there some sins are more heinous than others. You see that in uh John 1911 is another good proof text. The sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was homosexuality. And we'll see next time, chapter 19, verses 5 and 6. That's something that's a heinous sin. It's not in a category by itself, as many would say. But it is a it is a grievous sin in the sight of God. It's and I say this to our young people because our culture um sort of glosses over this and even the American church But it's something that's forbidden in Scripture. It's not a sin that that's beyond the realm of forgiveness, but it's something that's wrong. It's immoral. And uh uh one text would be Leviticus 1822. It forbids the act of homosexual uh relations. And I say this because in our culture, in our church culture even, that is not regarded as a sin. But that, like uh many any other form of sexual immorality, is indeed a sin. And I had the privilege to perform uh Wilson and Stormy's wedding a few weeks back. They got a really nice place to have the wedding, a church downtown, and had a nice banquet hall and everything. But unfortunately I for their testimony, they had a huge rainbow flag flying over the front door. And so when I got there for the rehearsal, I'm like, ooh Uh this is gonna hurt our this could hurt our testimony, so I tried to make it clear we're just using this church building. Uh I'm not the pastor of this church, I'm not we're not promoting what's gone. And I was talking to the sound man so that church provides a sound man and really a nice fellow, very helpful. And um but he's a he was a homosexually I was talking to him and he said, yeah, me and my husband chose this church for such and such reason. And I thought, well, uh this church, uh this church has not served this uh fellow very well because a true church uh would speak the truth, it would speak it in love. You know, say you're welcome. Of course we want you to be a part of the church. We want you to come and listen to the gospel and hear it. And like the rest of us to come to Christ. You must repent of your sin and turn from it. And sin is deeply embedded in us. We all have our particular sins. It's deeply rooted in us But the message of the church isn't just to condone whatever our culture says is fashionable, but the message of the church is to say, listen, there's a better way. There's a holy God, and He's made a way, not only for us to be forgiven, but through the Word and Spirit, and also the friendship and the fellowship and the exhortation of God's people. to help uh to help people with whatever their sin struggles, including homosexuality, to make progress and to find forgiveness from the terrible shame and guilt. uh to find forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And um in the passage that um well Andy made a reference to the passage I read 1 Corinthians 6 verse 9 to 11 is a message of hope for people caught up in sexual sin. Even sins that affect your very identity. He says to these Christians in the church, he says, do not be deceived. neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice home with sexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. But then he goes on. And such were some of you. She's saying that to the church. We say that to our church, right? All kinds of uh tattered pasts, but they're forgiven. Such were some of you You were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. So you've been justified, you've been forgiven. And also, you've been sanctified. You have the Holy Spirit working in you. And so There we have a clear statement that homosexuality is a grave sin. But homosexual acts was not the only sins of Sodom and Gomorrah. We also learn that they are pressed the powerless. If you go back to verse 20, the Lord said, because of the outcry Oh he said, because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah are great. And so the word outcry is used in the Bible to describe the outcry of the oppressed and the brutalized, of the widow and the orphan, you see that in Exodus 22, of the oppressed servant. Deuteronomy 24 verse 15. And so those who were oppressed by the rich or by the wicked in Sodom and Gomorrah, they are crying out. And then you have this uh point uh made very clear in Ezekiel sixteen forty-nine. Where Ezekiel reflecting on the sin of Sodom condemned those people back then Ezekiel said in 1649, she that Sodom and her daughters had pride Excess of food and prosperous e and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and the needy. And so Sodom's sin was indeed, as it said, very grave. All right. Now let's get to the point. That's just sort of a background. Here's the point now. Um what if to Abraham This raising the question, what if there are some upright people in Sodom? Will God destroy Sodom if there are in that city some upright people? Look at the end of verse 23. Abraham said to God, Will you then sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Now, when the Bible speaks about the righteous, It's not saying those who are without sin. Now we understand that in an absolute sense, the only nobody's righteous, not one, right? Romans 3. 10. If you have any sin, you're not righteous. But it also speaks about a relative righteousness. You see that in the Psalms and so forth. That's what this is talking about. There are some people who are inclined They want to obey God, they want to please Him, they stumble, they fall, they fail. Right, we understand that. But they're that's the ones to whom Scripture refers to as righteous. Now, so Abraham's having this dialogue with God. And many commentators say, well, he's interceding for Sodom. Abraham is such a gracious guy, he doesn't want to see those people suffer and die. Uh I don't think that's what he's doing. I don't think he's seeking to change God's mind about uh judging Sodom. But what I say, I don't think he's ch yeah, he's not seeking to change God's mind But rather, Abraham is seeking to understand God's mind. He wants to know how God operates, if he's really a just and righteous God. And so in the end of verse 23, he asks God, Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? That doesn't seem right to me. That doesn't seem right to Abraham. So he says, God, will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked He says, you know, what if there's just a handful of righteous people interspersed amongst the wicked masses? Uh will you halt your wrath if that's the case And that's the key verse, verse 2025. Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked. So that the righteous fare as the wicked. Far be it from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And so God's answer is that listen, I will not destroy Sodom and Gomorrah if even there are ten righteous people found in it. And so what do we see here? What do we learn about God? Right? Abraham wants to know how God operates. And what we learn here is that the presence of upright people in a nation