Let's turn in our Bibles to First Corinthians chapter fifteen, First Corinthians fifteen. We'll look at the first eight verses. Paul writing to the church in Corinth Now I remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. Now many dismiss Christianity because they don't like a particular aspect of what it teaches. They don't like what it teaches about hell. That's not pleasant. They don't like what it teaches about sexual ethics. They don't like what it uh Jesus in John 14 when he said, I'm the only way to God I don't think that's reasonable. I don't think you dismiss something uh because you don't like what it says. You dismiss something uh b because it's true or it's not true. Or you you sorry, you dismiss something because it's not true And that's the claim that Christianity makes. You don't look at his teaching first, you look first as to whether or not this stuff is true. In the truth of Christianity stands or falls on a single event, the resurrection. of Jesus Christ from the grave. And so that's the question. Two thousand years ago, at a tomb outside the gates of Jerusalem Did Jesus physically rise from the grave? And if he did, then everything the Old Testament predicted and everything Jesus said about himself is true. He's God. If he did rise, then Christianity is a farce. And Jesus, who was renowned for his ethical teaching, was a liar, or perhaps he was delusional. Yeah, and the worst thing is that death is the final word. When you when they put you in the grave, that's the end. You will have ceased uh to be. So what I want to do this morning, I want to make a case for the resurrection. I do this for our young people I do this for those who are not believers to get you thinking about this stuff, just some basic lines of argument. And I do this for Christians to fortify your faith, to remind you. That Christianity isn't just a philosophy, it's not just an ethical system, but first and foremost, uh Christianity is rooted in history. It's rooted In the historical facts mentioned in verse, look at verse 3 and 4. Paul says this is of first importance. What does he talk about? Not the ethical system that Christianity prevents presents? Uh not the philosophy of life that Christianity sets forth, but rather I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. And he talks about historical events. That Christ died for our sins, in accordance with the Scripture, that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the Scripture. And then after rooting Christianity in these historical events, he goes on to say in verses five to eight that these claims About the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ, these claims are not the domain of wishful thinkers, but rather there were witnesses to these events. And they testify to the fact that these things really took place. So what we're going to do, we're going to focus really on the first point if you're following the outline. We're going to consider the testimony of the witnesses to the resurrection. And then we're going to go beyond the text. It's Easter Sunday. Give myself a little more freedom. Go beyond the text And we'll consider some additional evidence for the resurrection of Jesus. But before we jump in, I want to make a comment about how somebody moves from unbelief to belief. And in the end of the day, the Bible says, here's why some people believe this stuff and others reject it. In the end of the day. It's because God opens a person's eyes to see and to believe. That's why in 1 Corinthians 12, Paul said, no one can say That Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Or Jesus in John 6. 44, he said, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And so conversion is a work of God. But nonetheless, God uses means. And one of the means he uses, of course, well the main instrument he uses is the scripture. And scripture is a reasonable document. It uses reason You see this in Acts 17, verse 2. It says that Paul went into the synagogue on three Sabbath days, and he reasoned with the Jews from the Scriptures, explaining In proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. So Paul took the scripture and he reasoned Same thing in Acts 18, verse 4. It says about Paul. He reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and tried to persuade the Jews and the Greeks. One of the old Princeton theologians from the early 1900s, Benjamin Warfield, said, It is the distinction of Christianity that it has come into the world clothed with the mission To reason its way to dominion. That's a certain kind of reason. It's a reason that's subs submissive to scripture, but nonetheless, its reasons. So Christianity makes a reasonable case for the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So what I want to do, I want to set forth a couple uh standard lines of evidence. The first line that we're going to focus on, we'll spend most of our time on is the eyewitness testimony of Jesus' disciples. If you go through the New Testament You'll find that there are seven, there are eleven separate appearances that Jesus made to people over the span of 40 days. And in 1 Corinthians 15, the text we just read, Paul mentions some of these witnesses. Look at verse 5. He appeared to see this. That was Peter. He appeared to see this. And then to the twelve, the twelve disciples. At the end of verse 6. He appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive. So what do you say? No, first Corinthians was written about fifteen or twenty years after Jesus rose from the grave So Paul is saying to the readers of this letter, listen, you can talk to people who saw that Jesus rose from the grave. And they'll back up what I'm saying here. Look at verse 7. He appeared to James. James was the brother of Jesus. Now before Jesus was crucified during Jesus' earthly ministry, his brothers were not part of his fan club. It says in the first part of John chapter 7, they thought the guy was deluded And they were scared for him. So, and then what happened? After Jesus, three days after Jesus was crucified, Jesus' brother James became a fanatic He became a leader. You'll read this in the book of Acts. He became a leader in the church. He was the leader of the church in Jerusalem. Then he wrote the letter in the end of the New Testament that bears his name. And then he was martyred. The ancient Roman historian, Josephus, who lived back in that day, he said James was stoned to death. So he died a martyr's death. And so there's James, then in the end of verse 7, Paul says, and then to all the apostles, now we already mentioned the twelve apostles back uh back in verse five. So this is probably a reference to the hundred one hundred and twenty disciples who met Jesus in the upper room. This is Acts chapter one, the beginning of Acts 1 He met with these uh 120. So he's probably referring to that those folks who he to whom he appeared. And so you have these testimonies And we have to ask, what do we make of this? What do we do with this? And some try to dismiss it. They say that the disciples were deluded. And so they'll they'll come like this. They'll say, gee, and this is what you'll hear this morning in some downtown churches They'll say, not to be critical, um, they'll say that um Jesus' disciples They were hopeful and they believed in the resurrection. Now, of course, he didn't rise physically. But in their hearts, they had this resurrection faith. And so yeah, he he arose within them spiritually. And they were so convinced of his spiritual resurrection that they had these visions of Jesus appearing to them. Then over the course of time, these feelings about a spiritual resurrection evolved into stories that Jesus had physically risen from the grave. Now that sounds very sophisticated. I should have patches on my arm. I should scratch my chin on my elbow. But um I have a friend from New York from the Bronx, Paul Murphy. Paul Murphy would say Bologna. After Jesus was crucified The 11 remaining disciples, remember Jesus, right? He turned on Jesus, so the 11 disciples left. The eleven remaining disciples were anything. But hopeful. They were completely deflated. They were utterly disillusioned. And they were scared to death. They went into hiding. John 20, verse 19. But what were the disciples doing after Jesus was crucified? They weren't having a prayer meeting. They weren't singing kumbaya. It says on the evening of that day The first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews And so they were scared to death. They thought the Romans were going to find them, and they were going to crucify them as they had crucified Jesus. And so they weren't they didn't have this idea that Jesus had risen spiritually in their hearts. They had this idea that they had been misled either purposefully or Jesus was just deceived about who he was, and they were scared that they were going to suffer the same fate. And so some of the skeptics some skeptics will claim that the disciples were deluded. Other skeptics will say that the disciples were deceivers. They knew he didn't rise from the grave, but they were going to start this rumor, and they were going to start this religion, and they were going to be the leaders of this movement. And so they said they fabricated the resurrection story. Let me make four arguments against that, okay? Number one If the disciples made up the story of the resurrection, they did not pick very credible people to back up their lie. Because all four Gospels say that the first witnesses to the resurrection were women. And in the ancient Near East, in the first century, a woman's testimony was considered worthless And in Jerusalem, a woman's testimony would not be received in a Jewish court of law. And so if the disciples were fabricating a story about a resurrection Why would they say, why would all four Gospels say that the first witnesses were women? That would undermine the credibility of this thing they were trying to start. So why'd they say that? Well, here's a novel thought, because the first witnesses were women, and so they just recorded what happened. Here's a second problem with the theory that the disciples fabricated the story of the resurrection. If the disciples were deceivers The early opponents of Christianity could have put put this deception to rest All they had to do was to produce the body of Jesus. But they didn't do that. Why didn't they do that? Well, there was no body to produce. There was no corpse, you know, to put on a cart and drag through the streets of Jerusalem. A German theologian guy named by the name of Paul Altus, he said, the apostles' preaching of the resurrection could not have been maintained in Jerusalem for a single day, for a single hour, if the emptiness of the tomb had not been established as a fact for all concerned. Now, whether you believed in a resurrection or not, there was no body to be found. The tomb was empty. Nobody disputes that. Here's another problem with the idea that it was fabricated. It's one thing to die for something you believe in. If you're sincere about it, right? Muslims die for their beliefs all the time. They're sincere about it. But it's another thing to die for religious belief that you know is a lie. That's unique And yet, ten of the eleven remaining disciples died martyrs' death. The 11th John was exiled to a Roman penal colony, the island of Patanus. So Pascal said, I believe those witnesses they get their throats cut. Fourth reason, about it's not likely that this was fabricated. And that is the improbability of the disciples maintaining their testimony to the resurrection if it was a lie. I was reading something by Charles Coulson. Back in 1972, he was uh part of the Nixon administration. He was part of the gang that burglarized Easy for me to say stole the stuff out of the uh Watergate office building, the Democratic Party's uh uh headquarters And when the he said Colson said that when the Watergate scandal uh w was made public, some of Nixon's top aides tried to cover up uh the crime because they wanted to protect the president, of course, right? So Colson was Nixon's chief counsel, and he said the cover-up was maintained for only three weeks. Here's what he wrote. The first crack was John Dean. He went to the prosecutors and offered to testify against the president. After that, everyone started scrambling to protect themselves. Some of the most powerful politicians in the world And we couldn't keep a lie for more than three weeks. So Colson went to prison. And as it turned out, when he was in prison, he heard the gospel, he became a believer, he became a Christian, right? He had a great influence. influence uh since that time. He's dead now. So but what convinced Coulson that Christianity is true? And for him, he said, what convinced me that Christianity is true is the implausibility of Jesus' disciples doing What Nixon's top aides could not do, maintain a lie. And then he said, look, when you think about it, Nixon's AIDS Had everything to gain by keeping her silence, right? Keep him out of prison But Jesus' disciples and the early Christians who testified to the resurrection, they had nothing to gain By maintaining a lie, if Jesus had not risen from the grave, right? What did they get out of it? They were oppressed, they were persecuted, many of them died, martyrs' deaths. And so Colson said in the end of the story, he said, when I try to persuade others to believe the disciples' claims that they saw the risen Christ. He said, I start with Watergate. He wrote, The Watergate cover-up proves that twelve powerful men in modern America could not keep a lie. But twelve powerless men 2,000 years ago could not have been telling anything else but the truth So something to think about. A theologian, don't agree with everything he says, but a guy named N. T. Wright excoriates Those who casually dismiss the resurrection without taking a look at the evidence. Here's what he wrote. The early Christians did not invent the empty tomb or the meetings or sightings of the risen Jesus. Nobody was expecting this kind of thing No kind of conversion experience would have invented it. No matter how guilty or forgiven they may have felt, no matter how many hours they poured over the scriptures. He says, you know what, to suggest otherwise is to stop doing history and to enter a fantasy world of our own. And so the case for the resurrection, before you dismiss it, you have to deal with these witnesses. And how do you account for these witnesses maintaining their testimony? Here's something else. So we're making a case for the resurrection. The second thing we see in our text is in verse 8. And remember, Paul wrote this letter. And he talks about the fact that Christ appeared to him, right? He was walking that this was after Jesus ascended to heaven, walking down the road, going to Damascus, ready to kill some Christians. And the risen Christ appeared to him. So verse 8, Paul says, Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. So this is a reference to Christ appearing to Paul on the Damascus Road. I've told this story before, but it fits here. In the 18th century, there were two British lawyers. One guy's name was Gilbert West. The other lawyer's name was Lord Littleton. And um they they were unbelievers and they thought they had good reasons to dismiss a Christianity. One day they're talking and um one of the guys said, Christianity stands on a very unstable foundation There's only two things that actually support it. The first thing is the alleged resurrection of Jesus Christ from the grave, and the second thing is the alleged conversion of Saul of Tarsus. So if we can disprove these two events, then Christianity will crumble. It'll have no foundation. And so Gilbert West said, all right, I'm gonna write a book that will deal with this alleged rev resurrection of Christ, and I'll show that it's not reasonable. Then Lord Lyttleton said, all right, I'm going to write a book that will show that the alleged conversion of Saul Tarsus was fabricated. So they went off and they did their research. And what happens? Gilbert West, uh, he was persuaded that Christ rose from the grave. So he wrote a book. The title, The Resurrection of Christ. And he makes the argument in that book that this is a fact of history. Lord Lyttleton, in his study of Paul's alleged conversion, uh ends up writing a book. the conversion of St. Paul. And so this is something that has to be dealt with. You go back to Acts chapter 8. Remember the first martyr with Stephen, the first Christian martyr in the early church, and it says in Acts chapter 8, first couple verses Says Saul approved of his sorry approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church, and entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. Now, how do you explain what happened to this guy? He's a Pharisee of Pharisees, right? He's steeped in the teachings of Judaism He's a bloodthirsty persecutor of Christians. And like that, he's a historical figure. He becomes the greatest evangelist who ever lived. How do you explain that? That has to be explained. There's only one reasonable explanation, is that, yeah, he saw the risen Christ. There are the witnesses. Let's go let's leave the passage just a couple things more briefly. We're talking about evidence for the resurrection. Here's one that people don't I don't I don't think consider seriously enough The change in the Sabbath from the seventh day of the week to the first day of the week This is monumental. If you think about a Jew in the first century, you know, the Sabbath, Exodus 20, the seventh day was the day of rest. So for centuries This was at the center of their religious life for hundreds of years. You get the first Christians who are Jewish, right? The first Christians. Jewish people began meeting now on the first day of the week. Acts 20, verse 7, other text. It's called the day of the Lord. How is it that these Jews made this huge shift in their practice without you know without skipping a beat No longer the seventh day, first day is the day of worship. Well, the only reason reasonable explanation, I think, is that They did this to commemorate the resurrection of Christ, the appearances, right? You look in the Gospels and Acts. It's always on the first day of the week that he appeared to his followers. Something to consider. Number four, list of evidences. The emergence of the church. That's an evidence for the resurrection of Christ. How is that? Well, because there was no church before Jesus rose from the grave. What were the disciples doing? They were hiding. They were trying to preserve their lives The followers had scattered, remember Peter denied Jesus three times. And there was no church. But then suddenly there there arose this gathering of Jesus followers and it grew to be the become the largest institution in the history of the world. How is it that it it just suddenly started? How do you explain the inception and growth of the church? How do you explain that within 20 years? The church spread across the Roman Empire. People were dying for this. They were giving their lives. They were testifying to the risen Christ. And that within 20 years it reached it reaches Caesar's palace in Rome. So how do you explain that? You know, somebody somebody said the Grand Canyon wasn't formed by an Indian uh dragging a stick through the desert. Something happened to start to make the Grand Canyon what it is. And the same with the church, right? The church was not founded on a myth. of a resurrection. Finally, fifth thing, you have the testimony of secular historians, not to the resurrection, but to events surrounding Jesus' crucifixion. Let me give an example, never done. Matthew 27, verse 45. It says that when Jesus was crucified, quote, From the sixth hour there was darkness over the land until the ninth hour. Now there was a historian back then in Rome. His name was Thallus. He wrote a history of the Eastern Mediterranean in fifteen eighty sorry in fifty-two AD And he doesn't deny the fact that darkness came over the land when Jesus was crucified. But he didn't believe Jesus was God, so he said, listen. Here's how we explain the darkness. It was an eclipse of the sun. Well I guess some guys who were smarter than Thallus later on said, Hey, wait a minute here. Um when Jesus was crucified It was on the Passover, and the Passover is on the fourteenth day, according to the moon So you can't have a solar eclipse during a full moon. It's on the other side of the earth. And but but Thalus did say there was an eclipse He just tried to explain it away, but his explanation wasn't sufficient because there could not have been an eclipse on the Passover. So what am I doing here? That's what I asked myself. What am I doing here now? What am I doing here? What I'm doing is I'm just laying some things out. And I understand that You know, you I could talk till I'm blue in the face, and I'm getting a little blue now, right? I could talk till I'm blue in the face, but If your will is set against believing this stuff, then whatever I say, it'll bounce right off you. Because it's not just a matter of the intellect, it's a matter of the will, it's a matter of the heart. And no, you know You know, if I I could if I could produce photographs of a risen Christ, you you you'd explain it away. I understand that. But what I'm trying to do, if you're not a believer As I'm trying to get you to think about this. I'm trying to put some chinks in your armor and say and get you to say, you know what? Before I dismiss Christianity I should open the scripture. I should just read it. I should think about it. I should ask questions. I should uh I could there's some things I could recommend. Um and for our young people, you know you you you inhabit a world where on belief is in the very air you boot the air you breathe. So why go along with this when you could go along with the crowd? It would be a lot easier. And the reason I'm saying is because this is true. And you want to be in line with what is true. You want to live your life in accordance with truth. And you are made to know God and to follow Him and to know Christ. And there's a purpose to the resurrection, right? It's not just a religious story, but this is the way that people, sinners, come into a right relationship with the God of the universe through trusting in his substitutionary death and um and then his resurrection which which verifies that everything he said is true and that we are forgiven. And so Jesus said I'm the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. That's the wonderful message we have. We don't proclaim it just on Easter. We proclaim it every day, right? That if you rest on Christ, you recognize He's God. You turn from going your own way. You repent and you follow Him. That you will be forgiven and you'll be in a right standing with the Holy God. You're going to live forever. You will not be condemned for your sin. Let's bow our hands. Father in heaven, we're thankful that our faith Is not a philosophy, but it's rooted in history