So in Revelation seventeen, John uh disclosing this vision, this next stage of the vision that the angel of God gave to him, writes Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, Come and I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on the many waters. with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk. And he carried me away in a spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman setting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. And on her forehead was written a name of mystery, Babylon the Great, mother of prostitutes and of the earth's abominations. And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her I marveled greatly. But the angel said to me, Why do you marvel? I will tell you a mystery of the woman, and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her. The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go into destruction. The dwellers on the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel to see the beast, because it was and is not and is to come. This calls for a mind with wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated There are also seven kings, five of whom had fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he does come, he must remain only a little while As for the beast who was and is not, it is an eighth, but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received royal power, but they are to receive authority as kings for one hour together with the beast These are of one mind, and they hand over their power and authority to the beast. They will make war on the lamb, and the lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings And those with him are called fa are called and chosen and faithful. And the angel said to me, The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages. In the ten horns you saw, they and the beast will hate the prostitute, they will make her desolate and naked, and devour her flesh, and burn her up with fire. For God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind in handing over their royal power to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled And the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth Let's just bow our heads. Father in heaven, this is a very uh challenging text of scripture, but you gave it to us uh not as a puzzle or riddle But as a statement of your sovereignty and your purposes in history. And so may we be attentive. May you speak to us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So, you know, when you come to a passage like this, uh you have to remember, uh as we've been going through a revelation, I've been reminding you just about every week of the purpose of this book. And once you get the purpose, that helps guide your understanding of the letter. And if you remember the purpose of Revelation is to assure oppressed, persecuted Christians living in first century Rome, but also, or the Roman Empire, but also Christians down through time That wickedness will not go answered. The day is coming when God will judge the world and he will bless his people. And so in Revelation We've seen again and again what is described as cycles of judgment. And so you have in chapters, I think, like six to eight, the seven seals of God's judgment. Then it may then in chapter eight, seven trumpets of God's judgment. Then in chapter sixteen, seven bowls of God's wrath being poured out. And so these are this is just history from the time of the resurrection to the time Jesus returns. They're just cycles And now when you get to chapter 17, it focuses in on the sixth and the seventh, for example, the sixth and seventh Bowl of God's wrath that we read about in chapter 16, which was his judgment and then his condemnation, his destruction of wickedness. And so now, from chapter 17 to 22, we're going to focus on God judging various aspects. of the world. For example, the false prophet, chapter twenty, the dragon who represents Satan Chapters 17 and 18 focus on his judgment of uh this this figure who is referred to as a prostitute, also referred to as Babylon. And so we have also then in these chapters between 17 and 22, a statement about the final destiny of the church, okay So chapters 17 to 22, again, are about the final judgment of the world and also the final destiny of the church. And if you want a framework for understanding these final five five, six chapters, if you want a framework for understanding it, I think a real clear framework is to recognize that these chapters speak of two cities, the city of Jerusalem and the city of Babylon. In addition, each of these cities is personified as a woman. Okay? So the church Jerusalem is represented by a bride, then the world or Babylon is represented by a prostitute. Now let's just look at a detail that fleshes this out. There's a parallel, for example, if you look at verse 1 in chapter 17 Then you pull up chapter twenty-one verse nine. You'll see a parallel that sets forth the contrasting destinies of the bride, Jerusalem, and the destiny of the prostitute, Babylon. So first of all, chapter 17, verse 1 speaks about the prostitute. John says, and one of the seven angels, now these were the seven angels from the previous chapter, who are pouring out the bowls of God's wrath on humanity. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me and said, Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters. Okay? So the angel with the bowl says, I'm going to show you what's going to happen to the prostitute, to the world. And then you go up to chapter 21, verse 9. And we read something similar. John says, then came one of the seven angels, who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues. Right, the seven last place from chapter 16. Ian spoke to me, saying, same kind of language, come, and I will show you, this time not the prostitute, but the bride. The wife of the Lamb. And so we're going to discover when we get to chapters 20 and 21 that the destiny of the church, the bride of Jesus Christ, Jerusalem is glorious. For example, chapter 21, verse 2. John says, I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. That's the destiny of the bride. Well, not in an abstract sense. That's your destiny. So this is about your future. You're gonna be you're gonna be when this takes place you're gonna be there. So this is worth listening to, okay? And then also the destiny of the prostitute, Babylon, is destruction. And so in chapters 17 and 18, We have description in chapter 17 basically of the judgment of destroy of Babylon, chapter 18 Of the destruction of Babylon, of the world, of wickedness, of those who are opposed to Jesus Christ. Remember, the purpose of Revelation is to encourage beleaguered Christians, not only in the first century, but down through time. Do not be disheartened Hang in there, persevere, because your future is glorious, but wickedness will be completely overthrown And so do not become discouraged. So a tale of two cities, Jerusalem and Babylon. The question I encourage you to consider as we make our way through is which of these cities has captured your heart. Okay? Which of these cities has captured your heart? So let's look then this morning at this prostitute, Babylon, okay Uh Babylon in the first century, think about the first century readers of this letter. It stood for Rome, right? It was Babylon. It was a city full of pagan temples with its attendant sexual immorality and also as a city where the emperor required people to bow down and to say Caesar is Lord. And that interpretation It certainly seems to be uh supported by verse nine, where John says in the end of the verse, the seven heads are the seven mountains on which the woman is seated And so this prostitute was seated on these seven mountains, and I believe that would be have been representative of Rome of Roma, a city built on seven hills Further, verse 18 describes Babylon as the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth. And that was certainly true of Rome. It had dominion over all the kings of the earth. This is also coraborated by if you want to skip over to first Peter Chapter 5 verse 13. Peter seems to be making a cryptic reference to Rome when he says of the church there. She who is at Babylon sends you greetings. In other words, the church in Rome and Babylon sends you greetings And so that's how the first century believers would have understood it. It was initially written to them, but it was written to Christians down through time. And so more broadly Babylon is a symbol for fallen civilization, for fallen culture for the world that is aligned against uh Jesus Christ for worldliness, right, with all its allurements of money, sex, power, and pleasure. And so it's for this reason that the spirit of spirit of the world is personified As a coarse, brazen prostitute. And so this is brilliant literature, right? They don't just say the world is this and the world is that. But But God by his Spirit gave John this vision to personify the world as a coarse, brazen prostitute. One of the great commentators, Leon Morris. Wrote, Babylon is civilized man organized apart from God and against God. Babylon is the world as a center of seduction at any moment in history. The harlot Babylon always opposes the bride, which is Jerusalem. And what is she like? Well we can summarize her her nature uh under three heads. First of all, uh she's characterized by moral decadence. She's marked by uh look if you look at verse four, she's marked not by true beauty uh but by cheap glamour. Look at verse four The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. And so she has a glitzy exterior But that conceals uh that which is which is an abomination uh to God. And so she was glamorous, But she was disgusting. She she was she was repulsive at her core. And I just say to our young people, to all of us, but certainly to our young people It's important to be able to develop the ability to distinguish between cheap, trashy glamour And genuine beauty. No, what what is it that makes a person beautiful? What what is it that makes you beautiful What is it that would make your friends or prospective spouse beautiful? What are the things that we should be looking for? What are what What are the qualities of good movies, of good music, or good company? Well, the Bible holds up certain virtues, and in other things are just superficial. And so Babylon the horror was characterized by cheap glamour. And her aim was to tempt and or is to tempt and to To seduce and to draw people away from God. So chapter 18, going ahead, just 18, verse 3. It says, All the nations have drunk the wine and passion of her sexual immorality. And the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her. And so that's what she did. She has drawn people away from God. And so uh William Hendrickson says Whatever is used by the world to turn believers away from their God is in this cup. Pornographic literature, sports, in which one becomes completely absorbed. luxuries, worldly fame and power, the lust of the flesh, and so on. In other words, whatever can be used, whether something that's immoral in it or something that's not immoral in itself But whatever it it is that draws a person away from God, that is what is still what is in that cup uh that this whore is carrying. But the cup's attractive. It's a golden cup, but yet verse 4 is filled with abominations and impurities. Remember years ago reading a biography of a British journalist by the name of uh Malcolm Muggridge. I think it was called The Crooked Stick. Great it's a great story. Story of his life. But he talked about, you know, he he was an assignment in Russia and all all over the world. He was on assignment in in India for a season. And um he was away from his wife and he struggled with his faithfulness, but he had been faithful to his wife up to that point. But one evening he decided, I'm going to go down to the river and go for a swim And he saw from a distance a a lady, a w an Indian woman had uh gone down into the river to bathe. And he struggled with this temptation And he said, I can't do that. I can't go near that woman. That would be wrong. And then finally he threw his moral restraint to the wind and he swam over toward that woman, almost blind, right, with desire And when he came upon her, she emerged from the water, and he discovered that she was old, toothless, and her body had been consumed by leprosy. And he was just disgusted not only at what he saw, but he was disgusted at himself. And that that's the nature of the world's temptations. They are they're initially attractive, but we discover in time, and if not in this life. In the life to come, we will discover that at their core their abominations and their impurities. And so uh Babylon, the prostitute, uh number one, she's characterized by moral decad decadence Secondly, she's characterized by a hatred of God's people. It says in verse 3 that the beast on which this woman, this prostitute, rode was full of blasphemous names. And so she was blaspheming God. Verse 6 says that the woman was drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus And so she was she's bloodthirsty for God's people. It says in verse fourteen of the kings in league with her that they make war on the land And so the world is militantly opposed to Jesus Christ and to his people. And um that's why, you know, you might you might have a friend, a sincere, uh secular unbeliever, uh, you know, the person has a coexist sticker on their bumper, but at their heart they can't stand the fact uh that uh Christians want to educate their kids as they see fit And under their their worldview, uh they're they're they're they're driving uh Christian ministries like Campus Crusade and Inner Varsity, all college campuses, because they cannot stand the fact That these ministries would abide on these campuses. And so there is no such thing as coexist in their book. That's why in some countries They're they're trying to exterminate, extinguish the Church of Jesus Christ. Why is it? Why is that? It's because this whore of Babylon hates God's people Then a third characteristic of Babylon, the world, is her gross materialism. It says in verse 4, the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls. I think about Dolly Parton in the country music documentary or was something I saw. She said, it costs a lot of money to look this cheap, and so it is. So it is of the world, right? Uh she's a raid in all these things, but still you can't put You can put lipstick on a pig, but she's still a pig. It's still the world. She's still a prostitute. And um this image, I should add, this image of her a prostitute uh represents not merely sexual immorality but just this lust to enrich yourself. You see that? Go over back over to chapter 18 verse uh verse 3 Right, he talked about in the beginning of verse 3 and chapter 18 about the nations drinking the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality But then it goes then it goes on, the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her. How so? Well not only sexually, but then explains The merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. And so when you talk of we're talking about a prostitute, is it not only has sexual implications, but just the lust for uh the things of the eyes You know, you think about uh some of these companies that produce uh their goods overseas using slave labor, and yet we buy their shoes or whatever. Wait a minute. I don't want that shoe so much that I'm gonna ca I'm gonna condemn of what they're doing. And so that's the prostitute. And she has, she's in league, it says in verses 7 to 17, with a figure pictured as a beast, a scarlet beast And so the world, the prostitute, and the beast are working together. If Babylon uh represents the seductions of the world The beast, and you probably don't remember this, it's been a while back, but the beast first came up in the beginning of chapter 13, and we concluded that the beast Which is spoken of here in verse seven of chapter seventeen. The beast represents the uh represents the power and the persecution of the state, of the government, of a government that is aligned against Jesus Christ. That's not just speculation. But remember I said Revelation is rooted in the Old Testament. We're not going to do it now because I'm saying too much already. But in Daniel 7 There are four beasts representing four empires, four earthly governments that came in succession. And so that's why we can conclude uh with confidence that the beast represents uh anti-Christian governments. Again, William Hendrickson has a little commentary said the beast is the entire anti-Christian persecution movement Throughout history embodied in successive world empires. And so in the first century uh these Christians would have recognized that the beast was the Roman Empire, the Roman government. That's why again in verse nine it speaks about the seven hills on which The woman sat. She sat on the Roman Empire, but it has seven heads. And here's where we get confused it gets confusing, but let's just sort of breeze through this Seven heads, in other words, the beast assumes different forms. And we would say, yeah, down through history there have been various governments that have persecuted God's people, right? The Egyptians and then the Babylonians, the Romans Talk about last century the communists in Russia and China, and then we would even see uh manifestations of this today in the United States And just briefly, just a couple comments on the history of the beast. Verse 8 says, he says something that sounds familiar. He says the beast that you saw was and is not and is about to rise. Well, Jesus was talked about early in Revelation as he who was and is and is to come. And so what we have oftentimes in Revelation is a parody of what uh a mockery of Jesus Christ done by Satan. And so the beast uh anti-Christian governments they they were but then they're not but then they are to come in other words they they wax and they they wane there are times in history and places in history Where evil rulers hold sway, but then in time they disappear. And you go, okay, good, everything's gonna get better. Life is just gonna get better, or the world's gonna get better until Jesus returns But then another wicked ruler or or state comes on the scene, right? So Stalin and Hitler and Castro and Mao Zedong, they're all gone But then there are other rulers who have arisen uh to uh take their place. And so in even the first century The Christians breathed a sigh of relief. Nero was dead, but then soon would come the Emperor of Domitian with his vicious persecution of Christians. You go to end of verses nine to twelve. They're difficult to interpret. And um I'm not I'm not even gonna read them again uh because You can I get point into some commentaries, but what will happen is if I spend time on it, we'll it'll be we'll be speculating on the obscure, but what I want to do It's just give you some basic markers here. And the main marker I want you to see as we come closer to the end now. This is the third point. Is we're going to see the theme that dominates chapters 17 and 18, and that is the destruction of the prostitute and the destruction of the beast. And so what we are told in these two chapters is that evildoers will be destroyed. They'll be destroyed from without, and they'll be destroyed from within. So briefly when I say that they'll be destroyed from without, all I'm saying is that God will judge them. And so we read and we will read next chapter week in chapter 18 of the destruction of the harlot Babylon. Chapter 18, the end of verse 8, we read, She will be burned up with fire. For mighty is the Lord God who has judged her. And likewise the beast, anti-Christian rulers, will be judged. In our chapter, in the end of verse 11, it says, the beast, quote, goes to destruction. Verse 14, the kings of the earth will make war on the lamb, and the lamb will conquer them. And so this is the lesson that though things are so can be so wicked in parts of the world and even in our culture, uh there will be a day of judgment. And so be of good cheer. They'll be destroyed by God. They'll be destroyed from without. But also They will be destroyed from within, and this happens down through history. Evil is inherently self-destructive. And so down through history, the beast and the prostitute, in other words, anti-Christian governments, and then the godless seductive world system They've been in league together, right? Down through history they've been in league. Verse 2 speaks about the prostitute with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, the end of verse 3, the woman was sitting on the beast, and so they're in league together. Right? They're aligned against the church. How can the weak church stand against them? But in time The beast, in other words, the worldly rulers will turn against the prostitute, the world's seductions, and will destroy her Verse 16, please. And the ten horns that you saw, and the beast, excuse me, in the ten horns that you saw, they and the beast. Will hate the prostitute. They will make her desolate and naked and devour her flesh and burn her up with fire. Uh Vern Poitrus, another of the commentators, said Idolatrous states end up destroying The very powers, riches, privileges, and people that they originally supported. False worship is self-destructive It cannot but be. What was an example? And I would say, well like with socialism, right? The government destroys The means of production and all these things that people are so enthralled with. The government ends up consuming them. But we also could say, or should say, with capitalism. When the quest for riches and just for material things, when it's not tethered to a moral compass, it's also self-destructive. And so we we can we could think of examples of how this would play out, but what I want to do is just underline The larger principle being stated here, particularly, I think it was in verse 9, is that evil is inherently self-destructive God will not only judge the wicked world, evil is self-destructive. That is taught in Romans chapter 1. God gave them over to their sin and they they destroyed themselves. A book that was popular some years ago, uh but still relevant, a book titled The Benedict Option by a guy named Rod Dreyer. In this book he says, you know what? But he predicts the brave new world of the secular left cannot sustain itself. He said it's on a collision course with reality. And when you're on a collision course with reality, who's gonna win? You know, think about uh when you build a skyscraper. You can do it your way, or you could you can design it according to the laws of physics. If you do it your way, you know what's going to happen to that skyscraper. And it's the same with a healthy society, right? A healthy culture. There are certain realities that must be respected, otherwise Society will inevitably collapse upon itself. Just basic biological realities. There are men and there are women. Lesson number one, right? That's a man, that's a woman, and nothing else in between. Relational realities. There is such a thing as biblical masculinity and biblical femininity. And it could be twisted, but these are realities. And we tr when we try to live, when we try to deny these realities for whatever purpose It's not going to work. The realities of a society must have rule of law, it must have property rights, it must have an unbiased judicial system. It must have a government that has a limited sphere of authority, as taught in Romans chapter 13. If these realities are not respected, then the whole thing's gonna collapse, it's gonna crash, it's gonna destroy it's going to destroy itself. And so um this sort of depressing But here's the lesson now. Before you despair, there's an evangelistic silver lining here. Because when a non-believer comes to see that the secular way of ordering life cannot sustain itself, Yeah he might see in his family. Um I gave him an example last week about this guy, right? He was engaged and and he looked at a Christian family and realized, you know what, I'm never gonna have that kind of marriage with this woman, the way she is and the way I am He became a Christian. But when an unbeliever sees that the secular way of of ordering life does not sus cannot sustain itself, That sometimes opens that person up to hearing the gospel. This is why, here's a lesson, a lesson, this is why we need to be diligent and work with all our hearts, no matter how difficult, to preserve Christian homes and to preserve distinctively Christian, Bible-centered churches. And to have distinctively Christian schools for our children, right? Because we want the unbelieving world, our neighbors, our friends, our relatives, we want them to see uh despite our fallenness that Christianity works because this is the way God made the world to work. This is why it works. Uh there's no no secret about it. God made the world. He made us. When we seek to order our lives according to his word, our lives are still difficult and full of pain and sin, but nonetheless, it's of a different order than of a life and a society that is built on Principles that violate the nature of God and his ordering for society. And so there's encouragement here. Uh God is still building his church And we remember, we see in this passage, God is sovereign. It says in verse 12, he gave this beast a limited amount of time to work his destruction. Look at verse 12, the second part. They had to receive authority from kings for one hour together with the beast. So it's just an hour, in other words, it's just a limited amount of time. Same thing in verse 17, speaking about God's sovereignty It says, for God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and handing over their royal power to the beast. until the words of God are fulfilled. So God put it in his their hearts. God is making these things happen. This is God's judgment on the world. He is sovereign, sovereign in executing of this judgment. But in the end, God will destroy evil. 18 verse 2, we're going to have this happy song next week. Fallen, fallen. is Babylon the Great. And so certain is her destruction that it's spoken of in the past tense. Why? Because it is as good as done, it is an accomplished fact. Okay? So we're step-step back take one step back now. Remember, we're talking about the tale of two cities. This morning, we looked at the tale of the city of Babylon, the prostitute When we get to chapters 20 and 21, we'll look at the tale of the city, Jerusalem, the bride of Jesus Christ. And the question I asked you is which city has captured your heart? Which city Or perhaps even are you a citizen of? And you might be a citizen of Jerusalem, but you're still looking over the fence at Babylon. Well this should give us some clarity, right? Just as Malcolm Muggerich had this clarity when he came upon this woman in the river. So Jesus said in Matthew seven thirteen, Enter by the narrow gate For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many, for the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life And those who find it are few. And Jesus Christ is that gate. And if you have entered through that gate He invites you to have this fellowship meal, right? Just a just a foretaste of the great banquet we will have in the New Jerusalem. Let's bow our heads. Our Lord God, we pray you'd help us to be clear minded uh in our fight against temptation In our being seduced by the by the lies of the world with all its glitz and glamour Help us, Lord, to stay in your word, and may you speak to us through that word. May you fortify us to continue in this path that we're on. I pray for our young people that they would follow Jesus Christ in a single-minded manner, use each of us, old and young as light to those about us who are not yet believers. And we pray that you bring many into your kingdom. And for any here who's not saved, who doesn't know Christ as the Savior of their souls, awaken them, Lord. Bring them to yourself. Give them faith and repentance. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. As we sing Psalm one and prepare for the Lord's Supper, uh we'll let's just stand. Psalm number one. We may receive As we make our way to that heavenly city in the New Jerusalem that will be found in the New Heavens and New Earths, we welcome you to this table this morning. But we let you know that there are conditions for your attendance at this table. This is the table for those who have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Determined to live before God and to die to sin, and have made a public profession of that faith through their membership in a Bible-believing church. We want to remind you too that children who have not publicly confessed faith in Christ by being received by the elders of this church into the communicant membership of it should let the elements pass and learn by reverent observation what this table is about. The same applies to those children who may have already professed faith privately but have not done so publicly to the elders. Those who are without saving faith in Christ, we want to remind you That you too should let the elements of this sacrament pass before you. You should be sure to heed the call to receive Christ by repentance and faith, as he has offered to you in the gospel. Let me also just mention for a moment of meditation that for some it may seem odd to gather around this table to remember our Lord's death During a season when we're remembering his birth. But if we should be puzzled about that, let's remember that our Lord came with a mission when he was born. He came from heaven to earth to die for sinners, to redeem sinners. And as a consequence, we read in 1 Corinthians about this table. You know the passage well. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Verse 23, for I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also He took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it. in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And so we come to this table this morning and let's pray together as we give thanks for the bread. Heavenly Father, we do give you thanks that you did prepare a body for our Lord Christ, for your Son, the eternal Son. To take up residence among us, to live a perfect life, faithful where we are unfaithful, that his sacrifice might indeed be faith be acceptable, pleasing to you. We pray now that as we receive this bread, we may be mindful of these things. For His sake we pray. Amen. Well we're fine buttons or Let's partake of the bread together. Let us now give thanks for the cup as well. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we reflect on our Lord's death, we are mindful that he did die above. He did not die by natural causes. And consequently we are mindful that he did bear the wrath. of your hand, of your sword on our behalf. How we give you thanks for this cup as a reminder of that truth. We pray that we may receive Receive it as such, for Jesus' sake, Amen. Um Let us partake of the cup together. What a ri rich feast this is for those of us with the eyes up safe to see it. Just be sure that we have remembered our Lord's death. at this time, but with the anticipation that he is to come. Even as we sing in one ninety six, hymn one ninety six Reflecting on the first coming of our Lord, come thou long expected Jesus. Please thank. The Lord making things news and holds him. Why is God to bring the Yeah, we can swear to many big uh things. No, it's two hundred Now receive the benediction of God as those who have made a choice for the new Jerusalem. May grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father through Christ our Lord. By the power of the Spirit be yours now and forever. Amen. I fumbled man. This is I was about to blame your mother. I almost dropped my hymnal, so that's me. Almost dead. Hymnically.