It's written for us. It's written to give us an understanding of history, how history works. It reminds us of God's sovereignty of history Reminds us that things are not going to get better and better. There will always be difficulties. But in the end, Jesus Christ and his people will prevail. We will be victorious. And so it's a it's an important book, uh oftentimes um avoided by Christians and by churches, but it's good that we're in this book uh at such a time as this, but also it's part of the Bible It's not just something to to intrigue us, but it's something to hearten us and to help us to persevere. So let's bow our heads. Lord, we pray that we will hear your word from us, speak to us, help us to understand the The difficult sections of this book and help us to apply it to our lives. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Revelation chapter seven. John says in his vision, he says, After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth. holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the earth and sea, saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until I have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And I will excuse me. And I heard the number of the sealed A hundred and forty-four thousand sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Twelve thousand from the tribe of Judah were sealed. 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of Gad, 12,000 from the tribe of Asher, 12,000 from the tribe of Naptali, Twelve thousand from the tribe of Manasseh Twelve thousand from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand from the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand from from the tribe of Z Bebulin, twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph Twelve thousand from the tribe of Benjamin were saved. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before their throne. And worship God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes, and from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sets on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Now here's something interesting, at least I think it was interesting, the way that people looked at history just 120 years ago. December 31, 1899, there was a editorial run in the New York Times summing up the wonderful accomplishments of the 1800s. It spoke about steam engines, railroads, telegraph lines, ocean liners, telephones, electric lights. the cash register, advances in sanitation and medicine, and on and on it went. And this editorial concluded We step upon the threshold of 1900, leads to the new century facing a still bright dawn of civilization And so there was a tremendous optimism about the future. Even in the churches, there was a there was this great optimism, a hymn written in the 1900s. Uh it went like this. The writer's name was John Addington Addington Simmons, in case you want to look at the whole hymn. But it had lines like this. It spoke about a loftier race than ever the world has known shall rise with flame of freedom in their souls. in the light of knowledge in their eyes. So the greater a greater race is going to come. Unashamed, we shall live as comrades free. In every heart and brain shall shall throb the pulse of one fraternity, so we shall all be brothers. Unarmed, we shall live, excuse me, I'm sorry, every life shall be a song when all the earth is paradise. And so that was the sentiment in the wider culture and in the Christian church. Things are getting better. Things are evolving. And before long, there's going to be no more warfare, no more sickness or disease. Everything's going to be wonderful. So that was in the 1800s, even in 1899, we heard that editorial. Twelve years later, in 1912, the Titanic sunk. And that was something of an omen about the vanity of placing mankind's hope in technology and science. And as it turned out, the twentieth century, we know looking back was the bloodiest century in history Then came World War I, World War II, millions killed, six million Jews exterminated, Stalin, Mao Zedong, and other communist uh destroyed over a hundred million, killed a hundred million uh intentionally, and then millions others died uh through the starvation that came from their policies And so we know better, right? We're living in a perilous time. And we know life in the fallen world will not get continually better Life will be a mixture of advances that come by God's common grace, but also misery that still is here because of our sin. Well that was the message we looked at last week in Revelation chapter 6. It described the opening of six seals. And let me just remind you, the first four seals, they were set. These first four seals talked about the abiding presence down through history of conquest. Of warfare, of famine, and of death. That's chapter 6, verses 1 to 8. The Nephistiel in chapter 6 had God's people who had been martyred, calling out, How long, O Lord? And then the sixth seal, which is in chapter 6, speaks about the final judgment. Well, God will exercise justice. on this world, justice and also redemption. So, but I said there's seven seals, or maybe I didn't say that. There are seven seals. Where's the seventh seal? You don't hit the seventh seal till you come to chapter eight. When you come to chapter eight, oh excuse me, but what about chapter seven? What's going on here Chapter 7 is an interlude before the opening of the seventh seal. And this interlude certainly serves to heighten the suspense. Imagine being a Christian, having this letter read to you in one of the seven churches in Asia Minor. Minor, you're being persecuted, you're suffering. The government is telling you you must say Caesar is Lord. And you're asking this question. What about us? Is God going to protect us? Will we be vindicated? Will we persevere? Will we suffer the horrors of judgment spoken of in that sixth seal in the end of chapter six? This passage before us in chapter 7, this interlude, assures us God's people will forever be secure. Because Christ's church is indestructible. And Jesus Himself said that in his earthly ministry, did he not? He said, I'll build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. So we're in chapter 7. It breaks into two parts. The first eight verses describe the church on earth. The church on earth In the earliest in the early days, the recipients of this letter, the church on earth, down through time in the church on earth when a heightened persecution comes before Jesus Christ returns. And then the second part of chapter 7 is verses 9 to 17 speaks about the church in heaven. So we talk about the church on earth typically as the church militant, right? We're still in the battle. The church in heaven is the church triumphant They've won the battle. And so let's look first of all, just two points in this sermon. Verses 1 to 8 are about God's protection of the church militant. And so we looked at chapter 6 and at all these statements about God's judgment being unleashed on the earth. There were four horsemen in the beginning of chapter 6. You get to chapter 7 verse 1. You read of four angels, and they're restraining the winds. And then another angel marks God's people with a seal upon their foreheads, guaranteeing their protection. from the calamities that will befall humanity. So look at verse three The angel says, Do not harm the earth or the seas of the trees or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And so think about a seal in the ancient world. It was made by pressing a signet ring on wax or on clay. And the seal signified protection. Don't touch this. Don't tamper with this. Remember Jesus when he was put in the tomb? Uh the stone in front of it was sealed by the Jewish authorities to say you should you may not open or put roll away this stone And so the seal was for protection, and the seal a seal also signified ownership. So the writer of the Song of Solomon says to his beloved Set me as a seal upon your heart. And so in other words, the person who sealed an object was saying, This is mine Keep your hands off it. And that's what we see in this section. Verse 3 says, they were sealed on their foreheads. What was indicated on their four heads. Chapter 14, verse 1 tells us the hundred for the 144,000 had his name Christ's name, in the Father's name written on their foreheads. And so the seal then, in chapter uh seven, verse three. Is that yeah verse three, verse uh verse four, three and four. Uh we're sealed. If you're a Christian, you've been sealed It signifies your owner, Jesus Christ, owns you. He purchased you with his blood. It signifies he will protect you. He will defend you. Now we we cannot say, and we might assume, but it's not saying that Christians will not suffer or Christians will not die. But it's saying that God will preserve us spiritually. We will persevere in the faith. We will not fall away. We will see Christ face to face one day, no matter what comes our way If you're Christian, God has put his seal on you, and you're not going to fall away. And we're all going to see God together one day. And we're going to be redeemed. And we're going to see God made good on his promises. And it's obvious, even as you read the book of Revelation. That the seal does not say that we'll be spared suffering because chapter 2 verse 10 Jesus called his people to be faithful unto death. You know, even if they cut off your head, Jesus is saying, be faithful. Chapter 6, verse 9. The martyrs were crying out to God, so they had already died. on account of their allegiance to Christ. Chapter 12, verse 11 speaks about God's faithful servants who love not their lives even unto death. And so this seal is an assurance. You're going to persevere because God is going to preserve you. And I know there's been all kind of uh things on the news about uh what's going on in Afghanistan. A friend uh sent me a little video that a missionary in Afghanistan said uh sent and uh this missionary saying the Taliban and I'm sure you've heard stuff like this the Taliban is going door to door And they're finding anybody who has uh Western numbers in their uh contact list on their cell phone and they're just killing those people uh Christians, non-Christians, Muslim minorities, uh people who assisted the Americans. That's what's going on. But this promise here is that though many die, and we grieve this, true believers will persevere in the faith. Let me make another comment here. You have this number, 144,000. What kind of things have been said about this, Jehovah's Witnesses? Uh say that uh there'll be a hundred and forty-four thousand that go to heaven. Everybody else will stay in a paradise on earth. And then uh even in the Christian church there's different Interpretations, the framework of interpreting the book of Revelation, known as dispensationalism, says that that hundred and forty-four thousand Refers to Jews who will be saved in the final years before Jesus returns. Most of us say, no, it's not a literal number. Revelation is full of symbolic numbers. Remember, I said, I've been saying this all along. This is a type of literature known as apocalyptic. Daniel, Zechariah, Ezekiel, and Revelation. This type of literature is characterized by a couple things. Very vivid imagery, And also the symbolic use of numbers. And we see a lot of numbers used symbolically in Revelation, right? The number seven. Seven churches, seven lampstands. Seven seals, seven trumpets, seven bowls. You have a dragon and a beast. They each have ten horns. You have Jerusalem. with twelve foundations and twelve gates. On those are written the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. in the twelve apostles and then the wall around the city is 144 cubits tall. And so if all those numbers are symbolic Why would we suddenly say that we would take this 144,000 as a as a a literal number? And so we say, no, that's symbolic also. It's probably twelve tribes times twelve apostles, you get 144. And to uh you multiply it by a thousand, just to show that God's people are going to be a great multitude And indeed, that's what it says when you go to the very next verse, right? A multitude that no one could number in verse nine The reason I'm harping on this is that I want to clarify something, because oftentimes Christians say there are two peoples of God. You have the Jews, the 144,000 They're going to go to heaven. Then you have those who believe in Jesus Christ. They're going to go to heaven too. But as you read the rest of the New Testament, There's no indication that there are two peoples of God. In fact, Ephesians chapter 2, the second part of that chapter, says that there is one people of God, the Church, composed of Jews and Gentiles who believe And so we don't have two parallel tracks, uh both leading to heaven, but there's one people of God. It's those who believe in Jesus Christ, whether you're from a Jewish were a non-Jewish background. And that's why you have these multiple statements in in the New Testament, Philippians 3. 3. Paul says to Christians, Gentile Christians, We are the circumcision. Galatians 6. 16. Paul says to Gentile Christians, the church is the Israel of God. James 1. 1 addresses the people of God as the twelve tribes. And then in Galatians 3. 29, Paul says to Christians, if you are Christ, then you're Abraham's offspring. And so You had Old Testament Israel, but that was a picture of the true Israel, the church Made up of Jews and Gentiles who are trusting in Jesus Christ. That was a little aside. But my point here, as we look at these first eight verses, I shouldn't say my point. The point of these first eight verses is that though the winds of judgment blow And God is sovereign. And all the calamities that befall mankind are in effect the outpouring of God's wrath on humanity. Romans 1. 18 Though the winds of judgment blow, they blow to awaken people to turn to Christ They grow, they blow to execute God's judgment on the unrepentant, and they blow to sanctify God's people and to teach us to look to Him. But even during this, God will always protect and preserve his people. The church will never fall away if you're trusting in Christ. You will never fall away You have to make use of every means for your preservation, but God promises that He will hold you So that's the first eight verses, the church militant, the church on earth. You go on to verses nine to seventeen. We read about the character of the church triumphant And so there's a number of things here. I'm just going to speed through them, unfortunately, but we're going to see a number of things about the character of the church in heaven. When we see God face to face. What do we learn about the church? Well, first thing we learn is that it is a vast and a multinational people. Verse 9, a wonderful verse. Here's what we're going to see. John writes, After this, I looked and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. Back in Mark chapter 4, Jesus had compared his kingdom to a mustard seed. It's this teeny seed, but it grows in time. by some m in some mysterious way to be the largest plant in the garden. And that's what happened, right? Christianity It began in the backwater of the Roman Empire. Within a generation, it reached the center of the Roman Empire by the year three hundred. The Roman Empire was declared officially the Christian Empire. 2,000 years later, the church continues to expand. 3,500 churches open every week around the world. In 1950, there were a million Christians in China. Then the missionaries were expelled. And they were worried. That's the end of Christianity in China. But today there's something like a hundred million Christians in China because God grows his church. In Africa, I read 20,000 people become Christians every day In 1900, Africa was 3% Christian. Today it's 40% Christian. So don't be discouraged. We look at what's going on in the West. The sun is going down on Christianity, but in other places the church is growing. In 1900, Korea had no Protestant church They said it's impossible. Korea is impossible to penetrate. Today, Korea is 30% Christian. And uh there are 7,000 churches in Seoul, South Korea alone, and even in the Muslim world One of our great missionaries to the Muslim world, Tat Stewart, he pointed out that since 1980, more Muslims have come to Christ than in the previous thirteen hundred years combined. And so in through this uh these these um satellite uh TV and Internet Ministries, SAT 7 going into the Persian world, uh PAC 7 going into Pakistan. And so God's people indeed come from every nation, from all tribes, peoples, and languages. And you look at our church on a good Sunday, not everybody's here. But on a Good Sunday, Brazilians, Taiwanese, Chinese, Nigerians, Cameroonians, Kenyans, uh Joan Tuckers from where? Ghana? Joan and her mom? What what are they called? Ghanaians? I don't I don't well I'll have to check that one. Uh South South Africans, right? They're all here. It's this multi even our little church has a multinational flavor But this is nothing compared to what heaven will be like. So the church is vast, it's multinational. What else do we see in thirteen and fourteen? The church is a cleanse people. So the elder asked John, who are these clothed in white robes? And then he answered his own question. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. That's in verse 14. And so the white robes, of course, represent the righteousness. that God has given to them. They've been made right with God, right? God declared them righteous, not because they're religious, not because they're good people. uh but because Jesus Christ lived a righteous life in their place and then he died on the cross to pay for their sin. And so they place their trust And Jesus Christ. His blood paid the penalty for their sin. And that's why, when they're in heaven, what are they saying? I'm here because I have a spiritual inclination, or I'm here because I studied all the philosophies and I realized Jesus is the truth. They don't say that at all. They say in the end of verse 10, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne. In other words, they recognize God is the one who grants salvation. He uses means. He uses the preaching of the gospel. If you're not a Christian, he uses your opening up the Bible and reading it and asking questions about it But yes, salvation belongs to our God. Going on, I'm doing this quickly. We see thirdly, the church is a worshiping people. And uh so here's the church, here's God's people, forever worshiping God on his throne. I don't think that's the only thing we're gonna do in heaven In a perfect world in the garden, we talked about this to some friends yesterday, there was work, right? There will be work in heaven. There will be uh different lines of work and different interests that we have in development and progress. But all of it will be worship, and that's the image in the end of verse 9. They're clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. And crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb And all the angels were standing around the throne, and around the elders, and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever And so these people recognize the worthiness of God. They recognize his goodness, his kindness, his holiness, his love, his grace, his majesty And so they worship God. And our task here and now, right, even as we gather on Sunday mornings or you meet with yourself in the morning at home with your scripture, the Psalms and whatnot, our task is to begin to worship, even as God's people in heaven are worshiping. And when we there's not two worship services going on this morning, one in heaven. And one down here. Hebrews 12, 22 to 24 says that we have come to God in his heavenly sanctuary when we gather. And so we've been lifted up by the Holy Spirit, and we see God, not as clearly as they do, but we see Him Because he has disclosed himself in Scripture and He's given us His Spirit to open our eyes to see and to offer Him worship. And so the church Perhaps above all, is a worshiping people. And so we want to learn to do this more and more because this is what God has called us to do. Not only in the life to come, but here and now. Here's something else, and this is so relevant. 13 and 14, we see that the church is a people who pass through suffering. Another clarification I want to make because about different schools of interpreting the book of Revelation, many say that the Great Tribulation is this final period of persecution that will precede. the second coming of Jesus Christ. But my understanding is that tribulations take place throughout the present age And so the whole era, from the first coming of Christ to the second coming, I think that is to be understood as the great tribulation, right? Second Timothy 3, 1 Paul said, in the last days there will come times of difficulty. When Paul was talking about the last days, he wasn't talking about something down the road. We're living in the last days Hebrews 1 verse 2, the writer says, In these last days God has revealed Himself through Christ. So we're living in the last days. The great tribulation refers not to a future persecution. Imagine the Christians, the original recipients of this letter. They're given this letter to encourage them. And it talk it talks about what's going to happen thousands of years down the road. What kind of encouragement is that? It's talking to them, suffering under Roman persecution. It is talking to the Christians today in North Korea, in Afghanistan, in China. Imagine telling them the Great Tribulation hasn't yet begun. I mean they they they think we're crazy. We are living in the Great Tribulation. Some peoples in more pleasant uh situations than others And that's why we have a prayer meeting. We pray for those who are really suffering. But one of the upshots of this, and I'm going to say this to our young people And you're gonna think I'm really negative if you don't if you don't already. But um You have to have realistic expectations about what life will be like in a fallen world. And God blesses us in his grace, right, with many blessings, and we thank the Lord for that. But we should not be surprised if difficult times come in our personal lives, or if difficult times come in world affairs or in national affairs. But the promise again is that God's people will not suffer forever. That's why it says at the end of verse 14. These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. Okay And so because we have this great reunion to come, we persevere in the here and now. We stick close to Jesus Christ no matter what happens. And then we have a picture in the end of verse 14 to verse 17 telling us that the church will be a satisfied people. The church will be a satisfied people. I'm just going to read those verses, and then we're going to close the end of verse 14, worthy of a sermon in itself. John said to this elder, Who are these? And I uh the elder said to John, Who are these? In verse 14, John said, Sir, you know And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They washed the robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore They are before the throne of God and serve Him day and night in His temple, and He who sits on the throne will shelter them in His presence. And so we'll have God's protection. And then verses 16 and 17 are almost a verbatim recital. of uh Isaiah 49 verse 10. You might go look at that later and you'll see how tight the Bible is. But verse 16 The elder says, they shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore, the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. So what a wonderful promise. That is your destiny. If you're a Christian, this is what you have to look forward to. If you're not a Christian, you need to become a Christian so that you'll have a future and a hope. But um before the sermon I read from um uh Isaiah chapter thirty-five And I just want to close by pointing you to two verses there in Isaiah 35. Isaiah 35, verse 2. says that we shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. That's that's what this is saying, right, in Revelation, the end of Revelation 7. But since that's the case, Isaiah chapter 35, verses 3 and 4, they draw an implication. And it's the same implication that we should draw from the passage before us. And I want you to listen to it, then I want you to mark it and go back and read it. Because God is protecting us, because we will see Christ face to face, because we will be brought out of the great tribulation, what should we do now? Isaiah 35, verse 3. Says, strengthen the weak hands, make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart. I'm speaking to most of you then. Say to those who have an ancient heart, be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance With the recompense of God, he will come and save you. Let's bow our heads. We acknowledge, Lord, uh, we get