Have the option to go to worship training uh with Miss Becky. And I'm going to ask you to turn to John chapter eleven for those who are Uh this is your first time here. We're going through John's Gospel. And we are at chapter eleven. We're taking a big chunk because it's a unit of thought. Chapter eleven, verses one to uh forty-four, and so I'll read that and ask you to listen attentively. We read there, now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sister sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to the disciples, let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciple said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest and sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. Let us go to him. So Thomas called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. Now when Jesus came he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her I'm the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house consoling her saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord If he had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, He was deeply moved in spirit and greatly troubled, and he said, Where had ye laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him Lord, by this time Lord will be there will be an odor, for he has been dead for four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, unbind him and let him go. So this is the seventh miracle. that John records in his gospel. He refers to these seven miracles as the seven signs of Jesus And there's signs in that they point to who Jesus is and what he came to do. And so for example Remember in chapter 6, Jesus said, I'm he excuse me, he fed the uh people with the bread, the masses with the bread, and then he said, I'm the bread of life. And so he was saying I'm the bread who satisfies the hunger in your heart. And then in chapter 9, he opened the blind man's eyes, and after that he said, I am the light of the world. But the greatest sign that Jesus performed, that John records, is that he raised this man Lazarus from the grave. And the meaning of the sign is made clear right in verses twenty-five and twenty-six, where Jesus said, after he pr after he raised him, he said, What? I'm the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me shall live, even though he dies. And so this is a huge claim that Jesus makes And this claim should change everything because we're all gonna die, right? And it's interesting, I forget what the frequency is, but I heard once about they did some study about how often people think about death and it's more often than you would suspect. I should have looked that up on the internet, right? You can find everything on the internet. But it's remarkable how the thought of dying crosses our minds. But Jesus is the resurrection and the life And so this should completely change our view of dying, we who believe in Jesus Christ. And so what we're going to do, right, this is a long passage So we're not going to look at every detail, but we're going to get the main lessons, I believe. And before we do that and draw some implications, I just want to ask a preliminary question, and that is this. Did this really happen? Did Jesus really raise a man from the dead, or is this some pious legend that accrued over time? Well, here's what I would say to those who are skeptical, to those who have questions. This doesn't read like a pious legend. This reads more like an eyewitness account. And I say that because the many incidental details that John includes in this account. are marks of authenticity. So just a couple of examples, right in verse sixteen, uh t when Thomas learned that Jesus wanted to go to Jerusalem He darkly comments, Let us go also, that we may die with him. Now why did John include that statement? It doesn't advance the narrative Why did he include it? Well, because Thomas happened to say it. So that's a mark of authenticity. Or other details. Verse 17, there's a time marker John notes that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Why such detail? Well, because that's how it worked out Verse 20, John mentions that when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, Martha went out to meet him, but Mary stayed home. And so all I'm saying, and it's real simple, right, these kind of details, these aren't uh the traits of some kind of legend that uh bec uh accrued over time But rather they are the traits of an eyewitness account. Okay? And um If this is not a historical uh event, then you still have to explain Where did this story come from? What motivated? What motivated it? You know, one of the New Testament scholars, a guy named a British uh scholar by the name of B. F. Westcott He considered the various explanations for this story if it were not a historical event. And after he looked at all these explanations to try to account for the account for it, he said, you know what? Not one of them has a show of plausibility. And so you have to deal with these kind of questions. And I say that to those who aren't believers or to young people, you're not so sure about this stuff, you come to church because your parents bring you. You have to deal with these kind of issues before you reject Christianity. And so that's just something for the skeptic to consider. But now let's get on to the some of the lessons that we see in this passage. And the first thing I want to point out is that the Bible does not sentimentalize death Pastors do sometimes, right? At funerals, sometimes the pastor will be up officiating the funeral. And he'll want to comfort the grieving, and understandably so. That's one of the purposes of a funeral, but then they might say things like, well death is a natural part of life, or they'll say that death is a friend whom we must come to accept The Bible doesn't look at death in that way at all. The Bible views doesn't view death as a friend. Scripture views death as our enemy, right? And it's not natural in that death was not God's original intention. When God created the world, we were created to live forever. Right? And so God it wasn't part of God's plan that death should separate the soul from the body, that death should separate loved ones from one another But no, these separations are the result of the curse that God visited upon Adam for his sin, for his Rebellion in Romans 5. 17. Paul wrote, It's because of one man's trespass that death reigned through that one man. And so death is not to be accepted. It is something uh that we should rightly uh be horrified about and um for those who try to gloss it over we just say you know what uh you're more spiritual than the bible uh our our daughter Mary uh she wants to be a mortician And uh she had a job working in a funeral home and uh she made it clear that when you walk into a funeral And you see the the the uh remains of the deceased lying there in such a peaceful state, she made it clear That is not what it's like at all in handling a corpse. So she would prepare uh the corpse for the funeral and before the cosmetic arts of the mortician are applied uh to the remains. Uh it's a horrible thing to view a deceased course, and I won't go into any of the details, but it's not something uh that we want to uh contemplate. And so and she can tell us, and we know ourselves, that you see people age and decline and and then finally die. Uh death renders the most beautiful of women objects of horror, and the strongest, most successful of men, objects of pity and revulsion. And so it's right that death is to be dreaded is to be abhorred, and really there's no good thing that we can uh say about that. And so, and I say this just to uh um correct uh Christians sometimes when when the loved one dies, uh sometimes Christians feel guilty When they grieve and they say, well, you know, when the pastor talks to them and say, Well, I know he's in a better place. Well yeah, but it doesn't mean uh that you're not broken and uh and grieving about uh your loved one who passed, right? And Jesus himself knew that Lazarus would be raised up at the last day, and yet still He grieved Lazarus death. Any grieved for Lazarus pared sisters And this is just a reminder about Jesus Christ, his sympathy, right? He's not distant. He's not remote. He's not he's not harsh Hebrews 4. 15 says, we do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. And so I just make that little observation so that you don't feel that you must keep a stiff upper lip, uh, so that you won't feel that though you're grieving, uh you must uh give the funeral uh a title like a celebration of life. And if that's how you want to do it, that's fine. And We give thanks for those who live long lives and and go on to the Lord. So that in a sense a funeral can be a celebration. But we don't I don't think you should feel obligated to approach it like that. If Ecclesiastes uh three four says, There is a time to mourn. And we see that in Jesus Christ. And yeah, you know, 1 Thessalonians 4. 13, we grieve, but not like the rest of men. Why? Because we know there's a resurrection, we know there's a reunion. But nonetheless, there's nothing wrong with grieving the death of a loved one. That is the consequence of living in this fallen cursed world. So that's the first thing I want to say. Well that was number two. The Bible does not sentimentalize death. And I also want to look at uh what we see taking place in this passage we see uh unan unanswered prayer. And uh why is this? What what were God's purposes? We have a window in this event and tell you, you know what, God does have his purposes when our prayers or our requests aren't answered. And most of us, probably all of us, we can come up with a list pretty easily of prayers that we've been praying for a long time, sometimes for years, uh that aren't answered that are not answered, right? We have loved ones with chronic illnesses, we have loved ones who aren't believers, we want to see them come to know uh Jesus Christ. Uh we have wayward children. Uh we have single friends whom desire to marry and we're praying for them that God will give them A suitable spouse. You think about Christians in other nations who uh suffer terrible uh persecution. And Many of us have this sense we look at our nation and we look at the the decline in our nation and we're praying, Lord, may the gospel go forth and change the culture. And even as we're praying that, as those of us who've been around for a few decades, it's getting worse, right? So what's going on here? So we pray for all these things. Uh we don't see answers to some of them or many of them. And we question, does God not care? And that's surely what Mary and Martha uh must have been thinking. Uh these siblings, Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, were very dear to Jesus. Jesus had enjoyed their hospitality Uh they've been very gracious to Jesus and uh Jesus spent much time in their home. Their brother is gravely ill, and you'll notice in verse 3 Whoops, I've got to turn back there Chapter one verse three. The sisters sent to him saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. They didn't even ask Jesus to come. uh to Lazarus. They assumed he would because he loved Lazarus, he loved Mary and Martha. Surely he will come uh over to Bethany to h to heal Lazarus, but he didn't come right away. He delayed And uh he allowed Lazarus to die. Why is that? Well the text tells us here's a here's an unanswered prayer. And we can discern some of the reasons because we have this right before us. Well, verses five and six are interesting. It says in a nutshell, it's precisely because Jesus loved Lazarus and Mary and Martha that he delayed and allowed him to die. Look at verses, go down to verse 5 here. The sister sent to him saying, whoops, I'm sorry. Okay, first line. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So we Here we have this statement about Jesus' affection for them. Verse 6, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, He stayed two days longer in the place where he was. And I'm not one to get into the Greek says this, the Greek says that. That sounds sort of silly. Keep bringing that up in every verse in the Bible The guys who translate this passage are all Greek scholars and they wrote so. However, they're wrong here Why do I say that? Not because I'm a Greek scholar, but because D. A. Carson, who is a Greek scholar, explains it very clearly. These words should be translated If we translate it literally, it would be when therefore. Okay? So, go back to verse 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. Verse 6. When therefore he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Why did Jesus stay? Well, it was precisely because he loved Lazarus and his sisters that he stayed. And as we go on a little further, we see that Jesus delayed, Jesus allowed Lazarus to die. In order to strengthen the faith of his disciples, of the sisters, and of the other onlookers. So now we go down to verse 14. Then Jesus told them plainly, excuse me, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that he was not there, so that you may believe But let us go to him. And so it was to strengthen their faith that Jesus waited until Lazarus died. And so they would and that you know that tend that would tend to provide something of a boost to your faith, wouldn't it? See somebody rise from the grave four days later. Yeah, so that was really that was good of Jesus to do that. And he also laid it to display his glory. Go down to verse four. He said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for illness the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Sometimes that word glories to say God might be glorified, sometimes it's taken as God might be praised. But here it means so that God's glory, so that God's majesty or greatness might be more clearly displayed. And so Jesus delayed going to Lazarus because he loved Lazarus. He loved his sisters. And that's a lesson that we it it would be good for us to digest because many of us well probably all of us, right? We have great we have great concerns, great concerns about various situations we're in or that we see and certainly concerns for uh loved ones and they they burden us. They're always with us during the day and sometimes they uh keep us up at night. But we need to remind ourselves, we need to we need to preach to ourselves That, you know, Lord, somehow your glory is found up in this. That's what we must say to ourselves. We see this in Scripture, throughout Scripture We need to remind ourselves, Lord, somehow your glory is found up in this. And so I'm going to press on. I'll continue to pray. I'll continue to trust you to accomplish your good purposes according to your wisdom. And so God has his reasons, right, for not answering our prayers, or at least not answering them in a timely manner. We were going to sing a song, but I decided another song, but William Cooper, God moves in a mysterious way. You probably many of you know it. It's a wonderful poem, just two stanzas. He wrote Deep in Unfathomable Minds. Of never fading skill. God treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will So God's designs are beyond us, but he's accomplishing his purposes. And then he rebukes us. He says Blind bel excuse me, blind on belief is sure to err and scan his work in vain God is his interpreter and he will make it plain. We can't figure it all out, but in the end of the day, we're going to see. God will disclose. how all these things were working for our good and for his glory. And so Jesus' delays are to strengthen our faith. They're delays of love and also they're aimed at bringing about his greater glory. Here's the fourth thing, a final thing. The fourth thing we see Is Jesus rage against in conquest of death? And so here I go again, mentioning Greek, okay? I try not to do that because I took Greek for three years and I completely forgot it when I became a pastor And so I'm not going to be pretentious about Greek stuff. But anyway, let's talk about the Greek. All right, verse um, where am I? Verse whoops. Verse 33. Says, when Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping. says he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. So I want you to focus in on that that phrase he was deeply moved in his spirit and uh you have the same uh phrase in verse thirty eight it also says there he was deeply moved now That singular word only occurs five times in the New Testament, but every time it's associated with a sense of anger and indignation. And then in writings outside the Bible, that word is found, oftentimes of an animal, like a horse snorting in anger. Most English translations soften it, and again not for good reason. So as they'll say something like, No, Jesus was deeply moved. It should be saying Jesus was angrier, he was, I won't say he was snorting and angry, but something in that direction Uh he was he wasn't just moved, but he identified with their grief and he raised against death itself. And remember in John 8, Jesus called Satan a murderer. And Jesus here is raging against the destructive work of Satan. I want to read something the great prince and theologian a hundred years ago, Benjamin Warfield, wrote, commenting on this verse where it says Jesus was deeply moved, or where he was angry Warfield wrote Jesus was raged sorry, Jesus was enraged at the evil of death, its unnaturalness, its violent tyranny In Mary's grief, he contemplates the general misery of the whole human race and burns with rage against the oppressor of men. It is death that is the object of his wrath, and behind death, he who ha and behind death him who has the power of death in whom he came into the world to destroy. Then he goes on to say, the raising of Lazarus thus becomes not an isolated marvel, but A symbol, an open symbol of Jesus' conquest of death in hell. And so Jesus is in raised death And in raising Lazarus, he demonstrates that he is our champion who conquers and vanquishes death on our behalf. So go now to verse 43. We're almost done. 43. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet down with linen strips, and so on. So I just want you to know, how did Jesus raise Lazarus? It was by his word. It was verbal. It was by his declaration, by his proclamation. That's also a picture of how spiritual conversion takes place. Everything God does is by His Word, right? Genesis 1 Cod said, let there be light. He spoke creation into existence. He speaks new creation into existence. That's how God brings people from spiritual death to spiritual life. And so I was just talking to somebody yesterday And she said, I don't believe, I have a hard time believing, I'm struggling so much. I said, There's only one thing I can recommend. You need to start reading the Bible You just need to be in the word. Well, it doesn't do anything for me. You just need to stay in it. You just need to stay in the word. And pray that God by His Spirit will make that word alive and quicken you. You need to be going to church. You need to be setting under the teaching of the Bible. And in time, God by his grace, and we know it's God's grace, and we know it's in God's timing, God will make the lights go on, or we at least we pray that God will turn on the lights. But it's it's the word of God uh that brings us from spiritual death to spiritual life. I'll give you two verses to hang that on. First Peter 123 Peter wrote to these Christians, you have been born again. How? Through the living and abiding Word of God. Right? This is why we have such an obsession with the Bible. This is why We're talking about this and not the latest uh uh things that we read out in the pop popular culture. Uh it's this ancient document That is the Word of God. James 1:18, James said to these other believers, He brought us forth by the Word of Truth. He gave us birth, he brought us forth. How? by his word which is the truth. And so this is why we say to our kids, this is why we say to adults Listen, we're weak, we're we have this uh uh we have this disposition toward unbelief We have to stay in the Word. We have to be nurtured by God's Word. And then we will move from unbelief to a stronger belief And yeah, we waver and we have doubts and whatnot, but nonetheless, we'll get to the point where we'll say, you know what? I can't explain this away. This is why I'm a Christian. This is why I am trusting Jesus Christ. But anyway Getting back to our happy topic death. Um if you if you visit the great cathedrals in Europe, you'll discover that many of the walls and many of the columns are decorated with replicas of human skulls. Why would they do that? Well one elderly cathedral steward uh steward explained Uh they are there that men might contemplate their mortality. I think that's important. We live in a world where we don't want to think about death. We don't want to talk about death But we're all gonna die. And as has been said, and I say this to our young people, one day they're gonna drop you in a hole in the ground. Throw dirt on your face and go back to the church and eat potato salad. And that will be the end of your earthly journey. But it will not be the end of you. You will continue to exist. Will you exist in God's presence in heaven? Or will you uh spend eternity in hell? That is the question. What will be your fate? And we can get so wrapped up in our little pursuits and uh matters and entertainments and whatnot, but we're all gonna die And this is a reminder that Jesus Christ came to this world that where death entered and he conquered it. And we can know that we will send eternity in God's presence. And so verses 25 and 26, this is This is the key that encapsulates the entire account where Jesus said, I'm the resurrection and life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who believes in me shall never die. And then he asked me Martha, do you believe this? And she said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. And remember John's agenda when he wrote this gospel, right chapter twenty, verses thirty to thirty-one, he said, Everything I write in this book is toward the end that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing Him, you will have life in His name. And so, that is my question to you. Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Savior? Let's bow our heads. We're thankful, Lord, that you've brought us to see that death is not the final word. So help us, even as we think about our own mortality and that of loved ones, help us to remember that this world is not the last chapter. but that death has been conquered. I pray, Lord, for those who aren't Christians and are thinking about these things, that they will uh study the scripture, they will immerse themselves in it. And you might persuade them, help them to see that this book is from you, that Jesus Christ is God, we're not alone in this world, and He's conquered death. And He forgives us our sin, not because we're so virtuous, but because He died to pay the penalty for our sins. And so we thank you for that. Help us to live with a sense of confidence in your sovereignty over death. And also for those who don't know you, bring them to yourself. Bring them to faith and repentance. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, we're going to sing now in the green book. The title is Commit Now On