And they bound him and led him away, and delivered him over to Pilate, the governor. Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind about having turned Jesus over to the Jews. He changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. They said, What is that to us? See to it yourself. And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed and he went and hanged himself But the chief priest, taking the pieces of silver, said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is blood money So they took counsel and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers Therefore, that field has been called the field of blood to this day. Then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel And they gave them to the potter's field as the Lord directed me. We're going to come back to this real soon. So I mentioned by way of introduction There were two articles last October that extolled uh the benefits of divorce. There was an article in the New York Times And um it was basically said uh that breaking up your family uh could be beneficial to everybody involved. So the writer of this article she divorced her husband. She said because she was smothered by marriage. But she concluded, uh this process hasn't always been easy for us or for our children But in the end, when I'm feeling sad, I tell them, and I tell myself, that they now have four adults Who love them, and they have a wider circle, something a little closer to a clan. And so all is well. And there was an article in Parents Magazine the same month. The title Divorce is on the rise during the pandemic, and don't feel guilty if that includes you. Okay? So don't feel guilty. And she said this writer also woman said, you know what? A divorce can uh be not only good for adults, but it can also be good for children. She wrote, divorce doesn't automatically mean that your kid will be damaged. In fact, it may even have benefits for our children, including resilience Spending quality time with each parent and having increased empathy. Now I understand uh several, many people in our church are divorced. And they didn't do it by choice. They didn't do it by choice. It just happened to them. And uh we also understand that there are biblical grounds for divorce, right? 1 Corinthians 7 says desertion Matthew 19, Jesus said uh adultery. So there are grounds for divorce. I understand all that, and I trust that you understand it too. But the reason I cited these articles Is that they illustrate how our culture is intent on selling the lie that sin has no consequences. We hear it all the time. If you cheat on your spouse and you end up divorced, well don't worry, because your kids will they'll be fine and uh and you're gonna be happy Or if you're a slugger and you don't study in high school, you don't take steps to prepare yourself for a vocation or for a future, you don't really have to worry about that. Because the government will send you a welfare check and there's all kinds of entitlement programs that you can tap into. If you have sex outside of marriage There you can do that and suffer no consequences. All you have to do is wear a condom or take some kind of birth control, and there will be no ramifications in your life. Or if you get into debt over your head too deeply, you can declare bankruptcy. All is not lost. If you're a celebrity pastor and you commit adultery, all is not lost. What you do, you take a couple years off, you go for counseling. I went for counseling for three or four years And then you'll be rehabilitated. That's what they say. You'll be rehabilitated and you can step back into the pulpit and things might just work out and you might even be able to leverage your experience into a book deal. But you can tell how you went from being so low and things worked out in the end because of God's grace. So that's the message. That is largely promoted in America. You can break the rules and suffer no consequence You can enjoy illicit pleasures without pain, and you can be basically a self-centered pig, and there will be no repercussions. For the choices that you made yesterday or perhaps years before. Now what I want you to notice, what I want to convince you of as we look at Judas, is that These are the world's lies. These are lies. We all need to be reminded of this. Our young people especially need to be reminded of this. And yeah, we proclaim God's forgiveness. We proclaim the grace of God. We're all sinners, right? We've all failed. We all need a Savior And God saves us by his unmerited favor, by his mercy toward us, by his grace. He's a loving God. And when you come to Christ for salvation, your sins are completely removed. God no longer holds them against you. Hebrews 10 verse 17, the writer says quotes uh God speaking in the Old Testament, where God says, their sins and lawless acts I will remember no more. And so God promises But he no longer holds our sin against us. And so we need to carry no shame. Same thing in 2 Corinthians 5. 17 Paul said, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation. The old has passed away, the new has come. And so we want to declare that message of a full and free salvation in Jesus Christ. We want to declare that we're saved not by our moral record or by our religious exercises, but we're saved only because God is a merciful God. That said, once we're saved, God calls his people to pursue holiness, right? We pursue it out of gratitude for our salvation. We pursue it because a holy life is how God designed us to live, and we pursue it because holiness leads to happiness, right? We're living as God designed us. But the Bible does not only give us positive incentives to pursue holiness. It gives us negative incentives, warnings, and threats. So we have in the Bible both carrots and sticks As far as our the walk, the Christian life is concerned, we have warnings and threats. And so that's why in Romans 11, 22 Paul said to these Christians, he said, that we need to cons we need to consider both the kindness and the severity of God And this morning we're going to look at the severity of God because we need to be reminded that there are consequences Yes, we're saved by grace, but nonetheless, there are built-in consequences to the choices that we make. And one of the most chilling statements in Scripture, and I remember hearing it when I was 23 years old. I was in Belgium with Operation Mobilization. That's a that's a missions, uh, short-term missions organization. I was there for a year and a half. And George Burr at one of the training conferences, he was preaching on Galatians chapter 6, verse 7. And he said, Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. Whatever one sows, that he also will reap. That's what we want to think on this morning as we look at what came of Judas. We can call this versatile. What you sow today, you're gonna eat for breakfast tomorrow. God is not mocked, you're going to reap what you sow, and sooner or later there will be a banquet of consequences. And we have in this story in Matthew 27, exhibit A, Judas and what came of him. So we're going to look real simply at the seeds that he sowed And then at the harvest he reaped. And I want to say this to those who may be nibbling around the edges of some great sin. But you haven't fully given yourself over to it. Here's a warning that you need to turn around. You need to flee that. I want to say this to those not to those, but to anyone who may have compromised his or her Christian integrity And is living a double life. And certainly I want to say this to our young people because the decisions that you make between about the ages of sixteen and twenty-five typically will influence the course of the rest of your life And so it's good to have a stern warning like we find in this passage. That we've opened up to this morning. So let's look at Judas briefly, the seeds that he sowed. You can look through the Gospels and you'll find not many details about Judas. But what we do read about Judas isn't flattering. Oftentimes, in fact, every time he's brought up, even before he betrayed Jesus, he's referred to as Judas, the betrayer. What do we learn about him in the Gospels before his betrayal? Well, we find out he was greedy and he was a thief. John chapter twelve. Uh when Mary anointed Judas with a expensive an expensive ointment Judas complained. He said, you know what? Why'd she do that? This could have been sold and the money been given to the poor? Well that's very noble and religious and Uh but what what was going on there? John chapter twelve verse six that he said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself into what was put into it. And so these are the seas. that Judas sowed. And so we did we we conjecture that Judas just didn't wake up one morning and decide, I'm gonna betray Jesus Christ. But rather, and this is typically the case, uh what Judas was On the day that he betrayed Jesus was the sum, was the cumulative result Of the choices that he'd been making all his life, and certainly choices that he'd been making in his three years of discipleship with Jesus Christ. You ever hear uh the saying the saying Ralph Waldo Emerson, uh he he's the one who wrote it down, he said so a thought Reap an action. Sow an action, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character. Sow a character, reap a destiny. And so these itty itty bitty choices that we make is going to develop us into the person we are and who will one day uh make some seriously brave choices And so we see that Judas sowed certain seeds, we see that in his creed, we see that um in his um death, and we conjecture that there were other choices he made. And so let's look at verse chapter 27 now, at the harvest he reaped. Let's look at the wages that Judas paid for his sin. And I want to point out four that I believe are stated or are implied in this passage. And the first Way to he raped for his sin was remorse. You see that in the beginning of verse 3? Says, then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned He changed his mind. And now when Matthew wrote, he changed his mind. It's interesting He did not use the particular Greek word that means repentance, but rather he used the word that means remorse or regret. So Judas didn't repent when he changed his mind, but he suffered regret. He suffered remorse. And he was grieved by what he had done. Verse four, he says, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. And there is interesting There are a lot of people, and sometimes you talk to them in the hospital when they're dying, and they'll say, I've done some awful things in my life And there's a sense of remorse and um and regret, things you've done. Ted Turner. For those younger, he's the guy who came or founded the CNN news channel. He said yeah. Somebody said you have any regrets I regret the way I treated my first wife, my first wife. So yeah, people can have all kinds of regrets, and that's the case with Judith But his remorse did not lead to repentance. So there's the distinction that the scripture makes. 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 10. Says there's two kinds of griefs. Godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces death. And so if you have a evangelical grief, you might say You see that you've violated God's commands and you turn from it, that's a godly greed. But a worldly greed It's just remorse, but there's no turning, there's no repentance. You'll see a godly grief, for example, in Psalm 51 Where David just didn't feel bad that he committed adultery with Bathsheba. He didn't just say, you know what? That wasn't really good of me, and I'm not the man that I thought I was But rather in Psalm 51, verse 4, he said, Against you, you only God, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. That's a godly greed. He recognized he violated the holiness of God. So there's this recognition I have sinned against God, but it's not just that. True repentance involves not only grieving my sin And the fact that it's against God and His character, but then I make a U turn. I turn around and I now go in a different direction Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, at 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 9. He said, You turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. That's what repentance is. They turned around. They were idolaters. They were no longer idolaters. They were serving the living and true God. So when they became Christians, they had a genuine repentance. And so we're talking about the wages of sin. And the first wage we see in the life of, or in this account of Judas, is that he suffered remorse One of the reasons we read Proverbs chapter 5 is that the foolish son who did not heed his father's warnings against sexual immorality He ended up full of remorse. It says, he said, excuse me, this man, this young, this son, after he committed adultery, said, How I hated discipline In my heart despised reproof. I did not listen to the voice of my teachers, or inclined my ear to my instructors. I am at the brink of utter ruin. And so what I want to say to our young folks is that if you follow Jesus Christ If you don't buy into the world's lies, its promises about going your own way and do your own thing, but if you follow Jesus Christ Life's just gonna be easier. It's not gonna be so complicated. You're not gonna look back. Now there are people here who were converted later in life. And they say, thank you, Father, for saving me, right? Thank you that you opened my eyes. But nonetheless, there's regret because they look back on years that they've wasted. And so there's this there's this grief over these wasted years. You're not going to have that problem. Where if you maintain if you endeavor by God's grace to walk in a way that's morally upright, you're not going to have blue movies playing in your head when you're with the person that you marry one day. And though the gospel says, you know what, God forgives and forgets, there are many sincere Christians who struggle with guilt and shame And it seems like we spend a lot of our time trying to convince one another, no, you're really forgiven in Jesus Christ. Uh you don't have to hold on to that. But people struggle with it And so what I'm saying, especially to our young people, is that if you endeavor to follow Jesus when you're younger, you're going to save yourself a lot of problems. And so we're talking about the wages of sin. The first wage that Judas suffered for his sin was remorse. And secondly, we see he suffered the deprivation of sin's pleasure. And sin's fledgeable, right? We would not sin, right? We we would not run headlong into it. We would not shuffle up next to it If it were not pleasurable. And the Bible says that. Hebrews 11:25 talks about the pleading pleasures of sin And so if somebody asks you what you learned in church today, kids, you can say, I learned that sin is pleasurable. But you don't have to read that in the Bible, right? We we all know that, or else we would not uh do it. And we can we suspect You know, Judas betrayed when he betrayed Jesus and the uh Jewish priests and the elders gave him these 30 pieces of silver He was probably relishing in his new riches, right? He was probably he was probably holding the coins between his greasy fingers He's feeling them and rubbing them. And he was probably counting them and stacking them up. Then he knocked over the stack. And then he stacked them up again, uh maybe in different amounts. But this this was wonderful But before long he was unable to look at the money. Proverbs 10, verse 2. Treasures gained by wickedness do no profit. And that is true. And I know I'm going off the uh the d my application I I I keep bringing up sex Um it's just it's just the low-hanging fruit. It's it's easy uh to make an application here, but here here's a here's a here's another connection to sex, especially for our young people. I've talked to friends and also men, other men over the years, and they said, you know what Before we got married, or before I got married, my wife and I, uh, we were sleeping together. Or, we'll say, we were asleep with other people before we met. Now we're m since we got married, our uh our life in the bedroom sort of went kaput. It was great. We were having a we were it was wonderful our intimacy before we got married. And now that we're married, once we got married, it just took a nosedive. And um what happened? And typically, or oftentimes we would say, that here's what happened You didn't follow the instruction manual, the Bible. And now your wife resents you Now she was a willing participant before he got married, but women are different from men, oftentimes, not always, right? But women are different from men. They're very in this area, they're very intricate, they're very sensitive, you know, they're like a Swiss watch, all these delicate parts. Men Not so complicated, right? Just like a mousetrap, just a couple parts, and um doesn't doesn't really affect us. And so here's what happened Now that you're married, your wife, she resents what you did, even though she was a willing participant Uh she feels like you used her. And so now you're deprived of sin's pleasure There really things are really complicated in that area, right? In the bedroom? And you really have to thread the needle carefully before you get married, and then certainly after you're married Or else is there's there's all kind of obstacles, there's all kind of things that uh can play in your head and especially in a in a woman's head And so here's what I'm saying to our young people. Don't trade a lifetime of disappointment for a short season of pleasure before you get married. So we're talking about the wages of sin. What do we see happen to Judas? He suffered remorse. He suffered the deprivate Of sin's pleasure. Then also we see in verses three and four, he suffered isolation. Go back to verse three. Then Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus sorry, then when Jud Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned He changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. So it's interesting, he comes back to the priests and the elders, he tries to offload his guilt to them. You know, shouldn't have done this, I've sinned. And um says in the end of verse 4, they said, What is that to us? See to it yourself And so they had no interest in Judas, right? He had helped them when they needed himself, but he was no longer of use. And now Judas was isolated. He had left Jesus Christ. He had left the band of disciples. And now Judas was all alone. And that's one of the effects of our sin, right? It isolates us from others. Proverbs 5 verse 11, that passage about the adulterer, it warned, At the end of your life you groan. You're gonna be set in In a chair, in a nursing home, and you're going to be all alone. Your kids who you had left years before, you have no relationship with them You're all alone. Your wife or husband whom you left no interest in you, and you're gonna groan. You're going to go to the grave unwept, unhonored, and unsung, as said the poet. Here's the fourth wage of sin, then we'll close. It's death, it says in verse 5, throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he, Judas, departed, and he went and hanged himself. And that's what happens, right? Literally here, but also eternally. Romans six twenty-three the wages of sin is death And um years ago, back in the nineties when I passed in North Carolina, take the youth group to uh the mission trip each year to Cumberland Gap, Tennessee. That first Sunday we'd be in Cumberland Gap and we'd visit the particular church that we were working with last summer. And um one summer we went to this This is up right out of a movie. We went to this this um what was that missionary Baptist Church. It was down a dirt road So we're driving the Church of Ann down this dirt road between two mountains and I had these uh flashbacks from the movie Deliverance. Uh where are we going? Well we went to this little church, it was just like a one room uh building. And um the preaching uh was painful, but nonetheless I do remember one thing that preacher said in his Sing Song voice He said, sin will take you further than you want to go. It'll keep you longer than you want to stay. It'll cost you more than you want to pay. And that is so true, and that is what we see in Judas. And so there's this warning: do not be deceived. It's going to cost you more than you want to pay. Let's finish out this passage, moving on to verse 6. But the chief priest taking the pieces of silver said It is not lawful to put them into the treasury since it is blood money. Well, how about that? These guys these guys are upright. Uh you know everybody draws a line somewhere, right? Sure they betrayed the only good man who ever lived, but they're not going to take that money back and put it in the treasury Verse 7, so they took counsel and bought with them the silver the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. Therefore the field has been called the field of blood to this day. And so they bought this clay field. Uh with the money and it was gonna be a burial place so you can use unclean money that because a a cemetery would be an unclean place And um so um verse nine and ten we see that even this, you know, even the most despicable, one of the most despicable acts in history And nonetheless, was not outside the providence and the purposes of God. Because we read in verse 9, then was fulfilled. So this hadn't been foretold in the Old Testament. Then was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, and they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set. by some of the sons of Israel, and they gave them for the potter's field as the Lord had directed me. That's a very detailed fulfillment of two Old Testament prophecies. So Judas took the thirty pieces of silver, he threw in the temple And then that silver was used to buy this clay field, this this potter's field, okay So that was foreshadowed, number one, in Zechariah 11, verse 13, where Zechariah wrote of this shepherd. I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the Lord to the potter. How does that work? Well, we see here, right? When it was fulfilled in Judas. It was also fulfilled in a more nuanced way in Jeremiah chapter 19. So you'll notice that Matthew says it was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, but actually he was combining a prophecy by Jeremiah and Zechariah. So why does he just say Jeremiah? in the commentators that think well probably because Jeremiah was the more prominent prophet. And that makes some sense because in Mark chapter 1 verse 2 Mark combines prophecies by um Isaiah and Malachi, but he just refers to Isaiah. So it sounds like that's the way they handled uh when they combined prophecies, they would just refer to the the more prominent prophet. But that aside, I'm going to get back now and just uh and close uh by reminding you That if we're going to make progress in the Christian life, if we're going to grow in holiness, uh we need not only to hear about God's love and grace and mercy, but we need to hear that right because we struggle and we don't believe it all the time So we need to be reminded of the grace of God, but at the same time, we also need to see in Scripture And we need to hear it said to us that there are also in the Bible warnings and threats, right? We see these warnings and threats by way of precepts, right? Galatians 6. 7, don't be deceived. God is not mocked. You're going to reap what you sow. But we also see these warnings, warnings, and threats by way of examples in the Bible. Joshua 7, Achan sinned against God. God struck him down. Saul sinned against God. God took him off the throne. Acts chapter 5, Ananias and Sapphira, they lied to the Holy Spirit. That wasn't good. Their end wasn't good. And then of course here with Judas. But I do want to just mention one more thing before we pray. And that is that Judas Excuse me. Both Peter and Judas betrayed Jesus, but the outcome of their betrayal was much different, right? Because Peter was restored, and in time he was elevated to become the head of the church in Jerusalem. So it all worked out for Peter because he repented. But Judas did not repent. In his end was death. And so you need to repent if you're going down a certain road. Need to repent and you can know that God will forgive, then as in as of we read in Joel chapter two verse twenty-five, God promises, I will restore to you the years that the locusts have eaten. I'll leave and make up For the bad choices that you've made, that's our great promise, just bow our heads. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that we would not fall for the world's lies. But that we would please sin, we would see how heinous it is, and how serious a thing it is in your eyes. We prayed word for those who are entertaining some great apostasy or sin, that you would awaken them and turn them from it. We also pray, Lord, for our young people, that they would nurture their souls and they would seek to know Christ and know his word, that they might be fortified against the great temptations. that surround them and that they will continue to encounter. We pray that, Lord, for each of us, protect us. Help us to have a credible witness Preserve our families, preserve our singles. Help us, Lord, to be a light in the darkness of this world. We pray, Lord, for any unbelievers that they will recognize that in Jesus Christ there is genuine forgiveness. And there is a fresh start. We pray, Lord, that they will see that. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're gonna sing a really a great song. You'll know the tune. The song is number four hundred and eighty-five And notice especially, well when you sing you want to notice all the stanzas, but certainly notice the first two stanzas because it goes right along uh with what we've been doing and we're gonna sing just the first four stanzas in this song. So let's stand and sing. Receive now the benediction. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. Amen.