Verse eleven, from you came one who plotted evil against the Lord This may refer to the Assyrian king Sennacherib, who forty years later uh attacked uh Jerusalem attacked Jerusalem. From you came one who plotted evil against the Lord, a worthless counselor. Verse 12. Thus says the Lord, though they are at full strength and many, they will be cut down and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, God used the Assyrians to chastise Israel. He says, Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more. And so this was a vicious evil city. And then in verse 14, uh he says, um Oh yeah. The Lord has given Talking again to Nineveh, the Lord has given commandment about you, no more shall your name be perpetuated. From the house of your gods, I'll cut off the carved image and the metal image. I will make your grave, for you are vile. And I'll probably talk about this more next week, but I want you to understand that the Assyrians were indeed a vile, a ruthless, wicked people. Uh there's uh I uh found something uh uh writing it says the archaeologists uh discovered an inscription On a stone left by an Assyrian king, his name was Asher Nasserpal. But he boasted on this on this stone, this inscription, he boasted of conquering Another nation. And I'm just going to read it so you'll get an idea of how uh vicious uh the Assyrians were, he wrote. I built a pillar over against the city gate, and I flayed all the chief men who had revolted. I covered the pillar with their skins Some of the men I walled up within the pillar, within the pillar, and some upon the pillar on stakes I impaled. In others I fixed the stakes around the pillar. Many within the borders of my own land I flayed, and I spread out their skins upon the walls I cut off the limbs of the high royal officers who had rebelled. And so this was a wicked people. But what I'm what I've said j thus far is that in chapter one, we have a description of God's holy wrath against this very wicked people. And so finally, what lessons can we draw? We could draw many, but I just want to mention two that I think are prominent. The first lesson is this. The Book of Nahim reminds us and cautions us not to take lightly the wrath of God. Do not be dismissive of it. Do not say, no, that cannot be. Do not take lightly the wrath of God. So Friday night uh I was talking to Andy Ludnam about tornadoes. They used to live in Oklahoma. Well Right about in 1999, a uh tornado ripped through the city of Moore, Oklahoma, and uh tornado watchers rate the strength of these tornadoes one on a scale of one to five. And this this tornado was an F five, so this was the most the strongest, most powerful type of tornado, and they say tornadoes refer to an F5 as the finger of God. This is God, his mighty power. And uh one man uh described his experience living through this tornado as it passed over. He wrote, My wife and I hid in the bathtub. I could hear it coming. It was the most eerie and frightening thing I've ever heard. It sounded like a freight train and just kept getting closer. By the time it hit us, the roaring was so deafening that I could no longer hear my wife praying aloud right next to me. The house shook and rumbled, the electricity went out, the bathroom went dark, the whole world was vibrating. He said it this was the most terrifying few minutes in my life. And that is what Nahem is trying to convey to his readers that we should have A holy we should have a reverence, a fear for, against the wrath of God. And I would say, if you're not a Christian There are many reasons to become a Christian. And yeah, Jesus does fill the hole in your heart, right? It doesn't happen like that, but he helps us in our various areas where there are struggles. In fact, uh Augustine said, right, our hearts are restless till they find their rest in thee. That's a good reason to become a Christian. And Jesus said in John 10, I've come that they might have life and have it abundantly. We were made to know Jesus Christ. That's a good reason to become a Christian. But let's not overlook the reason that Paul gives us in 1 Thessalonians 1:10, where Paul said, Jesus delivers us from the wrath to come. That's a great reason to become a Christian. It's funny. When I became a Christian I wasn't thinking about people saying, well what need did you have? It's like, I don't know, everything was fine. I was just rolling along. You know, I got three meals a day and everything was happy. But I had this sense of God's judgment and of hell. And now looking back, I'm like, yeah, that was a pretty good reason to become a Christian after all. I had this sense. And um that's what the gospel says. And the gospel says not that Christians are exempt from divine judgment. But rather, the gospel teaches Jesus stood in our place and suffered the judgment that we deserved. And it's interesting, we're looking at the imagery in chapter 1 of God's wrath. We see similar imagery in Matthew 27, when Jesus Died on the cross, Matthew tells us there was darkness over the land, and the earth shook, and the rocks split. And it's saying Jesus bore the wrath that otherwise would have been unleashed on us. And so it's against this black backdrop of the wrath of God, as I said, that this diamond of the gospel sparkles most brilliantly. And so the first lesson is we don't want to take lightly the wrath of God. The book of Nahim for three chapters is a corrective to our weak mindset on this subject And then the second thing I'll say, and then we're done, is that the prospect of God's judgment Is a great comfort to beleaguered Christians because it assures them, you will be vindicated. There will be a day when things are set right. And Nahim says this right in the text. Look at verse 7. He says, The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knows those who take refuge in him. So Nahim is writing to the people of Judah saying Let not your heart be troubled. God is still sovereign. He will still set everything right. Again in verse 15. He says to the people of Judah, Behold upon the mountains the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace Keep your feasts, O Judah, fulfill your vows, for never again shall the worthless pass through you. He is utterly cut off. And so understanding that God is a holy God who has a wrath against sin. should comfort God's beleaguered people. And down through time, and certainly in our day, uh many Christians are opposed by the hostile masses And by ruthless dictators. And we talk about persecution in other countries regularly. Nina Shea wrote Christians in many parts of the world suffer brutal torture, arrest, imprisonment, and even death for no other reason than that they're Christians. Then she observes that more Christians died in the twentieth century alone than in the previous nineteent centuries combined. And so there's a message here for God's persecuted people. You think about the martyrs in Revelation chapter 6. They're calling out to God. O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will avenge and judge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? The book of Nahim tells us that there will be a day of reckoning. There was a day of reckoning for Assyria, and there will be a final day of reckoning. God will vindicate his people. God will avenge his people. And also the New Testament reminds us that's not our role. We're to love people, we're to be gracious, we're to be witnesses, we're to leave that to God, right? Romans chapter 12, verse 19 Paul instructs Christians, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, declares the Lord. And um I'm just gonna turn to Psalm 37. This is my final uh statement. It's an encouragement And I want you to note this. This is a good prayer when you suffer the oppression of the world. Psalm thirty-seven, verse seven, the psalmist says Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices Refrain from anger, forsake wrath, fret not yourself, it tends only to evil, for the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land. In just a little while, the wicked will be no more. Though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there. But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. The wicked plots against the righteous, gnashes his teeth at him, but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he knows that his day is coming. Now, we don't want to be vindictive. We want to pray for people's salvation. But there are vicious acts of evil that are perpetrated on people, others, and we do rejoice that God is the just God. Let's bow our heads.