We're gonna make a lot of references of course. Okay. Revelation twenty, verse one. So John, uh speaking of uh these visions that this angel gave to him Says in chapter twenty, then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain. And he sees the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. And threw him into the pit, and shut it, and sealed it over him, so that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were ended After that he must be released for a little while. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom The authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus And for the Word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast for its image, and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four quarters of the earth Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints But fire came down from heaven and consumed them, and the devil who had consum had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Let's take a moment to pray. Father in heaven, thank you that you've spoken this and this isn't just given to us to satisfy our curiosity. But it's been given to us to encourage us to press on, uh to persevere in the Christian life, uh, help us to gain a better understanding. of what your plan is for history as is disclosed in this passage. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So chapter twenty is the most controversial passage in Revelation. It's one of the most confusing passages in Revelation. So if this is your first day of good news, uh usually it's not going to be so painful. But um today uh it's gonna be challenging. That's why we want of course I always want you to have your Bible open. So chapter twenty, uh you see this phrase, the thousand years, six times. In the passage we just read. And this is referred to as the millennium, right? The thousand years. And so the $64 question is What period in history is this phrase, the thousand years, referring to? Is it referring to a thousand years that is yet to come? Or are we living in this period, the millennium, right now? And if it is to come. How where will the return of Jesus be in relation to the thousand years? Is he coming before the thousand years, before this millennium, or will he come at the end of the thousand years? And then another question, should we take this number thousand literally or symbolically? So these are the kind of questions we need to answer before we can begin to draw the lessons that this passage has for us. And so that's why to really make any headway in this passage, we're going to spend some time, a good deal of time, trying to interpret the meaning of the thousand years. Okay? So this is gonna be a little bit different. Uh but hopefully uh it'll be clear in the end, and hopefully you'll all agree with me And those who disagreed before will say, well now I see the light and uh you have brought great knowledge. I don't expect that. That's okay So what is what is the meaning of the thousand years, right? Verse two uh speaks about saint what is that noise? I'm not touching anything here. Okay. Maybe it's my breath. Okay. Verse two uh speaks about Satan being bound for a thousand years Verses 4 and 5 speak of deceased believers reigning with Christ on thrones for a thousand years. Then at verse 6 or verses 7 and 8 you'll notice There's a final battle that will take place at the end of the thousand years. So we need to figure out when will these things take place. And as at this point, I need to back up a little bit and say, you know what? There are three major views of the millennium, of when these things will take place The dominant view amongst Bible-believing Christians in America since the mid-1800s, but not before, but since the mid-1800s is a view called premillennialism and in parti a particular brand known as dispensational premillennialism. I gotta throw some of these terms out here. If you don't follow everything the first time around, I understand okay. Okay? So premillennialism teaches that Jesus will come pre or before the millennium, so before the thousand years, Jesus is going to come back And then there will be this thousand years of peace and prosperity and of gospel growth and of evangelistic fruit and whatnot. And then at the end of that thousand years, Jesus is going to come yet again, they say. For the last battle and the final judgment. So that's premillennialism. Jesus comes before the thousand years, before the millennium Now, there's another view known as post-millennialism. Alright, when does Jesus come then? He comes at the end of the thousand years, and so those who are post-millennial in their assignment Some just like you're pre-millennialists here, there are post millennials here, right? Uh but we we take everybody. Just kidding. So post-millennialists, they're optimistic about the future, uh, the future of world culture. And so post-millennialists believe that things are going to get better and better. During this thousand years, and at the end of the thousand years, at the end of the millennium, Jesus will come again to judge the world and to uh consummate history. Okay? Premillennialism, post-millennialism, what you know there's another version. It's called Amillennialism, okay? In this view, and this is the framework that we've been looking at Revelation from, uh, this view understands this or believes that we are living in the millennium. Okay? We are living in this period in this so this symbolic thousand years in the millennium is between The time that Jesus rose from the dead and ascended to heaven, and the time that he returns. Okay? So history in the New Testament age is the millennium. So it's not a literal thousand years we understand that symbolically. So all three views are held to by Bible-believing Christians. All three views are represented by individuals in our church who've had the time to study these texts and these matters. And I must say But even though this issue is confusing, you can still benefit from the big lessons in the book of Revelation. So you don't have to stake out of position, okay? Because the big lessons In the book of Revelation are still clear. I remember uh when I was in seminary, uh, my professor, who's written commentary uh wrote a commentary on Revelation, he says, you know what? If you don't understand Revelation Just have a kid read it and explain it to you. Because but his point was that If a child can read Revelation and get the big lessons sometimes more easily than we who are going for all the details, sometimes we miss the forest for the tree Doesn't mean the trees aren't important, but all I'm saying is you can still benefit from the big lessons in Revelation. So what I want to do now, and this is still trying to figure out this millennialism stuff. is I want to focus on what I think are the two dominant views, and that would be premillennialism and amillennialism. On millennialism, okay? Now, let's talk about premillennial premillennialism. Okay, so premillennialist reads the events. This is important. They read the events from chapter 19 to chapter 20 in a sequential manner. Which Makes sense, right? Chapter 20 follows chapter 19. And so they'll say, well, chapter 19, verses 11 and 21 talks about the second coming of Jesus Christ, okay? And there he destroys the beast, and he destroys the false prophet. And then they go to chapter 20, verses 1 to 3, and they notice Then Satan is bound, and there are a thousand years of peace. And then they get to chapter 20, verses 7 and 10 It talk it talks about Jesus coming yet again for a final battle and the final judgment. And so that's the that's why some people think That Jesus is going to come back, there will be a thousand years of peace where Satan is bound, and then Jesus is going to come back again. So that's premillennialism. Now I want to point out what I think are some of the problems of this viewpoint. Here's the first one, okay? Just the first uh this is really the maybe the most detailed thing, and if you miss it, it's okay. Okay. But the first problem I see is that in reading the events of chapter twenty, as chronologically following the events in chapter nineteen Premillennialism fails to recognize the cyclical structure of the Book of Revelation. And so what I've been saying throughout this sermon series Is that the events recorded in Revelation do not flow or unfold chronologically But rather, revelation is structured in seven sections, and these sections make up seven cycles that recite history From the first time Jesus came till the time he returns. And so each cycle is recite reciting history from a little bit different perspective. And so this has been called recapitulation, right? Seven times. The history of the world or the New Testament era is retold or recapitulated. Now, Revelation 20 I believe does not follow chapter 19 chronologically, but rather begins another cycle describing the history of the world between Jesus' first and second comings. Why do I say that? Well, you run into a couple problems if you believe or if you read chapter 20, the events in chapter 20 As chronologically following the events in chapter 19. Here's one example. Chapter 19, verse 15, speaks about Jesus striking down the nations. Okay? Well, you go to chapter 20, verse 3, and it reads, Satan will not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years are ended. So you have to ask the question. If Jesus already struck down the nations, chapter 19, verse 15, there are no nations left to be deceived. And so the events in chapter 20. really can't follow chapter 19. Rather, chapter 20 begins a new cycle. Here's another problem I see with those who would say that the events of chapter 20 follow the events of chapter 19. In chapter 19, verse 17 to 21, and chapter 20, verse 7 to 10, they both speak of battles between Jesus Christ in the forces of evil. Premillennialists interpret these to be two separate battles divided by a thousand years in history. Rather than, my understanding, they're just descriptions of the same battle, but with different emphasis. And that makes a lot of sense because both of these sections in chapter 19 and chapter 20, they make references to that passage in Ezekiel 39 that we read. Chapter 19, verse 17, the angel calls on the birds to eat the flesh of gods defeated enemies. Well, that's a reference to Ezekiel. Chapter 20 verse 8 refers to the armies gathered against God uh against God's people as Gog and Magog. Well that's an illusion again to Ezekiel Chapter thirty nine. And so then if these two passages passages in Revelation nineteen and twenty are referring to Different events, how is it that they both are rooted in, they both make allusions to this Old Testament battle spoken of in Ezekiel? And I would say, well, they they can't be two different events in history, but rather they're descriptions of the final battle, that the battle in Ezekiel 39 was a tight that that foretold this final battle. So my first problem with premillennialism is that chapter 20 cannot follow chapter 19 Chronologically. Here's a second issue. Dispensational premillennialism interprets the thousand years in Revelation 20 literally When that number begs is pleading to be interpreted symbolically. Look at chapter 20, verses 1 and 3. Everybody agrees that the image of Satan as a dragon, the image of the key in the great chain. Everybody agrees that they're symbols, right? Nobody believes that there's really an angel carrying this big chain and he's going to bound Satan, right? Who's a spirit Well, if they're symbols, why can't the number thousand also be symbolic? Why suddenly must we take that number thousand as a literal number? Especially when Revelation is full of symbolic numbers, right? If there's anything we've seen in Revelation, right? There are there are the seven bowls, the seven seals, the seven trumpets The seven spirits of God, the seven heads on the dragon. Chapter 12, verse 1 speaks about a woman who wears a crown of 12 stars in her head. And then chapter 21 speaks about the new Jerusalem. with the twelve gates and the twelve so twelve foundations. And then you had the hundred and forty-four thousand who were the redeemed. And we said, well of course they're s they're symbolic numbers. And so if all those numbers are symbol symbolic, why suddenly do we have to take uh the number thousand in uh chapter twenty-one literally? And I say we don't Ten represents fullness and you intensify it, you get a thousand. It's just a way of saying, or a symbolic way of saying that there There's this long period of time, okay? And you read other parts of the Bible, you see that number thousand being taken symbolically, right? Uh Psalm was it Psalm fifty verse ten It says God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. What's that saying? That uh the hill number one thousand and one? He doesn't own that cattle? They belong to the rancher down the street? No. It's a symbolic number. Deuteronomy seven verse nine. God keeps his covenant to a thousand generations. Psalm sixty eight verse seven. The chariots of God are twice 10,000. Okay? So what I'm doing now, and we'll we'll move on in a minute, but I'm just bringing to your attention some of the problems. or objections that are raised to premillennialism. Revelation twenty. You really c it really can't follow excuse me, of course on paper It follows, but the events recorded in Revelation 20 cannot follow the events in chapter 19 sequentially, but it's starting a new cycle A second objection is that the thousand years certainly seem to be symbolic. And a third objection is that premillennialism fails to recognize And that Jesus has already bound Satan. So here we have a difficult passage right in the Bible. We don't build your whole doctrinal structure on a passage that's difficult. But you look to other passages that are more clear. And uh premillennialism teaches that uh Jesus is going to bind Satan in the future But other parts of the Bible say that Jesus has already bound Satan, right? Matthew 12, verse 29, Jesus said, how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first finds the strong man. And so what Jesus is saying is that by his coming, his death, his resurrection, and his ascension, Satan has been bound. Well this goes along with the view that we're living in the period of the millennium where Satan has been bound. Colossians 2 verse 15. Similarly Paul writes that as a result of Jesus' death and resurrection, quote, he disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them. So what I'm doing, I'm not trying to settle this issue. I know there's a lot of detail on how can you just say this from the pulpit, right? The first time around is confusing. But what I'm doing is I'm saying, here's why I have not been presenting uh the popular evangelical view of Revelation, which is dispensational pre-millennialism, but rather I'm approaching it from the more historic position on millennialism. I think this best accords uh with scripture. And so again, the omillennial view says that we're living in the millennium. Uh it started when Jesus came, it'll end uh when he returns And so that term omillennialism means no millennial no millennium. Well that's not a really good uh label. It would be better to have some other uh term, maybe inaugurated millennialism sometime Somebody suggested to say that we're living in it, uh, and this is just a symbolic number. And um before Jesus returns, verses seven to eight tell us that after this thousand years. It says Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth. And so after the millennium, Jesus is But there's and there'll be an intensification of Satan's influence uh before the final judgment. Alright, so there we have it. I set the table. Now we can draw some lessons from this, okay? So we're looking at Revelation 20 as we've looked at the whole book of Revelation. from what they call the on millennial uh framework. It's not a framework we impose on it, but it's a framework that we think emerges uh from the book So let's look verses 1 and 3 about the binding of Satan for a thousand years. Because remember, this isn't just theoretical. I know I've given a lot of information. but it's given for practical purposes. So the binding of Satan for a thousand years, we read in chapter 20, verse 1 John said, I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain And he sees the dragon, that ancient serpent who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. And so When John says that Satan was bound, does he mean that he was restrained from all evil? And this is one reason why why someone who says the millennium is yet to come will say, yeah, this can't be talking about the present day because Satan has not been bound. He's doing a lot of terrible things And I would say, yes, indeed, he is, but the text says, does not say that he's been restrained from doing all evil, but rather, the end of verse 3 He has been restrained so that he might not deceive the nations any longer. Okay? That's all this text says of how he's been restrained And so one of the effects of Jesus coming is that he has curtailed Satan's ability to deceive the nations. And as a result, the gospel has gone throughout the world. And you think about that, you go, yeah, that's really true. Because when you go to the Old Testament, you know The gospel was even in the Old Testament. It was seed form, right? God called the Israelites, for example, in Revel uh Genesis 12. He said to Abraham, You're going to be the father of many nations, and through your offspring all the nations on the earth will be blessed. And so the people of Israel were given a missionary mandate to take the truth of the God of Israel to all the nations. How well did they do? They didn't do so well, right? But after Jesus came, within a generation The gospel went from the Jews to the Gentiles. It went from Jerusalem to the city of Rome to the very end of the earth in that time. And the gospel has down through the age, right, since the resurrection, the gospel has continued to spread and so that just about every language on earth has heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ and there are believers. How is it that the gospel suddenly spread so dramatically in the New Testament era And the answer in this text is that it's because Satan has been bound. He still has a crushing influence over the world, but nonetheless, his influence has been curtailed What does that mean for us? Well, the lesson for us is that because Satan has been bound His ability to deceive the nations has been curtailed, and so we live in the age of evangelistic opportunity. That's the lesson for us, right? And every day, thousands, probably tens of thousands, of men and women come to know Jesus Christ. I read every week, 3,500 churches are planted in various parts of the world. So the gospel is growing in the southern hemisphere. Jesus Christ is still carrying out his work. And so the lesson for us then is that we should not be discouraged. We should be happy warriors And we should still be seeking to make Christ known to unbelievers around us, okay? So there we have the binding of Satan for a thousand years, verses four to six. Third point talks about the reign of Christians during the thousand years. Go back to verse four. John says, Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. And so here we see the souls of believers who have died, including martyrs, we see them in heaven, wherever you see a throne in Revelation It's in heaven, chapter 4, chapter 5. So these are not thrones on earth, as some would say, but these are thrones in heaven. And you'll notice it's just their souls, right? It's not their bodies. And they've been given the authority to judge. Verse 6: Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power. So the first resurrection is a resurrection of the soul. The second resurrection will be when we receive our new bodies at the end. end of time. Now this would have been encouraging to Christians living in the Roman Empire in the first century. And that was the immediate audience, right, of the book of Revelation. These people had seen their brothers and sisters in Christ being put to death on account of their allegiance to Jesus Christ. They had seen other faithful believers die natural deaths, but nonetheless live very difficult lives on account of their allegiance to Jesus Christ. And no doubt they were wondering, where are our deceased brothers and sisters now? Are they gone forever? They lived a horrible life Is that it? Will we never see them again? And this passage tells us, look at the end of verse 4, that you're going to see them. In fact, They're not in some uh comatose state right now, but rather they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years So they are reigning on high. And Christians down through history have taken great comfort from the lesson here. Our spiritual forefathers, the Covenanters, in 17th century Scotland, they would not bow before pagan authorities. And because of this, uh they were persecuted mercilessly. Heard about one event, or a Scottish Royalist Colonel, okay A guy named Tam Diel, who was infamous for his savage slaughter of these Christians. And so he'd slay a husband and right in the presence of his wife, he'd take down a brother right before his sister. And one day he had struck down a powerful uh covenanter preacher, and he said to the congregation What do you think of your man now? And the lady responded, she said, All you have done, sir, is to dispatch him. to the glory on high, there to reign as a prince with God. And so she recognized that Christians who die, including Christians who are mortal They're not gone, they are now reigning as princes with God. So that should be a great comfort, right? More Christians were martyred in the 20th century than all the previous centuries combined. What of them? It's a great loss to the church on earth, but nonetheless they are reigning with Christ, and they will reign on thrones in heaven until Jesus Christ comes Well finally and briefly, let's look at verses 7 and 10. The final battle after the thousand years. And so we understand there's going to be an intensification. of evil. Look at verses seven and eight again. When the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison. And he will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. Okay? So even in saying that Satan will be released from his prison, John's reminding us that Satan cannot do anything that God does not permit. And so he will be allowed, verse 8, to deceive the nations, and he will gather this great uh contingent of anti-Christian nations to attack God's people So this is known as Armageddon, right, the final battle. And from my understanding of how Revelation is cyclical, my understanding is that Armageddon is spoken of three times in the book of Revelation, chapter 16, verse 12 to 17. sixteen, chapter nineteen, verse seventeen and twenty one, chapter twenty, verse seven and ten. In each instance it's just describing the same battle and then the final judgment and the destruction of the powers of evil But they just describe this battle from three vantage points. So in chapter 16, the emphasis is on the destruction of sinful mankind. In chapter 19, the emphasis is on the destruction of the beast and the false prophet. And then in chapter 20, the emphasis is on the defeat of Satan. And in fact, if you look at verse 10 Speaks about the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire in Sulford, where the beast and false prophet were. Okay? So this is just talking about the final judgment, just another aspect of it. So it's not like Satan was thrown into the fire after the beast and false prophet, but now just the focus is on Satan Verse 8 speaks about the nations. He likens them to Gog and Magog, Israel's historic enemies, in Ezekiel. Ezekiel uh chapter 39, but there so you have that reference in Ezekiel and then in um verses seven and eight. Um I'm sorry. Yes, in verses seven and eight, uh there will be this intensification of opposition to God's people. What does that mean to us Well, it means that one day the opportunity or the window of opportunity for evangelism Is going to close. And so again, this should be an incentive. You know what? Satan is presently bound, and we need to go out. We need to share the gospel. Uh one thing I want to do, this isn't the only thing that we should be doing, but I want to start just a Wednesday night discussion of a book called Basic Christianity by John Stott, have basic Christianity on one hand, read a chapter two a week, then have the Gospel of John on the other hand, read a chapter two a week and discuss it. So each If you're not a Christian, if you if you have a friend who's not a Christian, this would be a good person to come to to invite But let's do what we can, huh? And um and we see that in the end, as I read Verses 9 and 10 in the end, Satan will be destroyed. And it's not going to be this great battle between Jesus Christ and Satan. But what do we read? What do we read in verse 9? So the enemies of God says they marched over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints in the beloved city. Okay? But then what happened? But fire came down from heaven and consumed them. And so by the breath of his mouth, Jesus Christ destroys his enemies and the enemies of God's people. And so Revelation is really a happy book, right? It says, let not your heart be troubled. Jesus Christ At his pleasure and at his timing, he will set everything right. So there you have it, okay? The hardest chapter in Revelation, and um we nailed it. Maybe not But um at least there for those who aren't familiar with this it's a good starter, huh? But like I said, no matter where you land uh as far as how to approach this, you still get the big lessons. You see the reality of Satan's activity You see the certainty of Christ's victory, and you're reminded of the future glory of God's people. So that's the good news. Let's bow our heads.