But in Matthew twenty-five, verse thirty-one, Jesus speaking says to his disciples, When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord When did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you And when did we see you sit or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them. Surely I say to you, As you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels For I was hungry and you gave me no food. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not welcome me. Naked and you did not clothe me sick and in prison, and you did not visit me. Then they will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger Or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to you, then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, As you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment. But the righteous into eternal life. And that's a sober passage And this is a sober topic. On the dome of the Capitol building in Washington Washington, D C There's an inscription that speaks of one far-off divine event to which the whole creation moves. And that one far-off divine event is the return of Christ and the final judgment. And this is a reminder. That history is not an endless succession of cycles. History is not just a random, purposeless unfolding of events. But rather history is moving toward a goal. Day by day, hour by hour, history is moving toward Toward the consummation of all things and toward the final judgment. And that's what this passage is about. It's about the final day in history when Jesus Christ returns and he assumes his seed. As the judge of all mankind. Now, if you're a domesticated religionist And I trust there are none here. This pass how can you read this passage and hold to a polite tame version of Christianity. And I'd say you can't. You can't take this you can't take a passage like this seriously. Do you hold to that kind of Christianity? This punctures, that version of Christianity, a version that talks only about God's love and mercy and grace. And we talk about that regularly. Why do we do that? Because that's what the scripture talks about. But we can't all not only talk about those things if we're going to give a a credible representation of what God has told us in Scripture. Because Few things are more clearly stated than that God is a holy God, and He will judge the world in His good time. And so we can say that the Bible is an eschatological document. And by that I mean it's moving toward the consummation You think about how the Bible unfolds. It's one book, it's one unfolding story. It begins with creation, then it moves to the fall, and then from Genesis 3. 15 all the way. To Revelation, the book of Revelation, the end of the book of Revelation, that big chunk of the Bible is about the third piece in the puzzle, and that is the story of redemption. So you move from creation to the fall to the unfolding of God's plan of redemption And then you get to the end of the scripture, the end of the story, and the fourth piece in that unfolding is discussion of the confirmation and the final judgment. So the judg the judgment of God is clear from how the Bible unfolds. The The centrality of this theme is underlined by the fact that two-thirds of the parables that Jesus spoke were on this topic of the final judgment. And then look at this section that we're in in Matthew, chapters 23 to 25, constitute the final teaching portion of Matthew's Gospel. And what are those three chapters about? They are about the coming judgment. Remember, Jesus spoke these words just like two days before he was arrested and then crucified. And so right before the crucifixion, Jesus takes this final opportunity with his disciples and also with his adversaries amongst the Jewish religious leadership. to say that, yes, I'm going to be crucified, but there, that is not the last chapter. I will come again in glory, and I will administer judgment. And so what I want to do this morning is go through this passage and also just take a couple other things that aren't in this passage And what I want to do is answer six questions concerning the theme of the final judgment. Six questions about the final judgment. So the first question is just preliminary. It's not in the text, but I want to make mention of it. And it's the question, why must there be a final judgment? Why must there be a final judgment? And uh part of the answer would be, well, uh, to satisfy justice. And not just God's desire for justice, but our desire for justice, we have within us An inbred desire for justice. You see, you see this even in the youngest of children. A theologian by the name of Rusis John Rushduny said The whole of created history, excuse me, the whole of recorded history is one great longing for justice. And even today, right, when you watch the news Yeah, oftentimes your instinctive reaction is, that is not right, that should not be. Uh w this needs to be settled in a more equitable equitable manner. But Scripture says there will one day be a day of justice. A German theologian, a guy named Gottfried Backel, put it like this, very eloquently. He said the stream of advance will not run on forever. God will put an end. to the course of history, and will make clear that there is a difference between justice and injustice, and that this difference must be demonstrated God will seek out the buried victims, the forgotten starved children, the dishonored women, and God will find the hidden doers of these deeds. God will gather all of them before His throne so that all might see how it stands with their lives. And so there will be a day of justice. And think about our Cameroonian members who have loved ones back in Cameroon. who are being persecuted and who are being oppressed because they're in the wrong uh group in that country. And th there's almost like a news blackout about what's going on there in another parts of the world. It's not on our it's not on the radar But God knows, and God promises, He will make all things right. So why must there be a day of judgment? Well, number one, to satisfy justice And secondly, to demonstrate or to display the righteousness of God Now, what takes place on the final day, on the day of judgment? It will not be an occasion When God investigates what took place in a person's life or how they lived, he won't be examining evidence and rendering a decision Because a person's destiny is determined when they trust in Jesus Christ. That's what Jesus said in John 5. 24. He said, Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment But has passed from death to life. Well, he'll be judged, but he will not be condemned. So he has already passed from death to life. And so when the day of judgment comes The eternal destiny of men and women will already have been settled, right? Did you trust in Jesus Christ? Or were you trusting in your own righteousness? Did you reject The revelation that God gave to you. And so the day of judgment will not be a time of investigation, but it will rather be a time of declaration. It will be a time when God declares and displays his glory, sovereignty, and righteousness in the administration of his justice. And when this is revealed, God's people will say, as the psalmist said in Psalm ninety-seven The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. Right? We're going to say, thank you, Lord, that there is justice. We also say, thank you, Lord, that there's mercy. But we thank you, Lord, that there is justice in this world. Then Estalmist goes on, righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. So that's just a couple comments and uh why will there be a day of judgment? Second question I want to ask is who will be the judge? Well the Lord Jesus Christ, look at verse thirty-one. Jesus says, When the Son of Man comes in glory, and that's why we stay in the Apostles' Creed He shall come again to judge the quick and the dead, the living and the dead. John 5. 22, Jesus said, The Father judges no one. But has given all judgment to the Son. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 10. Paul wrote, We must all appear before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. So think about this. This is just a couple days, maybe even a day, before Jesus' arrest. He came in obscurity. He came in humiliation, uh, and then this uh this this this humiliating, horrendous arrest and crucifixion. But when he returns Nobody's going to have any question about who he is. It's going to be obvious to all. His revelations, the revelation of his glory is going to be universal. And there will be this recognition that he is indeed the righteous king. And so verse thirty-one When the Son of Man comes in his glory, okay, so there will be no obscurity when the judge returns Number three, third question. When will this final judgment take place? Well, we don't know, right? John uh or Matthew 24, verse 36, Jesus said. Concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. So we have no idea. And that's why I remember when we were back in chapter twenty-four, we were scratching our heads. How is it that people write books and uh preach sermons about the when how things are going to unfold in time? Uh when this will be, you know remember back at not everybody remembers this. Back in the seventies, how Lindsey's book, The Late Great Planet Earth and Then in nineteen eighty eight some guy wrote a book uh eighty eight Reason Jesus is returning in nineteen eighty eight and they were best sellers Well, somebody missed that day in Sunday school because it says in verse chapter 24, nobody knows when that'll be. Nobody knows, but God has it marked. On his calendar. Acts 1731, God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world. And when it does come, and it will come, and when it does come, it will come suddenly, and it will come unexpectedly. First Thessalonians five two says, It will come like a thief in a night You never know, but it could happen anytime. Who will be judged? Question four. Well verse 32 tells us. Before him will be gathered all nations, right? Every race, every ethnicity, young and old, rich and poor, people from various religious backgrounds. And though that so the masses of humanity will stand before the throne of God. And at the same time, we're told in Scripture That the administration of this judgment will be personal and it will be individual. One of the great Reformed theologians, John Murray, made this comment. He said There is no possibility of escape from God's all-inclusive adjudication any more than there is escape. from his all pervasive sovereignty. Romans fourteen, verse ten. Paul says, Well Austin before the judgment of the seat of God. But then in verse 12 of chapter 14 he says, each of us will give an account of himself to God. Yeah, and so w one of the another I know I'm doing a lot of quotes this morning, apologies, but I I like this one and then I'll maybe I'll stop. A theologian, his name is J. L. Dagg, talking about the personal, individual nature of the coming judgment. He said, everyone will be brought to judgment as if he were the only creature present, and everyone will give an account of himself and receive sentence for himself. With as much discrimination and perfection of justice as if the judge were wholly absorbed in the consideration of his single cause. And so it's going to be personal. It's going to include everyone who's ever lived. That's why 1 Timothy 4 1 or 2 Timothy 4 1 says he is going to judge the living and the dead. It will include God's people. Second Corinthians 5. 10, Paul said we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So that each one of us may receive what's due for what he has done in body, whether good or evil. Now the judgment of Christians, and you'll have to look at 1 Corinthians 3 later on But the judgment of Christians will not be God's say uh determining whether someone is saved or condemned Jesus already said that right in five twenty chapter uh John five twenty-four. No, you've already crossed from death to life. But rather the judgment of believers uh will be concerning rewards based on your faithfulness to Jesus Christ. And that's another discussion but that that's alluded to in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. The nature of these rewards the Bible does not specify. We know that they're given by God's grace, and so they will certainly outweigh anything that we've done. But believers likewise will be judged. Fallen angels will be judged See that in 2 Peter 2 verse 4, where Peter writes that God did not spare angels when they sinned. But cast them into hell and committed them to chains of to chains of gloomy darkness. Then he says, to be kept until the judgment. And so the demons Are enchained in a sense, awaiting the day of judgment. And let's look a little more carefully at this passage. We're going to use it to answer this question. On what basis will people be judged? Well, I prayed a prayer. I I walked the aisle. I said I believe in Jesus. Is it just on the basis of a verbal profession of faith? Is it only on the basis of giving mental assent to the truths of the gospel? Matthew chapter 7, verse 21 and 23, Jesus said, no, that's not it. He said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? Well that's pretty impressive, right? Somebody's prophesying and somebody's calling upon Jesus and someone's performing even these miracles But Jesus said, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of evil. And so, and I have to say this as clearly as I can: a mere profession of faith will not save someone if it's a hollow profession. But if it's a genuine profession, right, if you recognize you're a sinner, you recognize that Jesus lived a perfect life where you fell short, and that he died on the cross for your sin. If you are trusting in him and not in your own good deeds, then that constitutes salvation in the Bible, what the Bible teaches. And so you but you're not saved just by giving some kind of profession. The final judgment, rather, will be based not on the verbal profession of faith. But it will be based upon the evidence, the evidence of genuine Christian conversion That's why Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7, verse 20, about false disciples and true disciples, he said, you will recognize them by their fruits. So we're saved by God's grace, right? We're not saved by going to church. We're not saved by trying to be by our efforts to be good people. We're saved by God's grace. By his unmerited favor. That's what Ephesians 2. 8. 9 says. You're saved by grace through faith, not from your works. However When you are saved, that will manifest itself in a changed life Not moral perfection, right? Not spiritual perfection, but there will be a credible change in your life. And so, yes, we're saved by grace. And that's what this passage says. Look closely at verse 34. Jesus says about the sheep: He said, inherit the kingdom prepared for you. From the foundation of the world. And so heaven is given to believers as an inheritance. It's not something you can earn. It's not something you deserve. It's just graciously given to us. And it also says in verse 34 that this inheritance was prepared from the foundation of the world. So if it was prepared from the from the foundation of the world, then there's nothing that we could have contributed to it. in in our lives because God had already prepared it for us uh before we were even born. And so we're saved by grace. But true faith demonstrates itself in good deeds. And so that's again why why we would say That while salvation is by faith, judgment will be on the basis of our works. Revelation 20, verse 12. There's a passage back there in that chapter. It talks about the final judgment. It's interesting to read. You might pick it up this afternoon. But in that passage, John uh receives this revelation from Jesus Christ and in this portion on the on the final judgment, John said I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and the books were opened, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books. According to what they had done. So there you have it again. The judgment is based according to to what we had done. And so good deeds are not the cause of our salvation, but they're the evidence of our salvation. Now I want you to look a little more closely at this passage. In this text, Jesus says that one of the clearest indicators of a genuine faith in Jesus Christ Is that we show compassion to the needy, to the hungry, the thirsty, the stranger, the cold, the sick, the imprisoned? But in this text, he's not merely speaking about the media in general. Although the Bible says, uh Proverbs 14:31, 1917 says we should be concerned for the media in general. But this text, in this passage, Jesus is saying that one of the clearest indicators of genuine faith in him is that we show concern for the needy amongst Jesus' followers. Look at the end of verse 40. He said, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. So it's not about believers, right? A believer is a brother of Jesus Christ by way of adoption. As ye did it to one of these of these my brothers, ye did it to me. Jesus spoke similarly back in chapter 10, verse 40, when he said to his disciples Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives him, who sent me. Again, I'm just trying to confirm this interpretation. One more To confirm verse 40, that Jesus is saying that one of the clear indicators of salvation is that you care for the neediest amongst God's people. And so in 1 John 3. 14, John said, We know, we know that we've passed from death to life. How? Well, because we love the brothers. That's an evidence. And so that's a searching test. So my question then for you to consider is do you have compassion To the loneliest of God's people. Do you take time to pray for the forgotten Christians being persecuted? Places like China or um Cuba. Uh Ida Rowan she often sends me uh updates from um open doors. They they they watch out for persecuted Christians. But yeah. We need to be aware of what's going on. We need to what can we do? Well, the least we can do is pray for them, pray for justice, pray uh for their liberation And then think about all the members we have here from foreign countries. We need to look out for them. It's hard to be a newcomer. in this area, right? How how do you make friends? How do you find your way around? Uh just feeling at home. And and some are alone. They're they have families back in back in Africa, back in China So we need to look out for them. And then you think about our some of our singles. They don't have any family nearby. Well that's what a church is. We are we're to we're to be We're to be that family, or you think about the elderly. Remember one of our members, uh Charlotte Lee, not everybody knows Charlotte. She's gotta be 94 by now But when she came to our church, uh she was pretty young, she was eighty-nine, and um she every she was she was warmly welcomed. And it it did a lot for her and I remember her saying, you know what? I went to this other church and I could tell they didn't want me there. I could just tell. Because nobody nobody took an interest in her. But yeah, go i some I think sometimes older people feel like they're invisible. No, we we need to look out for one another uh of all ages And that's what Jesus is saying in verse 40, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. And what's fascinating In this text is that the righteous are surprised to hear Jesus commend them. Look at the end of verse 37, he said, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you a drink? Like what did I do that that caught your attention? And it Jesus answers, well, it's the it's just these little things. You visited me, uh you shared your clothes, you you gave me something to eat, you gave me something to drink You know, we we could put uh add things, right? Just made a phone call uh to encourage somebody or sent them send that person a note. Uh y you you notice somebody, a new person to church. And uh these are little things, but uh a little thing's a little thing, but faithfulness and a little thing's a big thing And so this passage is not teaching salvation based on some kind of humanitarian ethic, but rather saying um If you do care for the needy, especially amongst God's people, that's a sign that a work has happened in your heart, that you have received the Holy Spirit, and that you've been regenerated. One more question. What'll take place on that great day? What will take place at the judgment? In the end of verse thirty-two Jesus said he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the ghosts. And so on the day of judgment there will be this great distinguishing. There will be this great separation That takes place. As a shepherd separates a sheep from the goat, and the picture there is a Palestinian shepherd, they be out uh in the fields and the sheep would be mingled with the goats and the sheep would be white sheep like you see here in America, but they'd be sorta uh gray or brownish And so from a distance, you know, which are the sheep, which are the goats, it doesn't matter. But as the sun goes down, the evening comes and the It cools off a little bit. The shepherd knew that he had to pull the goats out and he had to herd those goats together so that they could keep each other warm. Sheep they would be okay, right? They they have They're they're they have a nice coat on themselves. But Jesus said this is what it's gonna be like at the end of the age Though believers and unbelievers oftentimes work side by side and stand shoulder to shoulder in this life, a day is coming when there will be a great separation And then there will be rewards and punishments meted out. Verse 34, Jesus says, the sheep will inherit the kingdom. The sheep will inherit the kingdom And the ghosts will be condemned, and they will suffer eternally. So we read in verse 41 He will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and for his angels. Hell was originally prepared for the devil and his demons, fallen angels. So this corrects a misconception that hell is a place where Satan torments believe torments the unrepentant. Hell, rather, is a place where the devil and his demons, alongside the unrepentant, suffer eternally. Into what terrible company The unrepentant will have to endure in hell. And what's most distressing is the word eternal. It's never-ending. One of the old Reformed theologians, Charles Hodge, said, Of all the words for eternal, none is more emphatic than the one that's used in this passage. It's never-ending condemnation. J. C. Ryle said that, or asked these questions, who shall describe the misery of eternal punishment It is something utterly indescribable and inconceivable. The eternal pain of body, the eternal sting of an accusing conscience The eternal society of none but the wicked, the devil and his angels, the eternal remembrance of opportunities neglected and Christ despised. the eternal prospect of a weary, hopeless future. All this is misery indeed. Then he said, it's enough to make our ears tingle and our blood to run cold. And so it's my unhappy um circumstance to deliver to you a passage that is so sobering and so dark But it's also our privilege to have disclosed to us this revelation from God. And I think, you know, it should this must inform our outwork our outlook on life, or we're in dreamland. We're not really thinking clearly about life and about death. And it should it should awaken you to tend to your soul as it awakens me. And so are you one a sheep or are you one of goats? Do you know Jesus Christ? Have you turned to him? Are you resting on him? Have you found him as a savior of your soul? And then do you see not perfection, but you see that there's been a change in your interests and in your aspirations. And you find yourself having compassion for those, even amongst God's people, who are in need. So that's the first question, um or first comment I have there, is it sure to lured us to take heed for our souls Because we will one day stand before Jesus Christ in judgment. And then Are you concerned that others know about the Savior, right? Somebody said the most selfish Christian there is is somebody who's happy to go to heaven without telling other people about Jesus. And so let's think about these. It's a sober passage. It's a sober sermon. And now we're going to sing a sober song. If this is your first time, we're usually a happy, happy church, uh, but not today, right? Because we want to take these scriptures seriously. And so take your bulletin. Uh Marilyn's gonna play this song once through, so you don't have to stand up yet. But we're gonna just I want you to uh Read through these words and concentrate on them when it comes time to sing. So it's all standard. You love to give me the mind Where we can try to buy number things. All the time of shape and I just felt me. Here's winner was for an easy I pray Lord for any who don't know you, I pray that you would uh awaken them, uh give them a a sense of um your wrath, but also help them to see your grace and mercy to any uh who would look to Jesus Christ. And so we pray that you would Draw them to yourself, work in them faith and repentance, grant them spiritual regeneration and new life. We thank you, Lord, for those of us who do know you by your grace. We thank you, Lord, that you are merciful to us. That we're rebels in our hearts and we are blind and spiritual corpses. You awakened us. And so give us a sense of gratitude for all that you've done for us And in mercy toward others, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Look up, receive the benediction Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Amen. Yeah, that's a little bit about it. Yeah, huh?