Romans chapter one, it's good to have some new faces amongst us and we're going through Paul's letter to the Romans. And our text this morning is chapter 1, beginning at verse 18. Pardon me, I have a bit of a cold again, so my my apologies Chapter one, verse eighteen for the wrath of God Is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world and the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worship and serve the cre the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women, and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, and malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. So it's interesting. Last week we were in the first uh the previous verses and we ended up in verses sixteen and seventeen. And those verses present the theme of the book of Romans, where Paul said in verse 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first. Then to the Gentile, and then in verse 17, he explains about this gospel. He says, In it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. Okay And so he he's explained the gospel, and the gospel is basically God makes sinners righteous. He gives us the righteousness of Jesus Christ when we trust in him, when we have faith in him. Well, there's a hard stop there after verse 17 because he doesn't talk about this gospel or this righteousness. Until you get to chapter 3, verse 21. Skip over there, chapter 3, verse 21. He says, Now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. And so there he picks up. So you have to ask the question, what's going on? Why this interlude from chapter 1, verse 18, all the way to chapter 3, verse 20? Well In this section, chapter 118 and 320, Paul shows us our need for the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And so he takes quite a section of scripture there or of his letter to disassemble us, to show us our sin and our need of a savior. And by the time we'll get to chapter 3, verse 20, we should be able to say, listen. There's not one of us who is not spiritually depraved and morally corrupt from the crown of our heads to the sole of our feet. From the most hardened atheists to the most punctilious religionists, were all spiritually depraved and morally bankrupt. And we are subject to the wrath of a holy God And it's only when a person comes to see his perilous standing before God that he or she Will then recognize the greatness and the glory of the gospel And so Paul begins in this section that we're looking at this morning. He begins his case for the gospel. by speaking about the wrath of God, okay? So we're going to talk about three things, the reality of God's wrath. the reason for God's wrath, and then in this passage it talks about the outworking of God's wrath. And so first of all, The reality of the wrath of God. Now in the mainline Protestant Church, to talk about, and this is not a mainline Protestant denomination, But in the mainland Protestant Church, which I was once a part of, the discussion of God's wrath is considered unsophisticated and indelicate and perhaps primitive And so mealy-mouth ministers will opine endlessly on the love and the mercy and the kindness and the grace of God, and they certainly are biblical truths But while the Bible speaks abundantly of God's mercy and his love and so on, at the same time we do have in Scripture ample testimony to his righteous wrath. And it's not only an Old Testament subject, right? You see here in Romans 1. A couple years ago we went through the book of Revelation, talked about, endlessly it seems, about the wrath of God. Jesus Himself, you know, gentle Jesus, meek and mild. Some of the most furious words about the wrath of God are spoken by Jesus in Matthew chapter 23 to 25. Okay? Now, but we need to stop and we need to recognize that the wrath of God is not like the wrath of man, right? Our wrath is spiteful typically, it's impulsive. But God's wrath is his settled anger toward evil. It is God's response to that which violates his holiness. And it is righteous. It is just. Look at chapter 2, verse 5. In the end of the verse there, Paul speaks about the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. So what do you think of that? Well, somebody might be saying, I don't like that. I don't like that kind of God. Well When you think about it, when push comes to shove, we all want to live in a universe where there is justice. So I was reading something last week and it talked about a fellow named uh Philip Haley, and he lived, or he I think he's dead now, but in the 1960s He did a lot of research into the Holocaust and Nazi cruelty. How do you say that? Cruelties. uh I miss that day in school. The Nazi cruelties uh that took place uh during the Holocaust. And so for months This man immersed himself in reading documents that cataloged the torture and the killing of children in Nazi concentration camps. And um by because he read about these cruelties you know for months, it almost he said it it o he said it almost drove me mad. And he he wrote about uh accounts of Nazi doctors dressed in smocks uh bending over a metal table with a j a gypsy or a Jewish ch child on it. cutting off a toe or a finger or an ear without anesthesia. And so this man said, I want it to tear the heart. I want to tear the head off that man. I want to pick up that child. I want to take him. I want to run with, take him out of that concentration camp and bring him to safety. But he couldn't do that, right? Well, the wrath of God, as revealed in a stated in Scripture, tells us that there will one day be A day of justice. One writer said, the stream of events will not go on forever. God will put an end to the course of history and will make clear that there is a difference between justice and injustice. And that this difference must be demonstrated. God will seek out the buried victims, the forgotten starved children, the dishonored women, and God will find the hidden doers of these deeds. And he will gather them before his judgment seat. And so the wrath of a righteous God is something that I think when you think it through, and when you think about the evil that exists in the world and that has existed down through history, We have this longing for justice. And there will be justice. Romans chapter two, verse uh verse five. speaks about the day of judgment as the day of wrath. And so there will be a judgment to come when God's wrath is poured out But it's interesting, the passage we just read tells us that it's not merely something to come. But that God is currently, He's presently unleashing His wrath. Look at verse 18. It says, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. Now, why is that? What is the reason for God's wrath? We have it in verse 18. Look at verse 18 carefully, okay? So the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness righteousness of men. Who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth And so this is going to tell us in verses 19 and 20 that everybody in his heart of hearts knows. That there's a God, okay? So when you talk to somebody who says they're an unbeliever, you're not really talking to a blank slate. They know in their heart of hearts that there is a God. This has been called a point of contact. So whenever you're talking to a non-believer, remember this. You have a point of contact. They're made in God's image. They're living in God's world. They know there's a God. God's given them a conscience, it says in chapter 2, verse 15. There's this awareness. However The end of verse 18, they suppress the truth, they stifle that knowledge. They don't want to acknowledge it because then they'll know they're accountable to a holy God. And so in verse 28 it says, they did not see fit to acknowledge God They suppress the truth in one of the venues by which God discloses the truth of his existence. is through nature, through the created order. And that's what we read in verses 19 and 20. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. How so? Verse 20. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world In the things that have been made. So there you have it. The creation, the things that have been made, reveal something of God, his eternal nature, his divine power. It's not enough to bring someone to a saving knowledge of Christ. We need the scripture for that. But it's enough to render all people guilty Because they do have this knowledge of God, and yet they suppress it. Paul said the same thing in Acts chapter 14, verse 17. He said to these pagans, he says, God did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven in fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. So Paul's saying there's a general testimony of God that goes out to all people. This has been called general revelation. In other words God has revealed Himself to people, to all people everywhere, generally, okay? And this is this has been verified in many ways. You know, most people when they become believers will say, Yeah, I knew there was a God, I remember a friend of mine. He says, I know there I we were having all these debates about Christianity, and he would always be the contrarian Then after a while I said, listen, if I could answer all your questions, uh would you believe? And he said, no. I said, why not Because I want to do my own thing. It wasn't an intellectual issue, it was really a moral issue. He knew there was a God. A missionary years ago, a guy named Don Richardson wrote a book titled Eternity in their hearts and he documented how primitive peoples living in the most remote regions of the world Across the board, they all recognize that there is a eternal and supreme being. Well, how's this? How could this be? People never heard about the gospel or heard about any religion. Well, it's because they're made in God's image and they look at the creation, they recognize that there is a God, okay So again, verse 20. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen ever since the creation of the world in the things, in the things that have been made. There's a new book out by a writer. He lives in D. C. , Oz Guinness. He's a Christian thinker. And the title of this book is Signals of Transcendence. Signals of Transcendence. And you know, signal transcendence, you know, it could be like, you know, beautiful sunset o over the ocean or you're on a train, you're going through Switzerland, looking at these beautiful the mountains, right, the Alps or at the birth of a a baby, you know, sometimes a non-believer, su all of a sudden they move from uh being an agnostic to being a believer. They believe there's a God because they hold their child in their arms And um so these are these are all what Ginn Guinness uh called signals of God's uh presence or of of transcendence or even something simple uh G. K. Chesterton, the Christian uh writer, uh, he he said that what awakened him when he was an unbeliever, what awakened him uh to the existence of God was just a simple dandelion. He you know he said these things are everywhere. And yet when you think about it and you examine these things, they're they're fascinating. Well, you know, all of life, you know the uh are the way we interact, the way we know each other and and nature and uh the the wonderful uh variety of foods we eat and and the colors and the flowers and everything These are all signals of God's transcendence, right? God has not left himself uh without testimony. And next week when we look at chapter two verse fifteen We add to that that God has installed in every single person the conscience. We have this sense of right and wrong. You shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do that. Well, that's all from God And so the upshot of this, and it's I've sort of wandered a little bit, but the upshot is that on the day of judgment, no one will be able to plead ignorance of God. Nobody's gonna be able to say to God when he stands before God, hey, you know what? You didn't give me enough evidence. It's not my fault Because God has provided sufficient evidence of His presence, of His power, but Men outside of the work of the Holy Spirit do not bow before God. And that's why verse 18 The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against our ungodliness and against our unwickedness. So, alright. Everybody happy now? It gets worse. Let's look at the outworking of God's wrath. Chapter 1, verse 21 to uh 32 And as I said, God's wrath will not only be revealed at the final judgment, but God is executing his wrath in the here and now. And one way he does it, and this is really the key to the chapter, one way that God executes his wrath in the here and now is by allowing individuals and allowing nations to go their own way. The theologians call this judicial abandonment God is exercising his judgment by abandoning people and letting them go their own way. And so don't ever say, I want to live my own life, I want to do my own thing, because God just might withdraw the light of His presence and allow you to go your own way. And we see this abandonment underlined in a phrase, a grim phrase that ref that is repeated three times in verses twenty-four, twenty-six. and twenty-eight where it says, God gave them up. So look at verse twenty-four. It says, Therefore God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity. 26. For this reason. God gave them up to dishonorable passions. 28. Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind. Now, this isn't the only place in Scripture that speaks like this. There are other places in the Bible that talk about God exercising his judgment through abandonment. Just one verse, Judges 1013, God told the Israelites. You have forsaken me and served other gods. Therefore, I will save you no more. So in that period of Israel's history, God gave them up. We saw the same thing when we were in the book of Proverbs, chapter 1, verse 24 to 31. You just note that and look it up later And so let's look a little more closely at some of the consequences now of this abandonment. First of all, When God gives the people up, they become darkened in their thinking. Look at verse 21 again. Although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Same thing twenty-eight. God gave them up to a debased mind. Okay. I look at that verse, those verses. And my immediate response was, that explains an awful lot. That explains a lot That explains how highly educated women, how highly educated people can say, I don't know how to define what a woman is. That explains how leaders in education, in the corporate world, in government can support uh the mutilation of children, children who've been groomed, uh, to be confused about their gender That explains how our leaders in education can have books in school libraries that promote pedophilia. Uh here's something else. There's a website titled it's called WWW Shout Your Abortion And the gist of it is these are women who've had abortions, and that's tragic, and we grieve for them, of course, and for their children, but this uh organization uses it as a way to to to boast in it, to brag about it, to celebrate it And you know, uh it used to be that if someone was favored abortion, they'd say, well, it's a tragic choice, but I think it's it should be done in certain cases. I don't agree with that, but at least it seems a little bit more reasonable than saying that to kill a baby is a positive good. And so my question is How do you explain this kind of thinking, uh this kind of talk coming from people who are so educated, uh so successful uh in their pr respective areas. How do you explain that? Because um you know until five minutes ago these were not rational positions. And um I think the a the answer is found in this in this text. Uh it's not an intellectual thing. It's a moral thing. It says in the end of verse 21. God allowed them to become futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. And so uh when God gave them up, uh they became number one, darkened in their thinking. Number two, it says in verse twenty-three They became idolaters. Verse 23. They exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and reptiles and animals and reptiles. You know, it's been said that mankind is incurably religious. And understandably so, right? Because like I said, we're made in God's image. We're living in God's world. We're incurably religious. But if you don't worship the true God, the God who's revealed Himself, you're going to worship something. It could be a statue of Buddha, it could be your bank account, but you're going to worship something. And so God gave them up, and we became idolaters. And then verse uh twenty-four, twenty-six, and twenty-seven, a third uh man uh evidence When God gives the people up, is they become sexually perverted. So again, verse 24, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity. to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. And then down to verse 26. For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature, and men likewise gave up natural relations with women And were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving all the benefits. excuse me, and receiving in themselves the due penalty of their error. So it says, you know, there's all kind of debates in the modern church about homosexuality And we know it's not the only sin in the world. And we welcome every we're all sinners. We all want to want everybody to come into our church, hear the gospel. Find forgiveness. So don't misunderstand what I'm saying here, but the Bible is clear, uh just as fornication is sin uh between heterosexuals homosexual practice is clearly stated in Scripture as a sin. And it's a heinous sin in the end of verse 26. Paul says it's contrary to nature. It's contrary to the way that God designed human anatomy. And so it's a grievous sin. It's a heinous sin. And it's notable, you know, Paul wasn't uh writing this letter uh from Corinth to Rome. He was in Corinth. He wasn't in some uh on some spiritual retreat. He was in Corinth. uh one of the most um sexually promiscuous uh cities in history. And I was reading that fourteen of the first fifteen uh Roman Empi emperors were Homosexuals. And yet Paul says this is a sign that God has given this civilization, the Roman Empire, up. to itself. And then if we go on, go down to verse twenty-nine and thirty-one. It goes on to talk about all kinds of immorality that God has allowed to run loose. And uh you'll notice as I read verse 29 and 31 that many of the sins mentioned here are relational. So verse 29, they were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents. foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. And so, you know, here's a description of um Largely of what's going on in our country uh today. Excuse me. Now, to cap it off, I want you to notice verse 32, and then we'll uh we'll turn a corner. To cap it off in verse let's read it first. It says, though they know God's decree, that those who practice it such things deserve to die They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. And so it's one thing, right, to be a sinner, which we all are, and to feel shame But it shows that an individual or a nation has moved on to a further stage. When they not only do these things, but they celebrate these things. They give approval to these things. And This is what's going on, right? You turn on the TV at night and it's just scandalous. I mean a lot of the shows are just pornographic You drive through the downtown, you see churches that once, you know, a hundred years ago proclaimed the gospel, taught the Bible, and now they're flying rainbow flags. And so everything has been twisted and we live in a culture where it looks like, hey, I get it now, okay? This is the description. Romans 1 is the description of those who have been abandoned by God. God has removed his grace God has withdrawn the light of his presence, and God has given a people up to self-deception and to immorality. Now here's where I'm here's where I'm taking all this, okay? Not the only place, but here's one of the places I'm taking it. If you're looking for an explanation, of what has happened in our culture in the past five, ten, twenty years. Well, we used to say the past, you know, the 1970s were a disaster. Those who are older would say the 1960s was like the bottom. But the 1960s and 70s are like Mayberry compared to where we are today. How do we explain this, okay? Here we have it. This description when uh perverted sex is celebrated And all other manner of sin is celebrate it, not just tolerate it, but celebrate it. It says that God, it seems to me God has given up Our nation, and it's not that we will one day suffer God's judgment, but this is evidence that we are currently under the judgment of God. Okay? This is our situation. At least this is my take on it. Okay? So then the question, what do we do? Should I pray, sing hymn, we'll go out, and we'll despair, right? What how should a Christian process this? And I think I'm correct, some I'm sure some disagree with me, but I think I'm correct. But if I am correct, how should a Christian process this if I'm correct in saying our current state of affairs in our nation Is that God has given us over? Okay? He's abandoned us, and we are under his judgment. What should we do? What should our outlook be? And I'd say, well, it's hard not to despair, right? Especially those who are older, because you knew what it used to be and it was bad then, but now it's like, whoa, it's crazy now, okay? You despair for our children, you despair for the next generation. Sure, that's understandable. But at the same time, we can take some comfort in God's sovereignty. Because here we have it in this passage. God has told us ahead of time, this is what will happen. Okay? But don't lose heart because we're reminded, because God told us ahead of time. We know that he is sovereign. And even though, you know, the whole World's going to hell in a handbasket. Nonetheless, God still has his people. God still has called people to himself. We're Christians, right? Those of us who have kids, what do we want to do? We want to do what we can in this very difficult culture. to try to raise our children in the Lord. We want to make sure they're educated in a manner that doesn't corrupt them. We want to endeavor to prepare them to live for the Lord in a hostile culture, oftentimes hostile, not always. uh an ungodly culture and a culture uh that really is now a mission field To help strengthen Christians, we want to stay in fellowship with one another. We should make an effort to be in Christian community, to have our children in Christian community. We don't want to be isolationists, right? We want to be engaged with unbelieving friends and co-workers and whatnot. But we also have to recognize that if our kids and actually ourselves, if we're gonna persevere, we're gonna have to be in some kind of fellowship with other believers And not just walking in ten thirty Sunday morning and walking out eleven thirty. But we need where you have to get to know other Christians for support And also, we certainly want to see this cultural confusion as an opportunity for Christian witness And so there's a book that came out some years ago. I don't subscribe to everything the guy says, but he does have some wisdom. The book's titled The Benedict Option. The writer's name is Rod Dreyer. And he said, he said, listen, the brave new world of the secular left will not be able to sustain itself. It can't, right? Because it's on a collision course with reality. And when you're on a collision course with reality, reality always wins. Right? Try it sometime. You might say, I'm going to break the law of gravity. I'm going to jump off a ten-story building. Go ahead. Have a crack at it. See how you do breaking the law of gravity. No, the law of gravity is gonna break you. And so because the course that our culture is on cannot sustain itself, Dreyer makes the point. That we preserve biblical Christianity in the home, in education In the social order, because sooner or later the brave new world of the secular left is going to collapse. And when it does collapse, it may not be in our time, but when it does collapse, we're going to want a Christian society for people to turn to. And people are even turning now, right? Individuals you might know. They're like, this is crazy. And they're open to the gospel. Okay? So don't lose heart. God has his people out there. They're not yet Christians, but they're his sheep. And in John 10, Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. And that's why we want to open this book on Sundays in Sunday school and worship. And we want to lay it out. We want people to understand it. We want people to hear the voice of God. Because God, by his Spirit and His Word, is still moving people from unbelief to belief. And so who knows what the future is for our culture, but we know that Jesus Christ is still building his church. And there are many Bible-believing churches in this town or in this county, and we want to be an outpost for reality. We want to be an outpost for truth And we want to be a community where there's not only truth, but there's love and there's grace, so people will see. There's something different about these people. So educate your kids in a godly manner, strengthen your family, work to build up others in the church, invite others to church. And when you see somebody new who's not a believer, you know, just and embrace them. Welcome them because we want them to stick around, uh to see, and to come to know Jesus Christ. So here we have this very dark passage about the wrath of God. So let me ask a question, then we're done. Where is the wrath of God most vividly displayed? And I say, well, let's see, there were the ten plagues in Egypt. That was pretty bad. Sodom and Gomorrah, that's certainly in the top 10. Go to the book of Revelation. Pretty serious stuff. But where is it most vividly displayed? And we'd have to say that God's wrath was most vividly displayed when he poured it out on his son, right, the only good man who ever lived When Jesus Christ suffered on the cross, that was the most furious display of the wrath of God. And in the cross, we see not only God's justice and wrath, but we see his mercy and grace. And so, if you're not a Christian, If you're thinking about these things, look to the cross of Jesus Christ, and you see the character of God, and it's fascinating. as it's revealed in the cross, as it's spoken of in Scripture, it's you know, there's something called the force of truth, right? It's the force of the truth of the gospel that draws people to come to Christ. So if you're not a Christian, stay at it. Stay with this book. Stay in it. Keep coming. Keep listening. Keep uh and also ask questions. Okay? Well let's pray. Father in heaven, we pray for our kids. We pray that they'll grow strong in you. They'll follow you with all their hearts. They'll become spiritually fortified. They'll stay in fellowship. They'll encourage their peers who are Christians. And they'll reach out to their peers who don't know anything about the truth of the gospel. Help us, Lord, all, to have this missionary mindset. We pray, Lord, that we won't be corrupted, that our kids won't be corrupted by all the toxic uh messages out there. We pray you'll preserve all the churches that are proclaiming Christ, that stand on the authority of your Bible. We pray, Lord, for our efforts as parents There's so much going against our efforts to raise our kids in the Lord. We do pray for your to strengthen us. Help us not to grow weary. Help us to show forth Christian fruit in our own lives to make the gospel attractive to our kids. Help us to be a church where the fellowship deepens. And where we were deliberate about being hospitable toward others. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, so I said this passage is about the purposes of God, right? Sometimes it's a mystery. But God will accomplish his good ends. So take your hymnal. We're going to sing hymn number 128. God