May go to worship training with Miss Jenny and let's turn in our Bibles to John chapter ten. So we're marching through John's Gospel. And here we are at chapter 10, beginning at verse 22, a short passage, and a passage that is very specific. And I was just thinking about this this morning. I'm going to be dumping many, many Bible verses out this morning. Um But Write them down. Maybe I'm gonna overdo it, but that's okay. Uh we'll we'll straighten it out in the end. So Chapter 10, verse 22. So there's a change in time now. It's now winter. We discover that because it says in verse 22, at the time the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe, because you are not part of my flock. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Now, here are two questions that I imagine that you have asked at one time or another. First question is, how can you be certain that you really are a Christian? Whereas you think about others who claim to be Christians and seem to be Christians He asked, are there any telltale signs by which you can gain a greater confidence in the genuineness of their salvation. And I know you can't look into somebody's heart, only God knows. But are there any telltale signs uh which should give you a great degree of confidence that yeah that person uh really does seem to be a follower of Jesus Christ. So that's the first question. How can how can you be sure you're a Christian And can a Christian lose his or her salvation? Can a true believer fall away from the faith as some teach? I'm a Christian. Will I go the distance? Or will I fall overboard? So that's the question. So we have these two questions. These are the two questions that this passage, I believe, answers clearly and convincingly. So just a little bit of background on the uh setting here and then we'll we'll jump right in there. So it says it's the feast of dedication, better known to us as uh Hanukkah. Where did that come from? It wasn't You know, m most of the Jewish festivals were prescribed in the Old Testament, not the feast of dedication. Uh that was something they came up with uh in the time between the Old Testament and the New Testament, in the year 167 uh BC, of Assyrian, a guy named Antiochus Epiphanes He overran Jerusalem and he set up a pagan altar in the temple. So of course this was repugnant. uh to the Jewish people. He sacrificed pigs on the altar. He had pork forced down the throats of the priest And he turned the temple chambers into a brothel. And so at Ttiochus Epiphanes was not a real popular guy amongst the Jews in Jerusalem. And after the Jews suffered Under Antiochus and his armies for three years, they revolted and amazingly they recaptured the temple. and rededicated it to God. And so that's why this is called the Feast of Uh Dedication. So this is the time in which a group of Jewish leaders approach Jesus. He's walking in the temple courts on, well let's just read verse 24. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Alright. Well Jesus didn't come out right out and say, I'm the Messiah for good reasons because they had the Jews had this idea that the Messiah would be a political deliverer So he didn't come right out and say that he was the Messiah. However, everything in his ministry pointed to him as the one who had been promised in the Old Testament. So this point, hard stop, that's a little bit of background, and we're going to try to, we are going to answer the first question, which was How can you be sure that you are a Christian? Remember in the beginning of chapter 10, Jesus talked about Jesus' sheep. He said, You're my sheep. How can you recognize one of Jesus' sheep? And in our section here uh Jesus gives three marks by which the true his true followers can be identified. The first one, I guess it's sort of obvious, but it's in the text The first sign or first mark of someone's being one of Christ is that you have saving faith. You have saving faith. And so it's interesting. Jesus has been teaching. He has been performing miracles. In chapter 9, he healed a man who had been born blind. Yet, despite all that, these people did not believe. How can that be? Well, Jesus explains in verse 26, you do not believe because you're not part of my flock. So that's very interesting. He did not say, he didn't say, because you don't believe, you're not a part of my flock. He says, the reason you do not believe is you're not part of my flock. That's why you don't believe. You're not one of my sheep. You're not one of my people. The evidence that you are part of Jesus' flock, that you are one of his elect, is right there in verse 26. You believe. That's real simple, but why do some people who hear the gospel believe in others They it just goes right by them. It's a blur, it's it's meaningless. How is that? And the answer is because They're not part of Jesus' fold, part of his flock, and so that's one of the signs of salvation. It seems simple, but You have saving faith, and that's not something that's from yourself. It's something that God gives you. That is a if you if you are trusting in Jesus Christ You recognize he's fully God, He's fully man, He lived a perfect life, He obeyed all God's laws or God's commands, where you fell short, and then He died to pay the penalty for your sin If you say, yeah, that's true, I believe that stuff, how is it that you're able to recognize that? How is it that that has the ring of truth? And the answer is that you are one of Jesus' sheep. Conversely If you merely give mental assent to these truths, but you're not trusting in Christ personally, you're not resting on Christ. Then that may well uh be a sign uh that you're lost, and you need to consider the state of your standing, before Jesus Christ. So one sign that you're one of Jesus sheep is that you have saving faith. Here's a second sign. You listen to Jesus' voice. It's right there in verse 27. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. He said that earlier in verse 3 The sheep hear his voice, the good shepherd's voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. Well where do we hear the Jesus where where do we hear Jesus' voice? It's not when we're walking through the forest and sort of meditating. It's when we open up this book and we read it because the entire Bible from Genesis to Revelation is the word of Christ. And so one of the what I'm saying is one of the distinguishing marks of genuine conversion is that You recognize this ancient document to be God's Word. You now have an elevated esteem and hunger for what the Bible says. Interesting. So John wrote this gospel. He also wrote 1 John in 1 John chapter 4, verse 6. He writes, whoever knows God listens to us. Who's the us? Well, who was John? He was one of the apostles. John is saying, if you know God You're going to listen to what uh we the apostles write. And they wrote many parts of the New Testament, of course. Here's a here's another great verse. I told you I was going to go overboard. 1 Thessalonians 213. Write this one down. This is really helpful, I think. There Paul wrote to his these Christians, when you received the Word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men. but as what it really is, the Word of God. And so Paul's saying, hey, I'm encouraged about you guys, because When you heard our teaching, you recognize that it wasn't just something I was coming up with But this was God given revelation. And so that's what happens when you become a Christian. You Innately want to know what God says in this book. And that's the most remarkable thing. Right here we are 2,000 years removed from Jesus' time. And yet, look at all the people and all the churches and all the Bible-teaching churches in Frederick County alone, where I think about people who have started coming to this church who were not believers when they started coming, they became believers and They had no interest in the scripture before, but there's this new found interest in the Bible And when you think about it, it's the most uncanny thing, right? And there are people, newer Christians in our church, some elderly, but new Christians And they're asking me questions. W how can you help me with this passage or what this says here? Or I'm st I'm trying to study the Psalms. Is there some little book that you could give me to help Help me get a better handle on the Psalms or whatever book they're in. I'm like, oh, that that's the most gratifying uh experience you can have, right, as a Christian or as a pastor. to see a newer Christian really starting to grapple with Scripture. And what's really striking is that some of these newer Christians within three years or five years, they have a pretty good handle on the main thrust of the Bible and the themes of the Bible. How is that? Well it's because they've jumped into the Bible, right? They're reading it. Uh they're talking about it, they're coming to Sunday school, their Bible study, they're sitting under under the teaching of the Word, and it starts to come together. How is this, where did they get that interest from? Well, God put that in them, and uh Jesus here says, My sheep hear my voice. Conversely Of course, if you have no interest in the scripture, no desire to learn it, then that may well be a sign. uh that you are spiritually dead and on your way to hell. So something to consider. So how do you recognize a Christian? Well, number one, you have saving faith. Number two, you listen to Jesus' voice. Number three, you follow Jesus. Right there in verse 27. My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. Martin Luther put it like this. The sheep, though the most simple creature, is superior to all animals in this, that as soon as he hears his master's voice, he will follow him. No other. And that's exactly what Jesus said back in verse 5. There we go again. Verse 5. A stranger they will not follow, but will flee from him For they do not know the voice of strangers. And so if you're one of Jesus' sheep, you're going to follow the shepherd. John says it differently in 1 John 2 3. He says We know we have come to know him. How is that? If we obey his commands, not flawlessly, right? He goes on to say, uh, if we claim to be without sin, uh we deceive ourselves, the truth isn't in us. Of course, we continue to stumble, but we don't have this settled disposition to walk in disobedience. There's a battle going on within us. Our aspiration is to obey Jesus Christ. If you have that aspiration, that's a good sign. Well there you have it. Three marks of Christian conversion, not the last word, but the Bible says other things. But You have saving faith, you listen to Jesus' voice, his word, and you endeavor by God's grace to follow Jesus Christ. Here's another question that this passage answers. Can a Christian lose his salvation? Can you lose your salvation? I bet you everybody everybody here has wondered that. You know, did I uh did I really believe? And am I going to go the distance? Yeah, I'm saved today Will I be saved tomorrow? Can I have assurance that, you know, for however many years I have left on this earth, that when I get to the end I'm going to make it, and I'm going to see God face to face. Now there are many Christian groups and denominations and teachers that would say you cannot be sure in what they want to do is they don't want to give people uh grounds to say, all right, I know I have my uh my uh fire insurance and I'm gonna do whatever I want. We understand the Bible doesn't uh give that as a reasonable way to live the Christian life. So uh the Wesleyans, the Nazarenes, uh Pentecostal denominations and any other Groups and Christians, of course, would say you can lose your salvation if you commit some grave sin and do not repent. Before you die, then you can lose your salvation. What does the Bible teach? Well, Jesus assures us that a true Christian, a true Christian, a genuine Christian can never lose his or her salvation. So in verse 28, this is our main text here. Jesus says, I give them eternal life. They will never perish. Anybody here of Greek? You know what the Greek word never means? We've gone over this before. Yeah, it means never, right? That's what I translate like that. Okay. I give them eternal life. They will never Perish, no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one will snatch them out of the Father's hand. So, some people refer to this as eternal security. Now that's probably not the best way to put it uh the Reformers use the the phrase the perseverance of the saints, the saints being Christians, right? So the reformers spoke about the perseverance of the saints. It's probably better to say God's preservation of the saints. And so the saints persevere, why is that? Because God in his enabling empowers them to continue to walk with him. God preserves us, God preserves true Christians to the end. And so what I want you to note here are three reasons why Christians persevere. Here we go. A Number one, your salvation lies not in your having chosen God, but in God from all eternity. having chosen you. Look at verse 29. I know this is controversial. So stick your nose down and your eyes in verse 29. Jesus speaks of the Father who has given them to me So Jesus says, the Father gave them to me. This is the doctrine of election. Same idea, John 6. 37, Jesus said, All that the Father gives me will come to me. Ephesians 1. 4 God chose us in him, in Christ, before the creation of the world. And now some understandably object. Well I believed in Christ. I chose Christ. I heard the claims of Christ. I considered those claims. I weighed the evidence For who Jesus was and his resurrection. And I trusted in Jesus Christ as my Savior and as my Lord. And to that I say, I completely agree, but let me add one thing. You chose Christ. And you believed in Christ because he first chose you, because the Father set you apart as one of his sheep. And so you can, if you're a Christian, you can have confidence that you will persevere in the faith because In the end of the day, God chose you from all eternity. And instead of saying, that doesn't sound right, we should be saying Oh, what a relief. Because we can be really fickle, can't we? Um I was in the well, I'll talk about myself. I thought, maybe I'll have grape nuts this morning. And then I go, no, we had to put some bagels up. I'm gonna have a bagel I didn't even know what I'm having for breakfast. Uh I'm not gonna or what am I gonna be? When I was a kid, I was gonna be a quarterback for the Minnesota Vikings. When I was 15, I was going to be um I was gonna go to West Point. When I was probably early 20s, I was gonna be a lawyer. When I was twenty-three, I was gonna be a missionary Well, none of that worked out. Thankfully, it's not my choice that determines uh my future Uh it's uh it's my spiritual future, but rather it's God who chose me by his grace And if our perseverance in the faith depended on some choice we made uh perhaps years before, uh that would be very uncertain ground on to which uh on which to base our confidence that we will persevere to the end God sh if you're a Christian, God chose you, and God doesn't change his mind. Now it's funny that topic came up in Sunday school I'm not saying this, just for those who are new to this or those who are sick of this, I'm not saying that there are people out there who want to believe But they're not amongst the elect. Greg said this in Sunday school. Those who want to believe are of the elect. Uh that's a sign, right? They they have this desire. They have uh this interest. And we also said in Sunday school When Jesus preached in the Gospels, the Apostles preached in the book of Acts They didn't say to their audience, if you're one of the elect, come to Jesus Christ. That's irrelevant to the proclamation of the gospel They said, rather, come to Jesus Christ, and he will save you. Let me give you a couple more verses. Acts 17, verse 30. Paul said, God commands all people everywhere to repent. That was a genuine offer If someone would come to Christ, they could come to Christ. And so here's where we talk about this mystery, where God saves people, God is sovereign in bringing about salvation. And yet we are fully responsible to respond to the f to to the offer of the gospel. And this is our confidence that, yeah, the gospel is for everybody. We proclaim it indiscriminately. We don't try to guess who the elect are and who are not, but we proclaim it indiscriminately. And we know that God will save his people. Another one, John 3. 16. You may have heard this one. Jesus said, Whoever believes in him. uh should not perish, but have eternal life. Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all you who are weary and I'll give you rest. And so here we are. We believe the most of us I believe uh the doctrine of election, right? Most of us, I think, are persuaded of that. And yet, we are entirely comfortable with these calls in the gospel for all people to come to Christ. Because Jesus and the apostles were comfortable with that. And uh so it is a mystery once we get to heaven Uh we'll see how it all fits together. But meanwhile, we hold these dual affirmations of sovereign election and the responsibility of all people to turn to Christ because the Bible is comfortable Asserting these dual affirmations even though it doesn't resolve how they fit together And so you can have confidence, Christian, that you're going to persevere, that you will see God one day, uh, because you didn't choose God He in his mercy chose you, and he who chose you, he who began a good work in you, will carry it on to completion. Here's a second reason you could have confidence, and that is salvation is a gift from God, right? You didn't do anything to earn it So you can't do anything to lose it. Where do we get this idea that salvation is the gift from God from our passage? Look at verse 28. Jesus said, I give them eternal life. And so Jesus said of his sheep, or excuse me, he didn't say I offer them the possibility of receiving eternal life. No? He said, I give them eternal life Same thing, Romans 6. 23. The gift of God is eternal life. And even the faith to believe, Ephesians 2. 8 says, is a gift of God. And Romans eleven twenty-nine says the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable. So God's not going to give you something and then take it back. That's not how God operates. So why can a true Christian have confidence that he will not lose his or her salvation? Well, because Your salvation lies in the fact that you didn't choose God. God chose you. Secondly, salvation is a gift of God. You didn't do one thing to earn it, and so you cannot do anything to lose it. And then, thirdly, God promises that he will preserve you to the end. Look at verse 28. This is really the heart of it. Jesus said of these people, they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Well that's pretty good. Is Jesus' word reliable? Yeah. But just to help us along, he adds in verse twenty-nine, and no one can snatch them out of my father's hand. So the image there is the the believers in Jesus' hand and wrapped around Jesus' hand is the Father's hand. And so your persevering doesn't depend on your hold on Jesus, but rather on Jesus' hold on you. And so that's a great assurance. That's a great confidence. Colossians 3. 3, Paul said to the Christians, your life is now hidden with Christ in God. You're not even before him. You're not even in heaven. But spiritually, you have been raised up with Jesus Christ. And your life right now is hidden with Christ in God. And nothing can separate you from the love of Jesus Christ. And in Romans 8, 38-39, Paul goes through this litany of all these possibilities. He ends up saying, nope There's nothing in all creation that will separate us from the love of God. All right, what a relief. Uh I'm not saying that I'm done. I'm saying that God's given these promises. What a relief, right? We live in a culture, uh society in which there is a lot of unfaithfulness It's uh inconceivable, but parents abandon their children. It should be inconceivable But spouses abandon uh uh uh men and women abandon their wife, their husband, to whom they made uh a promise, a vow. And there are older people, elderly people in nursing homes, and their children never visit them. Or middle-aged parents and their children write them off because they don't have the same uh political views or whatnot. It's just bizarre, but we see in Scripture in this world where there is so much insecurity and so much faithlessness That the God who made you and who in Christ redeemed you will never forsake you. Uh there's an old hymn by Augustus Toplady and I I put it there in the uh bottom of the sermon outline And I'm just going to read the last two lines in that hymn. That's really it's wonderful. So he's speaking about his perseverance, and he says, yes, I to the end shall endure. As sure as the earnest is given. And this is the line I want you to notice. He says, more happy, but not more secure. So what's he saying there? He says those Christians who have gone before us and who stand before Jesus Christ They're happier than we are, right? Because heaven's a death where a place where there's no more death or mourning or crying of pain. However They are not more secure than we are, because we have the promise of God, and God's promise is a sure thing. And so no matter how dark or how desperate your circumstances, when you put your head down on your pillow tonight You can rest with a sure confidence that one day, yes, you will be redeemed from this fallen world. And its pains and its worries, you will be redeemed, and you will receive, you will see Jesus Christ face to face. And the Lord's Supper is a reminder of that, because it's God saying to the Christian, despite all of your sin and all of your failures, You're still invited to come and fellowship with him at his table. He's made you fit And you're welcome. And so you need to understand the Lord's Supper is God just giving a token or a confirmation that you can see to say, yeah. You're forgiven. And we're proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. And he's going to come back, and we're going to see him, and all will be well. So let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we thank you that you've given us all these promises by which we can have confidence that we're right with you. And we're going to make it to the end. And so help us to lift up our heads and our hearts and uh to find comfort and consolation. in encouragement in that. And also for those who are not yet Christians, help them to see that they're not in a good situation right now. But there is a way that they can be secure in you by turning to you in repentance and faith. And so work that in them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.