So we're we're marching through the book of Romans, and I know we have some new folks here, so you're just gonna have to jump in. Last week I said we'll do something else this week because I was away for a couple days, but I thought, ah, I could bite off the first ten verses. And so that's what we're going to do today. We're just doing the first ten verses of Romans 11 So I'm going to pick up in the last verse of chapter ten, for Paul says, but of Israel He, this is Isaiah the prophet, says, All day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means. This is Paul speaking. For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah? How he appeals to God against Israel? Lord, they have killed your prophets. They have demolished your altars. And I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself 7,000 men who hath not bowed the knee to Baal So too, at the present time, there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear, down to this very day. And David says, Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever. Now Romans eleven is uh quite an interesting passage, and uh honest Bible leav Bible believing Christians a debate how it should be understood. And so I just want to uh note want you to notice uh first of all This chapter is addressing the question, and the question is, has God rejected the people of Israel? Has God Rejected his people, the Jews. Okay? And um Paul speaks in this chapter. about Jewish people coming to know Jesus Christ. And so there are, there were, and there are Jewish people who do come to know Jesus Christ. But this is dealing with this question. And one of the interpretive issues related is, what's he referring to when he talks about Jews coming to Christ? Many Christians will say Well that's something that's going to happen in the distant future, in the end times, right before uh Jesus returns. Is that the case or is it talking about s uh the conversion of Jews down through time, we might say in the present era. So let's look at a couple of verses here just to so you can see where I'm I'm where we're going here. In verse one, Paul asks the question, Has God rejected his people? And he answers, By no means. In the end of verse 12, He speaks about the full inclusion of the Jewish people into the kingdom of God. In the end of verse 24 Paul speaks there about Israelites being grafted back into their own olive tree. In the end of verse 25, he writes A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Then he says, and in this way, All Israel will be saved. And so what I want to do as we approach Romans 11, and before we look at the first 10 verses in particular, I just want you to bear with me because I want you to read this chapter over the next couple weeks. And uh we want to try to understand an interpretive point that would govern how we understand Romans chapter 11. And so he's speaking here of the conversion of Jewish people to Jesus Christ. But again Does this conversion of the Jews pertain to the present era? In other words, Paul's day, down to our day, down to when Jesus returns Or is he speaking of some conversion, this mass conversion of Jews that will take place in the end times, in the future? And there are many Christians who teach many prominent Bible teachers that you'll hear on the here on the radio, and they'll say that Romans eleven is speaking of a mass conversion of the Jews in uh the end times. And I know some of you hold to this understanding. The label before it would be the dispensational approach to interpreting the Bible. And in nineteen forty-eight when Israel uh was uh was established or reestablished As a modern state, many would say, hey, that's the fulfillment of biblical prophecy, and it's evidence that God is bringing his purposes to pass for the nation of Israel And that in the end times there will be this mass conversion. Then there are others, including your lovable pastor. Um or I should say your pastor who understand Paul not to be speaking of a mass conversion of the Jewish people in the end times. but rather of the ongoing conversion of Jewish people to Christ down through time, in Paul's day and into our day. Why would I say that? Okay. Well let me give you some reasons and then we'll get into the first ten verses. Here's why I think I think Paul's talking about current conversions of Jews to Christ. Because in verse 1, look at verse 1, Paul asked a question. Has God rejected his people? Has God rejected the people of Israel? And emphatically, he answers, by no means. Okay? To support his contention that God has not rejected the Jews, he does not speak of some future work that God is going to do in the Jewish people. But rather he speaks of God's present work in the Jews, and he points to himself as exhibit A of God's present work. So let's go back to verse one. Read it again. Now you'll see where I'm going. Paul said, God has not rejected his people. How does he support it? What does he say? Look at me. I was the most zealous of Jews. I was the most calculating, bloodthirsty enemy of the church who ever lived, and yet God saved me. I guess I should read that, right? Verse 1. I ask then as God rejected his people by no means, for I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. See what he's saying? Hey, if God's rejected his people, how is it that I, Paul, a Jew, and a great enemy of the Christian church, came to know Jesus Christ? Look at verse 5. Paul wrote, so too, at the present time, there's a remnant chosen by grace. Has God rejected his people? He doesn't say, no, God's going to make this great conversion of the Jews in the future. He says, no, at the present time There is a remnant of Jews who believe in Jesus Christ. They were chosen by grace. Same thing in verses thirteen and fourteen. Paul speaks of Paul speaks of his desire for the salvation, not of future Jews, but in verses thirteen and fourteen, he speaks of his desire for the salvation of his Jewish contemporaries. And so I'll read verse thirteen. Now I'm speaking to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry. Why? In order that somehow to make my fellow Jews, my fellow Jews, jealous And thus save some of them. So there Paul's talking about the conversion, not of Jews who will live down in the future, but of his fellow Jews. And again, in verses thirty and thirty-one. He speaks about God's uh I'm sorry, Paul speaks about his concern for Israel in his day. And so that's why in verses 30 and 31 you find him using this word now. I'll read it, okay? So He says to the Gentiles, just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but now have received mercy. Because of their the Jews' disobedience, so they, the Jews, have now been disobedient In order that by the mercy shown to you, they may now receive mercy. Okay? And so let me just summarize this before we we march on. So many good Christian Bible teachers interpret Romans 11 to speaking of the future of Israel, the nation of Israel, ethnic Israel. A closer reading here shows that Paul's concern is for present-day Jews, the Jews in his day, okay? I could say it like this. Romans 9-11 is making the same point that Paul made back in chapter 1, verse 16. He says, the gospel is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes. To the Jew first and also to the Greek too, in other words, and also to the Gentile. That's all Paul's saying. Got got his heart in the Jews, but there are many Jews who will come to know Jesus Christ. Alright? We're going to jump in now. And I want to get on that I want to go down that road Because as we go through Romans 11, this is going to come up again. There's this big interpretive issue. So let's look at this, and I'm just going to make a couple brief comments on verses 1 to 10. Just two brief comments. And the first thing we see in these verses is God promises that there will be a remnant of Jews who believe in Jesus Christ. So again in verse 1 Paul asks the question, has God rejected his people? Even though Israel was an apostate nation in the days of Elijah the prophet, Paul points out that there was still back in Elijah's day a remnant who followed the true God. And he says, this remnant principle continues into the present day. So let's read verses 2 to 5 again. I know we just read it, but I think it's helpful just to get the storyline straight. So he says there in verse 2, God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew, the Jews. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah? How he appeals to God against Israel. This is Elijah speaking, saying, Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. Okay? And so Paul was not the only Jew who believed in Jesus Christ. Paul's pointing out here To Jews who are wondering, or Jews and Gentiles who are wondering, has God rejected the Israel? And Paul says, No. There's still a remnant. There are still scores. There are scores of Jews who have put their faith in Jesus Christ. In Enax chapter 21, verse 20, James, the leader of the church in Jerusalem, when he met Paul James reported to Paul about the quote, many thousands there are of the Jews who have believed. And so there were thousands of Jews in Jerusalem Throughout Judea and um throughout the Roman Empire that had come to Jesus Christ and who were coming who were believing in Jesus Christ. That has been the case down through history. There have always been uh Jewish converts, I shouldn't say Jewish converts, I should say Jews who recognize that Jesus is God's Messiah, the one spoken of in the Jewish scriptures, the Christian Old Testament. And uh there there's a Jewish congregation of Christians in Frederick. They're throughout um Throughout the nation, throughout the world, I've read in Israel, there are like 25,000 Jewish Christians who are worshiping Jesus Christ as their Messiah. We've certainly had uh Jewish folks who were believers in Jesus Christ in our congregation. Two I could think of, Bunny Odell and uh Nicole Duran. Uh they've they moved on, moved to other places from years ago But yeah, uh there are Jewish people who are coming to Jesus Christ, and the Bible would say that these are the true Israelites. We see that in Romans, for example In our Romans 9, verse 6, the end of 9. 6, Paul asserts: not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. This is the distinction that the Bible makes. Just because you're Jewish in ethnicity, that doesn't make you a true Israelite. The true Israelites are those who embrace Jesus Christ as their Messiah. So that's why back in chapter 2, verses 28 and 29 Paul said, No one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not the letter. And so God's purpose, and we saw this in the first Kings 19 passage, God's purpose has been to save not all Israel. But a remnant of Israel. God's purpose is not to save the entirety of the Jewish nation, but rather the elect amongst the Jewish nation. Now You might not have a dog in that fight, so how does this apply to me, right? Now you shouldn't be just interested because this is a huge issue in the Bible. But there's still a principle that for all of us, okay? Because more broadly, this principle of a remnant applies to the church composed of Jews and Gentiles. And the idea or the principle is God will always have a remnant of believing people. And this is something that we should remember because When you look at the state of Christianity in America, there's almost nothing good to report, right? We this is a America is a secular post-Christian nation that used to be 20 years ago indifferent about Christianity, but now especially in the halls of power There's a positive hostility toward Christianity. And then there's the church in America. Which is just a scandal, largely, not completely, but largely, the American Church is derelict in its duties And you could look at Fowler White's going to teach a a um church history class in Sunday school, I think beginning in March, end of end of February. the history of the American Church from the late nineteen eighteen hundreds up until our day. And what you'll learn in one of the things you'll learn in that class Is that the mainline Protestant denominations began down the road to apostasy in the early 1900s? And they began down that road in the early nineteen hundreds, but now they In many respects, the mainland Protestant Church has abandoned historic biblical Christian orthodoxy. And then you have what we call the evangelical church, the Bible-teaching churches, right? So we would be categorized as a part of the evangelical church But there's not much better because evangelicalism in the United States of late has been characterized by this great compromise this embracing of a worldly ethos, and it's riddled with moral scandals. So I remember reading a quote by an English playwright, Dorothy Sayers. She said, you know what? God has God suffered or Christ suffered three great humiliations. The incarnation, the crucifixion. And the church. And so that that is where we are. And yet, here's the lesson from this passage. The large swaths of the Christian church are either apostate or compromised We have a promise in Scripture that God will always preserve a remnant of true, faithful Christians. And you think about North Korea, which once had a sizable Christian population because of Christian missionaries, but then when When North Korea uh closed against Christianity, I mean it's been open season on Christians in North Korea for decades And yet still, there are faithful Christians in North Korea, and they're passing the faith out. They've been passing the faith along, down, through the generations. How is that? Because Jesus Christ said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against us. And so this should be an encouragement. And I want to say this to our young folks. Don't worry. You'll never be the last Christian standing on the face of the earth You will never be a lone Christian. There will always be fellow believers, and in this country, you'll always be able to find fellowship with other Christians, regardless. Of how debase things become in our culture, God is still saving people. God still has his elect So that should give us confidence. We shouldn't just throw up our hands and say, you know what? Nobody's interested in this stuff. We should remember, no. God is still calling people from darkness into light in many of you here You didn't grow up in a Christian home? You didn't have any Christian influence? How was it that you came to believe Well, because through the witness of someone and through the work of God's Spirit, God opened your eyes to see and to believe. And so we should have some degree of confidence in the power of the gospel, and we should be happy warriors as we go out and we see You know, we see this happening, that happening, we hear all this bad news about what's going on in culture. It's like, ah, you know what? We just need to march on, and we just need to present a credible witness And we need to be nice people. We shouldn't be angry people. And we need to be nice, caring, uh, compassionate people because The gospel is still the power of God for the salvation of all who will believe. We have a document for those who are new to our denomination, the Westminster Confession of Faith. It's a summary of Christian doctrine. that our denomination, many Reformed denominations, embrace as a statement of their belief. And chapter 25, section five, look that up later. 25, section five, okay, article, no. It says, The purest churches under heaven are subject both to mixture and error, and some have so degenerated As to become no churches of Christ, but synagogues, but synagogues of Satan. Nevertheless It says, there shall always be a church on earth to worship God according to its will. Now the met the guys who wrote the Westminster Confession of Faith, they didn't just say that because they like to look at the sunny side of things and because they're optimists But because they know God's promises in Scripture. For example, when Jesus said what Matthew eighteen or Matthew sixteen The gates of hell will not prevail against the church of Jesus Christ. And so just to round this point out, I want to quote Jesus words to his disciples in Luke Luke twelve thirty-two, where he said to them, Fear not, little flock. For it's it's your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Fear not, though you're a little flock, okay? God will still give you the kingdom. And there are many others who will become a part of this flock. Well that's point two. Here's point three, really brief Comment here in um this is a warning in verse seven uh b where it starts a warning against are hardening our hearts. And so I want to read verse seven, where Paul asks the question, what then? Then he says, Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. What was Israel seeking? Israel was seeking righteousness. It was seeking to be a righteous people so that they could stand in God's presence and they can enjoy his favor. The problem though, and this is talking about Israel broadly, is that they sought to establish their own righteousness before God. Go back to chapter 9, verse 32. He says, they did not pursue it by faith, but as it were, based on works. In other words, they thought that they could attain a righteous standing before a holy God. based on their religion, based on their moral striving. But they did not obtain it because one cannot become righteous by one's own efforts One must receive the righteousness that God gives to sinners. And he gives it to us, right? When we recognize that Jesus Christ is our righteousness, He lived a perfect life where we fell short. He died on the cross to pay our sins. But they rejected that message. They rejected the message that you're saved by God's grace, by God's unmerited favor. And not by your own efforts, not by your religious works. They heard the message. They heard it from Jesus. They heard it from Paul. They heard it in the Old Testament That you're not saved by faith. You're not saved by works, but you're saved by faith. They heard it, but they closed their ears, they closed their eyes to it, they would have nothing of it. And as a result, this is the scary part, as a result, God As an act of judgment hardened their hearts. Okay, so let's finish this out here. So then it says in verse 8, as it is written, then he quotes two verses from Isaiah and Deuteronomy. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear. Okay? So they heard the gospel, they rejected it, and as a consequence, God made them blind and deaf to the truth. Then verse 9, as David says, and then he quotes from Psalm 69: Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see and bend their backs forever. And so because they would have nothing to do of God's way of salvation in Jesus Christ, despite Centuries of foretelling by the prophets, and then the apostles after Christ's coming, God hardened their hearts. Okay? Now, you see this amongst for you, I'm sure some of you, many of you have seen this amongst friends, family members. Even people who've attended churches. I remember when I passed North Carolina, there was one guy, he was like this every Sunday. He was seething. He he he he rejected the gospel message. What's going on there? This is I think it's because the gospel says we're sinners and we're not that good after all. And um we need Christ to save us. Our righteousness uh doesn't profit us anything Yeah, I remember my my brother, when he became a Christian, he wrote a letter to a relative, and she was so offended by this letter. He was just explaining, hey, you know Christ is the Savior of sinners and we're all sinners and but it's amazing the like the irrational hostility that arises, but there's something in the human heart that will not Accept the fact that we're not that good, we're not that holy, and we need a savior. But what we have here in verses uh seven to ten is a warning to those who they hear it But they reject it or because either because of their pride or because they want to do their own thing, they want to live their own life. Here's a warning that God may well allow your heart to grow hard and crust it over, and you won't be able to turn to Christ. You might say, Yeah, when I'm older, when I get married, or when I have kids, or when I'm after I retire, when I'm on my deathbed, then I'll return to Christ. There's no promise here, right? That the the warning is that between now and then, if you reject this voice that you recognize to be the voice of God, God may withdraw that voice, he may stop your ears. And so in Hebrews 3, verse 15, the writer says, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. That's the warning. But the good news, going back to the second point, is that there will always be a remnant chosen by grace. Anybody can be a part of that remnant, right? All you have to do, recognize your sin, recognize Jesus as your Savior, and turn to Him. So let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for this assurance that you'll always have a people, there will always be other Christians. And you're always bringing people from darkness to light. And so help us, Lord, to have a confidence in the power of the gospel. uh to save uh all who would turn to you. And also, Lord, help us to check our own hearts uh to not go our own way and to want to do our own thing, but help help us to always be attentive. To your voice as you speak to us through Scripture, I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen