Any four to five year olds who'd like to go back that way with Miss Becky to worship training, you may be excused. Let's turn in our Bibles to Genesis chapter uh twenty I I never remember to acknowledge the folks on Zoom, but I want to acknowledge it today for all the times I've forgotten and also mention I think there's probably more on Zoom today because a number of people have the coronavirus. I've got it this week, the Kungaba's, Maureen and uh Manuel's household, and then Wilson and Stormy's household. Colin, uh Colin from Cameroon and somebody else. Oh, the Sloan's is going through their family again. So and who else? Dalla Valleys too. Yeah. So who? Oh, Maggie has it, Maggie Johnson. Okay. Wow. So if you're on this thing, hello from your friends at church. Um So we're in Genesis chapter 20. We're making our way uh Genesis 12 to 24. We're looking at the life of Abraham. And uh last week we looked at the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. That was quite a passage there, chapter 19 And now in chapter 20, remember Abraham was sort of a semi-nomadic, had a sort of a semi-nomadic life. He had flocks and herds and He would move them here and there for pasture land. So we read in chapter 20, from there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Neged. And lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar. And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She's my sister. And Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife. Now Abimelech had not approached her, so he said, Lord, will you kill an innocent people? Did he not himself say to me, She is my sister? And she herself said, He is my brother. In the integrity of my heart, in the innocence of my hands, I have done this. And God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me Therefore, I did not let you touch her. Now then return the man's wife, for he is a prophet, so that he will pray for you and you shall live But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you and all that and all who are yours So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things, and the men were very much afraid. Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done. And Abimelech said to Abraham, What did you see that you did this thing? Abraham said, I did it because I thought there's no fear of God in all this place, and they will kill me because of my wife. Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, though not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. And when God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, This is the kindness you must do to me, at every place to which we come, say of me, he is my brother. Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants and gave them to Abraham and returned to Sarah his wife, and returned Sarah his wife to him. And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you. To Sarah he said, Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes of all who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated. Then Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and also healed his wife and female slaves, so that they bore children. So the Lord had closed all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife So how about that Abraham, yet again? You know, in Abraham, I mean, apart, and I said this in the very beginning, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, there is no greater figure in Scripture. Moses, David, the Apostle Paul, in their writings they all point to Abraham as their father in the faith. He was the father of the nation of Israel. If you're a Christian, he is your spiritual father. That's what Paul wrote in Galatians 3. 29. He said to Christians, you are Abraham's offspring. And in many respects, Abraham was a great man of God, right? He took, remember In chapter 15, he took God at his bare word. And he loved God and he worshiped God. He he left everything To follow God, and we find him throughout his journey, setting up altars here and there as places where he could recognize God's claim on the land uh God's covenant and where he could uh worship God. And he was gracious, he was big-hearted uh toward his undeserving nephew Lot So he had many virtues, but we see again he was also a sinner in need of a savior. And you know, and I say this to our young people, why do I believe the Bible's true? I mean I could make a list. The final reason would be because God opened our eyes to see and to believe. But one reason is it doesn't gloss over it doesn't gloss over the flaws of its heroes, right? You read, you know, I've read Christian biographies down through the years and many of them just gloss over the flaws of the subject. You know, Corey Tenboom or Jim Elliott or George Whitfield's like, wow, these people were perfect. Uh they they they almost had a different religion uh than us because they were so perfect. Maybe I maybe I'm not converted. What's going on here But no, they had flaws, but they were embellished. Not embellished, but they were just sort of their their problems were not really uh pointed out. But not so uh with the great uh leaders or heroes in the Bible. And I think one of the reasons that the Bible's like that, well, number one, or most important, Because we don't want to worship these people. They were sinners in need of a savior too. But also seeing their sins uh teaches us about our fallenness, about fallen human nature. We see how God deals with us in our fallenness and despite our fallenness, yeah, we're a little bit encouraged too, right? God can still strike a straight blow over the crooked stick. Look at some of the characters he used in in Scripture. So we see all that, and I was looking at this passage, and I'm like, well what's what how does this fit together and what's the main theme? I don't think I nailed the main theme, but I do see a theme that runs through the pat through the script this pat this chapter. And the theme would be things that we tend to underestimate. Things that we tend to underestimate, number one, about God's people. Number two, about unbelievers. And number three, about God Himself. So let's look at it in that manner. First of all, here's something that we sometimes, perhaps oftentimes, underestimate about God's people. And this includes yourself, if you're a Christian, we tend to underestimate the stubbornness of indwelling sin. So let's look at what's going on here and I'll show you what I'm saying. So shortly after the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah And these other cities that were in the Dead Sea Valley, Abraham again pulls up stakes, and he's on the move. Right? Verse 1 and 2. From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb and lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar. And Abraham said Of Sarah his wife. To whom? King of Gerar, right? He said of his wife She is my sister. And Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. He didn't take her up for coffee. He took her to be his wife No. So Abraham lied about his relation to Sarah. Does that ring a bell? Have we been down this road before, and those who are snickering, they remember, yeah. Back in chapter twelve, right after God called Abraham, there was a famine In uh Canaan and Abraham and his family went down to Egypt during the famine, and they met Pharaoh, and Abraham said the same lie to Pharaoh. He said, She's my sister, uh, not my wife. And as it turned out, Pharaoh then took Sarah as his wife. And then God stepped in and it was an ordeal and Pharaoh said, get out of here. In fact, uh chapter 12, verse 19 Pharaoh said to Abraham, take your wife and get out of here. But I was reading about the Hebrew. The Hebrew is just four words Here, wife, take, go. That's what literally. You and your stinking wife, you know, just get 'em out of here And um because God had afflicted Pharaoh with plagues back in chapter twelve. And now you know Abraham's on the move again. And after you think after he suffered uh the stinging reproach from Pharaoh, a ranked pagan, upbraiding uh Abraham And after having his relationship with God hindered by that and then being restored in chapter 15 in his relationship with God, you think he would have learned a lesson? But here we are, if you think about the timeline, this is twenty-four years later now. He has been walking with God. God has spoken to him God revealed himself to him, right, in these um Theophanies, these visible manifestations uh of himself. There were the angels in chapter uh chapter 18 and 19. And yet still Abraham commits, uh says the same kind of lie to this other pagan king, Abimelech So what do we see here? We see something in this great, our great spiritual father Abraham. We see something about the stubborn nature of indwelling sin. Right? Hebrews 12, verse 1 speaks about the sin that clings so closely So all one thing this is saying is don't be surprised when you see it in yourself. I remember years ago, this is uh this family moved to Hakertstown, but we're standing in the back of the church after the service And the fellow comes up real serious and concerned. So what's the matter? He said, I'm not so sure I'm a Christian. So why not? I still have lust in my heart. I said, that doesn't mean you're not Christian. It means you're you're a member of the human race. But I see many evidences in you uh that you're a Christian. But that's the nature of our our human nature. We all have our our struggles with indwelling sin even after many years. This is what Paul said. This is why we read Romans 7 Paul said in chapter 7, verse 15, I don't understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing that I hate. And so the lesson here is don't be surprised at the sin you see in yourself. And even I mean we shouldn't be surprised at the sin you see in fellow Christians and sometimes people come to me and they're they're looking for some kind of counsel or advice and they have to disclose something that's shameful. I'm never surprised, believe me. And if I came to you, I hope you won't be surprised either. Right? Remember my Professor Sunmary saying, he said, we Calvinists not only believe in total depravity, we practice it. And um yeah, uh God calls us to holiness, but still um this is the nature of our fall our fallen nature. And so here's how we can say it. Here's how the theologians say it. When you become a Christian, you're freed from the penalty of sin. You're freed from the dominion of sin, right? Sin is no longer your ruler, but you're not freed from the presence of sin. Right? We're forgiven. We're no longer under sin's mastery, but we still struggle with sin and temptation. We still have This fallen nature, it is being renovated, it's being sanctified. We are changing, but still, just like Abraham after 24 years. Now there are certain sins that are characteristic of each of us, and for what's characteristic of you is probably different from what my characteristic sins are But nonetheless, we're just saying we have this struggle. So what's the lesson there? Next time you sin and you're somebody points it out. You could just say, well, that's just the way I am, so that's too bad. No. That's not the answer, right? We don't say that. But no, we don't say that's just the way I am. We say, you know what? I need God to continue to change me. I see my spiritual bankruptcy. I see that apart from Christ There is no good in me. There's nothing I can do. I need God I I need to pray. I need to be more vigilant. And um I I need to be more serious about this. We can't be like the person who says that's just the way I am. Um if you don't see any and on the other flip side of this If there's no change in someone who professes faith in Christ, that's another story, right? That's not a good sign. That's a sign they're not converted. Patrick's teaching through 1 John in Sunday school. You read through 1 John. And John says, listen, here are some ways that you can know whether you're a Christian Or you're just given some kind of kind of hollow profession. And there's this list. He says, like, you love God, you love Christ, not the Christ who's a figment of your imagination, but Christ that he's revealed in Scripture. John says you don't continue to sin in the sense that you have this stance where you're not repentant. But you you're repentant of your sin and you get up and you pray for God to strengthen you. He says in chapter 2 verse 15, you don't love the world. In chapter 3, verse 9, you endeavor by God's enabling to obey his commandments. Chapter 4, verse 6, you hear his word. You're interested in this word, in this book. You know, John's an apostle. Where are the works of the apostles right here? If you're a Christian, you're going to have an interest in this book. If you have no interest in this book, If the reading and setting under the reasonable preaching of this book is painful to you, that's a bad sign. So um but that that aside, so that's a qualification. But if you recognize Yeah, you know what? Or if you see, I see some fruits have changed. I see, I see I've been converted by the Spirit of God. But still I'm struggling with sin. Well all we need to do then is just number one recognize it, which I just said, but then we need to fight. We need to fight. We need to fight the good fight against it. The old term is mortify sin. You ever heard that term? Mortification. Right? We need to put it to death. Paul in Colossians 3 verse 5. He said, put to death what is earthly in you, sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. So that's not the language of let go and let God, right? That's a language of exertion, of battling, of struggling against it Struggling against uh when when our eyes wander and our minds contemplate and our affections run against those things uh which are displeasing to God That's mortification. So it's a fight. And then also you need to use common sense. Look at Proverbs 4 sometime. And it's didn't we just read that? I can't remember. But any. It says avoid those situations where you can stumble One of the old Puritans, Charles Bridges, said, it's far easier to avoid the occasion of sin than to avoid the sin when the occasion presents it. Yeah, that's that's for sure, right? When you're channel surfing or whatnot, listen, just X out those channels. You can block those things so you don't have to even uh consider or think about it Um and then when you fall, you need to be quick to confess your sin. Don't say, I'm just going to suffer now, I'm going to feel guilty. But that's a way for the devil to get a foothold, but rather be quick to confess your sin and receive God's forgiveness. That's why James 4. 6 says God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. I remember Pastor Friend saying, grace flows downhill. So when we're humbled, that's when God helps us to make progress. So there you have I and I'm I spent the most time on that first point. Something we underestimate about ourselves Is the stubborn nature of indwelling sin. If you see the fruits of spiritual regeneration But you still also see alongside it uh indwelling sin. Don't be discouraged, just keep fighting the fight, right? And uh and and use wisdom. Here's something number two, something we can estimate Something we can underestimate about unbelievers. We can underestimate the upright lives of some unbelievers Some unbelievers, some non-Christians are more moral than Christians. And that's something that I think most of us have seen. Abraham Our father in the faith. He underestimated this pagan king, Abimelech. Look at verse 11 when he comes clean with Abimelech. Abraham said, I did it oh why he's explaining why he lied about his relation to Sarah. Abraham said to Abimelech, I did it because I thought There is no fear of God at all in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife But as it turns out, this pagan king, Abimelech, was more upright than Father Abraham. Look at chapter or verse six. God said to he's speaking to Abimelech in a dream. God said to him in a dream Yes, I know that you have done this, taking Sarah as your wife. What? In the integrity of your heart And so God Himself goes on public record saying that Abimelech dealt in an upright manner with Abraham and Sarah. And then even after Abraham's fraudulent statement was exposed, Abimelech was extremely gracious to Abraham. Verse 14. Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants and gave them to Abraham and returned Sarah, his wife, to him. And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you, dwell where it pleases you. To Sarah he said, Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes of all who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated. So he wanted to remove any question about Sarah uh having been unfaithful to Abraham. So he gives her this very generous uh bride's price, uh so to speak. And so, yeah, there we have it. And you see this in other places of scripture, you see this with people, you know. Because of God's common grace, because of God's general blessings on all people, some unbelievers are more respectable than many Christians. And that shouldn't be entirely surprising, right? They too are made in God's image. They too have God's law inscribed on their hearts. It doesn't mean that they're right with God. It doesn't mean that their actions are pleasing to God, but they're more pleasing than they would otherwise have been if they didn't uh do these good things. And so uh we shouldn't be surprised. Since you came in late, Dan Court, I'm gonna pick on you. Let that be a lesson. So Dan Court came to church for ten years before he became a Christian. I remember Katie saying, Yeah, uh he's he's more upright than me and than most Christians. And I'd be talking to him and I'd say, yeah, we need more Christians like you. And then Jason Jack's the same thing. Rachel will give testimony. Uh he he wasn't a Christian, but he's more upright than most Christians. How can that be? Well it's this thing because of cod because of God's uh common grace And so that said, there can be a danger, and I'll bet you know people like this, some believers, who are extremely moral. Extremely good. That can be a danger, right? That can inoculate them to the gospel. Or that can make them think, you know what, I'm a good person. I don't need Jesus Christ. And so that's a challenge. And so what do we do there? Well we say, and remember what I said about Charlotte Lee when she was 88 years old? Sylvia said you're a sinner and you need a savor. Charlotte was like, what? I'm a sinner? I mean there are there are people that never uh crosses their mind that they're sinners. So what do you do? You have to use God's word, God's law to try to help them see their sin and their need of a savior. You talk about your sin and your need of a savior But then you say, how about you? You say, how about the Ten Commandments? You keep all those? And they might read them and say, yeah, I I I nailed them all. I got them all. And they said, well you're not you're not thinking about this very closely because the way the Bible uses the Ten Commandments, uh it's not just the outward act But it's the thoughts, it's the intentions. You know, think about the Sermon on the Mount, uh, Matthew 5-7. Jesus does the next position on many of those commandments I remember hearing a story about a preacher who said, on Judgment Day, may God save you not so much from the Ten Commandments, but from the Sermon on the Mount. Because the sermon on the in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus takes many of those commands and he shows that, no, we have broken all of them in spades. by our thoughts, by our attitudes, and also by our failure to do the opposite of what they command, right? You're not only not to commit adultery, but you're to esteem and preserve and per and And uh the marriage relationship, you're not only not to steal, but you're to protect and preserve the property of others. And you go down that with all your com all the commands. Thou shalt not covet. Well was the opposite. You need to be content, you need to be thankful And so you used God's commands like a tracer chemical to help your friend who's an unbeliever see uh the course of his disease and that just trying harder uh isn't going to do it. But they need they need to be saved by Jesus Christ. And so that's something we oftentimes underestimate about unbelievers. Many unbelievers are live exemplary exemplary lives And we should acknowledge that to them, but at the same time look for an opportunity to say that's not good enough for God. It's good enough for us, our circle, but it's not good enough for God. Here's something else, okay? Briefly. Something we can underestimate about God And what we see here is the zeal with which God will protect his anointed ones. And so this pagan king Abibelech had un unwittingly uh taken another man's wife into his harem. If you could explain this after, let me know. She was eight eight Sarah at that time was eighty-nine years old. And I know there's no accounting for taste, but We need to draw a line somewhere, don't we? So maybe she was well preserved, but By God's grace, by God's restraining hand, Abimelech had not been intimate with Sarah. But he was she was now part of his harem and her time uh would come. Well then, look at verses 3 to 6. God gave Abimelech, sorry, God spoke to Abimelech in a dream. He spoke to him in a dream. It wasn't a dream about footprints on the sand, though. Look at verses 3 to 6 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man. Because of the woman whom you've taken, for she is a man's wife. Now Bimelech had not approached her, so he said, Lord, will you kill an innocent people Did he not himself say to me, She's my sister? And she herself said, He's my brother. In the integrity of my heart, in the innocence of my hands, I've done this. And God said to him in a dream, Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me. And so before I get to the point I want to make there, I just want to make a side observation. God said in verse, the end of verse 6 to Abimelech, I kept you from sinning against me. Now, he didn't say I kept you from sinning against Abraham. He didn't say I kept you from sinning against your wife. He didn't say I kept you from sinning against uh Sarah But he said, God said, I kept you from sinning against me. This reminds us something about fornication, right? It's not just a sin against uh If you're married against your spouse, if you're not married against your future spouse, it's not just a sin against the person with whom you sleep But it's also a sin against God. David recognized this. Remember when he committed adultery with Bathsheba? And when he confessed the sin in Psalm 51 verse 4? He said to God, he said, Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. He sinned against Bathsheba, he sinned against Bathsheba's husband. But he also sinned against God. That's just a side note. But look at verse 7 now. Here's where we're we're talking about what we might underestimate about God. Verse 7 God speaking to Abimelech says, Now then return the man's wife, for he is a prophet. So that he will pray for you and you shall live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours. So what I want you to notice is just that statement where God says to Abimelech about Abraham, he is a prophet. That happens to be the first time you find the word prophet in the Bible. But what I want you to do is turn to Psalm 105, right there in the middle of the Bible, Psalm 105. And in Psalm 105, the psalmist uh the section we're going to look at, he comments on Abraham And then his son Isaac and then Isaac's son Jacob. These are the patriarchs of Israel, the fathers of Israel. Okay? And in Psalm 105, look at verse 10, just or verse 8 for the context. The psalmist says about God, he remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded for a thousand generations, the covenant that he made with Abraham. His sworn promise to Isaac, which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute. So I just want you to see that context. He is referring to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. When he makes the following comment in verses 12 to uh 15 speaking about how he protected the patriarchs and uh their families. So verse twelve now. The psalmist says about these patriarchs When they were few in number of little account in sojourners in it, wandering from nation to nation. And that's exactly what Abraham was doing, right, in verses 1 and 2 of our chapter Wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people, he allowed no one to oppress them. He rebuked kings on their accounts. Now here's the verse that refers to Genesis 20, verse 7. The psalmist quotes God. Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm. Now, if you're paying attention there to this quotation, In Genesis 20, verse 7, God merely warned Abimelech to return Abraham's wife. For the reason that he is a prophet. Abraham's a prophet. But in Psalm 105, verse 15, he refers to Abraham not merely as a prophet But as one of God's anointed ones, right? Again, verse 15 in Psalm 105, touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harms. So Abraham and Isaac, they were never anointed as kings, but they were covenant mediators, and as such, the Lord protected them. Now, Abraham, let's not lose sight of the fact that Abraham is the one who did wrong, not Abimelech, right? It was Abraham who conducted himself disgracefully before Abimelech. And also toward his wife Sarah. He put her in a perilous position. But God had called Abraham to be his prophet. And God would protect him, and God did protect him, and God threatened Abimelech. He threatened to strike him down. And so God's saying, you don't mess with one of my prophets. Even if he was a complete jerk, you do not mess with my prophets. So here's the upshot. If God so was so zealous to protect his anointed ones, his prophets In the Old Testament, flawed though they were, how much more zealously will he deal with those who despise and defame and dishonor his son, the Lord Jesus, who is the final prophet, priest, and king. And that's exactly what Psalm 2 says, and we're going to close here. Psalm 2, verse 2, they say, the kings of the earth. set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. So this is talking about the Father and the Son. He's Jesus is the anointed one. And then in Psalm 2, verse 9, the voice changes. Here's now the son saying of his father, ye shall break them with a rod of iron. And dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. The nations that spurn God's rule and the rule of his Messiah. God, he says, God will shatter them. Like a piece of pottery. Now, we were just in the book of Revelation, right, last year or sometime ago. In Revelation Three times is quoted this verse from Psalm 2, verse 9, where the Messiah says of the Father, You're going to break the nations with a rod of iron. And dash them into pieces like pottery. Three times Revelation says that to the rebellious nations down through history. So the lesson is simple, and I don't know if I explained as clearly as I could have or should have. But the lesson here from God protecting Abraham from Abimelech. From the statement of principle in Psalm 2, from the execution of that principle in the book of Revelation. Is that when people in positions of authority despise the Lord Jesus Christ, when they spurn his rule, and when they go after his people, they will face. The wrath of God. We see it right here. Look at how God protected Abraham. And so from that we can make the connection. We should not underestimate the zeal which with God will protect the name and the people of His anointed one, the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's why, and we're just going to close with this verse. Psalm 2, verse 9 gives the application. Psalm 2, verse 12. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is easily kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him So take, if you're not a Christian, take refuge in Christ. Don't spurn him. Don't dishonor him. One of the old Puritans, Thomas Boston So that to be damned by him who came to be saved is to be doubly damned. Let's bow our heads. So first Lord, we pray for anybody who's not yet a Christian, that they'll see that you are the King.