And let's turn in our Bibles to the book of Revelation. So we're marching through Revelation and we come to chapter eleven. Verses 15 to 19. So it's a short section for a change. A couple weeks ago, we did two chapters and one chunk. That was quite a bit. We have a very manageable passage this morning. Revelation chapter 11, verse 15. From chapter 8 to chapter 11, we read about the seven trumpets. These were warnings. Issued by God. And these warnings are issued down through history in the form of various judgments that are visited on the world. And the purpose of these trumpets is to get people to wake up and to watch out and to turn to Jesus Christ. And there was an interlude before the sounding of the seventh trumpet in chapter 10 up to verse 14 or chapter 11. But now we come to the sounding of the seventh trumpet. And we're only introduced to the subject of the final judgment, the return of Jesus Christ, and the establishment of God's eternal kingdom. Then when we get to chapter twelve, we start another cycle. But as we make our way through Revelation, things become more and more clear, more detail is given about things to come And so we just have this little snippet in the end of chapter 11 about the sounding of the seventh trumpet and the things that it discloses. So I read Verse 15, John writes, Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worship God, saying We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was. For you have taken your great power and begun to reign The nations raged, but your wrath came in the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the prophets, and saints and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth. Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the Ark of the Covenant was seen within his temple. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail. Now most of you have uh heard, I hope you haven't read it, but you've heard of the book by the TV Preacher slash entertainer uh Joel Osteen title uh Your Best Life Now and there's some validity I haven't read the book it's not on my list but um There's some validity to that title. And he's talking about when you become a Christian, uh you uh enjoy uh something of the life for which you were created. And Jesus said in John 10, I've come that they may have life and have it to the full So that's all true. However, when you read the Bible, one thing that stands out is that it's very oriented Toward the future. Right? You read the Old Testament. It starts talking about going into the promised land. And then the Israelites get into the promised land. And the the lesson is, you know what, this isn't really the true promised land. There's something greater to come. And it talks about the coming of the Messiah. And then the Messiah comes, right? And he goes to the cross and he and he rises and he ascends to heaven. And even in now in the New Testament age, yes, Christ came that we might have life abundantly But there's also this future orientation. There's this longing, right, in the end of the book of Revelation. What are they praying? Come, Lord Jesus. And uh so you could say, you know, the Bible has what we would call an eschatological emphasis. The the Greek word eschatas just means the end or the last things. And so the Bible is really oriented toward uh what is to come. You s you read the scripture, you see this on a personal level You might read Ecclesiastes 12 later on today, just the first seven verses. It says to young people, remember your creator in the days of your youth. Why? Because you're going to die really soon. Right? This life is short. Read it's very picturesque the way it describes it. Uh Psalm ninety, uh verse twelve. Uh the psalmist says, you know what? We're only here seventy or eighty years typically. So he says, teach us to number our days aright that we might gain a heart of wisdom. And so there's this orientation on a personal level toward the future But also on the on the on a universal level. The message of Scripture is that life in this world, or I should say history It's not just this endless cycle uh that just goes on uh with no end. It's not just a random occurrence of events But rather history is a straight line. It's moving from creation to the consummation when Jesus Christ returns. And it tells us, you know what Seems like things have been going on forever and ever as are always been going on, but that's not the case. One day the curtain will drop on history There will be the final judgment, and God's rule will be completely established. And the creeds recognize us in the Nicene Creed. We talk about Jesus. We say, he shall come again with glory to judge both the quick And the dead, then it goes on, whose kingdom shall have no end. And that statement in the Creed is a pretty good summary of the passage before us. Why are we talking about this? Why does Revelation talk about this? It's not just to fill it, fill in some gaps in your theological knowledge. But rather this was given to Christians living in the Roman Empire in the first century. They lived in a grossly pagan culture, and they suffered under an oppressive authoritarian government. And they needed to hear that there is something more to come. There will be justice one day, and there will be deliverance. from this corrupt world. And so that is what the seventh trumpet communicates. It communicates the final judgment The manifestation of Jesus' reign, and then it talks about the appropriate response of God's people to the greatness of God as disclosed in this judgment and in the coming of our Messiah. Now as I said earlier, these are themes that are going to be developed This seventh trumpet, it introduces us to this theme. It's interesting. You might remember, I think it was like chapter six and seven. And then up to chapter 8, verse 1, it talked about these the scroll with seven seals on it. And Jesus, the Lamb, he was worthy to open each seal on the scroll. And when he opened the seventh seal, you think, oh, that's the final judgment. That's going to be this bombastic judgment But it just says, there was silence in heaven for half an hour. So nothing is said. Now you get to the sounding of the seventh trumpet And there's a hint of what's to come. Then as we go, as we continue in Revelation, we'll come to the seven bowls of God's wrath. And when you get to the seventh bowl, we're going to get a bigger description about what's to come. But nonetheless, we have this introduction in verses 15 to 19 of things to come. And the first thing we see in this passage is that Jesus' dominion will be fully established. Okay? Verse 15 again. The seventh angel blew his trumpet. There were loud voices from heaven saying, and right, and we recognize this from Handel's Messiah, the kingdom of the world has become The kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever. The kingdom of our Lord Picks up on a theme that runs through the Bible and that is clearly asserted, and I would say is one of the central themes And some would argue is the central theme in the New Testament. And that is the coming of the kingdom of God. You read your Bible, you read the gospel. You read that all the time, right? So we should answer, ask the question, what does How would we explain the kingdom of God? What is the kingdom of God? And if you're reading the Old Testament, you read passages in Isaiah, it talks about the coming of the Messiah, you might have this sense That the kingdom of God is a piece of geography or a piece of real estate, a location. But when the scripture speaks about the kingdom of God, it's not so much talking about a particular physical place, but it's referring to the reign of God or the rule of God. So the coming of the kingdom is God asserting his kingly rule over the earth and over his people. And this is something that I think would be helpful to help you understand the Bible. When the Bible talks about the coming of the kingdom, it comes in stages. The kingdom of God has come in one sense when Jesus came. It was inaugurated with the coming of Christ. That's why remember John the Baptist He preceded Jesus, and Jesus was just about to arrive on the scene publicly. His public ministry was about to begin. And John, what did he preach? Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. Okay? Jesus shows up on the scene. He casts out demons. And in Matthew 12, verse 28, Jesus said, if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. So Jesus is saying When I with my coming comes the kingdom of God. But we could say It hasn't fully come, though. It's only been inaugurated. Otherwise, Jesus would not have taught us in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew 6, when you pray, pray what? Thy kingdom come. And so we're praying May your kingdom be more and more established and manifested on this earth. Or think about the parable of the mustard seed in Luke 13, 18. talks about the kingdom. Jesus said it's like this this teeny weeny seed, but the kingdom grows to be the largest plant or largest tree in the garden. And so the kingdom expands progressively. That makes sense, right? It began in uh what uh in Jerusalem And look, here we are out in a cornfield in Maryland. And look at all these believers, and look at all the believers you know here, and look at all the believers in Pakistan. And so the kingdom is expanding progressively, however It will only be consummated when Jesus returns. And that's what chapter 11, verse 15 is talking about. The day will come when the kingdom of this world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever. and ever the Father and the Son will exercise undisputed world undisputed rule over all the world Now did you notice something? I was talking to somebody this week, I forget who it was, but they said, they made the observation that verse 8, or I'm sorry, verse 17, it only says Jesus is only described as he who is in who was. And you scratch your head. Wait a minute. I read something earlier in Revelation, chapter 1, verse 8. There, Jesus is described as he who is, and who was, and who is to come. But in chapter verse 17 of our chapter. It just says who is and who was. Why is that? Well, because this is looking today to the day when Jesus will have come. And so he's no in this passage he no longer is to come. He will have arrived. And so Jesus will one day only be known as he who is and who was. And again, as I said in the beginning, this promise was given to Christians who were suffering and being oppressed and being persecuted to encourage them to press on. Because the day is coming, he's saying to them, he's saying to Christians in Afghanistan, who are probably being butchered and hunted down And Christians in North Korea? It's saying, you know what? One day you will be safe. You'll be secure. And you're going to be in a blessed estate forever and ever. And that's what we need to remind ourselves of In hours of discouragement. C. S. Lewis, he said, all your life, all your life, an unattainable ecstasy. Has hovered just beyond the grasp of your consciousness. But the day's coming when you're going to wake to find that beyond all hope, you have attained it. That is the Christian's blessed hope. Now we're going to see Christ and all the remnants of sin. will be removed, and all the sorrows that come with it. And so let not your heart be troubled. So we're talking about things to come. We're going to see, number one, the undisputed manifestation of Christ's dominion. Second thing we're going to see We're going to see the final judgment will have taken place. It says in verse 18, the nations raged, but your wrath came. Now Gary just read Psalm 2 because this is following up on Psalm 2, right? Psalm 2, the psalmist says, the nations rage The kingdom the kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. In other words, against the Father and against his Son. But then Psalm two goes on to foretell that one day, God's anointed one Jesus Christ will break them with a rod of iron and dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. You go back to Revelation 11, verse 18. It speaks about that having taken place. So it goes on to verse 18. The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for destroying, it goes on a little bit. for destroying the destroyers of the earth. And so here is a very solemn Statement that God will come back and He will judge the world. Why should you come to Christ? Well, you should come to Christ Because of all he offers, right? Forgiveness and life. And you can live your life in accord with the truth. You can live in a way That you were designed to live. And you can know that you're going to be with God in a blessed place. But also you should become a Christian Because one day you're going to stand before God. And I know when I became a Christian, it was interesting when they people tell you how to write out your testimony and say, well, here's what my life was like before And then I learned of the gospel, then here is here's a some changes that took place in my life. Here's how God helped me. And people ask me, why'd you become a Christian? I say, well I was afraid I was going to go to hell. I remember as a young person I had this sense of hell. And um now I realized that's not such a bad motivation. There is a heaven and a hell, and that's true. And uh and we and you read this passage about the final judgment, right? You're going to stand. If you're not a Christian, or if you're a Christian, you're going to stand before the judgment seat of God. And you have to ask yourself, what will your defense be? And I remember as a teenager, I don't have a very good defense. Um I'm a nice guy? Yeah, but not nice enough. I I try to keep God's commandments I did, I had this sense of God's moral law, but I also realized how short I fell, and um I had a sense of God's holiness So that wasn't enough. And it's not enough. And the Bible says that in Romans 3. They all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. It goes on in Romans to say the wages of sin is death So what's your what are you going to plead before the judgment seat of God? Uh your your moral record, your religious efforts, that's not enough There's only one answer, and I remember it was it was given so vividly when I passed through North Carolina, there was this old country lady. I mean North Carolina is not hillbilly country, but this lady was Fanny Youngblood, it's probably before the Jones time down there. Fanny Youngblood. Uh she was a she was just a country lady. And uh she was dying, she was in her last days, and I had a conversation And I tried to explain the gospel as clearly as I could. And I said, Fanny, uh, when you stand before God, what are you going to say? And without missing a beat, she said, my only plea is Jesus Christ, who shed his blood for me. And I was I was like, wow, she gets it. She or she's gotten it. I didn't realize that. But what it that's it. That is the God that is your only plea if you're not a Christian So there will be a day of judgment, and it will be a day of condemnation for those who are not resting on Christ. It will be a day of vindication for those who are resting on Christ. Look at the end of verse 18. Speaks about for rewarding your servants, the prophets and saints, and a saint is just a Christian And those who feel your name, both small and great. There are great Christians, right? There are great people who are Christians But typically it says in 1 Corinthians 1, God chose the lowly people of the world, but even the small will be vindicated and will be rewarded. And you're going to be rewarded, Christian, not because you're more righteous than the person next door who's not a Christian. You will be vindicated not because you've attained some measure of spiritual or moral superiority But you'll only be vindicated because when God looks upon you, he will look upon you as being clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. and having your sins carried away uh by his death on the cross. And so Jesus gives a very uh uh Clear promise in John 5. 24. He said, Whoever hears my word and hears him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Can anything be more clear about what it takes to be saved and to be forgiven? If you believe on Jesus Christ, you have eternal life. And this great transition has been effected. You've crossed over this bridge from death to life. And so if you're not a Christian, I'm saying this to the kids who aren't listening to me, who are looking away, I want the kids to look at me. Believe on Jesus Christ, and you'll be forgiven. Here's a third thing. How do, you know, Presbyterians, how do Presbyterians get excited? And I'm a I'm a If I weren't a Presbyterian theologically, I would be one by personality, right? How do Presbyterians get excited? You know, charismatic, they'll raise their hands, they'll say, Praise God. How does a Presbyterian get excited? They go like this Hmm. Well, this is a very convicting passage here. Because how do God how do the people respond uh to these great things? We see that they worship God with gusto. Look at verse 18. You look at the verse 15. The angels worshiped. Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven. And I believe that we believe this is the voices of angels. There were loud voices in heaven saying The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. Then it speaks in verse 16 about these twenty-four elders. Who worshiped. Who were the twenty-four elders? We're not sure. You read the commentaries, I don't think anybody's sure, but we can say they're representatives of God's people, probably the number 24 to to say, well, the twelve tribes of Israel, then the twelve apostles, and so in other words, representing God's people in the Old Testament and the New Testament. One people now, okay The 24 elders, it says in verse 16, sit on their thrones before God. It says they fell on their faces and worshipped God. Well this is sort of convicting, right? Notice how they worshiped. They worshiped with gusto, verse 15. There were loud voices. You go through Revelation and see this kind of language again and again. Chapter 5, verse 12. The assembly in heaven was saying with a loud voice. Worthy are you, worthy is the Lamb, I'm sorry. Chapter seven verse ten. This multitude was crying out. Again it says, with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our Lord. Chapter nineteen verse one A great multitude in heaven was doing what? They were crying out. And so they worshiped God with gusto Because they recognized what God had done for them and they recognized that God's purpose had come to pass. And that's what happens, right? When you recognize, you know, well you know what what what is the Christian life? You can sum it up in three words Uh guilt, grace, and gratitude, right? Start out, you realize I'm guilty, I've sinned against the holy God. I I violated his his commands and I'm liable to his wrath. So there is guilt. And guilt can be good because it shows you your need of a savior. What's the gospel, grace? God gave us what we didn't deserve. He sent his son. He moved us from unbelief to belief. Our hearts were like stone And he turned into hearts of flesh. We were blind. We couldn't see. He opened our eyes. Ephesians 2. 1. We were dead spiritually. We were like corpses. But then Ephesians 2:4, but God made us alive. We didn't make ourselves alive. We didn't become more spiritual. We didn't reform ourselves. God gave us this spiritual life. So guilt and grace, once you see God's grace, then the inevitable response is gratitude, right? So that's why we thank God. That is why we praise God. You opened my eyes. John Newton, once I was lost, but now I'm found. I was blind. But now I see. And when that registers, then even the most stayed of personalities has a sense, I need to express my thanks to God privately and also corporately. Right? That's why we get together. And so when we sing our songs Don't don't stand there like a post, just sort of barely moving your lips. You know, think about it. Yeah, God's worthy of my worship. Or don't mumble, you know, like you're reading a small print on some contract. You know, you should stand up here sometime and look out. I I try to avoid certain faces. So we want we want to sing out. Here's what John Wesley said. He said, sing lustily and with good courage. Beware of singing as if you were half dead or half asleep. But lift up your voice with strength. So that's good. And on Thursday, Friday, or actually Friday or Saturday sometimes, so I send out an email right to everybody. If you're not on the list, I send out the bulletin and the email. I'd encourage you to take the bulletin And read the songs. Because the songs are wonderful poetry. Here's how you know a good song. If you can read it without the music, And it reaches down into you, then that's a good song, that's a good message, that's good poetry, and that's a good that's a good statement And so read through the songs. And then when we get together Sunday morning, you know what the song's talking about. And you sing it with gusto. And then you might read the Old Testament passage. And you read the New Testament passage, and you make sure you understand the storyline. Get one of those Bible if you're new to the Christian life, get one of those Bibles with the little notes in the bottom to help explain things Make sure you understand the storyline. And then think about, typically, not always, but typically I'll have an Old Testament reading that's promised, New Testament reading is fulfillment. See if you can make the connection there. And then you're oriented toward worship. And so they worship with gusto, and then also they worship God with humility. What did the elders do? So it says, look at verse 16. What did the elders do when they saw the glory of God? What did they do? That they sort of adjust themselves in their chair and lean back and say, yeah, how about that? No, it says in verse 16, they fell on their faces and worship God. Why'd they fall on their faces? Because they could not get any lower than that. And so that that's that's a fitting response. If somebody falls on their face and they're not seeking to draw attention to themselves, hey, we can't complain about that. They might recognize something that they we don't recognize, but they wanted to give their Savior and their King his rightly due. Okay? And that's what will happen. So think about this. When you walk out of the service, you're driving home, if you're with a family, here's the most important question to ask. Not. Did I get something out of that today? You know, did the songs energize me? We don't sing songs to energize you. We don't sing songs to help you attain some kind of emotional trance-like state. But we sing songs to honor God, okay? And so that's the so did I get anything out of that? Don't ask that question at least first. Ask this: Did I worship God humbly and sincerely? Did I recognize something of who God is as he has disclosed himself in Scripture? And did I worship Him with thanksgiving? Now for that to happen. Usually you have to you're gonna have to prepare yourself, right? Saturday night, go to bed on time, read a psalm, read a scripture, prepare yourself for the great work of worshiping God. Here's something else just briefly, verse 19, just to touch on it. What else is to come? We're gonna come Into the immediate presence of God. And so verse 19, it says, God's temple in heaven was opened Now what is the temple in the Old Testament? That was like an object lesson pointing forward to the true temple, which is heaven. And it says in Revelation 21 and 22, there is no temple in heaven, because the Lord God, Almighty, and Jesus is the temple, okay? So heaven is where we are in God's presence. There is no you can see no temple in heaven, okay? The Old Testament temple could only be entered once a year, and that only by the inner sanctuary, and that only by the high priest, after he prepared himself. But verse 19 says, you know what? That true temple which is heaven is opened and we have access to that temple because we are more righteous than the Old Testament high priest ever was, because we're completely righteous. in Jesus Christ. Then it says that the Ark of the Covenant, the Ark of the Covenant was seen in the temple, and um The Ark of the Covenant represented God's presence, God's saving presence to the people of Israel, but it was shielded by this curtain But now we're going to see, we're going to see the Ark of the Covenant, and we're going to see Jesus Christ as he is. That's what it says in 1 John. We will see him as he is. And so again, uh this short vision is given to heartened Christians Who live in the corrupt, oppressive, paganistic, anti-Christian culture. So in other words, it's given to Christians down through time in the crop across the world. And it reminds us, you know what? The stream of events are not going to run on end is endlessly. But the day is coming when the curtain will drop on history, then as we read, then the kingdom of this world will have become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and don't you doubt it, he will reign forever and ever. Let me just say share a statement by John Calvin, and then we'll pray. Calvin said, therefore, let us learn to stretch out our hope even to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. For if this hope does not reign in our hearts, we shall faint every minute before all things. Let us learn to fasten our eyes on that last day and upon the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And know that then and there is a crown prepared for us. Wow, what a wonderful promise, huh? Let's bow our heads. Amen. Thank you, Lord, that uh this isn't the last chapter. We're gonna be we're gonna see you face to face We're going to have a reunion with our loved ones in the Lord. There will be no more crying or heartache or pain. I pray for those here who are not Christians. Who have spurned your call upon their lives, I pray, Lord, that you would allow them to see what a wonderful, kind, gracious God you are and the inheritance. that you have set aside for all who believe on his son. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing a song that's perfect for this passage right in your bulletin, Christ Shall Have Dominion. Let's stand and sing. See that was in coming, show me for Cage no winter trace for Marquis. Christ shall have domain over letters. When the need is taken, he will mercy so He will show me saven all fresh minds. The old of their lies are pressure and his holy eyes. Christ shall have no man over let's see for Shali and forever Shalis name and so And it helps more than Christ shall have dominion over land and sea. More three wood shall be Never voyable was his glory. Christ shall have domain over land. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. I see. That's the key for life.