Looks at Genesis chapter 23. For those who are new, we've been going through Genesis 12 to 25, the life of Abraham. Last week we looked at chapter 22, the pinnacle of Abraham's uh near the Abraham narrative where Abraham sacrificed his son, was about to sacrifice His son Isaac. And now we in chapter 23 read about his wife Sarah's death and her burial. Sarah lived 127 years. These were the years of the life of Sarah. at Kiriath Arba, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan, and Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. And Abraham rose up from before his dead and said to the Hittites, I am a sojourner and foreigner among you. Give me property among you for burying my for a burying place That I may bury my dead out of my sight. The Hittites answered Abraham, Hear us, my Lord, you are a prince of God among us. Bury your dead in the choices of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb to hinder you from burying your dead. Abraham rose and bowed to the Hittites and the people of the land, and he said to them, If you are willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight Hear me and entreat for me Ephraim, the son of Zoar, that he may give me the cave of Machpalah, which he owns It is at the end of his field. For the full price, let him give it to me in your presence as property for a burying place. Now Ephron was setting among the Hittites, and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites, of all who went in at the gate of his city. No, my lord, hear me. I give you the field. And I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people, I give it to you. Bury your dead. Then Abraham bowed down before the people of the land, and he said to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, but if you will hear me. I give you, I give the price of the field, accept it from me, that I may bury my dead there. Ephron answered Abraham, My Lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth 400 shekels of silver? What is that between you and me? Bury your dead Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver that he had named in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the per merchants. So the field of Ephron was in Makhpalah, which was to the east of Mamrah, the field with the cave that was in it, and all the trees that were in the field throughout its whole area were made over. To Abraham as a possession in the presence of the Hittites before all who went in at the gate of his city After this, Abraham buried Sarah, his wife, in the cave of the field of Machpelah, east of Namrah, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. The field and the cave that is in it were made over to Abraham as property for burying, for a burying place by the Hittites. Alright. What's going on here? Why is this in the Bible? We just had this very dramatic in chapter 22 this very uh dramatic uh story about Abraham sacrificing Isaac and uh full of drama, right, as Abraham is about to plunge the knife into his son The angel calls out, he stays Abraham's hand, and Isaac is saved, and God provided a substitute, a sacrifice Now, as we get to the last three chapters of the narrative concerning Abraham's life It seems to be become much more mundane. And so we just read in chapter 23 about the death of Sarah in the negotiations that she would have a place to be buried. And then in chapter 24, we're going to read about the marriage of Isaac and his wife Rebekah, right? So Isaac, Abraham, and Sarah's son. Then chapter 25, the death of Abraham. And so the story sort of ends, it seems, with a thud. But there's a purpose to these three chapters. These are transitional. And so now the story is going to transition from Abraham to Isaac, and then from Isaac, to Isaac's sons, uh Jacob and Esau. And it's here for a purpose. These chapters are here for a purpose. And so what we need to do is figure out what is that purpose. Chapter 23 is uh it's initially puzzling. Uh anybody have a puzzled look on their face? Um I had a puzzled look on my face uh last week. But I knew I had to stand up here, so I thought I'd better try to see what's going on here. It's puzzling because it goes into excruciating detail about these negotiations uh that Abraham entered into uh for to get a burial plot for Sarah So, okay, so Moses wrote Genesis, right? He wrote the first five books of the Bible. And so, you know, why did he put in all these details about um this negotiation with this Hittite uh g fella. Uh what's going on here? Was he just one of those people that He just can't stop talking. He likes to talk. He likes the sound of his voice. You ask him uh what time it is, and he'll he'll tell you what he had for breakfast that morning and then that'll sort of lead up to uh his answer Well, no, Moses is very economical. The book of Genesis is a very well crafted, uh, very highly structured document. So that's not the pro that's not what's going on here. But rather uh chapter twenty-three, I believe is there to emphasize two great characteristics of Abra of Abraham's life. The first thing we see here, or that I'm going to show you, I should say, is that he had a pilgrim mindset. He viewed himself as a stranger as an alien on this earth. And secondly, he had a heavenward gaze. His eyes were fixed on the world to come. And we're going to see that in a minute So this is instructive. It not only tells us about Abraham, but it's instructive for Christians Because the New Testament draws a direct line from Abraham to every Christian. You see that, for example, in Galatians chapter 3, verse 29. Paul says to these Christians, he says, if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. And so I'm talking, if you're Christian, I'm talking to you as a son of Abraham And what we're going to see here is the mindset that we should adopt as we view our time on this earth. And so, first of all, We see that Abraham had a pilgrim mindset. And like Abraham, if you're a Christian That's how you should view your life. You're just passing through. You're just a sojourner. So what's going on here? Sarah died. She lived to be 127 years old And what does it say in verse, the end of verse 2? It says, Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. So here's this highly spiritual man. And he didn't say, well, I know it's the will of God. It's for the better. No, there was this huge loss, right? He lost his wife. They were married for over what sixty years, maybe longer. They were married for a long time. So he wept. Of course he mourned. And I think we just need to be reminded of that because Sometimes you someone will lose a loved one, they'll lose a spouse, they'll lose a parent. And you come, you know, especially if you're the pastor, they'll say, well, I know I shouldn't be sad. I know he's in a better place. It's like, no. Uh you should be sad. We live in a fallen world. Death isn't God's original intention. Uh there is loss. And yet I mean it's not it's not a final loss, there will be a reunion But as far as our time on this earth is concerned, it's an irreversible loss. And so of course we weep. Death is our enemy. And um so Abraham mourned, and then he had to get a place uh to bury her And so he said to the Hittites, look at verse 4. This is a key verse to support the point I'm making. Abraham said, I am a sojourner and a foreigner among you Give me property among you for bear for a burying place, that I may bury my dead out of my sight. And so it's interesting Abraham was in the land of Canaan, right? That's where God called him. He was in the land of Canaan. He lived there. He was established. He even had a good reputation amongst the Canaanites. Look at the end of verse 5. The Hittites said, they said, You're a prince of God among us. And so he was well established in that area, and he was wealthy, and yet despite his reputation and despite his wealth, he didn't put down roots in the land of Canaan And that's what the book of Hebrews underlines. Hebrews, we looked at this last week. Hebrews 11, verse 9 says that Abraham went to live in the land of promise As in a foreign land, living in tents with with Isaac and Jacob. So he didn't he he didn't even build a permanent dwelling place. They lived in tents. The end of verse, uh Hebrews 11, verse 13. It says about Abraham and Sarah and her offspring, that they were strangers in exiles on the earth. And so, hey, you, son of Abraham, this is the outlook. This is how you should view Your short time on this earth, right? This world is not our home. We're just passing through. Philippians 3. 20. Our citizenship is in heaven. So, yeah, we have people here from countries in Africa, countries in South America. Sayla is from China. She's not here with us right now. But um But you live here, you work here, you pay taxes, but I imagine I on your passport uh it's probably stamped resident alien Yeah, you're a resident of the United States, but you know what? This isn't really your home. Your heart is attached to your to the land where you grew up. That's where your heart is, and uh probably for many that that's where you'd rather be. Well, that's that's the that should be how a Christian looks at his life On this earth. In fact, you know, many of you have read uh Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. The very first sentence of that book Pilgrim says, as I walked through the wilderness of this world Pilgrim's progress. That's the Christian life, right? This world is not our home. Secular man does not look at life like that, right? Because he has a sense. When he dies, that's it. It's all over. And so he frantically lives for the moment. So a friend show me a Decke's building for a fella. Over in Middletown. $300,000 deck on the back of his house. Pretty nice deck. Um got some nice amenities there. But hey, is that where you want to put your money, your three hundred thousand dollars into a deck? Or my wife uh she has has a client, an older lady, and she just got new traits from Ethan Now and Uh really nice drapes. About ten thousand dollars worth of drapes. Well, nothing wrong with that. I guess it's hey and and I should say, it's your money, right? I if you want to build a deck or a car, I'm not saying that. Get a car or whatever you want to do. I'm just saying though for a Christian, uh we need a little perspective on that. This older lady, she has these really nice drapes, but they're too formal. So she's going to rip them out and put something else in And I, you know, if I met her, I wouldn't say this. Well I might. I'd say, listen, lady, you're gonna die. In ten years these dates aren't gonna matter. You need to have a little perspective on this Okay. Think about think about um you ever hear Oscar Wilde the playwright? He was dying. And he was in his room with ugly wallpaper and he said, Hey Either this wallpaper goes or I go. But at least he understood. Hey, it doesn't matter. It's not that important. Uh my son in law is a realtor. He walked me through a really nice house that had a bathroom renovation. A $80,000 bathroom renovation. Really nice, right? But is that where you want is that where you want to put all your money? And again Hey, it's their property, it's their money, they can do as they wish. But I'm saying for a Christian, our perspective on life should be a little different because we know That we don't have to have everything now. There's something more to come. So we should adopt this alien mindset. And that's what we see about Abraham He had the mindset of the pilgrim. And the second thing we see is that he had a heavenward gaze. And so what I want to say is like Abraham, Christians Should set their sights on the city to come. And it's interesting in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, that's what the writer does, right? He says, look at all these Old Testament heroes. Hey, they were looking forward to something else. And so you should have a heavenward gaze. And I want to show you that from Genesis 23. Here's why I think Genesis 23 goes into so much detail about Sarah finding this burial place, Abraham finding this burial place for Sarah. So it was in Hebron, it says in verse 2, Hebron was in the very heart of the promised land of Canaan. Abraham makes burial arrangements. And verses 8 and 9 say that what? He wanted to buy a cave. He didn't want to buy a big field or piece of land. He just wanted to buy a cave to bury Sarah in. And so he wanted to buy it from this guy, Ephron the Hittite. So let's go back to verses 8 and 9. But let's look more closely now. So Abraham's talking to the Hittites, and he said to them, If you're willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight Hear me, and entreat for me Ephron, the son of Zoar, that he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he owns. It is at the end of his field. Okay? So he just wanted to cave. It says the end of verse 9. He wanted to pay the full price for it Because he wanted everybody to know he owns it outright. No there could be no question about ownership. And so Ephrine, like all Hittites, he hears opportunity knocking. Okay? So he goes into this Middle Eastern bargaining mode. Look at verse 10. Now Ephron was setting among the Hittites, probably eating the fig or cleaning his nails with his knife. Who knows? He was sitting among the Hittites. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites of all who went in at the gate of the city. Know my Lord, hear me. I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people, I give it to you Bury your dead. Now, I don't think the guy was being generous. I think what he was doing was he he was pretending to be generous by saying, I'm gonna give you the field too. And now Abraham sort of backed into a corner Hey, I can't be stingy. I can't bargain with this guy. He's gonna he wants to give me his not only his cave, uh, but his field And so Abraham is sort of pushed into having to pay now this exorbitant price uh for this piece of land. What do you say? 400 shekels? I think Abraham or Jeremiah had a field he paid I think seven seventeen uh shekels. So this is very expensive. And um so Abraham couldn't look like he was trying to take advantage of Ephrin. So verses 12 to 16, let's just read these again to make sure it's clear. Then Abraham bowed down before the people of the land, and he said to Ephron, in the hearing of all the people of the land, so it's important that they all hear what's going on, that this transaction is publicly recognized But if you will, hear me, I give the price of the field, accept it from me, that I may bury my dead there. Ephron answered Abraham, My Lord, listen to me. A piece of land worth four hundred shuffles of silver, what is that between you and me? Bury your dead. Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out for Ephrin the silver that he had named in the hearing of the Hittites four hundred shekels of silver according to the weights current among the merchants. And so why did Moses go into such detail about Abraham's negotiations with Ephrine. And I don't think it was to encourage you to pre-plan your funeral so you don't get in one of these binds and overpay. But rather, it was to show that Abraham had an unassailable legal claim to this piece of real estate where in the promised land of Canaan. 17, verse 17. So the field of Ephron in Machpalah, which was to the east of Namrah, the field with the cave that was in it, and all the trees that were in the field throughout its whole area was made over to Abraham as a possession in the presence of the Hittites. before all who went in at the gate of his city. This is really important. So throughout the Abraham narrative, God had made these promises to Abraham. He says, listen. Your people are going to enter into the promised land. Going all the way back to chapter 12 of verse 7. God said, To your offspring, I give this land. He's talking about the land of Canaan. And I have a few other, four other verses. The same promise is reiterated. So God is telling Abraham Your people will enter into a great it into this inheritance, and I will make them into a great nation, and from them I will bless all the peoples on the faith on the face of the earth. Abraham was gonna, well Sarah just died. Abraham would die long before his people would lay claim To the complete land of Canaan, right? That happened after Moses, Joshua, brought the Israelites into the land of Canaan. So hundreds of years later But by burying Sarah in Canaan, he was testifying that he was confident that God would make good on his promise. to give the the whole land of Canaan to his descendants. And so Sarah's tomb, Sarah's tomb was in Hebron, right? And so this was Abraham's foothold in the promised land. So it was just the first installment, right? It was just a field. But nonetheless, this was the first fruits of the entire land that would go to them. And Abraham was so certain That his descendants would lay claim to the pro to the land of Canaan, that he wanted his wife's bones there when they finally showed up And not only was Sarah's bones there, but her tomb became a depository For the bones of the other patriarchs. And so I can show you the verses in Genesis. So Abraham was bur was uh buried there, Isaac was buried there, Jacob was buried there, Joseph. was buried in this tomb. And so this testified to their confidence that God would make good on his promise. So here's what Calvin said about these patriarchs who died. While they themselves were silent, The sepulchre cried aloud that death formed no obstacle to their entering and taking possession of the promised land. All right, let's take this one step further, if you'll indulge me. Abraham was not only confident that God would give his people the land of Canaan, But he knew that the land of Canaan wasn't the final goal. It wasn't the true promised land. He knew the promised land is heaven. And that's where his gaze is fixed. Why do I say that? Well, because that's what the book of Hebrews says. Hebrews, again, Hebrews 11, verse 10. He was looking forward to the city that has foundations whose architect and builder is God. Hebrews 11, verse 13 and 16, talking about the patriarchs. These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. And having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, for people who speak thus, making make it for people who speak thus, make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. Well, what is the homeland they're seeking? Well, it says there. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is They desire a better country. That is a heavenly one. And therefore God's not ashamed to be called their God For he has prepared for them a city, a heavenly city. And so that was a long, took a long time to just make a simple point. Here's my point. One of the distinguishing marks of spiritual maturity is that your eyes are fixed on that better country, on that heavenly country That's when you get it, right? You know this isn't this world isn't all there is. And this this uh this has implications. This has implications When your eyes set on the heavenly country, that's going to give you some perspective on death, right? Uh you remember, that's not the final word It's a doorway, and it's not pleasant to move toward, but we have to remember it's a doorway, right, through which we enter heaven. In heaven, it's not a place of pastel tedium. It's physical, right? It's it's the earth renewed and restored without sin, without suffering. There's a physicality About heaven. There just won't be the sorrow and the suffering and the evil. We're going to see Jesus Christ. So we need to we need to keep that before us, right? Some of us are getting old. We're all getting older by the day. So we need to remember there's something more to come. We need to have this perspective Here's another implication. And not only having this perspective not only comforts us when we think about our our our our looming deaths, But it comforts us when we grieve over loved ones departed. And um, you know, I said, um, of course, uh It's terrible to lose a loved one, but there's nothing worse than being an unbeliever who loses a loved one who's not a Christian. You've probably been to these kind of funerals, and I've officiated several of them over the years, and there is nothing more grievous, nothing more dark, there is nothing more inconsolable than the death of an unbeliever. And that's why Paul says to Christians at 1 Thessalonians 4. 13, he says, listen You lose a loved one, you do grieve. But then he says, but we don't grieve as those who have no hope. So we grieve, but there's but it's there's a context. And there's some comfort even in our grief. Here's something else. If this world's not our home, but there's a world to come, Uh it should affect our giving, right? Uh it should uh maybe I shouldn't get the three hundred thousand dollar debt. Maybe I s I'm not saying he shouldn't have done that. I want to be judgmental, but I don't think I should do that. I should put my money towards something else. Uh reading a little book. Um Um I'm gonna preach a stewardship sermon coming up. So I'm reading a little book called The Treasure Principle. A little hardback guy named Randy Alcorn. He gives a good illustration. Or not good. He makes a good statement, first of all. He said the greatest deterrent to giving Is the illusion that the present earth is our home. He said that's the greatest deterrent to giving. And then he gives the illustration. So suppose you're you're on a work assignment in France for three months, and you make pretty good money Right? It's overseas and um it's a good job, but it's just for three months. But you're raking in the cash. He said, listen, would you spend all that money in Paris, you know, renovating your hotel room, redecorating, getting a really nice plush furniture? Getting a nice little French sports car, uh eating uh every meal on a little restaurant on the top of the Eiffel Tower. Would you spend all your money in France? He said, no, you'd be a fool. You're going to send it back to the States, right? You're making money, but you're not just going to blow it on the moment. You're going to send it back. You're going to use it more productively when you get home. And so the question asks, where where are you spending your money? Is it only on those things that you're going to enjoy during this short time here on earth, or is it on things that will bear fruit for eternity? something to think about. You know, how do you spend your money on things that bear fruit for eternity? Well you say you give to the church, you give to missionaries, but also, I mean you help people out, right? You spend money having people over. I mean that quite cost of money. Things like that. Um you give to Christian education. Uh but anyway So my question is do you use your money? Do you have this heavenly this heavenward mindset? I want to use my money. not only to make it through life, but also to advance the cause of the gospel. Remember one of the guys in the church saying, you know what? I'm just God's shovel. God gives me the money, I just shovel it to various causes That's a good way to look at how you use your money. This world's not our home. Here's another implication. If this world is not our home It should motivate us to pursue holiness. I don't have to have, I don't have to, I should say, I should not have to have Every longing satisfied, every desire fulfilled, everything go my way Because I know this isn't the last chapter. And so Peter says in 1 Peter 2. 11, he said, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. Which wage war against your soul. There's something more to come. You're just a sojourner. You're just an exile. And so fight the fight for holiness. Because listen, you're not going to have the struggle forever. You're going to be before God's face. Well I could go on. It's something else I thought about. This world isn't the last chapter Don't get discouraged about what's going on in our country. We don't we don't shouldn't be oblivious to what's going on, moral decline and whatnot. But we shouldn't despair either, because God is sovereign. And so my question to you is what difference Would you would it make in your life if you truly recognized that, you know what, I'm just a stranger. I'm just a pilgrim. This is I'm just a short timer here. But there's something more to come. How would it affect? And this is what we're going to talk about our home group today for the home group setting. me. How would it affect your priorities? How would it affect your view of adversity? How would it affect your giving, your standard of living? And your view of your coming death. Something to think about. Well, I better stop here. Um I do want to say one more thing though. Do you remember Jesus had a conversation with the Sadducees about the resurrection. This is Mark 12, verse 26 and 27. And in this little conversation, Mark 12, 26, he says that God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Okay, so in the first century, Jesus is talking to these religious guys, and he says about Abraham who died a couple thousand years before. He said, God is, not was, God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do you see what he's saying? Or the implication? God's promises to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob did not expire when those guys died. They're still alive. They're just not on earth. They're in God's presence. God is their God. And um These promises extend not only to Abraham and his children, but it extends to every Christian, right? We are sons of Abraham. And there will be no expiration date if you're a Christian, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ. That's our hope. That's the perspective we want to have. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we ask you to forgive