Any four to five year olds actually would like to go to Worser training may step out there with Miss Lindy and Miss Amy. So let's turn to the book of Romans. For those who are new, we're glad you're here. We're marching through this letter. And we are in Romans chapter 3. And last week we did verses 27 to 31, but I did not do justice to verses did I say 27? Yeah, that's right, twenty-seven to thirty-one. Last week we did twenty-one to thirty-one, but I really didn't get to twenty-seven to thirty-one, so we're going to look at those verses this morning. But we need a running start, so we're going to read beginning at verse 21, because the section we're on this morning is drawing implications. So let's read. So Paul writes in verse 21, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And here's our text Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By law of works? No, but by the law of faith For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Okay? So last week when we began this passage, we really finally got to the high one of the high points in the letter to the Romans, because largely in the first three chapters, Paul spent his time Showing us that we're all sinners, we all fall short of the glory of God, not only the Gentiles, but also the Jews. And then he talked about justification by faith. I just want to review a couple of these terms because they're key themes in the Christian life. In fact, You don't understand Christianity unless you understand justification by faith. You may not use that term, but you have to understand the concept, and the term certainly is a huge term in the Bible. And justification by faith is a legal act by which a holy God declares sinful people righteous. He makes a pronouncement about us, not because we're free from sin. but because he looks upon us as having the righteousness of Christ. Right? So we talk about the righteousness of Christ being credited to us or being imputed to us. How can God give us Jesus righteousness? Because He stood in our place. He lived a perfect life. where we fell short. And then he turned around and he died on the cross to bear the penalty for our sin. And so look at verse 24 Paul says, we're justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, verse 28. We hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. And so, in other words, when God justifies a sinner He takes something from us, and then he gives something to us. He takes our sin from us and he gives us the righteousness of Christ. What happened to our sin? Well Christ bore the penalty for our sin. And I just want to add one more or two more things. Why does God do it? It's not because we deserve it, it's not because we're virtuous or we have some kind of spiritual spark in us that the other guy doesn't have. But the only reason he does it is because of his grace, his unmerited favor. You see that in verse 24, he says We are justified by his grace as a gift. Okay? We don't deserve it. We deserve hell. But as a gift, God counts us as righteous. And how do you Then receive a share in what Christ has done. How are you justified by faith? And we say, you know what? It's all God's work But the way we take hold of what Jesus Christ has done is by faith. And so that's even that is something that God grants to us. So salvation uh is completely of the Lord. And when I say we take hold of it by faith I'm not saying just that we give mental assent to the truths of the gospel, but rather we trust in Jesus Christ. We're resting or reclining on Jesus Christ, that he kept all God's commands for we fell short. And then uh he bore the penalty for our sin. Okay? So there you have it. That was last week's sermon. I could have saved you a lot of time, right, if I just did that last week. Um but this is really this is not what This is the heart of the Christian gospel. That's why Martin Luther said justification by faith is the doctrine by which the church stands or falls. And if the church does, a church does not teach this If it teaches that as long as you're in ice you'll go to heaven, then that church has fallen. They're not teaching the gospel. And this brings us to our text this morning, verses 27 to 31. Where Paul draws three deductions, three implications from the fact that whether you're a Jewish background or a Gentile background, it doesn't matter. All people, if they're going to be saved, must be justified by faith in Jesus Christ. So the implications then are number one, it excludes boasting. Secondly, this opens up the way of salvation to all peoples. And then the third implication in verse thirty-one is that justification by faith does not contradict The law, the commands of the Old Testament, but rather it upholds the very concept of God giving us His law. Okay? So there you have it. You weren't out yet? That was the introduction. Okay, here we go. So the first implication is that justification by faith excludes boasting. The church in Rome was composed largely of Gentiles, but there were also Jews in the church. And so they're all Christians, right? They all believe in Jesus Christ. But the Jewish Christians had it in their minds that they had some kind of advantage over the Gentiles because they were God's chosen people, right? They were circumcised. Abraham was their father. God had given them the law. Well, there were many advantages to being a Jew. But not in regards to salvation. They didn't have a leg up on the Gentiles. And so that's what Paul makes clear in this passage. Jew, Gentile, whatever your background, outside of Christ, you're equally lost in whether you're a Jew or a Gentile, there's only one way to be saved, and that's by justification by faith. So number one You're equally lost. That's why he says in the end of verse 22, there's no distinction. He's talking about the distinction between the Jews and the Gentiles. There's no distinction. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And the only way that anybody is going to be saved is through faith in Jesus Christ. And so that's why in verse 27 uh Paul uh says listen, don't boast about your Jewish ethnicity. Verse 27, then what becomes of our boasting? It's excluded. By what kind of law? By law there, he doesn't mean the Old Testament law. By what kind of principle he's saying By what kind of law? By a law, a principle of works? No. But by the law, the principle of faith. Now it's interesting that Paul's saying this because he understood it completely, right? He was one of the most faithful, one of the most learned Jews there that ever walked the face of the earth And he reflects on this in Philippians chapter 3, verses verses 5 to 6. He says, listen. Before I was converted, before I trusted in Jesus Christ, I was full of myself because I was a Jew. Circumcised on the eighth day, Of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church As to righteousness under the law, blameless. But then Paul met Jesus Christ right in Acts chapter 9 on Damascus Road, and he clearly saw That he contributed nothing to his salvation, and that he had no ground for boasting And so Paul now is writing to the Christians in Rome from a Jewish background, and he's saying, you guys need to have a similar humility. Verse 9 What then? Are Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Gentiles, are under sin. Then we just read the end of verse 22, right? There's no distinction. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace. So all people are justified by his grace. Well Just to put the final nail on the coffin on this issue, Paul says, think about the father of the Hebrews, Abraham. Even Abraham was justified by faith and not by works. Chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. For if Abraham was justified by works, He has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Then it closes from Genesis 15. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. So Paul says in verse twenty-seven, justification by faith excludes boasting. He's saying we're all debtors to God's grace. None of us has any ground to be puffed up uh because we know the Bible inside out or because we know theology better than uh John Calvin or because we have a upstanding uh moral record or because we do all these good deeds and serve the church If you're boasting about that, that's not a good sign. That's probably a sign that you don't understand the gospel, that you're not a Christian And it's interesting. There's a lot of interesting things about when you tell somebody you're a minister. Try it sometime, okay? If you're on an airplane, you don't want to talk to anybody, just tell them you're minister. A little blabber mouth next to you all of a sudden it picks up a magazine. End of conversation. Here's another one. You meet a stranger somewhere. They're treating you like a normal person. In fact, it's funny, um Rusty and I were down at uh Arlington Cemetery uh two weeks ago And this lady came up to me in the lobby. She said, Hey, what do you do for a living? And I said, I'm a pastor. She said, Oh. I said, what do you think it was? She said, I thought you were insurance an insurance salesman. But um but another weird thing Is that um you meet somebody and they don't have a church background, and they you say, Hey, I'm a pastor, I'm the pastor of Good News Presbyterian Church. And like they they feel like they have to justify themselves. I'm a good person, and they'll tell you what they do or uh what their church background is or um they'll just mention these things on unsolicited information. And it's really awkward. I said, well, you know, you know, I'm sure you're a good person. Uh so what? You know. But um But that's but that's not a good when somebody does that, that's not a good sign, right? Because what would a Christian say? Well you'd say, I was lost. You may not say that this in so many words, but you're thinking this. I'm not going to tell you what a great guy I am, because I'm not that great And I was lost, I was blind, I was spiritually dead, and I deserved to go to hell. But God had mercy on me, and not because there was some virtue I had that elicited that mercy, but by his grace, he gave me spiritual birth And he enabled me to believe in Jesus Christ, and by his spirit, he's helping me to make some progress in the Christian life That's when you understand justification by faith, it excludes boasting Doesn't mean that we can't be pleased with God's work in our lives, but we don't try to say, yeah, I'm okay because I do these things. Here's the second implication. Justification by faith opens the way of salvation to all peoples. And that was God's plan from the beginning, right? When God called Abraham in Genesis 12 the father of the Hebrews, he said, through your Posterity, all the nations on the earth will be blessed. So God chose Israel, not because they had some kind of virtue, but because He He chose them to be his missionary uh people who would then take the gospel to all the nations. They failed miserably. Well, God's plans are never thwarted. So in the fullness of time, Jesus Christ came, and it says in uh Ephesians chapter 2, verse 14 and 15. One thing that Jesus accomplished was that he tore down the wall that separated the Jews from the Gentiles. To say there's one people of God made up of Christians from Jewish and Gentile backgrounds Now look at verses 29 and 30. This is where Paul says this, that justification by faith opens the way of salvation to all people. So in verse 29, He says, Is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one. He will justify the circumcised by faith And the uncircumcised by faith. In other words, the Jews and the Gentiles. And I have the ESV translation. It says in verse 30 since God is one I like the NIV on this as a more uh a clearer way of translating this. It says, since there is only one God, okay? So what Paul is saying here is that there are not a variety of gods. There's not a God for the Jews over here, and then a God for the Gentiles over there. There's but one true God In this one true God is the God of all people. In other words, the gospel is for all people. And to use a word that has been grossly abused in our day, we can say that Christianity is highly inclusive, right? This is what Romans, this is one of the huge themes in the book of Romans. Romans begins and ends With this idea or this teaching that the gospel is for all nations. Chapter 1, verse 5, Paul says We have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of the faith for the sake of his name among the nations. Here's why I became an apostle, he says. So that I could point people to faith in Jesus Christ, so that they would grow in obedience. And this this mission I have is for all the nations. So that's where Romans begins. Romans ends with the same idea, and so it's bracketed by this statement that the gospel is for all the nations. Chapter 16, verse 25 and 26, Paul speaks that my gospel That has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of the faith. So there's the book ends. For the book of Romans, and the idea is that the gospel is for everybody, not just for the Jews, it's for everybody. Paul said the same thing in Galatians 3. 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female. For you all are one in Christ Jesus. It doesn't mean that we don't have differences. It doesn't abolish distinctions But it does say that as far as access to God is concerned, there's one way, and that is through Jesus Christ. And that's why Jesus said in Matthew 11, Come to me all who are weary and burdened, right? I'll give you rest. So here's the free offer of the gospel to all people. And then in Revelation 7 verse 9, John speaks about this vision that God gave him of the heavenly congregation. And John sees a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes. And so this is tell Paul is one of the things Paul is saying here when he says in verses uh verse uh twenty-nine and thirty God is one. He's saying there's one God, and the salvation he offers in Jesus Christ is for all peoples. And so Christianity is inclusive. But at the same time, it's exclusive, right? Because Paul is saying there's only one way of salvation. You know, we like to be inclusive. I'd say everybody's invited to our house. Y'all come, uh it'd be nice if you call ahead, but if you don't, we'll just throw some more water in a pot of soup or whatever we're having, eh? And so um everybody's invited, but we do have a stipulation. You need to come in through the door. Don't crawl down the chimney. Don't try to make your way through the heating duct or try to uh get get in through a window. You must come through the door. And God's the same way, right? In John 14, Jesus said, In my Father's house are many rooms, right? There's room for everybody in heaven. But You must enter through the door. And that's why in John 10. 9, Jesus said, I am the gate. Whoever enters through me. will be saved. Okay? So Christianity is inclusive, but it's also exclusive. And the mainline Protestant Church doesn't understand this anymore. Right? They'll say, well We're all ecumenism, right? We're all we're all on the same path or we're all going to be in heaven when we die. All you have to do is have uh be uh inhabitant of planet earth and God's a nice guy. Everybody goes to heaven and you know what? Sort of like God's on top of this tall mountain. And the Christians were going up this one path, and then the Hindus are going up their path, the Sikhs are going up a different path, and the Muslims are going up a path. But These uh sophisticated uh Protestant clerics would say, um, we're all really on the same path because they can see the whole thing. We're just Pig means we can't really see what's going on, but they have this great knowledge, but it's not what the Bible teaches, right? Because the Bible says uh There's only one way, Jesus Himself. He said, I'm the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me And uh in Acts chapter 4, the Apostle Peter said, There's salvation in no one else. There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. And so it's disingenuous. You may not believe the Bible, but it would be disingenuous to say that the Bible teaches that there are many roads to heaven There are not. There is but one road. And that's why uh we share the gospel, right? And if there were many ways to heaven It makes you scratch your head when Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, Father, if it's possible, may this cup be taken from me, this cup of suffering, the cup of the cross, may this cup be taken from me Well, if there are many roads to heaven, why didn't the Father relieve Jesus Christ of his suffering? Well, because there's not there are not other ways. Why did the uh apostles go out and suffer uh so uh miserably Because they're proclaiming the gospel. Why did eleven of the twelve die martyrs' deaths? Well, because there are not many roads. There's but one road. In the one road is sufficient. And uh we shouldn't complain about that. And so the kingdom is open to all. That's that's the theme here, right? There's one God, whether you're a Jew, whether you're Gentile, all you have to do is look to Jesus Christ. You don't have to do a thing. You just have to say, I'm a sinner. I need a Savior. I see Jesus as that Savior. He's the provision the Father has made for the salvation of all people. And all that they must do is then turn to him. Here's a third implication. Number three. This is based on verse 31. And here Paul makes a statement. He says, justification by faith upholds the law. Upholds the law. Verse 31. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Okay? So the law, as we've said we said last week, is everything in the Bible that tells us what we must do to live a life pleasing to God. Summarized right in the Ten Commandments, but there's also uh law in the uh in the New Testament. Anytime there's a command, that's God's Law. Okay? And this is this the law is a huge theme in the book of Romans, right? You have the gospel and you have the law. The law says here's what God requires. We realize we can't do that, so we look to the gospel. Here's what God does for us. He gives us salvation in Jesus Christ. And so How does justification by faith uphold the law? I'm from New Jersey. The law. How do you guys say it? Whatever. The law. Okay. Well, a couple ways. Justification by faith upholds the law in that Jesus kept the law, okay? He obeyed it to the most minute detail. And so we're saved. But it's not just that God said, Oh, you know, I'm a merciful God, I'm a loving God. You know, you're all you all can come to heaven. He says God's also righteous. And so Jesus Christ, he came to earth, he lived on earth thirty years. not just to be an example, but he had to fulfill all the law for us. And that's why it says in Galatians 4. 4, that Christ was born of a woman born under the law. Or think about Jesus being baptized by John the Baptist. Oh you're baptized like to wash away your sin. Why was Jesus baptized? He didn't have any sin. Well, because He had to submit to it because he walked in our place. He fulfilled the law where we fell short. And that's why Jesus Himself said in Matthew 3. 15 It is fitting that I be baptized to fulfill all righteousness. In other words, I need to do all these things. I need to obey all the law, all God's commands. in the in the place of his people. And so Jesus, he upheld the law in his active obedience, right? He obeyed all the commands of God. And then he turned around, as I said, and he died on the cross, and he suffered the penalty that we deserve for breaking the law. And so the theologians refer to that as Jesus' passive obedience. He just He stood there and he took it what we deserve. And so Jesus, or excuse me, justification by faith upholds God's law in the Old Testament in that Jesus Christ obeyed all the commands, then he took the penalty that we deserved for failing to obey the commands. And also, here's something else. And we're going to, when we get to chapter 7, I'll expand on this. But it's quite important to understand the place of the law, the place of the commands in the Christian life Justification by faith upholds the law in that it recognizes the proper place of God's commands in the Christian life, okay? Or in life The first purpose of the law is to convict us of our sin and to drive us to Jesus Christ. And so the law can't save us. So it'd be silly to say, yeah, I want to become a Christian. I want to be a better person. I'm going to try to keep the Ten Commandments. That doesn't make you a Christian, okay? But rather One of the purposes of the law is to help us to see our sin and our need of a Savior, that we can't become better persons and earn our way to heaven. Look at chapter 3, verse 20. In the end of the verse, Paul says, Through the law comes knowledge of sin. Okay? So what the God's law does is it helps us to see that we're not so good after all, that we're sinners. It's like a holding up a mirror to your face and you go, oh, I got some dirt there. I need to clean my face. Once you see your dirt, dirt in your face, you don't wash your face in the mirror, right? You go to a different system. You go to soap and water. Well, the law shows you your sin But you don't try to clean away your sin by trying harder to obey God's commands. You turn to a different system. You look to Jesus Christ in the salvation he gives us. And so the law's purpose, one of his purposes, is to drive us to the gospel That we might be justified by faith in Jesus Christ. Okay? So the gospel is the free salvation that God gives us It's received by faith alone and not by human effort. So justification by faith upholds the law. in that it shows us the right purpose of the law is to convict us of our sin and drive us to Jesus Christ. And that's why when you you're sharing the gospel with a friend It's good to use God's commands. It's good to use the law to help people see that you know what? Uh you're not so good after all. You need a savior. You might If you're having a conversation with somebody and they're open, say, oh, you think you're going to get to heaven by being a good person. Well let's go through the Ten Commandments. Do you keep all these commands in your thought life and in your attitudes and in your heart? And they'd say no. And then you might turn to God's law in Matthew 5-7, the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus explains the implications. of his commands. So the law's good, right? It won't get you to heaven, but it's useful in that it shows us our sin and our need of a savior. And justification by faith upholds that use of the law. Another purpose of the law is that once we are saved by God's grace, by believing in Christ, The law provides a framework for living the Christian life. Okay? So once you're justified by faith, God's commands, God's law serves as a guide for living. A guy named Samuel Bolton said, the law sends us to the gospel for our justification. The gospel sends us to the law to frame our way of life. So it's our practice. Oftentimes we'll read the Ten Commandments, and what's right after the Ten Commandments? We confess our sin, right? So we use the law as a prompt to remind us that we're sinners and that we need a Savior, Jesus Christ. In Geneva, Switzerland, at the time of the Protestant Reformation, they oftentimes read God's commands, God's law, after they had confessed their sin. And that's equally valid because the logic there was, now that we're forgiven, we're going to look to God's commands. as a framework for how we're to w live a life how we're to live lives pleasing to God. You see that? So justification by faith upholds the law. And so there you have three implications. And I may have gone on and on and on. Maybe I did. But hopefully it was for good purpose because you must be clear on the gospel. Verse twenty-eight, Paul says, We hold That one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. This should humble us. And it should make us zealous to take the gospel to everybody, right? We should be indiscriminate about it. And we should certainly be praying for our missionaries and their work and supporting them. And also, it should make us desire to obey God, not because we fear His wrath. His wrath is poured out on Jesus Christ. We don't have to fear that. But we do want to live lives that are thankful and that are pleasing to Him. So justification by faith upholds the law of God. Let's bow our heads We do pray, Lord, that the truth of the gospel would change us, it would humble us. We wouldn't be so puff help us not to be so puffed up about our accomplishments and our our superficial uh spiritual