Let's turn in our Bibles to the Book of Proverbs or in Proverbs chapter six I'm thinking about after Easter, maybe starting Romans for a few chapters and coming back to Proverbs just to mix it up a little bit. uh because Proverbs uh the New Testament just points so more readily to Christ, so I thought we'd do that. If you have any big objection, uh talk to me after the service, but I'll probably say, hey, you know, we're just doing Romans. So you can still talk to me. Let's so we're Proverbs chapter six. Speaking of fools like myself, right? First nineteen verses And there's three different types of fools mentioned here, so they're they're almost like three separate sermons. I'll show you the breaks as we go through it. So first of all, verse one, my son, if you put up security for your neighbor, have given your pledge for a stranger If you are snared in the words of your mouth, caught in the words of your mouth, then do this, my son, and save yourself, for you have come into the hand of your neighbor. Go, hasten And plead urgently with your neighbor. Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber. Save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler Then a second teaching. Go to the ant, O sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler, she prepares her food in summer and gathers her food in harvest. How long will you lie there, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep? A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. And poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man. Number three A worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech, winks his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger. With perverted heart devises evil, continually sowing discord. Therefore calamity will come upon him suddenly. In a moment he will be broken beyond healing. There are six things the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers So you remember last week we were in chapter five, the father warned his son against sexual promiscuity. He picks up on that theme again when you get to verse 20 of chapter 6, all the way through chapter 7. So we'll be back on that next week, but also there's a different emphasis, so it won't be a repeat of the themes we talked about last week. But he interrupts his train of thought in these first 19 verses of chapter 6 to mention three other types of foolishness to avoid. Number one, he says, don't secure a loan unless you're willing to suffer the loss. Number two, he says, don't be a sluggard. And number three, he says, don't be a troublemaker So this is like really down in the street just blunt uh exhortations. Okay? So three kinds of fools, okay? And there's something of us in each of these. And so just try to see yourself, examine yourself, and then have a little conversation with yourself this afternoon. And so make some marks in your own heart or on a piece of paper, things to reflect on, okay? So number one, he talks about it can be foolish to secure another person's debt. Well that's interesting because Throughout the Bible we're taught to be generous, even in the book of Proverbs, right? Proverbs 11, verse 24 reads, One gives freely, yet grows all the richer And so generosity is commanded, but on the other hand, the Bible warns us against an indiscriminate type of generosity. And that's what the father warns his son here. Verse 1. He warns his son, it says, not to put up security for your neighbor or a stranger. In other words, he's saying, don't guarantee somebody else's debt unless you're willing to suffer the loss unless you're willing to part with your money, uh, should they not be able to pay their debt. What does that mean? Well, I mean, you might you might have a friend who was struggling And now your friend's on his or her feet and they have a decent job and they say, All right, I need I'm getting an apartment. But there's this little formality I find in the lease when I to sign a lease they say I have to have a cosigner so that, you know, if I can't pay my rent, my co-signer will. Or that maybe somebody getting on their feet and they take out a car loan. Hey, will you believe my cosigner? It's just a formality, just something I have to have done. And you're a big hearted person, you say, Oh yeah, sure, n no problem. And so this is warning us that um don't do that. unless you're willing to take on the financial responsibility should they default on that loan. And sometimes that's something you are willing to do, right? You might have a child and they take out a college loan or a car loan and you understand they're just starting out, and so you're willing to stand behind them on that commitment. and you'll step in and you'll pay for their debt should that should they uh default. But this is the same you need to be selective, you need to know uh what you're getting in what you're getting into And it goes on to say, if you put yourself in a position of guaranteeing somebody else's debt, do everything you can to extricate yourself from that. And so verses four and five, he says Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber. Save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler. And uh this is a theme. It's interesting. Proverbs talks about very specific things. We don't was the last time you thought about this concept of co-signing somebody's loan, but the Bible brings it up, uh chapter 11, verse 15, same idea. It says whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer harm. So just something to think about, right? It's not gonna uh You're not going to count us every day, but it's just something to be aware of. I think especially for our young people, maybe we haven't thought about this, but particularly I think probably that one of the most pressing applications has to do with choosing a marriage partner. You may love this fella or you may love this gal, but if this person Is reckless in the way that they spend money, then when you get married, you're gonna be taking on all that debt. If they always have to have the biggest house or the newest car or they have to have a closet full of the most expensive clothes, guess what, buddy? Or guess what, ma'am? Their debt is your debt. And so there's a warning. There's also a line here to the gospel. It's not a it's not a real it's a dotted line, it's not a real dark, uh thick line, but the idea Of someone coming and taking on the debt of another, I mean that's why Jesus came, right? Jesus willingly uh put himself in a position of assuming the debt that we had accrued to our account as we will one day stand before a holy God And a Christian is someone who says, I don't have the resources to pay that debt. But with Job, this is Job 17, verse 3, we say to God, Who is there who will put up security for me? And the gospel answer is that Jesus Christ stood in, right? He paid our debt. He lived a perfect life where we failed, and then he died on the cross to pay the penalty. for our sin. And it's interesting, you may have heard this. I think it's in John, or wherever it is, where Jesus, he's dying on the cross. Some of his last words he says, it is finished. It's a single word in the Greek, to telesti, which is a commercial term, which means paid in full. And so that's what Jesus said when he died on the cross. He said, listen. The debt of man's sin has been paid in full. And so there is the gospel. If you trust in Jesus Christ Though you have this crushing guilt about things you've done in ways that you failed, and you feel you sense your corrupt heart The gospel says if you just rest on Christ, you don't have to do anything. You don't have to become religious. You don't have to change yourself. All you have to do is rest on Christ, and your debt will be canceled, and you'll enjoy the full favor of God Colossians chapter 2, verse 14 says, Jesus canceled the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside. He took our debt and he set it aside, it says, by nailing it to the cross. There's the gospel. Let's go on. So these first two vignettes have to do with self-inflicted impoverishment. The first guy impoverishes himself because he unwisely guarantees somebody else's loan who can't pay their loan And then the second way that someone could bring impoverishment on themselves is through being a sluttered. I love that word sluggard, it sort of rolls off the tongue. But anyway, um verses six to eleven uh provides a both a positive example to follow and then a negative example to avoid. Okay, so the positive example He says, learn from the ant. So verses six to eight. Let's read that first. Go to the end, O sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler She prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in the harvest. Now before we jump in there, I just want to make an observation. God has built into the very creation lessons for mankind. Think about it, you could go through, you could think about going through Scripture. Ephesians chapter 5 talks about the husband and the wife and their relationship to each other and how the husband should lay down his his life for the wife. And he says that's a picture of Christ and the church. Okay? It just doesn't happen to be a coincidence. But he says marriage is a picture of the relationship between Christ and the church Think about the parables of Jesus, the parable of the mustard seed. Jesus says this tiny little seed, you throw it in the ground, and it grows and it spreads remarkably. He said that's what the kingdom of God's like. It starts out small and then it grows and it spreads. But when Jesus says that Jesus isn't just saying, hey, let me think of an analogy here, but he's saying the very way that God set up the world, that he created the world, Is meant to provide spiritual lessons or moral lessons or pictures of what life is like. But the parable of the four soils, right? The farmer he went out and he sowed his seeds and some fell on the rocky ground and some was thorns and some was on good soil and so on. Jesus said those four soils are pictures of four ways that people receive the Word of God. But again, he's not just saying, hey, let me give you an analogy. But he's saying this is a lesson that God has built into the created order so that you can understand how people receive the Word of God. Go back to Genesis, first chapters in Genesis God made the world in six days and then he rested on the seventh day. Why did he rest? Because he was tired? No, he's God, right? Why did he create the world in six days? Why didn't he just create it all at once? Well, Exodus 20 explains God made the world in six days, and then he rested on the seventh For the reason for because he wanted to provide a pattern for us to follow in working six days and then in resting on the seventh day And so here we have now in Proverbs chapter 6, one of the lowliest and humblest of creatures, the ant. God has created not solely for this purpose, but one of the purposes from Proverbs 6 is to instruct us about work. Okay? So he says, go to the end. If you're lazy, if you're too lazy to go get a job. If you're too lazy to work hard at your job, if you're not willing to do your schoolwork, or you're not willing to clean up around the house and keep things in order. The book of Proverbs says, Go to the end, O sluggard. No, be tutored by a bug. Learn something from this lowly insect. Go to the ant. Hey, think about it. Ants are self-starters, right? That's what he says in verse 7. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler. Now, the writer of Proverbs isn't saying that there's no communication amongst the ants, but it's saying from observation They're self-starters. They don't need to be pushed. They don't need to be threatened. They don't need to be cajoled. And he goes on in verse 8 to say, they plan for the future. She prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in the harvest. And that's a that's something I say to young people oftentimes, year in the season of life. These 12 years, or if you go to college, these 16 years, or however long you're educated. This is your season of life to prepare, right? So you want to listen. Listen to your teacher or if you're homeschooled. Listen to your mom or your dad. Don't be obstinate. Don't grumble. Don't make your parents drag you to get your homework done or to listen or to be attentive. Because You're privileged, right? You have this time in your life to prepare yourself to understand the world, to develop your social skills. to become equipped, uh, to make a living, to support a family, to understand God's world and how to navigate it. And so take it take this opportunity to prepare. And the and the aunt also tells us we need to prepare uh for short term things, right? We want to plan our week in advance. We I think our week should have this cycle. Starts on Monday and it builds up and the and the epit the uh the climax is is the Lord's Day, right? So we work all week in our jobs or at home or teaching or whatever we're doing. Work all week. On Saturday, if you're off on Saturdays or whenever your day off is, you get things done around the house, your yard work, your housework. And then you take the Sabbath as a day of rest, as a day of fellowship and worship, a day to have others over on occasion or regularly. to offer hospitality. But these are the things. So we want to say, I want to plan my meals or I want to get everything done. I want to make a list. because I want the Lord's Day to be a special day. And so positively Proverbs says, follow the ant. Learn something from this little this little almost mindless creature. Then negatively We have an example in verses 9 to 11. He says, here's what you want to avoid. Don't be a sluggard. And it's interesting as you go through Proverbs Some of its most blistering contempt is reserved for lazy people And it's a Proverbs is a funny book. I mean, the writer rips into lazy people with blistering satire. Look at verse 9. How long will you lie there, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep? A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. That's what he's saying. Pushes the snooze alarm. Just ten minutes more. You know, like it's not really ten minutes more. It's not just a little sleep You've been laying there in your bed, pal, for three hours. Then he says, just a little bit more. Turn to chapter 26. Chapter 26, verse 13 to 15. This is high comedy, this one. If you look at you look at the picture here, think about people you know. Chapter 26, verse 13. The sluggard says, there's a lion in the road. There's a lion in the streets. There is no lion out there. You live in Frederick, Maryland. You're you're always making excuses. And look at the picture. As a door turns on its hinges, so does the sluggard on his bed, right? It rolls this way, he rolls that way. But you can't extract him from his bed. And the next line is pathetic. The sluggard burrs his hand in the dish. It wears him out to bring it back to his mouth. We know people like that. We think you do too. It's just crazy. I mean some people the way they just let their house fall apart and their holes in the ceiling because they didn't do the most basic thing. So this is saying to all of us, and I want to say to our young people, take responsibility for yourself, right? Here I go again. Slap me after the service. Don't waste hour after hour playing mindless computer games or just looking at your phone like that's all there is. But rather do something. 21 verse 17. Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man So look at the future. Look at the future. It will come quickly. Take initiative. Lend the hand around the house. And in your walk with Christ, as they always say, try to be or be a spiritual self-starter. That's what guys, young guys Women want to marry a guy who's going to be a spiritual self-starter that she doesn't have to drag along to have devotions or to go to church or whatever Uh but so develop that skill now and of course a guy isn't going to want uh a a woman who's just sort of there and a blasé spiritually, but a a Christian guy wants a woman who takes initiative. And I say to our young folks, You know, you're you're ten years old or you're fourteen years old. One day you'll be twenty-five years old. Before you know it, you'll be thirty-five years old. The person you are when you're 25 or 35 will be the cumulative result of the choices you make every day between now and then. You're not just going to change like this when I get out of college or when I get out of high school. It doesn't work like that. But the choices you make this afternoon, this evening, tomorrow It all becomes part of who you will be. And so you want to use every hour wisely. And there's this warning. It says, listen, if slothfulness is one of your besetting sins, then you better wake up because you will destroy yourself. Look at verses 10 and 11. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man. And so just think about that, not to scare you, but say, you know what? You gotta develop now. Let's go on, okay? Let me broaden this a little bit. And what I want to do, and I know a lot of you adults are familiar with this, but I do want to talk about just the idea, how does the Bible view work? The Bible does not view work as a necessary evil. That's how people in our culture view work. They look at many look at it as a necessary evil. You gotta work because you gotta make a living. But the Bible teaches that God made us to work. Think about it. In a perfect world where there was no sin. There was work, right? God put man in the garden to work. I mean, the only thing that sin did was to make work toilsome. Right? Then Adam had to sweat and he had to deal uh with the weeds and the thorns and the thistles. But work in itself is honorable. No matter how menial the task, no matter how trivial the job may be, God views work as an honorable thing. It's interesting, my wife's uh sister has a son-in-law. He has a law degree and he's in his forties, but he won't take a job. It's because he can't get like the perfect job. That's not honorable. The honorable thing would for for him would be to go get a job at the Minimart. Because all work is honorable. But it's not honorable just to stay in your dad's basement or your mom your parents' basement and not work. And so all job, well of course, some jobs are inherently sinful. You shouldn't be a loan shark or whatever. But I mean there are mo we're just saying most jobs are honorable. And this idea That some jobs are more honorable or spiritual than others, that's a holdover from the Middle Ages. And so before the Protestant Reformation in the 1500s, the Catholic Church taught that if you're really spiritual, you'll be a priest or a monk or a nun. Yeah, we need shopkeepers and uh blacksmiths and shoemakers and stuff like that, and that's okay. But that's not the highest calling. And then the Reformers, Luther and Calvin and others, and then the Puritans who followed them, they taught that all work has dignity in God's eyes. And so Calvin said There is no work, however vile or sordid, that does not glisten before the Lord. And so they said, if you're a street sweeper, that is as noble as being a minister. How's that? Genesis 1. 28, God said, exercise dominion over all creation Well, that's what a street sweeper does. He's restoring order to creation. He's preventing disease. If you're a dishwasher, right, you're bringing order, you're presenting preventing disease, you're allowing people to have uh comfortable comfortable lives. And so that's all of that is good. And all of life belongs to God. This is one of the great uh things that the reformers discovered. There's not sacred and secular, but they taught all of life belongs to God, the arts. the sciences, uh, manual labor and uh technology. And uh you know, God doesn't sometimes people say, How did you know you're being called to be a minister? Well, that's not a that's a silly question. The question is how how does how do you know God calls you to be an accountant or a teacher or a carpenter or a minister, and you say, well, you look at the opportunities, you look at your gifts, you look at the feedback you receive from others' people, and you look at the needs. But it's not some esoteric thing to be a minister, but it's not esoteric uh to be involved in um uh uh the sciences or to be a teacher. Because all these callings are callings from God by which we exercise dominion over creation. So Martin Luther So that dairymaid can milk cows to the glory of God. But the important thing isn't so much what you do, but that whatever you do You do it as a way to serve God. You seek to glorify God by your disposition and by your faithfulness, by your witness. But also what you're doing is noble because you are extending dominion over all creation. So that's what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 10. 31. Whatever you do Do it all for the glory of God. So I say that to encourage you, because you think I just have this job, it's a grind, I'm not really making a difference. That's not how that's not how God views it. If you're involved faithfully doing your work Then that is noble and that is honorable in God's eyes. Let's go on number three, briefly. The troublemaker. Okay? The troublemaker, he is described in verses twelve to fourteen You probably think back on junior high school when you read this. A worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech. Winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger, with perverted heart, devises evil. continually sowing discord. So goes about with crooked speech to say he distorts the truth and there are people that will gossip but they won't tell the whole story. They won't put the other the person about whom they're gossiping in a fair light. They'll lead out key details. That would completely change your assessment of the situation. They go about with crooked speech and then they engage in devious nonverbal communication. It says he winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger. I remember the church I passed in North Carolina. We'd be having some kind of church meeting and there are these two guys who are troublemakers. You can see them looking across the room, roll looking at uh glancing at each other, rolling their eyes And you knew that they were gonna they were up to something and something would come out. That's what the troublemaker is like. continually sowing discord. There are some people who thrive on controversy. Sometimes you'll have it in your extended family there's something like that. They just have to They just have to stir things up and they seem to get a a the relish in those kind of things. Well, there's a warning for the troublemaker. Verse 15 says, He or she will not escape punishment. Therefore, calamity will come upon him suddenly, in a moment he will be broken beyond healing. So there's both a warning, or that's both a warning against doing evil, but it's also an assurance To those who think that wicked people will get away with their wicked deeds. It says they won't. The rent will come suddenly. Calamity will come upon them suddenly, and it will be irreversible. The end of verse 15. He will be broken beyond healing. I think this applies to the church. This is a warning to us. We always have to be vigilant. There are unhappy people out there, and sometimes they go to churches, right? They're unhappy about something, it's either their marriage or their job or they don't receive the recognition they think they should deserve they deserve. I remember Years ago, I I was talking to a couple this week, a couple, and I said, I've been here twenty-three years, and this has been the most harmonious church. Except about year two, there was a bump in the road. And some remember we had a big powwow with people who were stirring up dissension. What was there to complain about? A couple people, when the church started out, they were no longer receiving the recognition Because new people were coming in and new guys started teaching. One guy got very jealous. It was just amazing out of nowhere. How is this? Why would you be complaining? Well, it's jealousy, it's pettiness. And so this is a warning to us. Excuse me. The Bible instructs the church to deal decisively with people who stir up division. And I was in a church in North Carolina for ten years, and that was a great church, but the elders were not willing to deal with people who were gossiping, who were stirring up division. And it was toxic. Somebody would a new person would come in the church and they can almost feel it in the air. There there's something not right here. They couldn't they couldn't put their finger on it But it was all the dissension that wasn't dealt with. And so Titus three, verse ten. It says, as for a person who stirs up division, just let them go. Just love him. That's not what it says. That's what somebody told me in North Carolina. We just need to love them. I mean this one couple was destroying the church. Well, we just need to love them. Well, what is love? Titus three ten, as for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once then twice have nothing more to do with them. You can't sacrifice the group for the individual. Well let's go on. It's funny I was having this conversation this week. So I was talking to a couple in the church, and they were talking about a former pastor. And I said, this former pastor All she talked about was love. Love, love, love, love, love, they said. And I laughed. Well, listen, we're not one of those love churches. No. No. I carry no grief against love. I'm all for it. However You know, J. A. Packer said, a half-truth masquerading as a whole truth is a complete untruth. God is love, right? That defines God. But that's not the whole truth. God also at times is hate. And you see that in verse, where am I, verse 16? There are six things the Lord hates. Seven that are an abomination to him. I can't think of any word stronger to describe God's aversion of something than to say it's an abomination. So let's go on. Verse eighteen. No, verse seventeen. Haughty eyes, a line tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers And so this is this is a literary device. There are seven things listed, but he says, you know what? There are six things the Lord hates, seven that are an abomination. And whenever you have one of these lists in the book of Proverbs, the focus is on the last theme and the last thing in the list And the last thing in this list is what we read about in verses twelve to fifteen, right? One who sows discord among brothers. So that's to say God hates all those things, but he wants you to know, don't sow discord, because God hates that. So this is just part of the rhetoric of Proverbs. Let me give you a couple examples, okay? Uh chapter 30, verse 18 and 19. You see the same kind of language. There are three things too wonderful for me. Four that I do not understand. The way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas. in the way of a man with a virgin. That's the focus there. The mate the way of a man with a woman. Chapter 30, verse 29 and 31. Three things are stately in their tread, four are stately in their stride. The lion, which is mightiest among beasts, and doesn't It does not turn back before any. The strutting rooster, the he-goat, and a king whose army is with them. So that's the focus there. The king whose army is with them. But anyway, this reminds us, God hates those who so discord, those who want to stir things up. because they get some kind of twisted pleasure from him, and he delights in unity amongst his people. Psalm 133, right? We sing this when we take new members in. Behold how good and pleasant it is When brothers dwell together in unity. And so three warnings or three different types of foolishness we can fall into. uh securing the debt of someone uh ill advisedly uh being lazy and then also just stirring up dissension. uh because we like to see how things turn out between people. Well there's something of each of those uh tendencies in us, right? Because because our hearts are sinful. So we need to pray, Lord, continue to change me, to sanctify me, and I thank you, Lord, that I'm not saved by my record, because I fail in these ways. But you forgive me You forgive me in Jesus Christ, and you change me. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do pray, Lord, in these very practical areas that you'd help us to examine our hearts, help us to