Can fight against it. And the beast was given a mouth to utter mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty two months. It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blasphemy his name and his dwelling. That is, those who dwell in heaven Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people. Language and nation, and all who dwell on earth will worship it. Everyone whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain. If anyone has an ear, let him hear. If anyone is to be taken captive, to captivity he goes. If anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the sword, he must be slain. Here's the call for the endurance and faith of the saints. Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb, and it spoke like a dragon. It exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence, and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, who is The mortal wound was healed. It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people. And by the signs that It is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it receives those who dwell on earth, telling them to make an image of the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived. And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast. of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak, it might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain. Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead. so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark. That is the name of the beast or the number of it. This calls for wisdom. Let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred and six Okay. Now last week we were in chapter twelve. And in that chapter, God pulled back the curtain on this conflict uh that takes place between God's people and the people of the world and in pulling pulling Back that veil, we saw that behind our earthly conflicts there rages this greater battle between God and And Satan in chapter 12 told us that when Jesus died on the cross and ascended to heaven, at that point Satan lost the battle against God But because Jesus has not yet returned, Satan in this interim time, in this you might say where this revelation says, this forty-two months or this twelve hundred and sixty days, it says a different way. Ways, three and a half years. In the in the period between Jesus' first coming and his second coming Satan now is going after God's people, okay? Christ was victorious, but he's still going after God's people And so there is a spiritual battle that still rages between Satan, who has been defeated, but he hasn't been finally defeated because Christ hasn't returned. So he still rages against God, but also Satan wages war not only against God But he rages war on earth against God's people, against the church. So we looked at the dragon, Satan, in chapter 12. You turn to chapter 13, and you discover That very little is said about Satan, about this dragon. And that would be because Satan seldom reveals himself He seldom reveals himself. Rather, he works through human agents, through human institutions, and influences. In this chapter Uh chapter thirteen identifies. Whoa, how about that? Can you hear me now? Okay. Alright, good. Way to go there, buddy. All right. That's great. It's good for me at least. Shall I keep yelling? I'm not yelling, I'm Italian, right? That's what an old girlfriend used to tell me. Uh oh Okay. Anyway, chapter thirteen uh says very little about the dragon. And as I said, this is because Satan And seldom reveals himself right up front, but he works through human institutions, human influences. And what we have in chapter 13 Uh just to just to get the main outline. What we have in chapter thirteen are two of the primary agents that Satan uses to attack God. God's people. Okay? First ten verses, I think it's the first ten verses, you have the you have the beast out of the sea So you have this hideous monster called the Beast Out of the Sea. And he represents, I'm going to show this why we believe this in a minute. The beast out of the sea. Of the sea represents the persecuting power of the state, persecuting governments. Persecuting nations. Then when you get to verse 11, you have another beast, and this is identified as the beast out of the earth. Who does this beast, or what does this beast this beast represents? And the best we can do is he represents false prophets, uh propagandists. uh purveyors of false religion, uh false world views, uh shoddy corrupt values. Okay, so this is a very uh fantastical passage full of uh vivid imagery and and symbols of course uh but we have to remember that is not just a puzzle to figure out But rather John has given this uh passage to the church in the first century and to the church down through the ages, uh with a pass He's telling us what is going on in this world. Uh he's explaining to us uh the battle that we're up against. So that we will be well aware of the opposition. Remember Ephesians chapter 6, verse 12? Paul said, listen Our fight's not against flesh and blood. It's against the rulers and against the authorities and against the spiritual powers of this dark world. And so we have to look at this chapter as a warning, okay? And this this tells us, you know what? It's it's it's been difficult for the church down through history. And And we should not be surprised that it continues to be difficult. So what I want to do is I want us to consider these two beasts. Okay? Please concentrate Or else you might miss something and you might miss the whole thing. So let's just try to sort this out. So we want to ask the question, looking at the first ten verses, who is the beast from the sea? And we can say, first of all, before we explain it more clearly, well, he's the dragon's helper. He's Satan's helper. You'll notice the last uh verse in chapter two 12, it says that this dragon, Satan, stood on the sand of the sea, and there he stood on the seashore And from there he summoned help. Okay? And what and so in the C represents, if you go through Scripture, you'll notice the C in Scripture is not Psalm forty six, you know, God's a refuge and strength. Though the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, you know the realm of Or you think about Jesus walking on the walking on the the Sea of Galilee, showing that he has mastery over the chaos and over the evil evil in this world. Represents uh evil and uh and uh the wickedness of this world. And we see that this beast comes from the sea. The first beast comes from the sea. He is Satan's helper, and it says in chapter 13, the second part of verse 2. And to it, to this beast, the dragon, Satan, gave his power and his throne and great authority. Okay And so they're allies. They're they're working together. Uh you'll notice the the similarities between this beast from the sea and uh his similarity to sea Saint and the Dragon, go back to chapter twelve, verse three. It says that Saint and the Dragon is described as having seven heads and ten horns, and on his head seven diadems, seven crowns. Give up to chapter thirteen verse one describing the beast from the sea. He there is similarly described as having ten horns and seven heads and ten diadems on his horns. Going to get into the details, you might notice that the dragon wears his crowns on his heads, uh displaying his authority, but the beast from the sea wears his crown on his horse Horns, right? In the Bible the horn, like a ram's horn, is a is a symbol of power. And so the dragons uh the The crowns on the head of the dragon uh symbolize his his power to rule by force. But now I still haven't explained what this beast from represents and I said it way in the beginning. I said it's believed that he represents anti Christian persecution from the state. persecution against Christians that often come through governments. And here's why I say this. And you can look this up later But you know, we're taking a big chunk of scripture, a little of it, you'll just have to take my word on, but um I'm trying to support it by scripture. You go back to Daniel chapter seven And um well you'll look back there later on. Okay. But um in the end of verse 2, the beast is described, it says, the beast that I saw Saw was like a leopard and his feet was like a bear's and his mouth was like a lion's mouth. What is that? Um well that's go that's an al Nebuchadnezzar's time. Four empires are described or foretold that would come in succession. And these empires are described as the bear, as a leopard, as a lion. Lion and um I forget what the other one what the other one was. But so in Daniel seven we have four bees, okay Revelation, much of revelation is rooted in the book of Daniel. But now in Revelation, when we talk about this beast from the sea, chapter 13, verse Verse two, he is described as a composite of these empires that were talked about in the book of Daniel. And so that's That's why it is believed, and I think right rightly so, that the beast from the sea pictures the persecuting power of the state against God's people. That's what the beast and Daniel represented. And now we have this composite in Revelation thirteen. And showing us that Daniel was really just a type of this great Greater uh and more continuous uh persecution against God's people. Hey, that makes some sense, right? You read history, what do you see? You see God's people persecuted, right? By the Egyptians, by the Babylonians, by the Romans, and then in the the former uh Soviet Union and now in uh in China. And so okay. I'm persuaded of that. Now before we go continue there, let me just mark two notable characteristics of this beast from the sea. The first thing we see When we consider the persecuting power of the state, is that the beast from the sea oftentimes is totality Totalitarian in its demands. The beast from the sea, the persecuting power of the state, is often totalitarian in its demands. Look at chapter 13 Verse 7. John describing this beast says, Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to Conquer them and authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation, and all who dwell on earth will worship it. And so the state oftentimes wants complete allegiance from its subjects. Now Romans thirteen says that God instituted government. Government is something good, right? God instituted the family. Instituted the church, God instituted the government. And each of these institutions has its proper sphere of authority. But when we talk about the government, Romans 13 also And when it goes beyond that sphere, uh we're in trouble. And that is what Revelation 13 Is addressing. And we see this down through history, right? And so John wrote this letter. His immediate audience was Christians and the Century and local officials were threatening to kill Christians if they would not say Jesus is Lord. Down through history, right? I mean we we could Just read any world history book and this is what you will see. Before the Iron Curtain came down in Eastern Europe, uh there was this Complete oppression of humanity. I was reading about in the former Czechoslovakia, I think now it's called the Czech Republic, but a lady there, her name was her name's Petra Nemkoma. She grew up in the former Czechoslovakia under communist rule, and she described it. She said control was everywhere, even in school. Kids, how would you like this to be your school day? She said, we had no type of recess. We couldn't run. We couldn't even walk around on our own. During breaks We marched around in a circle in pairs. Every time we passed a teacher, we had to cry out, ses prasi, which means viva work. In other words, we always had to be saluting work. And it's the same today, right? In in China they have this uh surveillance f surveillance system, social credits, you know, if you don't do these certain things or if you're involved in some kind of church, uh they're gonna bulldoze the church, they're gonna take away your Bible. Uh we see it in North Korea of course, we see it in many countries in the Middle East. And uh we see it move we see moves in this direction in our country, do we not? We see moves in this direction toward totalitarianism in our country. I just read an article that came out September twenty-eighth, a guy named Tim Carney wrote an article uh titled Authoritarians Want to Democratize Your Parents Just a couple paragraphs I'm going to read. He said there is a growing appetite to crack down on and control businesses, churches, and other small groups that might buck elite morality. Nothing should be beyond the control of what an empowered mob demands. If a store owner gets to set his Only a m uh that excuse me. Standards, that's undemocratic. Nowhere does this trend toward authoritarianism show up more than in education. The authoritarians are pretty upset that some people might be educating their children in a way that the public education establishment doesn't approve of. The elite want to give control over people's lives Lives to specific people who are politically powerful that leftists approve of. Special interest groups and teachers' unions are the ones who call the shots when government becomes stronger. Now, I'm not making a politically partisan statement, but the Bible does talk about the government and responsibility And this is this statement I just read is an observation of what is going on in our nation, and the Bible addresses it. And so we must be aware, and I must preach the Bible when it addresses what's going on in our nation. But the bigger lesson is that behind Behind totalitarian governments stands the dragon. That's what we must remember. Behind all totalitarian governments, down through history, the people may be well intentioned In many cases, not all, but behind totalitarian government stands the dragon. And so the beast of reper uh from the sea, first of all, is totalitarian in its demands and the second trait is that this beast, this beast of totalitarian government repeatedly repeatedly revives after being defeated So notice in verse 3, okay? In verse 3, one of the beasts' seven heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed. I remember when I was a new Christian, I watched this um I forget some movie about the end times, like a Christian movie. And they had they had all their tech Trying to figure all this stuff out and say, here's what's gonna happen. And um I don't I don't subscribe to that anymore. But what this is saying something now And uh so the wound was healed. You think about the historical context. Here's the here's what many of the commentators suggest. They're not going to stake their life on it, but I think it's a real reasonable suggestion. In its historical context, this wounded and then healed uh ruler, they say it may might be for the feet. They say it might refer to Nero, right? He was a vicious persecutor of Christians. He committed suicide in AD sixty eight. And so the Christians like, whoa, what a relief. You know, Nero's gone. Persecution lightened up. But then a couple emperors later, in A. D. 81, arose Domitian, and he resumed the persecution of Christians. And so the mortal wound of this beast was healed, so to speak. And so satanic power regularly revives and reappears in history. And s in so doing, it can seem invincible, right? You look at the history book, Paul Johnson's book, uh I think it's called Modern Times, you know. What what what what is the chief characteristic the modern times. Bloodshed, carnage, uh carried out by the state, not so much by the church. You know, people are saying if there were no religion, we'd all live at peace Uh the bigger problem is the state, right? Hitler, he was gone, but then there was Stalin, he was gone. Then there was Mao Zedong, and he's gone Then there's Pol Pots, but all these dictators and and the e and then along them the the petty uh tyrants, they've killed their millions They're gone. Many of them are gone. However, he the beast is still healed, right? Totalitarian The regimes reappear down through history. And so this first beast represents the persecuting power. of the state. Let's look at the second beast a little bit more briefly. Beast from the earth. Who is this? Who is this beast from the earth? This one's more Clear, I believe. Because in three other texts in Revelation, he is identified as, quote, the false prophet. Chapter 16 Verse thirteen, chapter nineteen, verse twenty, chapter twenty, verse ten. A false prophet spreads false religions, false worldviews, corruption Values. Where is this false prophet in our day? And we would say, well, vast uh swaths of the advertising industry, social media, uh Secular education, non-Christian religions. I think these would uh qualify as embodiments of this false prophecy of this beast from uh the earth. And he's a counterfeit. He's a deceiver. Look at chapter chapter eleven Second part of verse eleven of chapter thirteen, it says he had two horns like a lamb. He seemed innocent. He seemed harmless. Jesus Christ in chapter five is likened to a lamb. But this beast is a counterfeit. Christ and behind him is Satan. So the very last phrase of verse eleven says, It spoke like a dragon. It looked like a lamb, but it spoke like a dragon. fourteen. By the signs that it was allowed to work in the presence of the beast, this first beast, the beast from the sea, it deceives those who dwell on the earth. And that's why I say It's a propagandist. And so Satan's emissaries are deceptive. Then Jesus warned of that warned of that in uh Matthew seven fifteen. He said Beware of false prophets who come to you in cheap clothing, but inwardly the ravenous wolves. The Presbyterian pastor in Charlotte Kevin DeYoung said this. He said we shouldn't expect false religion to appear immediately and obviously false. We should expect other religions to talk about love and reality We should expect there to be many similarities, some real and some perceived, between true Christianity and false Christianity. We should expect false Christian cults and perversions to speak highly of Jesus. We should expect them to talk about the cross. The beast may look like a lamb, but if you're discerning, you will hear You will hear that the voice is the voice of a dragon. And so the beast seems to certainly represent false prophets. I would another way of saying that is um propagandas A false religion, false uh false messaging. Let's talk about two uh notable characteristics. I know there's a lot in here. Tried to just uh hit a couple highlights uh because this is a challenging uh text, but there are some main ideas that I think are relatively clear. Two traits we see in the second part of the section, verse 11 and forward about this uh false prophet. And so the first thing, and I'll just repeat what I mentioned lightly, is that the beast from the earth is a propagandist and what he does is he deceives people not to follow himself but to follow the first beast Right, the government, the the overreaching government, I should say. You saw that in the first century? The priests uh were would press the people This to bow down and worship the emperor, to say that Caesar is Lord. Uh I read this recently, maybe you saw this in China, the Chinese Communist Party is rewriting the Bible. Why are they doing that? It's not because they have some newfound interest in a religion, but it's because they want to rewrite it So as to make it support, make the Bible support the tenets of their government. So one example in John 8, Jesus he uh Jesus forgave an adulterous woman. He told her, Go and sin no more. Then he said to the crowd who were grinding their teeth at this woman, he said to them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at you At her. Well, here's how the Communist Party in China revived that passage. They have Jesus saying, I too am a sinner, but if the law could only be executed by men without blemish, the law would be dead. And then Jesus himself stones the woman. And so in the party's um version Of this passage, there is no forgiveness. The state, the laws of the state must be followed without question. And so What is going on there? They're using the Bible as a propagandist to support the state. And we too see this in our culture and advertising in politics, in religion, oftentimes on social media, that the culture is supporting a certain vision of an overreach Here's a second trait, and then we're almost done. The beast from the earth will also seek the curtail to free To go down to verses sixteen and seventeen, we read that about this beast Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or on the left So you can't buy or sell, you can't engage in commerce, you can't go to you can't have a job, you can't go get an education in many of these countries. In other words, if you don't follow the state And um and so if you're loyal to Christ and you're and you don't have the mark of the beast, so to speak, you're gonna miss. many opportunities. I saw uh some prayer uh note from uh what's going on in Egypt. I guess what's always been going on in in in Egypt. Uh a Christian man there, he's a cardiologist And he said, uh there's blatant bias against Christians in universities, at hospitals. Muslims are always favored. Coptic Christians are failed deliberately And we cannot obtain residencies of our choice because we're Christians. And in our country, the same thing. Jason Rodling's brother is a he's a professor at the University of Middle East. Indiana. He's an anthropology professor and he I once he received tenure he could speak more boldly, but until he received tenure, uh now he's a department head, right? But before he uh g received tenure, he had to be careful about his Christian uh commitments, especially as it related to evolution in So I'm glad he's ahead now and uh having an influence and he's not the only one. And so that that's great. But that is the cost of being a Christian. Your life on this earth is short, it's worth it. But so whatever you do The mark of the beast. It'd be, I feel like I would I was committing uh having a fraudulent ministry If I didn't at least try to address this uh in in some uh uh feeble uh manner. So just uh verses sixteen and seventeen talks about the mark of the beast, right? Um Now I know some here hold to the school of interpretation uh called dispensationalism and different I guess authors in that school would say that it's a tattoo or right don't get tattoos. Don't get tattoos. It's the mark of the beast. Alright. Well I'll give you some information where you could argue against me now. Um so they would say it's a tattoo, it's a chip implant, uh, or that the number six six six uh will be branded on Satan's followers at the end of the time at the end of time so that they can be identified and if you don't have that mark six six six on your forehead or on your hand uh then you can't buy you can't sell I don't think that's the case, right? Revelation is full of imagery and symbolism. And if you go back to chapter seven, verse three Christians too were marked. Chapter 7, verse 3 says Christians were sealed on their forehead with the mark of Jesus Christ. But we don't have any mark. It was just saying, you know, the seal conveys ownership. It r it re represents whom uh we worship. God's saying I've marked you, I will protect you. Okay, you belong to me. And the mark of the beast, conversely, and remember everything Satan does in Revelation Is mimicking and it's a counterfeit of what Christ does. And so the mark of the beast is the counterfeit of this seal. And it's saying that you belong to and you worship the beast and the dragon, Satan. And the most scholarly commentary in the book of Revelation, and I say The most reliable commentary in the Book of Revelation is by a fellow named Greg Beal. And he said, the mark alludes to the state's political and economic stamp of approach. approval given only to those who go along with its religious demands. Okay? It's saying you're okay because you go along with the program And so you're one of us. Verse 18, it says the number of the beast is 666. You can read pages speculative Who this might be, but most of the reasonable uh commentators will say, we don't really know. But seven is the number of perfection And so six, they say, represents imperfection. It falls short of seven. That sounds very reasonable to me. Now, well isn't all that so interesting. Now maybe, maybe not, but remember what I said in the beginning? John gave this message that God gave him Because he had a pastoral purpose in conveying this to his church, okay? And he's saying, he's reminding us, we're up against Satan, we're up against his instruments, totalitarian governments, and propagandists. So what are we to do? And you have the beginning of an answer in verses 8 to 10. What are we to do? The first thing we're to do is we're to expect persecution. Look at verse 10. He says, if anyone is to be taken captive to captivity, he goes. If anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the sword he must be slain. That's just what's going to happen. We live in a fallen world, right? This world is not our home. The state will conquer Christians. The state does conquer Christians. Beginning of verse 7 It says the beast was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And so Christians down through history have been conquered and are being conquered, right? satellite media ministry that goes into the Middle East, including Afghanistan. They're getting calls from and uh texts from believers in Afghanistan saying that Christians in Afghanistan are being executed immediately if they do not renounce their faith in Jesus Christ. The President of Sat Seven said But wrote we're hearing from reliable sources that the Taliban demand people's phones and if they are if they find a downloaded Bible on your device, they'll kill you immediately. So we grieve for these Christians. But we shouldn't be surprised. This is life in a fallen world. Second thing we're told is to press on. Verse 10, the second part, right there in the bottom John says, here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints. So we want to endure. And to do that, we need to be grounded this is important for our young people to use your time wisely. It's important for all of us to use our time wisely. You know, where's our allegiance and how's that show? how I spend my time. The third thing, what are we to do? I said expect persecution, press on But also thirdly remember remember that you're secure and Jesus Christ. You belong to God. Look at the second part of verse 8. Before the foundation of the world God has written your name in the book of life of the lamb that was slain. And so before The world began. God had set his love on his people, and he said, You are secure no matter what happens. Nothing will separate you from the love of Christ. And so we need to lift up our chins and we need to be of good cheer. We don't, we don't Discount the miseries we see around us, but we should also be of good cheer, because Jesus Christ, He conquered death. He's for us. He'll accomplish his purposes in history through his people. He'll accomplish his purposes through us. Let's bow our heads.