So let's turn on our Bibles to Romans chapter 10. So it's good to have some new folks with us. We're marching through Paul's letter to the Romans in chapter ten, verses one to thirteen, uh, is something of a recap of themes that have come up in the first eight chapters and um After doing chapter 9 last week, I thought that was a killer passage. Chapter 10, this should be a lot easier. So Tuesday morning I read it. And I'm reading the first thirteen verses, and I had to read it several times, my eyes started crossing and going behind my head because I see all these nuggets But I could not get my arms around what is the theme, what is the thread, what is a melodic line that goes through this text. And then, you know, when you if you're trying to figure out the Bible, if you just keep reading it, it comes together. Or I should say a passage, it comes together. And so before we read it, let me just try to orient you a little bit. And say that this passage is about two conceptions of how a sinner becomes righteous before God. How can I, a sinner, stand in the presence of a holy God? And so compares these two conceptions of righteousness. One comes from God, it's received by faith. That's the gospel. God gives us the righteousness of Christ when we believe on Him, that He's God and He died for our sin. The other conception comes is that we become righteous by our efforts to obey God's commands, in other words, to follow his law. Okay? So that's what this is about. Two ways to become righteous, at least theoretically. In practice There's only one way for sinners to become to come into a right standing with God. So let's read. So Paul, remember, he's speaking about his grief over so many of his fellow Jews who did not trust in Christ, and he says Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God. but not according to knowledge, for being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from God and seeking to establish their own They did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says, Do not say in your heart, Who will ascend to heaven, that is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss That is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is the Lord, And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified. and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says, Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. The same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. So it's interesting the church, this isn't we don't follow holy days, but historically this is called the Reformation Sunday, right? We we remember the beginning of the Prozate Reformation in the uh early fifteen hundreds, October thirty-first, uh, fifteen seventeen, Martin Luther nailed his um his thesis of uh of objections to Roman Catholic practices on the door of the Wittenberg uh church. And one of the big questions That the prosperous reformers dealt with was the question: how is a man made right with a holy God, right? Uh if it's true that there is a God, and we believe that, and if what the Bible says about him is true, that he's a holy God, Then this is the question that each of us must confront. How is it that I'm going to stand in his presence one day? And as I mentioned before I read the passage in this text, Paul says that there are two competing conceptions. about how we come into a right relationship with God. The first conception is that you have to keep the law, the Old Testament commandments, and God grades on the curve. The second conception is the way of faith. And that is to recognize that Jesus kept all those commands perfectly in our place. He died on the cross to take the penalty that we deserved for our failure to uh keep those commands And so when we trust in him, when we have faith in him, God imputes or credits to us The righteousness of Jesus Christ. Okay? So that's the way of faith as compared to Paul's concern, his fellow Jews who thought That by their attempts to keep the Old Testament commands, they could win God's favor. And so there's these two conceptions. You can try to establish your own righteousness, or you can look to Jesus Christ for the righteousness that He gives to you and that you receive. by faith. Okay? So let's just go back again. Look at verse 3. This sort of summarizes it. He talks about his um his Jewish kinsmen. He says Being ignorant of the righteousness that comes from God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. Now I want to point out two things that Paul says about not only the Jews, but of anyone, of any religion. Or even people who go to churches, Christian churches, and they think that they can earn God's favor by the religion, by their moral striving. Paul says, seeking to establish your own righteousness is a display of zeal. without knowledge. And Paul doesn't deny that his fellow Jews were zealous, but he says here that their zeal is rooted in ignorance. They didn't recognize that Jesus is the Messiah that their scriptures, the Christian Old Testament, pointed to And they thought that the law was given as a way, verse 3, for them to establish their own righteous credentials before God. And if anybody understood this problem, it was Paul, right? Because he had been down this road before his conversion He was the most zealous of Jews, and he thought that he could be saved by his attempts to obey God's law. And that's why he said in Galatians 1:14 As a Jew, I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of the fathers. So Paul understood religious zeal. Well, you look at the Mormons, you look at the Jehovah's Witnesses. They come to your door, they're out all the time knocking on doors. Hey, they're zealous, or some Roman Catholics attend Mass every morning. They're zealous too. And these people put us to shame as far as religious zeal is concerned. But zeal that is devoid of knowledge is not going to get you anywhere And so this is what we, you know, Romans have, I've been harping on this a long time because this is the constant theme in Paul's letter to the Christians in Rome. And he says to them, and he says to us, if you're s if you seek to commend yourself to God based on your moral striving, based on your trying to be a good person or to be a religious person then you are ignorant of some very basic facts. And how many of us would say, yeah Before I understood the gospel, that's exactly how I operated. That's how I operated, and I know there are some here, they they you thought the same thing. But in that, we were ignorant of some basic truths. We were ignorant, number one Of the character of God, right? He is a holy God. It says in the Bible, in him there is no darkness. God is light. We're ignorant of the gravity of our sin. We're ignorant of the futility of seeking salvation. By self-effort. You know, James chapter 2, verse 10. James says, whoever keeps the whole law, in other words, whoever keeps all the commands in the Old Testament And yet breaks one just one of them is guilty in God's eyes of breaking all those commands. Isaiah 64, verse 6. Isaiah says, All our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. And yet there are in churches all around people who have a zeal for God and they think that by the religious exercises, by their devotion, they can put themselves in a favorable position before a holy God. Hey, it's Reformation Sunday. How about a Martin Luther story? I've told this before, but let me get out of my system, okay? So Why'd he become a monk? Why did he enter a monastery? He was going to be a lawyer. He's going to have a respectable profession. But then, you know, when he was struck by lightning, scared to death He was reminded, I'm going to die one day, and I'm going to go to hell. And so what did he do? He said, I'm going to become a monk. And uh he said, if ever there was a monk um that could get to heaven by his monkery, it was I, right? Because he did all these things, he prayed He went to confession for hours at a time. Uh he he um he um punished his body. He fasted. I remember I mentioned months ago he would sleep without blankets during the cold German winters. He thought, yeah, maybe I can make up for some of my sin. However, he understood the scripture. He understood what the Bible teaches about the holiness of God. And so all his religious exercises could not um ease his guilty conscience. In fact It only served to intensify his sense of his sinfulness before God. Because he realized unlike most religious people in our day, he realized that His sin was not measured relative to other people, but his sin was measured by God's perfect standard. And so that's why in despair He just said, this word is too high and too hard for me that I should fulfill it. But then, of course, Luther in his study of Romans chapter 1, he understood the gospel. And we see the gospel in verse 4 also, chapter 10, verse 4. Paul writes, Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who does what? Not everyone who works, everyone who believes, right? He fulfilled it by his perfect obedience, he fulfilled it by bearing the penalty that we deserve for our sin. And again in verse four, to everyone who believes, to everyone who trusts that He did that fulfillment on their behalf. Then we receive forgiveness and we're clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's pretty important. Well you've heard that again and again and again in this pulpit, and I'm sort of getting tired of it myself, so I can't imagine what it's doing to you. But nonetheless, I mean There are people who've been in church all their lives. They've never heard this most basic of biblical themes. And when I when I tell somebody I'm a pastor, and I'd say to young guys, if you're thinking about a pastor, here's something you need to consider. People don't treat you as a normal human being if you meet a stranger who's on church. Church people do, most of them. So sometimes I'll tell people I'm a pastor in a perfectly decent conversation comes to a very awkward pause. And then some people I don't know why they do this, but they'll start reciting all the good things they do. And I'm like, what do you want me to do? Make some kind of pronouncement over you? But it is it's really awkward. And I'm like, no, I'm pretty normal myself. Um well somewhat normal. And um but this is what uh they think that there's this idea and I think it's just a uh a basic characteristic of our sinful nature that we have this sense that we must establish our own righteousness before God. Well it's a pastor, right? He's some this guy, I guess he's God's representative And so that's why they do that. But we see here in this text that if you're seeking to establish your own righteous record by your moral striving, by your religious exercises, that Paul is saying right here, you're on a fool's errand. John Calvin said the first step to us the first step to obtaining the righteousness of God is to renounce our own righteousness. That's what you have to understand We don't bring anything to the table. We don't contribute anything to our salvation except the sin that makes the work of Jesus Christ on the cross necessary. And so number one A, attempting to establish our own righteousness, exhibits zeal without knowledge, and then also Attempting to establish your own righteousness is impossible. And even Moses in the Old Testament taught That you cannot be saved by keeping the Ten Commandments. You cannot be saved by keeping the law. And so in verse 5, Paul quotes Moses. He quotes Leviticus 18 Verse 5. He writes, for Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law. That is based on the law. that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. So Moses said in Leviticus This is easy for me to say. Leviticus. I missed that day in school. Leviticus 18, verse 5. He said, if you keep all the commandments, you're going to live. Well, he knew that neither he nor any of the people of Israel could keep any of those commandments perfectly. And so then how were people saved in the Old Testament? And the answer is the same way you're saved in the New Testament, he's the same God. He's provided the same way of salvation, and that is by faith. Well, wait a minute. In the New Testament, we know that's faith in Christ. How about in the Old Testament? It's faith in God's promise that He would save you. And it's only as the Old Testament unfolded that there bec it comes into focus that God was going to send a Savior Then Jesus shows up on the scene, and we recognize that He is that Savior. So it becomes a defined focus in the New Testament. But even Abraham, the first of the Hebrews, was saved by faith. Genesis 15, verse 6 How was Abraham saved? How was Abraham counted as righteous? It says, Abraham believed the Lord. And he and he God counted it to him as righteousness. It said, because of Abraham's righteousness. Trusting God's promise, God reckoned Abraham as a righteous man. Which might lead to the question In the Old Testament, if people could not earn their salvation by their law keeping Then what was the purpose of all those commands? What was the purpose of the Ten Commandments? And the answer is the law was a tutor, a tutor To lead them to Jesus Christ. That's what Paul says in Galatians 3, verse 24. He says the law was put in charge to lead us to Christ. that we might be justified by faith, right? It shows us our sin. Hey, all our efforts, all the Israelites' efforts, they always failed, right? And so they needed a Savior. That's what we're taught over and over throughout the Old Testament. And so the gospels were saved by God's grace alone. Through faith alone, not by what we do, but through faith alone in Jesus Christ alone. So there you have it. Two ways to achieve a right standing before God One way you can seek to establish your own righteousness. The other is you can trust in the righteousness that God gives us in Jesus Christ. Okay? So point two. How do you receive so here's the second way and the true way. We receive the righteousness that God gives. And he says, first of all, this is easily accessible. It's not hidden. It's not far off. It's right here before us in the message of the gospel. Look at verses 6 to 8. You read that the first time, it's confusing. But actually, we get sorted out. Verses 6 to 8. Quoting from Deuteronomy 30, verses 12 to 14, and he quotes it loosely, he says. But the righteousness based on faith says, do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven? That is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss That is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. Then he explains what the word is. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. And so he quotes Moses and he says, listen. God's word to the people of Israel in Romans, God's word to us today, is not something distant and hidden. But rather, it's right at our fingertips. And that certainly is true of the gospel of Jesus Christ, right? Especially in America. We have Bibles all around us. If you're really interested in knowing what the gospel is or what the Bible teaches, you just open it. I've never read the Bible. I don't understand it. Where do I start? Well, you start with the New Testament and just read it And it's not real clear at the beginning, but if you keep at it, it becomes clear, hey, this book is not a book about how to become a good person. This book is about Jesus Christ, God sending him to save us from our sin. So it's accessible, right? There are a lot of churches that still teach the Bible. You hear it there. You meet Christian friends. You can find it on the internet. You hear it on the radio. This word is not Hidden. It's not distant. You don't have to go on some great pilgrimage to find out the truth from God. You don't have to go climb a mountain and talk to the wise man on top. But it is right here, okay? So the righteousness of Christ is made known in the gospel. It's accessible. And you're say if you're saying, yeah, I hear this, but I'm not sure it's true, well then what do you do? You you start, you open the Bible and you read it. And as I've said on other occasions, the Bible does have a self a self-authenticating quality to it, right? And you read it, you come to church, you sit under the preaching of the word, you might go to a Sunday school class or a Bible study. And by God's grace, by the work of the Holy Spirit, He moves you to see: hey, this is true. This has the ring of truth. And then the day comes when you're saying, you know what? I believe this stuff. What's going on here? It's God's word. It has it's powerful, and it does move us from unbelief to belief. It's very persuasive. And so if you're not a Christian or you're a young person, you say, hey, you know what, I go to church because my parents bring me to church, you need to own this book for yourself and you need to begin to read it And God will, I believe, by the Holy Spirit, persuade your heart. So that's what the first thing he says under Roman numeral 2. The righteousness of Christ is made known in the gospel message. It's not far off. It's not hidden. Okay? The second thing he says Is the righteousness of God is received, and we've read this many times in this passage, it's received by believing in Jesus Christ. You don't have to clean yourself up There are people who say, you know, I think I'm going to become a Christian once I get my life in order. I think I'm going to go to church once I get my life in order. That's getting ahead of your skis, right? That's putting the cart before the horse. That's not how it works, but rather Or somebody said God catches his fish before he cleans them, and so all you have to do is believe wherever you are in your life, and then God begins the process of reorienting your life. All you have to do is believe, all you have to do is trust. So I said in the beginning there are some really nice nuggets in this passage, and probably the biggest nugget is verses 9 and 10. Where Paul writes, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. Okay? So to recognize that Jesus is Lord Isn't merely saying that he's your master, but it's saying that you recognize that he is God. One of the commentators said, To say that Jesus is Lord is to acknowledge that Jesus shares the name, the nature, the holiness the authority, power, majesty, and eternity of the one and only God And because of the fact that he is the Lord, he does have a claim on our lives. And secondly, you recognize that God raised him from the dead, right? You recognize that Christianity isn't just some philosophy of life. It's not just a collection of ethical principles, but you recognize the supernatural character of the Christian faith. And it's bizarre, but there are many mainline Protestant preachers who don't believe that Jesus physically rose from the grave. And so it's good that Paul put this in. They say, well, you know, on Easter, if you don't believe the Bible, Easter Sunday is a bit of a stretch, right? But hey, I'm a minister, I've got to make a living, I gotta preach on the resurrection somehow So these guys that get into the pulpit and they say, Yeah, uh Jesus rose from the grave. Well, that wasn't physical, but he rose in the hearts of those who loved him and who believed in him. It's like, you know, what what's going on here? It sounds really spiritual, but it's just a bunch of bunch a bunch of uh syrup that has has no uh connection to reality. No. Paul's saying you recognize the supernatural character of the Christian faith. Of course if you believe in there's a God I mean everything else is downhill from there you would think, right? Okay. There's a God. He he can make people rise from the grave. And um that's what we believe. And so it's this verses 9 and 10 is a wonderful statement. I was listening to a past uh a sermon on this yesterday, and um And uh the the preacher told a story about Queen Victoria who was a Queen of England for like sixty-three years in the eighteen hundreds. And in fact, we have some English people here. You could correct me later. But anyway. So she attended a service at St. Paul's Cathedral, and she was really struck by the sermon And so she went to her chaplain and she asked him the question, can one be absolutely sure in this life of eternal safety? Can one be absolutely sure in this life of eternal safety? In other words, that yeah, I can know for sure that I'm going to heaven And this incident, this little conversation, was published in the court news. And somebody read it and they passed it on to a little-known evangelist, a guy named John Townsend. And um oh b oh I forgot the key the key to the story. Um I just heard it yesterday. So her so she asked the chaplain, can I be s sure I'm saved? And the chaplain said, nobody can be absolutely sure. And so that was unsettling. So anyway, that little encounter was published in the court news. And it got around to this uh little known evangelist, a guy by the name of John Townsend. And um He read that and he thought, no, she was giving bad advice. So he got his nerve up and he wrote her a letter. To Her Gracious Majesty, our beloved Queen Victoria, from one of her most humble subjects With trembling hands, but heart filled with love, and because I know that we can be absolutely sure now for our eternal life In the home that Jesus went to prepare, may I ask your gracious majesty to read the following passage of Scripture. Then he put down, read John 3. 16. And then he said, read Romans chapter 10, verses 9 and 10. And uh she read those texts. Then a couple weeks later, John Townsend got this letter from the Queen, and here's what it said. To John Townsend, I've carefully read the portions of scripture referred to. I believe in the finished work of Christ for me, entrust by God's grace to meet you in that home of which He said, I go to prepare a place for you. She signed it of Victoria. And so that's what verses 9 and 10 is saying. You can know If you're trusting in Jesus Christ that all will be right between you and the holy God of the universe. And just to wrap it up, in verses 12 to 13, Paul says, This righteousness is available to all who call on Jesus Christ. And in the church in Rome, there are both Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians. There were gentle Christians. No. No, there were Gentile Christians and Jewish Christians, okay? And he says it doesn't matter what your background, the Jews had some advantage, right? They were God's chosen people. They had the law, they had the scriptures, they had the traditions, they they had all this teaching preparing them for Christ Gentiles, they didn't have that background, but it's okay. The important thing Is that if you look to Christ and trust in him, you'll be saved. And so that's why in verse 12 Paul says, For there's no distinction between Jew and Greek, Gentile. The same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. Okay? So there's no distinction. Just like it said back in chapter 3, verse 22 and 23, we've all sinned, whether Jew or Gentile, we've all sinned and fall short of the glory of God Here Paul turns it around and he says, but we're equally candidates for salvation. If we trust in Jesus Christ. And then in verse 13, he quotes from the Old Testament book of Joel. And he writes, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And so this message is almost embarrassingly simple, right? How does one become sa how are you saved? And that's that's a Bible word. Some people say that's not sophisticated. It's saved. It sounds like the sawdust trail. That's the language of Scripture. Christ came to rescue us from our sin, from ourself, from Satan, from death. How are you saved? And it's real simple. It is just by trusting in Jesus Christ. And so Martin Luther Referred to the righteousness that Jesus gives to us as an alien righteousness. In other words, it's a righteousness that is outside of us. But that God gives to us not when we work for it, but when we recognize our sin, our need of a Savior, and we say, I must be clothed in Christ's righteousness. That is the gospel. So we're going to sing a song. It's 520. And the title is Jesus, Thy Blood and Righteousness. And just a couple pairs. Don't stand up yet. Sit down. Sit down. Jesus, thy blood, I appreciate your zeal. Uh albeit misplaced. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are my glorious dress. That's what makes me beautiful. Then he says, amidst flaming worlds, and these arrayed, with joy I lift up my head. No more shame I can lift up my head, regardless of what I've done. Then he looks to the day that he'll stand before Christ for judgment. He says, Bold shall I stand in thy great day. For who ought to my charge shall lay? Then he says, fully absolved of all my sin Through these I am from sin and fear and guilt and shame. I need have no more guilt, I need not have any more shame, regardless of the things I've done. Because I'm clothed in the righteousness of Christ. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for the clarity of the gospel. Thank you that you make us fit. And for those who are not sure, I do pray that they'll seek these things out. For those who are trusting in themselves, I pray they'll see that their zeal is devoid of knowledge. Help them, Lord, to look to Christ as the one who makes them fit I pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.