But I'll ask you to please to turn in your Bible to Romans chapter six. Romans chapter six. It's a challenging passage. I was saying to Becky driving the church this morning. That if I had to pick a new passage every week and I happened to pick Romans 6, after spending a day on it, I would have just said forget it. uh and moved trying to find something else. But I I was locked into it because I preached through books of the Bible. And so it's good. What doesn't fill you make you stronger And um I learned something, I think, and I hope I can convey it. It is I think it's one of the most difficult passages in the Bible. Uh hopefully it's the most difficult passage in Romans. How's that to whet your appetites? Like, alright, that wasn't a really wise approach, right? I'm just telling you what's going through my mind. But I I I think it's a huge it's hugely relevant uh to the Christian life. And so I do want you to stick your nose into it and and learn from it. If you're new to the Bible, they're not the all the Bible's not this challenging, but this this is a useful passage So last week we looked at verses 12 to 21 of chapter 5, where Paul says, there are two men that represent all humanity. The first Adam and the second Adam. Everybody's born under the first Adam. He was a sinner. We suffer the consequences of a sin. But Jesus Christ is presented in the Bible as the new man, the second Adam, and whoever takes hold of him by faith receives forgiveness and new life in Jesus Christ. And this is a remarkable demonstration of God's grace because we didn't deserve the second chance, but God was gracious toward us. And in chapter five Verse 20, Paul says, where sin increased, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. Well, that's a statement that leads to what Paul has to say in the first 14 verses of chapter 6 And so like a very uh astute um lawyer, uh he deals with objections that can come And the objection he deals with is the objection that some will raise to this idea that God's grace abounds all the more, the more we sin. And so in chapter 6, he asks the question: what shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried with him therefore by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ Jesus was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he tied to sin, once for all, but the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey their passions, but present your members to sin as instruments Excuse me, do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. And so, just a little orientation in chapters three to five, uh Paul has proclaimed uh quite profusely The good news of the gospel and this good news is that salvation is a free gift You can't earn it by what you do. You don't deserve it. You're saved by God's unmerited favor. You're saved by God's grace alone, through having faith alone in Jesus Christ alone. And he died so that the vilest person through faith and repentance can find true forgiveness and will inherit eternal life And so that's why, when we got to chapter 5, verse 20, Paul marveled at the abundance of God's grace. He said again, where sin increased, grace increased. all the more. That's great news. It's wonderful news. But some will object. And this is uh we can understand this somewhat. Some will object uh that if we teach that A person is saved by God's grace alone and not by what they do, then how are we going to keep people in line? That's the concern that some have and uh uh people down through the ages or religious people down through the ages have had. And there are certainly are professing Christians, professing Christians, who conclude that since we're saved by God's grace, since salvation is a free gift, Then that gives us license to sin. I remember years ago there was a seminary student. He used to sleep with his girlfriend. And my friend confronted him, and the guy said, Hey, we're not under law, we're under grace. And this was a guy, he was in a biblical, biblically grounded seminary. He was not just some guy who religious nut. But he was he was in the Bible, and that's how he justified uh his sexual immorality. The New Testament letter of Jude, verse four, recognizes that there are some, quote, who pervert the grace of God into sensuality And so there will be people who say, okay, I know God forgives me, I don't have to do anything to earn my salvation. So I'm going to take that free gift, and then I'm going to live however I wish. Now, most of us, probably all of us, aren't that brazen. However, probably all of us certainly Uh me. We um we can excuse our we ex at times excuse certain sins Because, well, God will forgive me. And so I'm just, you know, I'll sin and then I'll ask for forgiveness. And that's a problem too. And that's the same problem that Paul's concerned about here. And so if it's true, as Paul said in chapter 5, verse 20, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, then the logic is, why not sin more? Because if I sin more, That'll give God another opportunity to demonstrate the lavishness of his grace. You see the problem here This is the issue that Paul's addressing in chapter 6. And so Paul's critics in the church were saying, listen If you teach people that you're saved by God's mercy, by his grace, and there's nothing that you have to do to hold on to your salvation by how you live. Then that's going to lead to lawlessness. They use the word antinomianism, right? Anti, against, and then the The Greek word for law is nomos, so against God's law. So the Pulse critics were calling him an antinomian. You see that back in chapter 3, verse 6 Where Paul addresses this, he says, Why not do evil that good may come, as some people slanderously charge us with saying? And so there are people in the church in Rome who are saying that because you're saved by grace or Paul's message that you're saved by grace, then that's going to give everybody a license, all the people in the church license uh toward uh moral laxity. So that's what Paul's answering in chapter six, verses one and two. He answers this charge that um salvation by grace is going to lead to moral anarchy. He says What shall we say then? Are we to continue to sin that grace may abound? And he says, by no means. That's a ridiculous conclusion to come to And in addressing this concern, he explains one of the most fundamental principles for growing in holiness. Okay? So this is why I want you to stay with me. Well, it's the Word of God, but I want you to stay with me also, because there is a very important principle for Christian sanctification in this passage. But we first have to deal with some of it. There are many phrases I'm going to try to just touch on and give some explanation, provide a little clarity. But there's really there's just one big lesson when we get to the end of the passage, okay? And so the question I have on your outline Will not the teaching that salvation is by grace and not works lead to moral laxity? And the answer is no, because to uh for a Christian to be moral morally lax uh would contradict The teaching of our new identity in Jesus Christ. It would contradict what the Bible teaches about the Christian's union, his spiritual union with Jesus Christ, okay? And so a Christian is not s merely somebody who's been forgiven by God. But rather, a Christian is someone who has been regenerated by the Holy Spirit And as such, has come into a vital living relationship with Jesus Christ And if you want to have a heading or a statement to describe what does it mean to be a Christian? One of the most fundamental ways to describe it is that a Christian is someone who is in union with Jesus Christ. And this is why in the New Testament letters you'll find this phrase in Christ repeated dozens of times. We see it in this passage here. Let me just survey it, okay? Statements about our being united to Jesus Christ. Look at verse 3. We were baptized into Christ Jesus. We were baptized into his death, verse 4. We were buried with him, verse 5. Paul says, if you have been united with him in a death like his We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection, with a resurrection like his. So there's this idea that we are connected spiritually uh to Jesus Christ, not only in our d in his death not only in his resurrection. Verse 6, we were connected to him when he was crucified in a sense. Verse 6, our old self. That refers to our former self, who you were before God saved you. Our old self was crucified with him. Verse 8, the same thing again. Now we have died with Christ. The end of verse 8. We believe that we will also live with him. Jesus spoke in similar terms in John 15 verse 5, where he said to his followers, I'm the vine, you're the branches. So the idea is that a Christian is a branch who has been grafted into Jesus Christ. Now let's look more closely at a few of these verses here. Verses 3 and 4, for example, Paul says to these Christians, Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father We too might walk in newness of life. Okay? And so because the Holy Spirit has bound you, Christian, to Jesus Christ When Jesus died, there's a sense in which your former self died with him. And as Jesus was raised from the grave to new life You have new life in Jesus Christ. When Jesus died and was buried That was the end of his life for at least for a moment, but that was also the end of your life, or I should say that was the end of his life under the law Then he was raised. So for the Christian, by your union with Christ, you died with him, you were buried with him, and you've been raised to new life. And that's what baptism symbolizes of that reality. Now in verse two, uh Paul speaks about uh we who died to sin. Here's a question. And this is why there's just so much in this passage. The question here is, what does that mean to say that we've died to sin? Has anybody here sinned since you became a Christian? And we say, like, yeah, I uh uh what's the word? Uh without stop, right, without ceasing, we're all we're always sinning. Um so Paul's saying, uh I should say he's not saying That to claim that we've died to sin is not to say that we're no longer tempted or that we would ever get to a place or to a stage in this life. Where we will no longer sin. And in fact, in chapter 7, Paul himself says, or see chapter 7, Paul talks about how he's constantly struggling with his own sin. So what's he saying? He's saying that because we're united to Christ, we're no longer under the dominion of sin. We're no longer enslaved to sin. It's saying that sin has lost its sway over us. And now for the first time we can make some progress in holiness. Okay? So even um even though we still struggle with sin If you're a Christian, you're a new person. And that's the point he's making in chapters 5 and 6. Before you became a Christian, you were in Adam, okay? You were fallen And now you are in Jesus Christ. It's interesting in verse 2. I was reading a comment on verse 2 by Sinclair Ferguson. In verse 2, which speaks of we who die to sin, Ferguson said this phrase carries the nuance of belonging to a certain class. And so in other words He's saying, Christians belong to a category of people who have died to sin. And so then for a Christian to care to carelessly continue in sin would contradict our new identity. John Stott said So when he says about the fact that we've died to sin, he's saying, John Stock commented, Paul's not declaring our inability to sin But rather the moral incongruity of it is not is no longer fitting because we are now in Christ, right? We are in this new category. And we are no longer enslaved to sin. And so when you become a Christian, here's what I'm saying. And I'm saying the same thing over and over, I know, uh, but it makes me feel good. I like the sound of my voice. No. No, I'm just trying to say the same thing from different angles. When you become a Christian, God not only makes a legal declaration about you that you're forgiven and that you're right with Him. But you are now a new person because spiritually you've come into union with Jesus Christ. This is the work of the Holy Spirit. You are a new person. And if you're Christian, there's going to be a change. There cannot but be a change. If there's no change, that's not a good sign. That might mean that you just have you're just giving mental assent to the truths of the gospel There should be some measure of change, right? And I'm not saying you walk out and you're just this completely holy person, but Your values are different. The things that you once valued, it's not that important anymore. It's not y y you see how other things are important. Your priorities begin to uh shift. Your aspirations. You now desire to walk in an upright manner, right? We stumble regularly, but there's this desire. Now when we stumble, there's this sense of remorse and repentance. Well that's a sign that you're in union with Jesus Christ. You've been given the Holy Spirit. You want to know God, right? I think it's 1 John 4. 6. John said Whoever knows God listens to us, listens to his word. We want to know this book. Some of it's quite difficult. But we know it's from God. And so we we're trying to figure it out Some people the change is very dramatic. I remember I said to my wife when she told me, well she was converted at twenty-three, I was converted before that. But I said if I had met you when you were twenty-two, I would have no interest in you, and she would have no interest in me because of her uh uh she just had was completely different. But there was there was this dramatic change and that happens in some people. Other people is others of us is just more gradual, but for some people there's this this huge shift and that's evidence that this person is a new person in Jesus Christ. And so that's what Paul said in chapter 6 verse 1. Are we to continue in sin that grace might abound? He says, of course not. By no means. It's a it's uh unfathomable. How could how can we who died to sin still live in it? It would contradict Our new standing of being justified. Look at verse 6. And I'm just going to breeze through this. I know there's a lot in this whole section. He says, We know that our old self, our former self, before we became Christians, we know that our old self was crucified with him In order that the body of sin, and I believe that's talking about our physical bodies, not just some mass of sin, as some say, but but so that the body of sin might be brought to nothing so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. We would no longer be under its controlling power. Look at verse 7. The one who has died has been set free from sin, not from its presence, not from its influence. We still sin but from its control. And so that's why in the first hymn we sang, uh Wesley wrote when he was converted, My chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, I went forth, and followed thee. Now I have some chance I can make progress following Jesus Christ. And so that answers the question then of why somebody who's a Christian will not continue to sin. Because we are different people. We are united to Jesus Christ. You cannot but change. Yes? We still struggle with sin and temptation. We still stumble, but we're not the people we once were. There is some progress taking place. Let's go on to the second question. This relates to how does God change a person? How does God change a Christian? How does God grow us in holiness? And the answer given in this text is that, and this sounds a little bit um vague, but I'm going to try to put feed on it, the answer Paul says, is you must live out your new identity in Jesus Christ. Now you may not have noticed this But you read through the first six and a half chapters of the book of Romans. Paul does not issue a single command. He did not make a single exhortation. Okay? It's only when you get to verse 11 of chapter 6. That Paul tells the Christians at Rome to do something. Okay? And what's even more notable Is that this something that Paul tells them us to do has nothing to do with our actions? It has nothing to do with our speech. It has to do with our minds. He tells us to adopt a new way of thinking. And so the lesson here that we're going to see is that sanctification begins with the mind, with our understanding. In fact, Romans 12, 2, Paul said what? Be transformed by the renewal of your mind. And that's exactly what he does in verse 11. He tells the Christians, he tells the Christians to Rome, he tells us You must view yourself in a new light. So look at verse 11. After all that heady theology, in verse 11, Paul says So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. In other words, he's saying Live in a manner that is consistent with your new identity. Jesus died to sin. Look verse 10, right? He said the death he died, he died to sin. So we also, verse eleven, must consider ourselves dead to sin. Okay? And so that chapter, if you're a Christian That chapter in your life in which you were an unbeliever is now closed. Your former self has been buried with Jesus Christ, and the grave has been sealed. And now you're a new person. So Paul's saying you need to live as such. And so this is the kind of thing that we need to talk to ourselves about. So Saint Saint Augustine, right, the great fifth century theologian. And many of you are acquainted with his the story of his conversion. Lived a very sexually promiscuous, uh self-indulgent life for many years. For several years he had a mistress Then I guess she was gone and then sometime later he came to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And after he came to this faith in Christ, he's walking on the street, and he bumped into his former mistress, and she called out to him, Aurelio, Aurelio! He kept walking. He ignored her calls. She ran up to him. She grabbed him. Aurelia, what's the matter? It is I. Then Augustine said, Yes, but it is not I. And so he's saying, I'm a different person now And Jesus Christ, and my former self is dead. And that's exactly what Paul's saying to us in verse 11. He's saying, consider yourselves dead to sin. And a lie to God in Christ Jesus. Remember who you are. You gotta talk to yourself, right, sometimes. Don't do it out loud. People think you're crazy, but it's good to have a little uh Just talk to yourself, right? You're contemplating certain things, and you have to say, well, like verse 2, how can we who die to sin still live in it? Verse 12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey its passion to obey their passions, right? You're tempted sexually. What do you do? Well, there's this great pull, but you talk to yourself, I'm a new person in Christ. I need to flee. I need to I need to get out of the situation. Uh talk to yourself about your your materialistic impulses, right? Right? Hey, hello conversation. My home's in heaven. I'm not going to go along with the rest of the culture. I'm going to be different. I don't have to have everything my neighbor has, right? This world's not my home. Gossip, right? I I'm a Christian now. I don't I'm I don't I don't need to be slicing and dicing people as I once did. I need to go to that person. I need to be more gracious uh toward others. God called me to be renewed, to have my mind renewed. I need to turn off that TV show if it gets foul. I need to avoid uh certain sites on the internet. And as for me and my house, remember Joshua, was it Joshua 24? As for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord, right? This is a Sabbath day. It's not the Sabbath hours. The Sabbath day the whole day belongs to the Lord. I'm going to be different. Everybody else are going out to restaurants. They're going shopping. They're involved in organized sports Is there anything that makes us different as Christians? And we say, yeah, I'm going to make this day the market day of the soul. I'm going to be with God's people. I'm going to fellowship. I'm going to worship. I'm going to use the day differently. I just want it to be different. I want to feed my soul. I want to encourage others. I want to be with my family I want to focus this one day on the things of God. And so we have this, you know, we have this constant conversation with ourselves, right? I'm in Christ. My former self is gone. I've been raised up with Jesus Christ. I was reading about King George V, the King of the United Kingdom in the early 1900s And um when his son Edward would do something wrong, his father would admonish him My dear boy, you must always remember who you are. That's what Paul's saying in this passage. Listen. You're in Christ. You're united to Jesus Christ. My dear boy, my dear daughter, you must remember who you are. You are a new creation in Jesus Christ. And so he's saying, remember who you are in Christ. Live accordingly. Have this constant conversation. with yourself. And so I'm going to conclude just by reading verse 13, where Paul said, Do not present your members to sin. as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, we do thank you that you have changed us by your Spirit. You have joined us to Jesus Christ in this new life. Help us to walk in a manner that's pleasing to you Help us to turn from our sinful habits. Help us to fight the good fight. the struggle against sin. And we pray, Lord, by your Spirit, you'd help us to make some progress and holiness. And we thank you, Lord, that we know that in Christ we're forgiven, but we do pray, Lord, for our continued sanctification for those who aren't Christians I asked for them that they would see that life is found in Jesus Christ and all other efforts apart from Christ. are doomed to failure and bring about great unhappiness and tremendous misery. And so we pray, Lord, that they would look to you as the one who died, that they might be forgiven. And they might receive forgiveness and your favor. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.