Morning. So good just so good to be with you, um, to see you again. Uh I was just meeting some folks who are newer to the church. But many of you who have been here for years have seen me before. I've seen you before. I love the opportunity to come and preach. Peter Kemene is uh one of the really great pastors I've known in my life and one of my great friends actually for almost well at least twenty-five years at this point. It's very beautiful. I called him in January and I asked him if it would be possible for me to come and preach this message to your church. And the reason is because this is a new message and it's one that's very much on my heart. It's going to be or scheduled to be published, published. An article is scheduled to be published. This sermon is based on that article, and I wanted to see how a congregation would respond to it And so um I feel like I'm a little bit of a guinea pig up here and and so are you. We're all in a laboratory together and it's going to be okay. I'd like to open us up with a word of prayer, make a couple of comments, and then go into the reading of Scripture. Father in heaven, we do love you, and I thank you for your mercy and your goodness to us in Jesus Christ. We thank you that we know you do love us because of the way Jesus loved those around him. We know that your love is not a a cold love, a hard love, a distant love. It's a welcoming love, warm and compassionate love, and deeply personal through your Holy Spirit in our own hearts and in our own lives, and this is very real. And we relish your love. We relish your love. We get to know what it means when the Bible says for God's so loved. I ask you now that you make the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my Redeemer. Amen. Well, this is a uh sanctative human life sermon. And I I decided to do something recently that I'd never done before. I wanted to think about how closely linked We Americans are to abortion. And uh so to do that, I uh went on Google's uh Gemini AI program. And uh I asked this question. My question was, how many degrees of separation are there between ourselves and someone, a woman who's had an abortion And this was the answer that Google Gemini gives, so it has to be true. This is what it says. It says based on data regarding the prevalence of abortion in the U. S. , an individual is typically within one or two degrees of separation from someone who has had an abortion. Now you understand what that means. That means virtually everybody knows someone or knows someone who knows someone who's uh who's had an abortion. Abortion has been practiced that long It's that widespread. It's that deeply ingrained in our population. So, you know, as I talk with you today, um I'm not naive to speak to you as if abortion was something unfamiliar to you, or that it isn't part of your family history, or maybe part of your life Uh it's a big problem. It's a very big problem in uh in a world that isn't so big after all. So our text for this morning is Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 5, and this is what it says. As you do not know the way, the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with a child. So you do not know the work of God who makes everything, just everything. Now, this verse is drawing a comparison between an unborn child and the creation of the entire cosmos. And the main point is really simple. It's just five words. You do not know the way. And then it's repeated again. In the next line as you do not know the work of God. And you do not know the work of God who makes everything refers to his creation of the cosmos. You don't know how God makes the tiniest Human being, you don't know how God creates the entire cosmos. It is one is just as much a work of creation as the other, vast or tiny, just as much a marvel as uh one is the other and really beyond our capacity to understand with any scale of measurement that we would come up with Now, it's interesting that this is not the only time that the Bible compares the creation of an unborn child to the whole creation. You might recall Isaiah 44, verse 24. I'll let you look that up later if you'd like to. But we're familiar, most of us probably with a more famous passage, which is Psalm 139, verses thirteen and fourteen that reads, For you form my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. Well David's so thankful that God knit him together in his mother's womb. This is God's work of creation. But he goes on to say here, wonderful are all your works. You know, he's referring to whole creation. It's this and this. It's really quite quite remarkable. And drawing on this term, wonder, wonderful wonder, embryologist Jean Rostin described his research into the formation of human beings, their tinyness, he described fetology, the study of the unborn child. This way, he said, quite a profession this is, this daily uh inhalation of wonder, of wonder And that word, you know, that term wonder, you know, it's a it's really a welcome sign. It says, observe what's happening. Be in awe of what's happening. But you've got to Also be reminded that David tells us there's another sign along with that, wonderfully and fearfully, wonder and fearful, and the fearful sign, that's a warning that says, do not disturb, do not destroy what God is doing. And this actually brings us to Jesus. It brings us to Christ, the word made flesh, because the Bible says all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that has been made. In him is life. The Bible says he is the author of life. It says in him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. So being who he is, I would say thankfully to you this morning, he didn't come to give us the knowledge of the way the Spirit comes into the bones of an unborn child. or the works of God who makes everything. I say I'm thankful for that because can you imagine how humans would weaponize that knowledge? what they might do with that knowledge. You know, Jesus knew what it was free, what it was to be a tree You see, a tree turned into a cross. He knew what it was to be hated for being the Son of God. He knew what it was to be crucified as a worthless man He knew what it was for his killing to be approved by the law. Things that are good and wonderful are weaponized. They are used to destroy. The knowledge of God that can only come from God, never by any science or measurements we do, oh my heaven. Thank you, Lord, that you didn't give that to us. And perhaps it should come as no surprise if over against the great and the powerful, understanding Jesus, the understanding what he faced, the understanding what he you know what he went through. Perhaps it should not come as a great surprise that he identified himself with those he called the least among us. A term that literally means uh the tiniest, the smallest, physically. It's a physical term. He used it as a metaphor, of course, to talk about those who have no status or worth in the world, so they're, you know, discarded, dismissed, overlooked, looked down upon, all the things we are reading about in the Heidelberg Catechism. Subject to the sixth commandment, the violation of it. But first and foremost, Jesus used this term of children. He used it of children. He used it of little children. The smaller, the smaller the better. You remember that occasion when Jesus rebuked his disciples? They were arguing over who was greatest in the kingdom of God. And so he actually does this objects lesson, right? He picks up this little child and he puts this child right down in front of them and he says, See that you do not despise one of these little ones, these least ones, the littlest of these I tell you that in heaven their angels always see my face. I'm sorry, always see the face of my Father who's in heaven. And you know, angels are, you know, they're warriors So it's not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Now his point to his disciples there was actually a double-edged sword, wasn't it? He's saying to his disciples, no matter how great you think you are, the greatest is the one who actually becomes like one of these little ones. And he says, go on, and his other point really is though, no matter what you think of yourselves, regardless, whatever you think of yourselves, don't you harm one of them. But did they learn it? And what's amazing is in the very next chapter in Matthew's Gospel, Matthew 19, we see Jesus rebuking his disciples. Because they were rebuking parents who were bringing their children to him to bless them. And Luke tells us that they were infants. He uses the Greek word particularly for small infants. And Mark uses the strongest word in the Greek language to describe a person who's deeply, deeply upset He says to us that Jesus was, it's translated indignant. It means greatly grieved. It's only used here of Jesus in the New Testament. I would have expected it to be used of Jesus when he was casting you know everybody out of the temple, right? Well it was that kind it was that kind of upset that Jesus had And then he told them of this these children they were denying access to Jesus, you know, over for to such belong the kingdom of God. I know I it's a marvelous thing now for us today because we're doing surgery on infants in a mother's wombs that are far smaller than any infants Jesus insisted on blessing. I mean he didn't have access But now we do But I want to say if they're in the womb, it's no reason to dismiss the least of these were in the room. No human being is too small To be the s too small to be the smallest, you know. You're so small you're not the smallest. No, that's not the way it works. You know our term, you science people, and you homeschool people. You know that term micron refers to one one thousandth of a millimeter. Our term micron is derived from the term that Jesus used that's translated little one. A thousandth of a millimeter. And it raises the question then, doesn't it? We're segueing here. It raises the question: did Jesus' disciples know to apply this teaching in his own example? To unborn children and reject abortion? And the answer is this that likely toward the end of the first century, I mean this is what most scholars now think it was toward just toward the end of the first century that an instructional document was prepared, was composed to prepare Gentile converts for baptism. People coming to Christ, out of the Gentile world, out of the pagan world, from the midst of all the things that the that the Gentiles, not the Jews, were doing. And we know this preparation as We call it the teaching, or some of you have read it perhaps as the Didache, which is a Greek word for the teaching, has a longer title than that. That's the way it's usually referred to. But here's the point. This very, very early document that was taught to people being prepared for baptism. It has at the beginning instruction on what it calls the two ways. There's the way of life, and there's the way of death. And under the way of death, it says, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not molest children You shall not abort a baby, nor shall you kill a newborn. Now, the question about that is, why was it necessary? To provide such a list. It's longer than what I read to you. But why was it necessary to provide such a list? And the answer is because these practices were common among Gentiles. These practices were common. And you know, when it came to the the Greeks or their language They really didn't use euphemism. The word that's translated abortion or abort a baby, that phrase abort a baby, is literally To kill or murder a child and destruction. That's what it is. To kill or murder a child by destruction Now abortion back then involves surgery. I'll call it surgery, involved sharp objects But it also involved, there's another kind, another whole category, and it and no that that second kind involved drugs, chemicals. And from Gemini AI, my source of truth for all things extra biblical. We learned that there was a plant at that time called Sylphium. And Sylphium was grown, I think, in Libya. And this is what it says, Gemini, it was the most famous and widely used abortifacient. That means abortion drug. The plant was so popular for this use, parentheses, as well as food and medicine. That it was over harvested to extinction in the first century. It was that widely used Chemical abortions in particular were very widespread in the Roman world. And you say, well, Kurt, that's A fascinating tidbit, but why are you telling us this? Because since 2021, chemical abortions have become the most prevalent form of abortion in the United States of America. And probably most of you don't know it. It's hardly publicized. You know, we rejoice, we pro-life people, I'm very pro-life. We rejoiced in 2022 when the Supreme Court overturned its infamous Roe v. Wade abortion decision in 1973. It required abortion on demand of all 50 states. And when Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in its Dobbs decision, it became possible, right, for states to prohibit abortion. And I think that probably Uh many well I took a deep breath and I thanked the Lord. I was very grateful and I think probably many of us assumed that the tide had turned or that the days for num abortion were numbered in the United States. But in fact What had happened was that the goal line had just been moved downfield, unrelated to the courts. Barely publicized over the course of two thousand twenty and two thousand twenty-one, the Food and Drug Administration. Deregulated chemical abortion to such an extent that it allows for the distribution of the needed drugs to internet vendors To be self-administered and unsupervised. The two drugs are now dispensed. They're used one after another. They're both used. One is called miphopristone. It blocks the pregnancy hormone progesterone. And that's the hormone that helps the lining of the mother's womb develop so it provides nourishment to the unborn child. And after if a pristone is taken a day or so after it's swallowed, the lining of the uterus begins to detect you know deteriorate very, very quickly. The unborn child begins to struggle and die, has no nutrition at all. The baby's placenta can no longer attach to the lining of the womb. The child dies So 24 to 48 hours later, the second drug, misoprostol, is taken. And that causes the wound to contract so violently that that dead child is expelled from his mother And this whole process can take anywhere from two, three days, even up to seven days or more, and require multiple doses of these medications. Now, some of you have heard of a morning after pills, some of you have heard of plan B. These are not morning after pills, these are not plan B. These are not pills that are designed to be taken within 72 hours. They're not. of uh intimacy. In fact, the FDA regs say that unsupervised chemical abortions are legal up to 70 gestational days. That is not 72 hours. That is 70 days. That is ten weeks. And I would just say, you know, carefully, you know, you little euphemistically, the end is a painful and often very shocking ordeal in a bathroom. Chemical abortions are now the most frequent abortions performed in the United States. And so because of this access the numbers of abortions has actually begun to increase over the last two or three years. So let me be very clear on what the status is. The chemical abortions are available through online vendors with no physician involvement, without any requirement of a medical visit. you know, on-site, health exam, ultrasound to determine gestational age, without any medical verification that the pregnancy is within 70 days With no record keeping of complications unless a mother dies. Those are the FDA regulations. That's what they allow. And if you think, well, uh what what does that actually look like? So uh yeah, I'm a pretty hip IT guy. So I went online and uh I found a vendor. That sells, this is a quote, abortion pills for future use. Talk about no supervision. So you can just have them on hand. You can just order them so you have them on hand. It says, quote, no video visit or office visit is required. It sells these abortion pills for quote, this is the The abortion that it sells the abortion pills were, quote, below 12 weeks of pregnancy. That's not 10 weeks of pregnancy. That's not 70 days. That's 84 days And you know what medical support consists of? It consists of an online bot, a software program. You can text. So if someone calls and says I or you know goes online for medical support and says I'm I'm hemorrhaging, I didn't expect this, it's been going for well the medical support is go to an emergency room I'm going to say that this is sharing this with you today because this is really a time as Christians of the church for our own vigilance and our faithfulness. And when I say faithfulness, I really mean faithfulness to the legacy we've inherited from those early believers who gave up everything for Christ and did suffer for it willingly. And I mean faithfulness to Jesus, both in his instruction and in his his example. I know it's hard to listen to a message like this and one of the things we may do is, you know, look around the room and wonder if people have had If there's someone there who's especially hurting because they've had an abortion, I realize when I speak, there must be people in this room who've had an abortion. One, two degree separation We all have our pasts. We all have our times of ignorance. Do you remember when Jesus prayed on the cross as he was crucified? He said, Father, isn't it amazing? These people are crucifying him. He says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And I can tell you, people do not know what they're doing when they get these abortions. They do not Not on the deepest level. Even Paul said, God forgave him, 2 Timothy, because I acted ignorantly in unbelief. It's not excusing. It's a reality. We don't understand sin and we don't under we don't understand it until the Holy Spirit convicts us that we do not understand it I've had a lot of many times I preach sermons on this topic only to have you know women come up to me after the service and they tell me that they've had abortions and do you know what they say to me when I They come up to me. They say, thank you. Yeah, n no one told me this. I didn't know these things. I make sure my children know these things. So what does vigilance look like? Well, obviously each church and its elders, its leaders. They're the ones who have to decide how to make strategic commitments. But I just mentioned four relevant considerations here. The first one is commitment from churches as churches to be worshiping communities who are praying, teaching. speaking speaking the truth in love when it comes to the sanctity of human life and the wonder of life in the womb. Churches that lament when it comes to abortion and extend God's grace toward those who've gone gone through abortion. You know, Paul said in verse, some of you were this, some of you were that, some of you this, some of you that, but that's what you were. That's not what you are. Second Christian education For our children and our youth and the sanctity of human life. They are not getting this in public school. They're not getting this from TikTok. They're not getting it. They're not being educated in what abortion actually is and g God's gift of sex, you know, within within marriage and and how to talk to to friends about this. You know what I don't know about your children or you who are youth, but my daughters were involved with people, new people in high school who had abortions Education of our children. I mean we've got to protect our children. We've got to protect our church. We've got to protect our children with that information. We have to. I would speak of persistent support persistent support for pregnancy centers. I met a sister, you know, pretty It is the first line of outreach to pregnant women in our community. It really was, and these centers is, and these centers are doing uh just in historically incredible job. And then the fourth thing I'd mention is insistence. the the FDA's horrible deregulation of chemical abortion be redressed unless you think oh Kirk got political Neither the Democrats nor the Republicans want to touch this. It's not political. I'm not telling you or suggesting how you vote No one wants to touch this. It came under being in the Biden administration. The Trump administration has not touched it. Please do not misunderstand me. insistence that the FDA's horrible deregulation be changed. And I just close by saying this to you. Remember, remember this. You have nothing else in the sermon? Oh, I hope you remember more, but do remember this. That you are no more than one or two degrees of separation from someone who's had an abortion So what you say to who you know matters very, very much. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for this opportunity to bring up a you know, a hard topic with a wonderful congregation and I do pray that you'd help us stay educated and uh Lord as I was preparing this I was Shocked. I thought I knew so much about this topic, but how it's advanced. Kind of the The snake under the tent. Really alarmed me. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us all to walk faithfully in you. Experience your own healing, but also not be afraid to speak the truth. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.