Let us turn to Romans chapter 13. So Romans chapter 13, we're making good progress here. And I'm going to read, we're going to pick up at verse seven We covered we didn't really cover that last week very well. Hope you have a Bible. There's a couple Bibles on the back table. Uh I guess you could find a Bible on your phone Okay, Romans 13, verse 7. So right in the middle of the thought, and I'll catch up in a minute, but Paul writes Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed. honor to whom honor is owed. Owe no one anything except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. The commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Besides this, you know the time that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The night is far gone, the day is at hand. So then, let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Well let's bow our heads We do pray, Lord, this very clear passage that it would awaken us, make us more vigilant. And spur us on to holiness. Speak to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So somebody said, and I think it's a great way to summarize the Bible, they said, if Christian doctrine is grace, then Christian ethics is gratitude. That's what Romans is about. You have the first eleven chapters, and it talks about God's grace to us in Jesus Christ, right? He saves us not because we're doogooders, not because we're churchgoers, not because we're really nice people. Rather, we are lost. But God in His mercy redeems us because Jesus fulfilled the commands in our place. He died for our sin So Christian doctrine is salvation by grace. However, there's a response. And the only fitting response to God's grace is gratitude. And that's what chapter twelve to chapter sixteen is about. It's about Christian ethics. Ethics are not a way that we earn God's favor, but they're the appropriate response to the favor that God's shown us. And so that's why. Go back to chapter 12, verse 1. So this is the hinge on which the book turns. Okay? Remember I said the first 11 chapters, doctrine about the gospel, about what God's done for us in Christ. You get to chapter 12, verse 1. And Paul says, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. So there it is. And that takes us to the rest of the book of Romans now. And so, for example, chapter 12, the first part, he talks about how we should relate to other Christians. The second part of chapter 12, he spoke about how we should relate to unbelievers. Then chapter 13, the first seven verses, he talked about how the Christian should relate to the governing authorities. And now, this morning, we're going to begin at verse 7 and take it to the end of chapter 13. And Paul sets forth various ways, or I should say three other ways. that we should conduct ourselves. And so three basic principles of Christian conduct And we could put them under three headings. It's right there in the bulletin. First thing he says, pay your debts. Second, love your neighbor. Number three, walk properly. It's a great passage to preach because it It comes into a nice um a nice outline. It's a Trinitarian universe, three points, what's not the life, right? Okay. So, first of all, uh verse seven, pay your debts. This is sort of hard to swallow, but we're going to trust the Lord on this one. Verse 7. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Respect to whom respect is owed. Honor to whom honor is owed. And so we talked about the taxes uh last week, but then he goes on to say that we should pay whomever uh we have a uh financial obligation, right? If you borrowed money, you better pay it back. If you um If you have a business, you better pay your suppliers, or else you're going to discredit uh your Christian testimony If you have a medical bill or if you've hired somebody to do work on your house, don't make them track you down. That will hurt your testimony for Christ. And also you're cheating them. If you have a student loan, that's your responsibility to pay, right? Don't say I'm gonna ignore it, I'll let the taxpayer pick it up. No You took that loan, that belongs to you. And I think if I could just expand on this for young people Uh it is so expensive to live. I was talking to I forget who I was talking to just a couple days ago. Oh, my neighbor. I have a new neighbor. And he was You know, we were talking about how high how expensive it is to buy a house. How can a young person buy a house in this area? It's just crazy. And um and I think something we can learn from here is you better be careful about taking on debt, unnecessary debt, credit card debt Car debt. Try to live as lean as you can right now. Save all you can. I for decades I would just drive old bombs and they were fine. Um Becky didn't like 'em, they would call it people would say she's driving the church lady car and get this old an old Oldsmobile off Craigslist or a Buick or a Crown Victoria. But nobody wants those kind of cars, right? So they're really cheap and usually old ladies drive 'em, so there's like, you know, like twenty thousand miles on 'em. That's what you need to do. I'll help you find a car. I know how to find cheap cars on Craigslist. I've never I've never gone wrong. But um But anyway, what I'm saying though, that's something that's going to depreciate. And so young people, you want to save everything you can. uh for things like housing or rent so that you have less pressure uh once you're married, once you're out on your own, and so on. And I'd also say to young people, I know this is sort of getting afield But I would say to young people, when you're in high school, when you're in college, or when you're training for some vocation Take it seriously, because the time you put into it now will affect your marketability. And that will take a lot of pressure off you down the road because this is a very difficult economy to make progress in. And so pay to all what is owed. Do not discredit your testimony for the gospel, and do not harm your brother. And then He goes on in verse eight, and that's sort of a that sort of leads into the next thought. In verse 8, uh he says, there is one death that we all owe, that we will never fully discharge. Look at verse 8. Owe no one anything except to love each other. So how about that? Am I reading the Apostle Paul? Is that the Apostle Paul? That harsh man? That That very severe, legalistic, stern man. Is that Paul saying love one another? Of course it is. He wrote 1 Corinthians 13 And it's funny because I say this in jest, right? But so many people who've never opened up the Bible will say I love Jesus. He was all about love. I don't like Paul. He was misogynist. He was this, he was that. He was linguistic That's a surefire clue. They've never read the Bible. Uh they're just parroting things that they've heard elsewhere. In fact, in verses 8 to 10, Paul's pretty much echoing Jesus' words, for example, in Mark chapter 12. And so the Apostle Paul commands us He says, We owe it to other people to show them love, right? That crusty neighbor That snotty kid down the street or in your class, that unappreciative child, that critical mother, father A grandparent or that angular co-worker, Paul saying, you owe them a debt. Well, wait a, I should rephrase that. You don't owe them a debt, but rather you owe a debt to the law of God. That's what it says, I think, in verse 8. The one who loves has fulfilled the law. And so he's saying, our debt is to the moral law of God. And you all know what the moral law is, right? It's summarized in the Ten Commandments. But he says, you could even boil it down from ten to this. If you just love one another. And so again at the end of verse 8, the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. We haven't fulfilled the law's demands. We can't fulfill them, we fall short, right? Jesus fulfilled the requirements of the law. But rather, when we love one another, Paul is saying we fulfill the meaning of the law. Okay? Now let me just stop here just in case this is misconstrued, because there are people, there are churchgoers, there are Christians. Who will say, I don't have to worry about God's commands. All I have to do is love other people, as if this desire to love will intuitively guide you to do the right thing, as if the desire to love has its own moral compass and you'll never mess up if you're only governed by love. That's not what this is saying. No, love must be constrained, it must be informed by God's commands, and when it's not, it leads to all kinds of misery So back in the late 1960s, early 1970s, there was a so-called Christian group. It was really a cult. They were called the children of God. And the leader's name was Dave Berg. And he said, I don't have to keep the Ten Commandments. All I have to do is to love and to do whatever I do in love. Well that sounded really spiritual, but it didn't work out real well because the children of God were known for their sexual immorality and even pedophilia Um so we can say, and I didn't say this, I've heard it, I think it's a good summary. We can say love without law is blind. Love, when it's not informed by God's commands, often does uh very destructive things, right? I mean last week we mentioned abortion Many Christians or churchgoers would say abortion is a loving act. It's loving toward a mom who has an unexpected or unwanted pregnancy. They'll say it's loving toward society. Society will not have to deal with an unwanted child. But then you read the Bible and you read, Oh, that that child that Fetus is a human being made in the image of God. And so when we step back and say, made in God's image. And so the Bible helps us to know. What the loving thing is. Or think about a young unmarried couple. You know, Susie and Joey. They love each other. They look at each other. They've been going out for three years now. They're going to get married. They're going to get engaged. They're going to get married They love each other with a pure love. And so they might reason if they were just guided by love. Hey, it's okay for us to sleep together. That would just be an expression of our love. But then we look at the Bible and we discover, no, that is not a legitimate way to express your love to somebody to whom you're not married. In fact, that's going to cause it's not only going to offend the holiness of God But it's going to hurt your relationship. It's going to, you're going to defraud that person. And so we we love must be informed by God's law. Or let me you know, some Christians are so nice. They're so nice that they're destructive. Um when I pastored in North Carolina, I I told a story about this in Sunday school. It was a great church, but it did have its problems. But here was one of the problems There was one couple in the church who were well rooted in that congregation, who were very influential, who had many friends, but they were They slandered people, they maligned people, and I went to the elders and I said, we need to deal with this couple. She was the choir director. That was tricky. But we need to deal with this couple. But many of the elders said, we can't do that. That'll disrupt the church. I remember one man saying, Oh, if we do that, that'll split the church. They always said, we're going to split the church. So they didn't deal with it They said, we just need to love them. Well, okay, sure we need to love them, but what is the loving thing toward them? What is the loving thing toward the people? whom they've been attacking and slandering. And what is a loving thing toward somebody who walks in a church, a new person And immediately they sense there's something toxic uh in the atmosphere of this congregation And so we would have to say that love and law go together. And when our love is not constrained by God's law, it is weak and misguided. On the other hand, you know we can we can have a firm handle on God's commands, but when that's not animated, By a a sincere and humble love for God and for other people, then it comes across as harsh and the legalistic. And you know, think about parents. Most couples, one one parent is more law, the other's more loving. And um maybe that's why I shouldn't say that uh that's one of the benefits of having being a couple, right? You try to figure out what is the right uh application of love and law But we really we do need both in parenting, uh in our relationships, uh in the way that we uh govern and uh pastor the church. And so that's what we're always striving for. We don't always hit it But that's what we're striving for. And so something to think about, uh just this this familiar command to love other people. Is there someone? Well, I should say, is there someone? Who are those, I should say, against whom you have resentment, that you have a vengeful spirit? Uh, do you promote the good name of other people? Or do you talk about them behind their backs? Do you notice strangers and show them kindness? Or you just ignore them? It's amazing this area. You could be walking down a hallway in some building. You're about you almost bump into somebody and they won't look up. I don't I don't understand that But no, we're to be different. And we all fall short. That's why we need a Savior. And uh that's why we also need the Holy Spirit to change us, right? Lord, I'm familiar with this command. Love other people. I'm familiar with it, but I need to make progress. And so help me to make progress. So real simple. Pay your debts. Love your neighbor. Verse 11 and 14. Paul says, walk properly. Walk properly. You see that phrase in verse 13. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. Let's just step back before we look at the details. I want you to think about the various incentives that the Bible gives us to grow in holiness. What are I mean we can make a list? The big one, you need to hear this especially from certain sectors of the church, and they're they're true, they're right. God's grace toward us should motivate us to pursue holiness, right? We're saved by grace, not by what we do. And so out of gratitude for God's grace We should love other people. We should seek to obey his commands. Absolutely. We should be motivated by a love for God. Absolutely. We should be motivated to pursue holiness. out of reverence for God. 1 Peter verse chapter 1, verse 15 and 16. Peter said, As he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, then he quotes the Old Testament, you shall be holy, for I am holy. True. So grace, gratitude, a love for the holiness of God, that should motivate us to grow in holiness. Another real practical one is we should pursue holiness because we should have a healthy fear. Of the built-in consequences of sin. And I remember when I was 23 years old, I heard this guy, George Verrer, preach on Galatians chapter 6, verse 7. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. A man reaps what he sows. And he put the fear of God in me. And that's been very helpful because I'm not always motivated by the noblest of ambitions. And so it's good to have the negative incentives too. Hey, you know what? I'm gonna suffer what what I what I sow the today, I'm gonna eat for breakfast tomorrow. But then you get to verse 11 now. And Paul presents yet another incentive for us to pursue holiness. So let's look at verse 11 and 12 again. He wrote, besides this, ye know the time that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The night is far gone, the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. So look at verse 11. The hour has come for you to wake From sleep. Saying, it's time to wake up. When I was I was a freshman or sophomore in high school And there was this new kid that moved in down the street, Mike McGuinness. And one afternoon, my brother and the other kid, Nick Gerhart, were down at Mike McGuinness's house, and Mike's parents were away for the day And Mike's father had a well-stocked liquor cabinet. And Mike said, hey, let me take you over here. And he opens up the liquor cabinet. And then we're all like, you know, stupid, idiotic uh ninth graders. Oh yeah, give me a little taste of that. Ooh, you know, ooh, that's good, right? Well Mike got a little carried away. And he started chugging this and chugging that The guy got drunk, he passed out, and we're like, so the three of us were like, this is a problem. Um Mike's father, he was a big guy, tall man, heavyset. He drove a Lincoln Continental. He wore a big o always had a big overcoat on in the wintertime. We're like he's they're coming back. Um we're trying to wake him up. And Mike's like, you know, just go away. It's like so this went on for quite a while. I I don't remember. Finally, I guess an hour or two had passed, and Mike's starting to realize, hey, my dad's coming home. I gotta get sober And we were we didn't know. We were like, uh I heard if you eat a raw egg that'll help. But Mike, he was an idiot. Um he didn't put it in a glass, he just shoved this raw egg into his mouth. And then finally, you know, he he finally uh got a handle and um He got he got in shape really quick because his father, he he he was a very intimidating man. Paul's telling us, he said, he's saying It's time to wake up. If you live in a slumber, if all you're thinking about is your summer plans or your next family gathering, as great as that is and noble or your next remodeling project or uh things at work, things at school, short-term goals, very important. I'm not denigrating it, but he's saying, listen You need to remember, you have a soul. You have an appointment with Jesus Christ. And so, and I say this to the kids, but not only to the kids, but I want you to listen. Don't just focus on trivial pursuits. Because you're here for a really short time And one day you will meet Jesus Christ. And we're saved by His grace. But we don't want to say we just squandered. the life that he gave us on trivial pursuits. And so look at verse the end of verse 11. Now I'm going to explain this. He says For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed Well how how is it that Paul would say salvation is near to us? I thought when you believe in Jesus Christ, you are saved, you have received your salvation And we would say that is correct, but the Bible also has this perspective that we haven't fully entered into our salvation. We will only take full possession of it when Jesus Christ returns and we receive our resurrection bodies when we are glorified. That will be the full expression of our salvation. But since this day is nearer today than it was yesterday, Paul says, listen, wake up. Verse eleven. Verse thirteen, walk properly. The end of verse 12, put on. He's saying, put on the armor of light. That's probably a reflection of like the armor of God in Ephesians 6. Love and faith and prayer and hope and so on. Same kind of language in the beginning of verse 14. There he says, not put on the armor of light, he says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, lay hold of Jesus, live in his power. Live under his lordship, and then he says, and this is the stern thing, make no provision for the flesh. The flesh means our sinful desires Make no provision to gratify your sinful desires. In other words, don't put yourself in a position where you're likely to fall. One of the Puritans said, if you don't want to attract cats, then don't put out a saucer of milk. Right? If you find yourself, you're married. But there's this other person. It would be sort of intriguing to just have a little flirting with this person. Wait a minute If I do that, that could lead me down a slippery slope. And so I'd better I'd better avoid putting myself in that uh situation. I shouldn't watch those shows or surf those screens or hang around uh with those people Who bring me down. So that's the third thing he says. Walk properly, walk in holiness. I would say one more thing. No extra charge, we're all done. But um verse 13 It's interesting, in the fourth century, God used verse thirteen to Bring a young man in North Africa, Augustine, uh, from unbelief to to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ So Augustine grew up in a Christian home. He had a Christian mother. But in his young adult year, and he wrote he wrote a book about his experience, The Confessions. He and he said, you know, in my young adult years I lived for the flesh. I sowed seeds for the flesh. I indulged every sexual passion, every fleshly desire I had. But he had a mom who prayed for him And so he was from North Africa, but there was this great Christian preacher in Milan, Italy, Ambrose, one of the great uh the Christian fathers, and Ambrose was preaching in Milan In 386, the year 386, Augustine was up there, and he sat under Ambrose's preaching. And that brought him uh to great conviction of his sin. And he went back to where he was staying, and um he went out into the garden. And he sat there. And um he had uh Paul's epistles, uh uh uh copies of Paul's epistles. And began reading them, and it didn't really make much of an impression on him. So he put him down, but he had this despair, this angst, this conviction. He started crying. And then he heard over the wall in the courtyard, kids, two couple kids were playing, and they were just yelling out, Tolege, Tolegay, take up and read, take up and read. So, alright I'm going to pick up my document again. And he opened it up. And his eyes fell on verse 13. Not in riots and drunken parties Not in eroticism and and indecencies, not in strife and rival rivalry, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ It made no provision for the flesh and its lust. And it cut him like a knife. And he had this great conviction of sin. Now that was the law. The law can't save you. It can only show you your sin and your need of a savior. But it was useful to turning him to Jesus Christ, who fulfilled the law for him, and who bear bore the penalty for his sin And so that's a conversion of Augustine. And so what I'm saying is that this book Is the voice of God, it has power to bring people from unbelief to belief. So if you're not a believer yet, Stay in this book. Read it. Come to church. Ask questions. Stay in this book. The Spirit of God will use the Word of God. We trust. to move you from unbelief to belief. Well let's let's m let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, uh for anyone who is yet uh to be persuaded of the truth of this book, of the reality of Christ, of his death and resurrection and lordship I do pray that you would so persuade them and give them saving faith. And Lord, for us who by your grace you have brought us to see and to believe We confess that we have fallen short in the department of love. Help us, Lord, to be more selfless. Help us to be less self-centered. And help us to be more gracious to others. And also help us to take more seriously your call to holiness. Help us to resist And to avoid those situations where we stumble so easily, help us to make progress for your name and your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.