First one we read Now before the feast of the Passover when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from the supper. He laid aside his outer garments and taking a towel tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord do you wash my feet. Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my head, my hands, and my head. Jesus said to him, The one who has bathed does not need to wash except for his feet, but is completely clean, and you are clean, but not every one of you For he knew who was to betray him. That was why he said, Not all of you are clean. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say to you A servant is not greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than the one who sent him If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. All right, let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, we do want to know these things more uh clearly, and uh may these things uh drive uh Your truth go deeper into our hearts. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. And so I said that chapter 13 is really a turning point in the gospel. First chap 12 chapters cover uh the uh cover Jesus' public ministry, you come to chapter 13, and Jesus is basically uh talking to his disciples. Um He'll after this 13 to 17, it's called the upper room discourse. After that, Jesus will be arrested, he'll be tried, he'll be crucified who will rise from the grave. But most of his conversation in these chapters from here on in uh concern his disciples. And there are two notable shifts uh that we notice when we get to chapter thirteen. First of all, uh this change in audience, uh he spoke on his disciples But the other one is a change in the vocabulary, because in the first uh twelve chapters uh there is this great emphasis on Jesus being the light and Jesus being the life And you get to chapter 13, uh, from here to the end, there's a great emphasis on love, and that came up a few times in the earlier chapters. But there is a shift now in the theme of John's Gospel. In fact, we see that introduced in verse 1. where John writes about Jesus having loved his own who were in the world. And as a demonstration of Jesus' love uh to his people, he washes his uh disciples' feet. And so this foot washing, it's not a sacrament, it wasn't instituted as a sacrament, it doesn't have an Old Testament Testament precursor. But it is a really a visible parable. And you see these kind of visible parables uh throughout the Bible. You think about the Old Testament, uh the prophets uh engaged in these. Uh the prophet Jeremiah. He smashed an earthenware pot to say, hey, if you don't repent, people of Israel, God is going to smash you. beyond repair. And then Jeremiah put a wooden yoke on his neck to symbolize the subjugation of the nations to the king of Babylon. And so it's this kind of thing that's taking place when Jesus washes his feet. He's giving a word picture. To convey a spiritual truth. And the nice thing about this parable is we don't have to speculate about its meaning. But rather, right there in a text is quite clear, and we'll see this, it's quite clear that there are three reasons or three truths being conveyed in Jesus washing his disciples' feet. First of all It was a demonstration of his love for us, of his love for his people. Secondly, it's a very strong illustration of this of the meaning of the cross, of what Jesus would accomplish when he dies on the cross And then thirdly, this is the thing that we're most aware of, I suspect, is that Jesus washed his disciples' feet He says in verse 15, to set an example for us to follow. And so let's consider these three truths that are portrayed uh in Jesus' action. First of all, Jesus washed his their feet to show his love. for us, right? Again, verse one, the second part of the verse. Having loved his own who were in the world, it says he loved them to the end. And that could mean perhaps the end of his life. Work could mean he loved them to the fullest extent. He loved them to the uttermost. But either way that that might be taken It still means, or excuse me, it still speaks of Jesus' great love for his people. And he portrays that love. He loved his own to the end, to the uttermost. And to show that, he washed their feet. And before I elaborate on that a little bit more on the extent of Jesus' love, of how he loved his people I want you to notice, just as a little side note, that this took place in a spiritually hostile setting. And so if you go to verse 2, During the supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Jesus knowing that, and then it goes on, but I just want you to notice that this was a hostile setting. And this is just a little reminder that we don't live in a closed system. We live in a universe where there are evil powers. We live in a universe where there is a spiritual realm. Paul talked about this in Ephesians 6. 12. He said We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, right? So it's not just Jesus uh being attacked by Judas, but rather we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. And so there is a spiritual battle taking place in this world. There is a Satan, a personal Satan. And there are forces of evil. Jesus conquered him on the cross, but still it says in the in the gospel He still prowls around. Uh he's he's he's bound, but he's not completely bound, uh uh he's not completely limited in the damage that he can do. And we by looking at what um Satan did in influencing Judas, we we're reminded that yeah, he does have an have an influence on Christians. He certainly has an influence on unbelievers, and we don't want to attribute every sin and every temptation temptation we fall to to Satan, but we must recognize uh that yeah, uh sin oftentimes typically arises from within our hearts. However, sometimes it it comes to us from without And it's interesting, John Bunyan, in his classic Pilgrim's Progress, uh talked about the main character, Christian, this poor earnest fellow named Christian, he beat himself up. for some horrible thoughts that entered his mind. So here's what Bunyan explains. He says, these thoughts did not originate in Christian's mind, but he writes but that one of the wicked ones got behind him, stepped up softly to him, and whisperingly suggested many grievous blasphemies to him. which he verily thought had proceeded from his own mind. And I just I j I mention that uh that antidote from Bunyan, I point out uh what you just did to say, you know what? Sometimes Some of the darkest thoughts cross our minds. You could be sitting in the morning, sitting down, reading the Bible in the morning. And some of the most vile thoughts will cross your mind. And that's a testament to the fact, Romans 3, that our hearts are corrupt indeed. But at times we have to remember, Satan goes about like a roaring lion seeking to influence us, seeking to uh destroy us. That was 1 Peter 5. 8. But anyway, that was just an aside. It was in this spiritually hostile atmosphere That Jesus stooped to wash his disciples' feet, including the feet of Judas. And so the first thing I'm saying, and I think I'm clear, is that Jesus did this first of all to give an expression to the fact that he loved his disciples to the end. Uh and more broadly, he loves his people to the end. And what we see here in that Jesus stooped to wash their feet is that he loves us with a self- Look at verse three again. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into this to his hands and that he had come from God And was going from God. So He was Jesus Christ was sovereign over all things, right? And he is God incarnate. The Father gave him the second person of the Trinity. authority over the entire universe, and yet Jesus Christ stooped to wash the feet of his disciples. And that was something that only the lowest servant on the totem pole would do. And here's Jesus Christ, the host of this dinner. washing his disciples' feet. And I and I when I was reading about this, I know there was a note that you can survey all the ancient Jewish writings, all the ancient Roman writings, all the ancient Greek writings. And there is not one recorded instance of a superior washing the feet of an inferior And yet we have here the Lord of the universe washing the feet of his disciples. And that sums up the entire ministry of Jesus Christ, right? When he showed up on this earth, he was born in a manger. When he departed this earth, he was crucified as a common criminal. And in verse 4, it speaks about Jesus laying aside his garments, and that's a picture of Jesus Christ. In effect, laying aside the authority, laying aside the glory that he was invested with by the Father. Paul gives a commentary on Jesus doing this in Philippians 2 verses 6-8, where he spoke about Jesus, though he was in the form of God did not count a quality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men And being found in human form, he humbled himself becoming obedient to death even death on the cross. And so Jesus took the uh took the towel, he laid aside, or he laid aside his robe, he laid aside his glory, and then in verse 12 it says that when he had washed their feet, he resumed his place. And that may just be an analogy of what the writer of Hebrews speaks about in chapter one. After making purification for sins, He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. And so this is just uh and and we're familiar, most of us are familiar with this text But we see in Jesus Christ this self-abasing love, and I would add, how did Jesus love his people? He also loved us with an unrequited love. Because, you know, these are his disciples. He had been with them for three years, and what kind of thanks did he receive? Judas betrayed him, Peter denied him, and then the rest of the gang abandoned him. When he was arrested and when he was crucified. That is the the response that we have to Jesus Christ apart from him changing us from the inside. Romans 8 verse 7 says Our natural disposition toward God, toward Jesus Christ, is one of hostility Romans 5. 8 adds, it's while we were sinners, while we were rebels, while we were shaking our fist at God, while we were enjoying all the good things He gives us in life We didn't give him the thanks that he was due. But it was while we were still sinners that Christ died for us. And so I'm asking the question, what does this act of Jesus washing his disciples' feet convey And the first thing it conveys is his love toward sinners like us. Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. Now We all know that, right? The Bible says God loves us. So here's I just want you to reflect on this or consider this. And here's how I see it. When I face a discouraging situation or some kind of opposition or whatever problem I face I comfort myself, and this is maybe just the way I think. I comfort myself by reminding myself of the truth that God is sovereign over all things God will work out his purpose in all things. And that's a good application of something we know about God, right? He's working all things for his honor. That's true. It's also helpful to reflect on the great love that Jesus has toward us. And we need to remind ourselves Hey, God loves me. God cares for me. Look what he did. I mean, not only in washing uh his disciples' feet, washing the feet of his people, but in dying on a cross. It's good to remind yourself, and this is I know this is simplistic, God loves you. And I know some are some of you you struggle with discouragement, you struggle with anxiety, you struggle with fear. Here's a good reminder, God's not only powerful, but God loves you. Right? First John He said, Behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us that we should be called children of God. And so He reflects on it, and that's a good thing to reflect on. So that's the first thing. Why did he wash their feet? To demonstrate his love. Secondly, and a little more briefly He washed their feet to illustrate the cleansing that he would accomplish on the cross. Now, the disciples were embarrassed that Jesus, their master, would stoop and wash their feet. And They were also confused. And I imagine there may well have been an awkward silence, and then Peter blurts out in the end of verse 6, Lord, do you wash my feet? And Peter didn't understand why Jesus would do that, because at this point, Peter did not understand that Jesus was going to be crucified. And if he didn't understand that, he certainly did not understand the necessity and the meaning of the crucifixion. But it was In the context of the crucifixion, that Jesus washed their feet. So I said earlier, this passage clearly explains why Jesus washed their feet. And I said, and now I'm on, one of the reasons is. because he wanted to show the meaning of the crucifixion. Where do I get that? Look at verse one It says in the middle of the verse, Jesus knew that his hour had come. And we've seen this throughout John's Gospel, where Jesus, where John writes, Jesus' hour had not yet come. And then finally, as we move into this chapter, we saw this earlier too. John writes, Jesus' hour had come. And that's a reference to the fact, the hour of his crucifixion. Peter did not understand this yet. Look at verse 7. Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. And so they didn't they did not understand why he's washing their feet, but the day would come when it would become clear to them And so what it was he demonstrating? Hey, just as he washed the dirt off their feet on the cross, by his death on the cross, he would wash away their sin. And if you look down at verse 8, Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. In other words, you have no inheritance, you have no portion of what I'm going to accomplish, and you're going to have no place in the kingdom of God. It's only those who receive the cleansing that Jesus gives who can enter the kingdom of God. And understandably, this goes over Peter's head, and in Peter, true to form, verse 9 said to him, to Jesus. Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. And so of course Peter wanted to have a part of what Jesus was offering And then in verse 10, Jesus said to him, The one who is bathed does not need to wash except for his feet. but is completely clean. So what's that saying? What what is Jesus saying here? The one who is bathed doesn't need to wash again. Yeah, your feet and feet are going to get dirty, but you don't need to have a bath again And what he was speaking about was the sufficiency of the cleansing that he would bring to his people by his death On the cross. Jesus' death on the cross, you know, in other words, completely removes our sin, completely washes away our sin. so that we can stand without shame uh before God. Uh Titus 3. 5 speaks about the washing of regeneration. In other words, of the when God gives you spiritual birth He removes your sin. So this isn't something that we do that we can attain But it's something that God does for us. But then he said, but you do need to wash your feet. What's he saying there? He's saying you're right with God, you're cleansed, you're in a proper standing with God But still, yeah, you need to confess your sin to God, not because you'll lose your salvation, but because you want to have an unhindered relationship with Jesus Christ. And so I asked then, have you received this cleansing? Have you been made clean by Jesus Christ? Have you Submit it to the to the washing that he provides, or are you resistant like Peter in his ignorance? And sometimes we're ignorant, and I certainly was ignorant for uh many years, you think you can clean yourself up by being a do-gooder, by being a churchgoer, by uh your moral striving and your efforts at personal reformation. That is not a way to be clean before God because God's holy. All of our efforts fall short. And so The the message of the gospel, and if you read the New Testament, and a lot of people don't never read it, if you read the New Testament it becomes clear that this is not a manual on how to become a better person and to win God's favor, but rather the message of the New Testament, well, Genesis to Revelation, really. The message of the gospel is what not on what we do to earn our salvation, but on what Jesus did to save us, right? He lived a perfect life where we fell short. And then he died on the cross, not just to give this sort of vague demonstration of how much God loves us, but rather to Bear the le the legal penalty for our sin, that our sin would be canceled out, and that God would look upon us As forgiven as righteous in his sight. And so the Bible teaches The only way to have your sins removed is to trust that Jesus Christ atoned for your sin, that he paid the penalty for your sin uh when he died on the cross. And so my question to you is Do you look to Jesus as the one who made you clean because he lived a perfect life Where you failed, and then he died to suffer the penalty for your sin. Have you received his death as the sufficient payment for your sin. That's what a Christian is, right A Christian is just not a nice guy or a moral guy or whatever. A Christian is someone who says Yeah, I recognize I am spiritually bankrupt and my heart is corrupt and I've offended a holy God by everything I think, say, and do However, Jesus Christ died for me because of what he did, my sins have been removed. In one of our hymns, we sing Fowl I too, the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die. Have you been cleansed? by what Jesus Christ did. So there's the gospel, right? Now, let's go on And just briefly, look at the third thing that uh Jesus watching his disciples uh teaches. It teaches thirdly, or excuse me, he did it, excuse me, to set an example for us to follow. So look at verse 12. We're going to read a couple verses here. Verse 12 to 15. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place He said to them, Do you understand what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you're right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example Did you ever hear twenty years ago there was this big thing, what would Jesus do? The people had these bracelets. And I was like, ugh. foul. Uh how corny. What would Jesus do? Well he walked on water. I'm not gonna do that when people when they needed uh some money uh Jesus pulled a coin out of the mouth of a fish. I'm not gonna do that. I'm gonna have to get a job and work and make a living. So I was like, no, you know, Christianity is about what Jesus did for us. He died for our sin. And you know what? I was largely right. However There are some things in the Bible that says, yeah, Jesus did this, and you we should do that too, and that's what we have here in verse 15. Uh Jesus said, I've washed your feet. You also ought to wash one another's feet. And um Then he goes on in verse 16. Where am I in verse um fifteen? For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. There it is. And then Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than the one who sent him. I just want to tap the brake for a moment and say Jesus used the term here That is one of the fundamental descriptions of how a Christian should view himself or herself. We should view ourselves, says right here, as servants. And that's one thing to nod your head and say, yeah, that's right. I need to be a servant. And it's uh it's one thing to engage in dramatic acts of servanthood, right? Helping at the soup kitchen kitchen or doing something where you decide Say to yourself, yeah, this is really serving. Uh however, it's another thing To be a servant in the mundane daily routines of life. So let's just close. I just want to throw out a couple examples of ordinary On glamorous ways for us to think about serving. Let's start with what happens going to happen in ten minutes. After the service, we're going to close and we're going to get up and you're going to look around and you're going to say hi to somebody you're comfortable with or somebody that you want to catch up with. That's great. But a servant should also look around, hey, where are the new people? Or there's who needs who needs a good word of an encouragement? That's an act of service or at lunch today or uh when you're chatting after the service, right? It's not all about you. Don't tell me all about you and what you've done and don't move the conversation toward your interest But sort of balance it out a little bit and say, you know, what's going on with you and and try to pick up on what's going on with people and uh ask them just a couple uh general questions, show an interest. Um were, you know, young people. I want to be a servant, that's good Do something around the house without your mom or dad asking you. That's huge. They they'll they'll be stunned and uh it builds goodwill And you'll bless them, and you'll bless yourself, because this is how you're supposed to operate. And then of course just little things, you know, just thinking about the church, little things you can do Come early. Come at nine o'clock to set up. Well, I don't want to do that because Sunday morning is the only time I have a little time to myself. Yeah, but somebody has to do it and somebody has to help with the children's church. Somebody has to uh work in the nursery And then there are housebound people who certainly would be blessed by your sending them a note or giving them a call or paying them a visit. And so uh Jesus gives us this example in this passage. And um we're not greater than him, yet he stooped down, he washed our feet. And yet he did it as an example, but let's not say that's the only thing this is teaching, because really It's a reminder that if we're to be in a right standing with God, if we're going to see him one day, then he has to cleanse us. He has to uh wash away our sin. So let's bow our heads and and pray, Lord, uh help me to see this, help me to do this. Let's let's pray.