Turn we're in John chapter twelve, so wait for a couple weeks. Here we are, uh picking up again in John's gospel. Did you ever hear the story about John Calvin? He was kicked out of Geneva. He was gone for a couple years and then he was invited back because they needed his help. And what did he do? He didn't preach like, I'm back in town, so let me give an oriented orienting sermon. He didn't do that. He just said, okay, where were we? I forget what it was, three years ago, and he picked up on the next verse. And so I'm in good company. John chapter 12 A short passage, verses twenty-two, uh, chapter twelve, verse twenty-two twenty-six. Okay? So Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Besseda and Galilee, and asked him, Sir We wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. And so you look at this passage, especially the first couple verses there, it talks about these Greeks uh coming to see Jesus. And that seems like an incidental detail. But let me assure you, there's nothing incidental about the details that are included in the books of the Bible. Now they're all tightly crafted documents and every detail is there for a purpose. It doesn't mean that every det everything is a Everything is of the same importance, but the details that are there are there for a purpose. And that's certainly The case with the account, with John choosing to include this account of these Greeks, Gentiles. uh coming to Jesus because uh this event is a turning point or I might even say a trigger that is meant to convey that the time of Jesus crucifixion has has arrived. And so what we're going to do is we're going to approach this passage by just asking three questions. I think this will help us to understand the significance of this passage and to apply it uh to our own situation. So three questions, number one. What is the significance of these Greeks coming to Jesus? Why do I say that this event is so significant? Number two, Uh Jesus said uh speaks about my hour has come. What is it what is the significance of that statement? And then in verse 24-25, Jesus speaks about giving up his life, and then his followers also needing to give up their lives. And so, why must that be the case? Okay? So, quite a bit there. We're going to just breeze through it. First of all, What is the significance of these Greeks coming to see Jesus? Now remember, you might not remember, it's been a couple weeks. We're in Jerusalem. It's during the week of the uh Passover and Jews throughout the Roman Empire. We're arriving in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. So I said Jews throughout the old Roman Empire, but I should add, not only Jews. There were some others who came. Look at verse 20 again. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. Okay? And when it says there were some Greeks coming to the Passover in Jerusalem, it doesn't necessarily mean that they came from Greece or they could have come from anywhere in the Greek speaking world And who are these uh Greeks who came to Jerusalem? They they may have been converts to Judaism, more likely. Uh they were Greeks who admired the Jews. In fact, in the book of Acts we meet these kind of Greeks And they're referred to as God fearers. Okay? So they were not circumcised, but they did go to the synagogue, uh, they did attend uh the Jewish festivals and It makes sense that there were Greeks that were attracted to a Judaism. They they there were Greeks that found the the Greek uh pantheon to be absurd and they found the the immorality of the of that culture uh to be disgusting but in Judaism uh they found a a reasonable world view And they found high moral standards. And so it makes sense that there were Greeks who were attracted to the Jewish faith. Verse 21. So these came to Philip. Philip happens to be a Greek name. Maybe that's why they went to Philip and not to some other disciple. So these came to Philip, who was from Betheda in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, We wish to see Jesus, not in the sense of we just want to lay our eyes on him, but we want to meet him. We'd like to have an audience with them. And so my question that I raised earlier was: why did John choose to report on these Greeks who sought to see Jesus? And I believe the answer is John wants us to see that the gospel of Jesus Christ is for all people. It's not just For Jews, it's for all people. John 3. 16, right? For God so loved the world, which means not all people without exception, but all people without ex without distinction. God loves people From all nations, and not just the Jews, God loves Gentiles as well. God so loved the world that gave his only son that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life That's John 3. You turn over to John 4, verse 42, where Jesus met the Samaritan woman, and some other Samaritans learned about Jesus. And they, what do they conclude? John 4. 42. We know that this is indeed the Savior of The world. And so there's this theme in the Gospel of John that salvation is for all Peoples. I want to read something that Leon Morris wrote. He's a New Testament scholar, one of the best commentaries on John. Here's what he said. The fact that the Greeks had reached the point of wanting to meet Jesus showed That the time had come for him to die for the world. He no longer belongs to Judaism, which in any case has rejected him. But the world whose Savior He is awaits him and seeks for Him. And so Jesus, and I'm repeating myself, I like to do that. Um He's a Savior of all peoples, of all ethnic groups. of people from all varieties of spiritual darkness and moral depravity Jesus is the Savior of the world. Well, we know that. I bring it up because it's a good reminder. Yeah, I need I need to be I need to remember Jesus is the savior of the world in this sense. When I meet somebody, now it's interesting, you ever been to the Fijita Grande, Mexican restaurant? I think it's run by Pakistanis, okay? So most people in Pakistan are uh Muslim, right? You go there and chatting with the waiter or y I mean we live in a very uh multi-ethnic uh part of the country. And you meet people of different religions, right? Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists. And um and for me, I mean I have read books on Islam And I forget the whole thing. I don't think I've ever read a book on Hinduism or Buddhism. So there's all these religions. And you meet somebody from one of these religions that is quite foreign to your experience, you don't know where to start, and I think, I I wouldn't know where to start in a conversation with this person. Well That's true. And I'd rather talk to somebody who's just secular or if somebody maybe had some uh encounter with Christianity, at least in their upbringing. Because I there's a way to start the conversation or know where to lead the conversation. But with somebody from one of these uh other religions it's just uh it's quite a reach, okay? But Jesus is the Savior of the world. So we do need to stretch ourselves. We do need to try to build friendships with people. And I want to give you a tip, okay? No extra charge You don't have to master Islam or Buddhism or Hinduism or whatever the cultist somebody might be in. You could just have a conversation. This is something I learned. I started reading a little book. I need to finish it up. There's a book. Write this down if you're interested. It's called Anyone, Anywhere, Anytime. It's by a fellow guy named Mike Shipman. He's a missionary to Muslims. And this is what he discovered in his work. He first he when he started out as a missionary, he said, Well I need to spend months getting to know people. And that wasn't working. He said I just he figured out a way to have a conversation with people uh uh from a Muslim background or any background, you can just start right in. You chat with somebody, you become acquainted, and then you ask the person, you know, what's your what's your religious background And they'll tell you what they are. And here's where it's simple, okay? I'll send you my notes if you want this, or if you want to, I'll tell you the book title again later. But this is brilliant in it, it's very effective. You're talking to your buddy, you're standing in line somewhere, you or maybe at work or whatever. And uh you say to them, most religions are alike, aren't they? We're all trying to please God so that we can get to heaven someday and so that we can pay off our debt of sin. And just about everybody will say, yeah, that's pretty much the gist of my religion. And at that point, he asks the person, What are you doing to get your sins forgiven? And they'll say, Well, I'm doing this and that and the other. And after they've made their list, Of what they're doing to get their sins forgiven, it's at that point you ask them, are your sins forgiven yet? And of course they'll say, No. When do you think your sins will be paid off? I don't know. On Judgment Day, do you have confidence that your sin debt will be paid off? And typically they'll say no. And at that point, you ask them, may I share with you how Christianity is different? And you know, if you ask them permission, typically they say yeah. And then you explain how your sins are forgiven, not because you're a good person. But because God Himself made the way for your sins to be forgiven by sending Jesus Christ to die for your sin. So why do I bring that up? I hope you remembered. Because Jesus is the Savior of the world. And so we need to make a bit of an effort. And that's a real simple little set of questions. Just remember those, and the opportunity may well come up where you can have a very casual or a very relaxed conversation with somebody and you never know. A lot of people here became Christians in their adult years. So that reminds us people still do become Christians, right? And there are a lot of people in church in Frederick County this morning, and so people are still becoming Christians. Jesus is the Savior of the world. Let's go on. Verse 22. Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. However, John doesn't tell us what became of their request. And at this point, you'll notice the Greeks disappear from the story. But it doesn't mean that their approach to Jesus was insignificant because their approaching Jesus signals that the climax of his earthly ministry has arrived. Why do I say that? Notice as soon as Jesus learns about these Greeks seeking to meet him, what's he talking about? He talks about his imminent death. The end of verse 23. What does he say? The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. What is the significance of that statement? That should ring a bell. We have seen that language earlier in the Gospel of John, right? Remember chapter 2, the wedding at Cana? They ran out of wine, and Jesus' mother came to him and said, Hey, do something about this or out of wine. It sounds like she was asking him to perform a miracle. And Jesus said, Not yet, woman, my hour has not yet come. Same kind of language, chapter 7, verse 30, chapter 8, verse 20. The religious authorities sought to arrest Jesus, but those texts say, but no one laid a hand on him because his hour had not yet come. But now, in verse 23, we come to the turning point. Jesus says that his hour has come. And that hour, of course, refers to the appointed time of Jesus' death, resurrection, and ascension. And so everything in John's Gospel has been leading up to the cross. Remember a few weeks ago I said, here's what the Gospel of John is in signific in in a nutshell. It's a it's a passion story, right? It's the story of Jesus' crucifixion with an extended introduction And that's true. Everything's been leading up to the cross, and now Jesus Christ's hour has come. And this just reminds us. That the cross, the crucifixion, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the very heart of Christianity And that's an important reminder because there's a lot of churchy people out there who see Christianity primarily as a moral code. or as a set of principles which should guide us in how we live, or they'll say the essence of Christianity Is living a life that imitates Jesus Christ? And our answer is, yeah, they are all aspects of the Christian faith. But that's not the center of the Christian faith. The center of the Christian faith, of course, is Jesus' death on the cross for sinners. And that's what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 1. 21. We preach Christ crucified. And when we preach Christ crucified We learn a whole lot about who we are, right? We learn that we're sinners. It was necessary for Christ to die for us to be redeemed. We learn about the grace of God toward us. We learn about Jesus' glory and how He humbled himself and how He has been exalted for us. And so we see when Jesus said, My hour has come, this reminds us about the centrality of the cross of Jesus Christ. Here's one more thing we look at. We're going to look at verse 24 to 26. And my question is Why must Jesus and his followers give up their lives? So, first of all Jesus says about it his own death, he said, listen, unless I give up my life My earthly ministry will have been in vain. In other words If he just if we just look at him as a great teacher and as a great example, Jesus is saying, I will not have accomplished the purpose. For which I came. And that purpose, of course, is to bring the salvation, bring about the salvation of his people. So, verse 24. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. And so Jesus is talking about his death as likening it to a seed. being put into a gr put into the ground that produces a great crop. And Jesus is saying, unless I die, there will be no harvest of souls. But if I die, that harvest will certainly come. And he did say, you'll notice, he didn't say, if I die There might be this harvest of souls, but he said no, my death will bear fruit. It's a certainty. That Jesus' death will bear fruit. And so Jesus has full confidence that his death and resurrection will accomplish its purpose He's not saying, you know, you know, I'm gonna die, I'm gonna do my part, and I sure hope people choose to believe in me So that some may be saved. It may be a great number, it may just be a few. Theoretically, perhaps nobody will believe in me. He doesn't say that. He says, no Again, verse 24, if I could find it, he says, Um unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies It bears much fruit. And so Jesus has full confidence that his death will accomplish It's purpose in bringing about the salvation of his people. And we could say he certainly was right, because there are millions and billions of Christians People who become Christians down through time and around the world. And here we sit in a cinder block cafeteria 2,000 years later Yeah, it certainly has borne fruit, and that gives us confidence. There are boys and girls and men and women out there who are his people, and they're going to come to him And we have a part in that process in our engaging them. So Jesus says he must die, and unless he does die God's redemptive purposes will not come to pass. And then he turns to us and he says, If you're to be one of my followers, you too must die. Yeah, we're saved by grace, right? We know that. We're not saved by our good deeds or our efforts. We understand God grants salvation to the undeserving, and all we have to do is trust In Jesus Christ. However, as a follow-through, there is a cost to following Jesus, right? You will give him charge of your life. Look at verse 25. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. To say you hate your life, it doesn't mean like you despise yourself or that you become an ascetic, but it means that you you Prefer God's priorities and God's purposes over your own. Let me how can I put it simply? How about this? You're not turned in on yourself. That a Christian should not be turned in on himself. A Christian is somebody who's whose ambition is to serve Christ and to serve others as a as a way to serve uh Jesus Christ. And that's what should happen when you become a Christian, right? There's this shift in your interests, in your aspirations, and how you use your time or how you spend your money and how you treat other people, right? It's not always about uh me, myself and I, but now I have this whole n I have a I have an ambition to uh please God in what I do. Let me read what George Mueller said. You ever hear George Mueller? Well some of you have, right? He was an Englishman. He started a serious group of orphanages in England. And he was a praying man But he was also a man who died to himself. And here's what he said about himself: He said, There was a day when I died. Died to George Mueller his opinions, preferences, tastes, and will. Died to the world its approval or censure. Died to the approval or blame of my brethren or friends, and since then I have studied only to show myself approved unto God. And here's the counterintuitive nature of the Christian life. Jesus says, when you die That's when you find the life for which God created you. Verse 25. Whoever loses his life Sorry, whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. And so what seems to be the death of joy, of freedom, of life, according to Jesus' claim is really the birth of true joy, of true freedom, and of true life. Now, that's the claim. That's what the Bible says. I want to ask her young people, look at me please. What do you think about that? Is Jesus right or is he wrong? Something to think about. But the Bible claims that if you live for yourself, you're going to come up empty. If you live for Jesus, you're going to come up full. And things that you're looking for in life You're not gonna you don't pursue those things directly, happiness and whatnot. What you pursue is serving Jesus Christ and whatever job you have or wherever you go to school or whatever, whatever you're doing, you try to serve Jesus Christ And then the happiness that you're seeking sort of sneaks up from behind and surprises you. That's what Jesus Christ is saying here. Here's how C. S. Lewis put it. He said, Aim at heaven and you'll get earth thrown in. Aim at earth, and you'll get neither. You'll never be happy. And so that's what Jesus says. Do you believe it? And I want to say to our young people, when you go home today, Look at these verses in John 12 and just think about it. Is this true? I believe it's true. That's why I'm a Christian. And Jesus says, when you follow me, God will honor you. Verse 26, we're almost done. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, what's he say? The Father will honor him. And so these Greeks they said, what? We wish to see Jesus. And that should be our aspiration. And if you're not a Christian, you can see Jesus in the sense that you can know him. If you trust that he died for a sinner like you, you acknowledge your sin and you rest on him as your savior. then you can know him in one day you will see him face to face. And as I said, as a follow through Not as a way to be saved, but as a follow-through on the salvation that we've been given. We are to deny ourselves and to follow Him. And that's a continual struggle, and that's why we're going to pray. Okay. Thank you, Lord, for the promises that you've given us in this very dark and sometimes lonely world, many disappointments. We thank you that you are for us. We thank you that you have opened the way. for us to be forgiven and to know you. I pray for those who aren't Christians that you would move them to know you. And also, Lord, help us to be a little more daring, bold, proactive In engaging people from different uh religious backgrounds, in friendship, in gospel conversations, and also, Lord We pray, Lord, that we would be willing to give up our lives to serve you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.