Revelation chapter one, uh beginning at verse nine, So we started the book of Revelation last week. I think hopefully it's recorded if you missed it. Just so you can get some orienting uh remarks on it to know how to approach it. What we get we get let's try that in English. We begin this morning. In chapter 1, uh verse 9. So have your Bible open, keep it open. It's going to be hard to follow any sermon, I think, if you don't have your Bible on your lap. So, verse 9, we read, I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation. He and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, Write what you see in a book And send into the seven churches, to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, into Pergamum, and to Thyatira, into Sardis, into Philadelphia, and to Laodicea Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the lampstands was one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest. The hairs of her the hairs of his head were white like wool, as white as snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire. His feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars. From his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the shun was like the sun shining in full strength When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead, but he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last, the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades, right there for the things that you have seen Those that are, and those that those that are to take place after this. Ask for the mystery of the seven stars you saw on my right hand and the seven golden lampstands The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. To the angel of the church in Ephesus, write The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your works, your toil, and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil. But have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false. I know you're enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary. But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first. Remember therefore from where you have fallen. Repent. And do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. Yet this you have. You hate the work you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise. of God. Now, you remember from verse 1, chapter 1, that the Apostle John received this revelation from God Through Jesus Christ, through the agency of an angel. And so God is delivering this revelation to John He's not on the French Riviera doing some kind of study leave, but rather he is on an island off the coast of what what is modern-day Turkey is called the island of Patmos And verse nine, that was a Roman penal colony, and that was one of the places where the Roman authorities would banish Against different kinds of criminals, but also those who had an allegiance to Jesus Christ And if you look at verses ten and eleven, John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And so this was the first day of the week. It was called the Lord's Day, because though though the Jewish Sabbath was on the seventh day of the week, there was this shift In light of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, so that to commemorate the resurrection, the day of worship now is on the first day of the week, the Lord's day. And he says, let's see, I was in the where did I go? Oh, verse 10. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet, saying, Write what you see in a book. So that's what John did, right? That's why we have this book now, the book of Revelation. Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches. And as I mentioned last week, this book was written initially to seven churches in Asia Minor, today modern-day Turkey. And uh but I mentioned last week that these letters, and we see seven letters in chapters two and three that we're going to go through. These Letters were not addressed only uh to these seven churches. I mentioned that Revelation is full of symbolic numbers. We see the number seven again and again and again in Revelation, and that repres uh that represents fullness or uh completeness And so these letters to these seven churches are really to all churches, not only at that time, but down through time. And it's obvious that it's to these seven churches also, because the strengths and the weaknesses of these ancient congregations Are characteristic of churches down through time and across the world. And I would also say that these letters are to all churches Because you'll notice at the end of each of the letters in chapters 2 and 3, you'll find something, for example, like we read in chapter 2, verse 7. He who has an ear to hear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Plural. And so though we have we're looking this morning at the letter to Ephesus, the first one in chapter 2. Really, what God says to the church in Ephesus is for all churches. Let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And what we're going to read in each of these letters are words of encouragement, words of commendation, but also words of rebuke. And this morning, there's going to be more of an encouragement. So that's good as we look at the church in Ephesus and also the verses in the end of chapter 1 that precede the letter to the church in Ephesus. Here's the first thing you want to fill in your outline. Point number one. What do we learn here? The first thing we learn in this passage. Is that Jesus Christ ministers to his churches? Jesus is the pastor, the shepherd who cares for his churches. That's important for us to remember, especially for some churches. There's a little church up in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Well it's outside Scranton, Dixon City. It's called Faith ARP Church. It's a in our denomination. I'm acquainted with it. I preached there years ago coming back from vacation. A little struggling congregation. They've been struggling for years The lead elder is 78 years old, and he's trying to hold that church together. They don't have a pastor, they just have pulpit supply who comes in each Sunday And they're very discouraged. And I talk to this elder uh every every few weeks or so or send him an email. And the latest I heard last Sunday, uh there were nine people in worship And they're about done. And so they're wondering, you know, does God care for faith Presbyterian church? Or you think about faithful Christians in these um secret churches or that meet secretly little house churches in places like China and Iran. You know, is Jesus Christ aware of their struggles And you might think even in our experience, in my experience as a pastor, there have certainly been seasons where I've been frustrated uh w with the slowness of progress. And I would say to my wife, I feel like sometimes I'm chewing gravel, uh, no matter what I do I don't make any progress as the pastor of this church. And so we have these kind of questions. Does Jesus Christ care for his people? And in this passage, he goes on public record to affirm his care for all churches that endeavor to be faithful to him. And what we see here is not Jesus Christ looking down on his church from heaven. But rather, what we see is that Jesus Christ, through the ministry of the Holy Spirit is in the midst of his churches. Look at chapter two, verse one To the angel of the church in Ephesus, right, the words of him, says the words of Jesus, who holds the seven stars in his right hand. Now, what are the seven stars? Well, it says in the end of verse 20, the seven star, the end of chapter 1, verse 20, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And it says the seven lampstands are the seven churches. So the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand Then it says, who walks among the seven golden lampstands? The lampstands again are the churches. So Jesus Christ is not distant from his church, but this passage is saying that Jesus Christ, as the chief shepherd Walks in the midst of his churches. You see see the same thing in chapter one, verse twelve, the second part of that verse John said, I saw seven golden lampstands. Again, the lampstands are of the churches. I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the lampstands, one like a son of van. And so the image here is Jesus Christ walking to and fro amongst his people, amongst his churches. That's something we want to remember on Sunday morning. The supreme reality that characterizes our gathering on Sunday morning is that Jesus Christ is in our midst. We are worshiping Jesus Christ, not who's distant from us in heaven, but Jesus. Yes, he's exalted at the right hand of God in heaven. But by the Holy Spirit, He is present amongst us. He is in our midst. And um He's not only present amongst us But he tells us in this passage that he tends to our need. In a chapter 1, look at chapter 1, verse 13. I know there's a lot of uh there's a lot of imagery here, but chapter 1, verse 13, we have him pictured as a priest. It says in the end of that verse He is clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his waist. A long robe and a golden sash around his waist. Revelation is full of Old Testament imagery. And the image here comes, for example, from Exodus 28, verse 4. The sash and the robe, these were the vestments. Of a priest in the Old Testament. And in the Old Testament tabernacle, the priest would be there and he would tend to the lamps From the time the sun went down at night to the time it came up the next morning, he would trim the li the wicks of these lamps, he would replenish them With oil, and he would make sure that the lamps kept on burning. And so the picture here is that Jesus Christ The great high priest tends to his lampstands the churches Well that's sort of general. What does that mean in particular? Let me give you some examples of the ways that Jesus promises as our priest pretend to us his church and other churches that seek to be faithful to God's Word. How does he tend to his churches? Well, he's a high priest and he prays. For its churches. Romans 8:34 says Jesus is at the right hand of God, interceding for us. So we pray for our church, we pray for our people. And Jesus Christ, our great priest, prays for us as well. Jesus Christ, our great high priest speaks to his churches. Now it's notable in each of the in each of these letters, each of these visions that God gave John In chapters 2 and 3 to these seven churches, they all begin with the phrase, the words of Him. So you have seven letters to seven churches, and each letter begins With the words of him. And what we're going to see in these letters are Jesus Christ speaking to his churches. Words of rebuke. Words of comfort, words of judgment. And Jesus Christ continues to speak to his church today. How does he do it? Well, certainly, whenever God's word is read amongst his gathered people, that is the voice of the living Christ to his people. But something else The set there's an old confession German Reform Christians held to. The Second Helvetic Confession And it makes a bold assertion about the character of biblical preaching. Biblical preaching. It's not merely the words of man. That's not what the confession says. It says the preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. Wherefore, when this word of God is now preached in the church by preachers lawfully called, we believe That the very Word of God is proclaimed and received by the faithful. This is making a remarkable statement about biblical preaching. It's saying that not only is the reading of God's word God's word, but when God's word is faithfully proclaimed, and that's the important word to write, faithfully proclaimed. Then that takes on the character of God speaking to his people. This is the voice of the living God. This is why its gross negligence To skip out on Sunday morning worship, unless you're involved in a work of necessity or mercy, uh it's gross negligence To skip out on Sunday worship because there's some social engagement or b some recreational pursuit, or you're just slothful. Jesus Christ is in our midst And through his word, he speaks to us. And so Jesus Christ tends to his church out through his priestly intercession. Through the faithful reading and preaching of his word, we can add other ways that Jesus, the chief shepherd, ministers to his people. 1 Peter 5, he's the chief shepherd. He's appointed under shepherds, right? Elders to pastor, to care for his flock. He's appointed deacons as ministers of mercy. attend uh to their needs. In in verses sixteen and twenty of chapter one uh he speaks about seven stars which in verse twenty Are the angels of the seven churches? So this is telling us that the angels are looking out for his people, for his congregations. For his churches. That's a word of encouragement. This should elevate our view of the church. Jesus Christ is in our midst. And he's tending to us, and he's caring for us, and he's preserving us. Here's something else, point two. So point one, Jesus ministers to his churches. Here's something else that should be an encouragement. Jesus knows the hard work of his churches, of his people. Some of you do a lot of work for the church. I don't mean like for the church. Just in a formal sense, but for the people, that's what the church is, right? It's not a building, it's a people. Some of you are very faithful, praying. You pray hours a week for the church You previ you prepare lessons for Bible studies or the women's group or Sunday school. Very faithfully, very well done. You serve others, you visit them, you make them meals, uh you lead various uh gatherings in a church, you try to encourage others by uh your counsel or by sending notes. And then many, you work hard in your job, right? So you support your family, and also that so you can you can support the mission and the outreach of this church. Sometimes your labors go unnoticed and unacknowledged, sometimes unappreciated. When we go through these seven letters in chapters two and three, you're going to discover one of the recurring themes Is that Jesus knows what's going on? You see this again and again. Look at chapter 2, verse 2. He says, I'm aware of your efforts. I know your works, your toil, and your patient endurance. He says the same kind of things The church in Thyatira chapter 2 verse 19. The church in Sardis chapter 3 verse 2. Philadelphia 3. 8 and Laodicea 3. 15. Jesus Christ says, you know what? Others may not recognize what you're doing, they might not appreciate it, and the world often despises it. But he knows what you're doing. Reminds me of how Jesus spoke in Matthew chapter 6. Remember, he talked about praying in secret, giving in secret, and fasting in secret. Don't do your religion for a show Matthew 6, verses 5 and 6, he said, don't be like the Pharisees who stand at the street corners that they may be seen by others. But when you pray, go into your room, shut the door, and pray to your father who's in secret. And your father, he says, who sees in secret will reward you. So Jesus says again the same thing he's saying there. He sees exactly what you're doing. That should be an encouragement for you to press on. He knows what's going on, he knows your efforts. He's aware of your trials, chapter 2, verse 9. He said to the church in Smyrna, I know your tribulation and your poverty. He's aware of the opposition you face. Chapter 2, verse 13, he said to the church in Pergamon, I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. So he knows what the church in America, the church across the world is up against. A lot of people don't know, they're not aware, and they don't care, but Jesus knows So what do we see? First thing we see in this passage, Jesus ministers to his churches. He knows the hard work of his churches. Here's the third point. Jesus commends the churches for their intolerance. Well that's something different. That doesn't sound very Christ-like. Well it came from Christ. Maybe it is Christ-like, right? We live in a society where intolerance Sorry, where tolerance is the great virtue, right? You can do all manner of things as long as you're you're a tolerant person, then that makes you a virtuous person in our country. And we would say, and I hope you agree with this, uh that we should be tolerant of other people, right? I mean our neighbors don't agree with us on many things We're not mad at them. I mean they're perfectly decent people and we live in harmony uh with them. Uh people who have crazy uh moral views uh We're still we should still be decent and respectful of other people, right? Because they're human beings made in the image of God But what we're saying here is that to be tolerant of other people's views and other people's lifestyles Does not mean that we condone them, right? We tolerate them, but that's different from saying that what you do is valid or noble or good And uh we still think that certain viewpoints are heretical or immoral, and we think that certain behaviors are unwise and at times sinful And so there's a problem, of course, when a church is no longer distinct from the world, and when the church condones and even celebrates, as many denominations are doing today. uh things that are heretical and things that are immoral. So no, we don't want that. At the same time we have we make it we We understand that when somebody's not a Christian, we don't expect them to act like a Christian. We want them to come to Christ. And then we challenge them to exhort them and disciple them And so that's why everybody's welcome to our church service. We don't care. And you don't have to hide what you're doing and Uh what you think? Uh if you're not a Christian, we're just glad you're coming. And we want to love you and become acquainted with you. And also try to uh spur you on toward to look toward uh Jesus Christ. That's one category. The other category is when somebody becomes a Christian then Well then that's when God we say, well God calls you to pursue holiness. You know it's a long process and a couple steps forward and you stumble And we we're patient uh with one another, but we want to exhort then one another to standards of biblical reality And we don't just say everything's okay, but rather God calls us to holiness. And so in Revelation 2, Jesus Christ commends intolerant churches, okay? So, kids, you all get that? Jesus likes intolerant churches. And your parents can maybe make some distinctions with you about that at lunch today. I'll leave that to them But chapter two verse six or chapter two verse two we see this same very thing. What did Jesus say to the church in Ephesus? I know your works, your toil, and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not and found them to be false. Same thing, verse six Yet this you have. You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. The Nicolaitans That was a heretical group. Nobody's exactly sure what their heresy was, but they were not on the right page. And so Jesus commends intolerant churches, and he condemns tolerant churches. And he in these letters he excoriates Are those churches that tolerated doctrinal evil? The church in Pergamon, chapter 2, verse 14 and 15. Jesus said to them, Ye have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam 15. So also you have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. He wasn't complimenting them Chapter 2 verse 20 says that the church inspired Tyra, you tolerate that woman Jezebel. She was a false prophetess. And so Jesus commends churches that have a biblical level of intolerance Well that's all good. Doctrinal purity, right? That's what we want. Doctrinal purity. Well the problem though, he goes on to say, is that your doctrine can be as straight as a barrel But just as hollow if you don't have a devotion to Jesus Christ. So here's the rebuke now, verse 4, verses 4 and 5 of chapter 2. Where Jesus says he seeks not only our doctrinal orthodoxy, he seeks not only our faithful service, but he seeks our devotion. That's verse point four. Jesus Christ seeks not only our service, but our devotion. So he commended, in this first letter, he commended the Ephesians for their hard work, for their endurance, for their intolerance. But then at verse 4, he rebukes them For their coolness toward him, for their lack of love toward him. Verse 4 he said, but I have this against you. You have abandoned the love you had at first. And so it is true. I mean there are many churches, and I'm not just speaking of other churches, but we see this in our soul. There are many times That the church can be proud of its doctrinal fidelity and can be proud of its vigorous activity But have little interest in knowing God and relishing in Jesus Christ And in worshiping him. And that was a problem apparently in Ephesus. One of the commentators had a great line. He said that the church in Ephesus was faithful but frigid. And the idea is that it's not enough if a white doesn't fool around with other men But then she has no affection for her husband. Well, that's the problem with the church in Ephesus. She was fooling around with the heretics, but she was not faithful to the bridegroom. Jesus Christ. The church in Ephesus has been around for a while. The Apostle Paul founded the church during his ministry. But that first generation had now passed on. This is 40 years after the founding of the church And the original ardor that these first believers had for Jesus Christ had grown cold when this new generation arose And um, you know, you read this this uh rebuke, you know, you lost your first love, and uh it would be easy to avoid the force of what Jesus is saying here by saying, yeah, there's a lot of churches out there, and I even see it in our church. Uh, you know, these churches are just sort of dead Or our church is dead in this way or that way. But Jesus, when he speaks this rebuke, he'll notice He doesn't speak it merely to the church, but he speaks it to the individuals in it. Look at verse 7 of chapter 2. What's Jesus saying? He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. So he's saying to the individuals You can't deflect this charge by saying, yeah, you know, that's a dead church. No. You have to examine, you have to start with yourself and examine your own heart Because churches that are zealous for Jesus are composed of individuals who are zealous for Jesus. So I think what we need to do is hear this rebuke and excuse me, hear this rebuke as personally addressed to each of us Then say, you know what? I need to nurture my love for Christ. I need to tend to it. I need to rekindle it. Well, how do you do that? Look at verse 5. There's three things that Jesus does here. And basically he says, remember, repent, and return. Remember, repent. So let's go through verse 5 now. First of all, Jesus says to the church in Ephesus and to all of us in our spiritual laxity, he says, remember from where you have fallen In other words, remember the love that you once had for the Lord Jesus. And there has been more than one occasion I sit down with a fella, and the guy would say I just don't love my wife anymore. And being Mr. Sensitivity, I would say You married her for some reason. Nobody held a gun to your head. There is something about her that you liked. And that's exactly what we need to do. We need to recall our love For the Lord Jesus. And the way we do that, this afternoon, after you had your lunch, maybe take a nap if you're too tired after it, but then you wake up. I'm going to open my Bible. And I'm going to read of who Jesus Christ is. I'll read the Luke 15, the parable, the prodigal son. Well I'll re- I'll read this wonderful prayer in Ephesians chapter three that speaks about the love of that Jesus Christ has for his people. And Paul's desire that his people be filled with the knowledge of God Or I'll go back and I'll read Psalm 84, where the psalmist speaks, you know, he says, one day in your course is better than a thousand elsewhere. And I'll remember that everything I have, every virtue or every benefit that I've enjoyed in life It just didn't come out of the blue, but God is the sustainer, and He's the one who's given me these abilities or these opportunities and these advantages in my life. And I remember that I owe Jesus Christ everything. So the s so j Jesus says To his people who were slackers. He says, remember from where you have fallen. Then the second thing he says in verse 5 is repent. Yeah, Lord, my heart has grown crusted over. I've been a Christian for a long time. I've been a Christian for decades. And I now have adopted a very self-sufficient attitude And I've gotten too wrapped up in trivial pursuits. And I'm too proud. And I need to repent. So will you forgive me? And will you help me to reorder my life and my priorities? Then he says in the end of verse 5, he says, return. Well the what he says is Do the works. You did it first. And so that's a good thing to pray. You know, Lord, stir within me. This is the voice of the living God Open it up, read it regularly, read it every day, right? Because you don't just sit down Sunday afternoon and that changes everything. But you you cultivate your relationship with Christ And there's a warning. Look at the end of verse 5. Jesus said, if they don't remember and repent, return. He said, I will remove your lampstand from its place. And what is it saying? He's saying the church is a lampstand. I'm going to remove your lampstand. Think what he's saying is, I will unchurch the church. I will treat it as apostate I will remove my presence from the church. And that's exactly what happened, sadly, in a church in Ephesus. So the church in Ephesus had a glorious history. The Apostle Paul founded it. You see that in Acts 19 and 20. He then, after he was in prison, he spent three years in there, in Ephesus, establishing that congregation. Then he was off on his missionary journeys, he landed in prison, he got out of prison, he went back to the church in Ephesus. And he left Timothy there to strengthen the church. Three of Paul's letters are to the church in Ephesus, the letter to the Ephesians. Then 1st and 2 Timothy. They had a glorious founding. But there's no church in Ephesus today. Fifteen years ago it was in Turkey And our missionary Rob and Rachel Turner took us out to the church in Ephesus, or they took us out to Ephesus. There was no church in Ephesus, remarkable. Can you believe that After all these centuries, the church has remained unchurched in Ephesus. You drive through the downtown of just about any American city, and you see these wonderful, stately, majestic buildings with their soaring steeples and their beautiful architecture. But more often than not now These churches are no longer beacons of historic biblical Christianity. They once were Because the Philosophers Club doesn't raise that kind of money to build those kind of buildings. It was once Christians, zealous Christians, who want to have a gospel witness that would be there for the generations to come. But these many of these churches, not all of course, many of them have abandoned the scriptures and the gospel and Jesus Christ. Now they're just enclaves for social justice warriors. But they have been unchurched. God long ago removed his presence from them. We don't want that. We want our church to reach forward to generations. So we want to be faithful to Jesus Christ as individuals. We want to hold on to Him. But what we see, just in these uh end of chapter 1 and chapter 2, we have an answer then to the question: does Jesus really care for his church? And here's the part of the answer. He sure does. He dwells in our midst. He knows our labors He commends us for the ways that were distinct from the world, for not tolerating unrepentant sin And he loves us so much that he exhorts us to cultivate our affection for him. And that's our calling. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for your love for us, though we're oftentimes rebellious and go in a different direction and don't seek after you We thank you that you remain faithful. I pray, Lord, that we would individually take time each day to read your word. Help us to see your your character and your will for us in this word. And help and speak to us. Because oftentimes it comes across as a dead letter, especially those who are new to it. Help us, Lord, to persevere with your word. Help us to order our time, not to get so wrapped up in trivial amusements, but to remember that you, the living God, have called us into fellowship with yourself. And I pray for those who aren't yet Christians, those who have questions. I pray that they would seek you and your word And that you, by your Spirit, would so move in them that you would grant them repentance and belief. We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Our last song, you'll recognize the tune. It's a song we've never sung, but it's a great prayer. And it fits right with this passage about the uh call to pursue your perfect love. So take your take your uh bulletin, we'll stand, we'll sing it, you'll recognize it A call and heavenly claims I'm not to shine on I need me to draw where it's love. When first I saw the road where it was so repressed. Our lead us and his word, what is for us I want enjoyed. How sweet embrace still, but they have The world can never reburn. Sweet manager, I may not think that may be more. And drove me from my breath. What held an oey from thy throne. Receive now the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Yeah, and they