Beginning at verse 26. In fact next week we'll be in Luke this same section from Luke 1 26 to uh 38. This morning I'm going to take one chunk of Next week I'm going to take the second chunk. And so I will read Luke chapter one, verse twenty-six. In the sixth month The angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was with Joseph of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored One, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God behold you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great And will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom. There will be no end. And Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I'm a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. Behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age Has also conceived a son, and this is a sixth month with her who was called barren. For nothing will be impossible with God And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed So the first question I want to ask is, what shall we do with Mary? What shall we do with this mother of Jesus? Because when you think about discussions about Mary, uh I tend to think about how Roman Catholics make uh too much too much of Mary Mary. They pray to Mary and their prayer, the Ave Maria, they pray, Holy Mother of God And then they asked her, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of death. Now there's nothing in the Bible that even suggests that we should pray to Mary Mary or that we should ask Mary to pray for us. Then there's other things that the Catholics uh Catholic Church teaches. They teach that Mary was Born without the taint of original sin. That's known as the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception. Where does it come from? Pope Pius the Ninth issued this decree. It says Roman Catholics teach that she never sinned during her life In 1950, Pope Pius XII issued a decree stating that Mary's body was raised from the grave after she died, and then her body and her soul were reunited and she was taken up then to heaven and she was enthroned as the queen of heaven. And so that doctrine is known as the assumption of Mary. They teach that Mary appeared down through the ages to certain monks, to certain priests, and to so-called uh saints. They see Mary as having the role of a mediator between man and God. And they'll say, well, God came to man through Mary, so we need to go back to God through Mary. She's our mediator, and thus that's why they pray for her. They teach that Mary's to be worshipped, the veneration of Mary, right? So there are shrines all over the world. There's one up in Emmitsburg Shrines to which uh millions of people flock each year to uh worship Mary. And so these are all traditions that have developed And so what do we what should we then assume Protestants do uh with Mary. Well, we we don't want to be reactionary just because our Catholic friends make too much of Mary. Uh we don't want to make too little of her. So no, we're not going to deify her, we're not going to Worship her. We're not going to pray to her. But we are going to nonetheless appreciate what Scripture teaches us about her. She was the human mother of the Lord Jesus Christ. We do want to take our thoughts about Mary from Scripture alone, and we want to learn from her. And that's what we're going to do this morning as we look at verses 26 to uh 38, this uh birth announcement known as the enunciation of Christ, in other words the announcement of the The that the angel uh Gabriel made uh to Mary that she would bear the Messiah So what can we learn from Mary? Four things. Real clear, I hope. Four things. First of all, we can learn from Mary's humility. Now this is surprising, and really the Bible is full of surprises. If you were to step back a little bit, we're so familiar with these stories, but if you were to step back, you'd say, you know what? Well it's rather surprising you might have your teacups and look through pinky. It is rather surprising that the announcement of the Messiah's birth was not made in Jerusalem, which had been the focal point of God's activity amongst the Jews for centuries. centuries, but the announcement of the Messiah's birth, it says in verse 6, verse 26, was made In a city of Galilee named Nazareth. I should read verse 26. In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. The sixth month, the sixth month From when? And well you go back to verse twenty-four, uh you discover that Mary's cousin Elizabeth had had conceived and um she was uh gonna Give birth to John the Baptist. And so the sixth month refers to uh the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy. And so what Luke is doing is establishing a link even at this uh juncture between the birth of John the Baptist and the birth of Jesus Christ. But anyway, it happened in this city of Galilee. named Nazareth. Remember Nathaniel's remark in John chapter 1 verse 46? Nathaniel said, Nazareth, you know, can anything good come from Nazareth. It'll be like something in Washington, D. C. hearing hearing about some great event. And then they say, Burkittsville, right? K Dallet Valley's from Burkittsville? Anybody else from Burkettesville? Anybody else bad at me? Birkitsville, you know, can anything good uh come from Birkitsville? And that's the thing. Nazareth that wasn't even on the radar screen, you know, There were about two hundred to four hundred people who lived in this little backwater village in the days of Christ. It is so obscure there's not even the slightest mention of Nazareth in the Old Testament nor in any rabbinical writings. And so the first think about your s think about And you'd be stunned to hear that the announcement of the Messiah Messiah's birth was not made in Jerusalem, but it was made in Nazareth. It wasn't the angel not only bypassed Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the angel bypassed the temple, right? The holy place in Israel, and instead the angel came to this peasant girl. And she was a girl. She was twelve, thirteen years old, maybe perhaps fourteen years old. But Mary was a poor, illiterate teenager who liked had never traveled further than a few miles from from her home uh during the course of her uh short life. And so I think that's rather strange Striking. Maid, Martin Luther said God might well have gone to Jerusalem and picked out Caiaphas's daughter, who was fair, rich, clad in gold, embroidered raiment. In attendance by a retinue of maids in waiting. But God preferred a lowly maid from a mean town. Now Mary agreed. Look at verse forty six When she sang, she said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. So I'm asking the question: what can we learn From Mary? And here's the answer. The pattern of God coming to the humble continues. Nine months later. Later. The angels announced the birth of the Messiah, not to the great and mighty, not to the kings, but to poor, lowly shepherds. And so in the pattern continues. Throughout Scripture, God comes to the humble. And so the one in whom the Messiah was born physically sets the pattern. I'm not reading I don't think. It sets the pattern. This is how God works when He's born in people spiritually. He comes to those who are humble. Humble, it comes to those who are needy, it comes to those who see their sin and their need of a Savior. Remember verse 47 we just read? Uh she called God God my Savior, which means she had to be a sinner, and so she needed to be saved. That's how God works. Why is it that, yeah, God converts the great ones by his his his mercy? God converts the powerful people, but more generally, what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 1 26 and 27 is the case. Paul wrote to the church in Corinth, and this applies really to He said, consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth, but God chose what is foolish in the world to shame The wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. And so I want to ask: how about you? Do you see your need of a Savior? Do you recognize that you are loath Before God, and you need to be saved. I say that for young people. I say that perhaps to some adults here. Do you need to be saved? To be saved, you must first, like Mary, recognize your spiritual poverty. That's why Matthew 5 Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. So we can learn from her from her humility. God comes to Those who are humble. Here's a second thing. It's all right there in the bulletin, right? And this isn't the best term, but it's the best I could do We can learn from Mary's blessedness. What is that? Right? Let's look at 28 and then we'll try it. We'll sort it out. Verse 28. twenty eight and he, the angel, came to her and said, Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with Now that's what my translation says. It says, O favored one. I don't know what the other translations are. You can tell me later. But um Roman Catholicism uh got confused on this verse. So the New Testament we know was written in Greek, the Old Testament was written in Hebrew, in the year four oh four A. D. Scriptures were translated into Latin. And this translation is known as the Vulgate, so the Latin version or Latin translation of the Bible. Roman Catholics get took a whole doctrine from a mistranslation of verse 8. The Vulgate, now I don't want to Cloud this up. The Vulgate, if you look at verse twenty eight in your ver your b uh bible, they translated It hail Mary full of grace. In other words, greeting Mary. Hail Mary. Hail Mary fast. All right, now you know what it means. Hello, Mary. But anyway, that's that's neither here nor there. But then it says full of grace, Ave Maria. Okay? And so that faulty translation Led in the Middle Ages to the idea that Mary is a repository of grace. She's a vessel of grace. And as one who has grace, she can dispense it to others. She's a source of God's glory. Grace and from that it was concluded that prayers should be prayed to Mary so that Mary would give us grace. Right. Readings, Mary. You're full of grace. Help us in our needs. It's a bad translation which lets us This uh faulty doctrine. Even a great Roman Catholic Bible scholar, Raymond Brown, said no, we got it wrong. I mean not we, not his translation team, but The Roman Catholic Church down through the ages. And so, what then is Gabriel saying in verse 28? He's simply saying when he says in verse 28, twenty eight, O favored one, all these things in Mary is greetings. God's favor rests on you. You are a blessed woman. So we don't pray to Mary. Uh we just pray. Or w w we don't we we don't see her as one who gives God's grace. We recognize as we said she's a sin. She needs a savior. That clarification having been made, here's where I want to, here's the point I want to make now. Mary was highly favored. Chapter 1 verse 42. Elizabeth said to her cousin Mary, Blessed are you among women. Chapter 1, verse 48. Mary said, from now on, all generations will call me blessed. And so that's true, right? I mean Millions and millions of people, of women, have walked the face of this earth, and of all these women, it was Mary who bore The very Son of God. It was Mary who had the very Messiah suffering at her breast. And so I said, we can learn from Mary's blessedness. How so? Betcha stumpya. Well, if you turn to chapter eleven, chapter eleven, verse twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Here's how Jesus says there's an even more blessed estate than being my mother. That's what that's what Jesus said. He said, yeah I think Mary's blessed. Well, there's an even greater blessing to be had than being the mother of the Messiah. So Luke 11, verse 27. As he Jesus said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast at which you nursed. What'd Jesus say? He didn't say here, here. He he uh contradicted her. But he said, and I think he sort of responded to sort of this gushing Sentimentality. But he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the Word of God and keep So there from the very lips of Jesus Christ, he goes on the public record and he says, You want to be more blessed than the mother of Jesus Himself? Here it is. Hear the word of God. Take it in. Obey it. Meditate on it. Set under its preaching. teaching and you'll be more blessed than the blessed mother Mary. You want your kids to be blessed? Yeah, we want to them to be blessed, right? We do everything, right? We give them opportunities. We want them to be we want them to be educated. And then we try to help them with their schoolwork. And we want them to have, you know, social opportunities. So we drive them all. I'm not just talking about we, I'm the all of us, right? We drive 'em all over town. We sit in the car when it's cold and dark, wait for them to get out of whatever activity they're in. And then um we try to um if they like sports or That like music or ballet or whatever, we get them into that stuff. And that's all good. But let's have a sense of proportion here. Right? You want your kids really to be blessed, then preeminent uh should be we want them to know the Word of God. Right? So we really want to read the Bible We want to talk to them through driving in the car, sitting at the table, and then we want to have them in Sunday school, right? We want we want to teach them and we We want them to be taught. And Jesus said, You and your children will be more blessed than the blessed virgin mother. So we can learn from her blessedness. Here's something else more briefly. And it's another one of his headings. Like, where's he going with this? I'm always going somewhere to just trust me, okay? You might not be there when I get there, but I'm going somewhere. Um we can learn from her sobriety. We can learn from her her sobriety in the sense, I mean her thoughtfulness in the fact that she was reflective. Look at verse 29 Look at look at it closely. But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting This might be. She tried to discern, you could translate the Greek. She reckoned up the different reasons for what had happened. The New American standard, very low. Literal translation says, she kept pondering. So in other words, Mary, she was 12, 13 years old, she wasn't educated, she had no degrees. But nonetheless, she was she was thoughtful. She was reflective. It's like there's this caricature of Christianity out there Which is completely false. It has this idea, you know what? When you move into the realm of Christianity, you have to sort of abandon uh logic. And if you're a thinking person they'll say you stay away from Christianity. I don't know where they get well I know where they get that. It's just the roots of It's just a smokescreen. It's a it's it's it's false because the exact opposite is the case. And I say this to our team Teenagers, especially the exact opposite is the case is the case. Now, why do people not go to a Bible teaching church? Well, it may be various reasons. their background, their experience and their church tradition or whatnot. So there's there's all kinds of reasons. But there's also a segment of people who do not want to go to a Bible teaching church, church that's not a pep rally or some kind of religious sentimentality. They don't want to go to a Bible teaching church because sometimes some of these people just don't want to think. They don't want to think about God. They don't want to think about life and death. Right? The brevity of life. And the appointment that we have with death. They don't want to think about is there really a heaven and a hell? Or is this something just something I heard? Uh they don't want to consider the claims made by Jesus Christ. They don't want to consider the the the claims that we make about the the uh full Fulfillment, how the New Testament fulfills the Old Testament, and how the Bible is so tightly uh composed that the only way we can account for it is that there is a They don't want to think about these things. Right? Let's talk about the residents. Let's go to the mall. Let's talk about some goofy video on TikTok or whatever the uh uh whatever the uh act is. But you have Mary here, and she was a thinker. And I don't know anybody who truly knows God Who doesn't think? I'm not saying they have to have all these degrees, but I'm saying they don't think. And then to grow as a Christian. Young people, you can't grow as a Christian Christian without thinking. And so take your Bible every day, open it up in the morning or before you go to bed or whatever. Take your Bible, read it, and next day do the next chapter or have it however many you've determined. And feel free to underline things and make little notes. So like they say read, mark, learn. Right? You want to learn the Bible, and then listening to a sermon. Right? That takes work. Takes more work. More work for some preachers than others. But it sh it should take uh it takes work, but you have a responsibility to concentrate and to listen and to think. One of the Puritans got named John Brown said there is no pouring Christian truth passively into the minds of men. If men will not listen and reflect and examine the meaning of statements, the validity of arguments, and the force of motives, the best possible teaching will not make sense. And so concentrate, think, right, read the scripture ahead of time, reflect on it, uh, meditate on it after the After the passage, go back to that passage. And also say, you know, what is a good doctrinally sound Christian book but a sermon in print? And so read good, substantial Christian teaching, writings. And I know there's a lot of Christian living books out there, and after you read so many of them, they start to say that same thing and it becomes a blur. So I suggest sometimes it's good to get a real a a more uh a meatier book, even a doctrinal book book uh doctrinal book, right? And uh you go through it slowly, you make notes, you might have to go back and read. But sometimes I'd say more often than not, you think on these things things and you reflect on it and that's very uh spiritually nourishing, more so typically uh than one of these uh uh the later popular Christian life type books. And so we can learn from Mary's thoughtfulness, her sobriety. Okay? Fourth and finally. We can learn from her submissiveness. So after this great news came to her, I should say I shouldn't say great. I should say terrifying news came to her. What does she say in verse 28? We read, Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. And I don't think that was just some conventional response. That took some courage to say say right here's this this young unmarried girl being told that she was gonna have a baby this was the first century Out there in the backsturts to uh outskirts to the Roman Empire, and the penalty for out-of-wedlock pregnancy uh was severe due to Deuteronomy twenty-two verse twenty-three to prescribed the death penalty for adultery. Wasn't always carried out or often carried out, but it was still there on the books. Joseph, to whom she was engaged engaged, we wouldn't be surprised if we reacted strongly, right, on learning that his his um bride to be is pregnant so the marriage might not come to pass. That he had thought about divorcing her. And so at the very least, Mary's reputation uh was at stake in a If he had divorced her because she had a baby out of wedlock, uh she would have the stigma she would remain forever single and alone Alone there was no social uh safety net, no welfare back then of course. And so it was a blessing, but it was a burden. In fact, one of the old hymns. was in our songbook. A hymn titled uh Earth was Waiting, Spent and Restless. Here's a line that's really nice. It talked about the spirit. coming to Mary. It says, Then the spirit of the highest to a virgin meek came down. And then listen And he burdened her with blessing, and he pained her with renown. And so the renown of the being the mother of the Messiah was painful, right? Great glory, but also great pain. The blessing of being the mother of the Messiah. Of Jesus at the same time was a burden. But she recognized that this was the will of God for her. So go back now. Now let's read verse 38 again. What'd she say? Behold, I am the servant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. So what can we learn from Mary? Well, there's not a person here, right, who does not is not suffering. Some affliction or some heartache. If you drive through the most beautiful neighborhoods in Frederick County, you can be pretty sure that behind every door there's a broken heart. Right? And many of us are acquainted with one on one another, so we know what's going on. And nonetheless, there's a lesson here. Yeah, we live in a fallen world, right? This world is not our own. But what in this fallen world We nonetheless reside under the providence of a good God who has his purposes. And so what can we learn from this Mary, we're not fatalists, but we can learn from her submissiveness, right? Lord, you You know what's you've allowed this to happen. I will endeavor to trust you in all things. So yeah. We don't make too much of Mary. But we can learn an awful lot. We can learn from her her humility, her blessedness, her sobriety, and her subm submissiveness. And these four traits provide the pattern for what should happen every time we sit under God's Word, whether it's being taught, preached, or read. Friend, humility. The humble person hears this is the very voice of God. And we recognize that God blesses those who hear Hear and obey his word. Right, Jesus said, Blessed are those who hear and obey my word. And then we can learn about her sobriety. Yeah, we need to think about the big issue. And how this book interacts with those issues. And then we can learn from her submissiveness. Lord, I grumble too much Help me to quit whining and to thank you and to trust you. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Father in heaven. That you have spoken so clearly. We do pray, Lord, that we would be humble and we would trust you in all things, and that we would not walk uh by sight but by faith. And I pray, Lord, for those who have not seriously grappled with the claims of Christ in this book uh with the realities of heaven and hell and with the fact that we will one day stand before you. And I pray Lord for any person in that situation that you would get them to stop and to pause and to reflect and to seek after you. And I pray that in your good time And by your grace, that you would grant them repentance and faith, that they would rest on Jesus Christ as their Savior and also as their good shepherd. to guide them through their lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Take your song book. We're going to turn to 27 Now, we're not real familiar with this song, but it is it is stiff with great truth. And so when you go home, Google it and read through it slowly. But let's stand and sing 217. We're going to sing verses 1 to 5. Five years ago. So uh Yeah, it doesn't have any more putting it out. I mean I don't believe in this. No, no, no, no, no. We have the water in the sub and over and over. Amen. What a great promise, right? God promises He will meet all your needs. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Amen. So we'll take a five minute hello and then we'll sit down for the short meeting. Sound good, man.