Bibles, we're going through the uh book of Revelation, we're on the end of chapter two, and uh next week and the week after we're gonna do something different. I'll explain that next week. week it's also in the newsletter. But um we're in Revelation chapter two. So we'll take a two-week hiatus from Revelation after this. And we're going through in chapter Chapters two and three, the seven letters that Jesus gave to seven churches in Asia Minor, which is present-day Turkey. We come this morning to The fourth letter, chapter two, verse eighteen, to the church in Athiatira. We read And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write, the words of the Son of God who has eyes like a flame of fire And whose feet are like burnished bronze. I know your works, your love, and faith, and service and patient endurance, and that your latter Your works exceed the first. But I have this against you. That you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess In his teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. But she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her, I will throw into great tribulation. Unless they repent of her works and I will strike her children dead, and all the churches will know that I am I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you as your works deserve. But to the rest of you in Thyotira, who do not hold to this teaching Who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan's. To you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden. Only hold fast to what you have until I come. The one who conquers and keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a Rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father, and I will give him the morning star. He who has in ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Let's bow our heads. We do pray, our Lord and God, that you would give us ears to hear your living word to us this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Now I said this Of other things. We should be tolerant of unbelievers, of their views, and of their lifestyles But to say that we're tolerant of their views and lifestyles doesn't mean that uh we condone them. It just means we understand that God has to convert people by His spirit. They have to embrace the gospel. And then God begins the work of changing them. So we would always say justification for Sanctification. Or you might say God catches his fish before he cleans them. That's right. Remember how Jesus dealt with unbelievers that Ahemant. And so it's good to be tolerant of unbelievers. It is Wrong to tolerate amongst professing Christians heresy or immorality And just so you see, I'm not making this up, if you turn back to First Corinthians five, this is precisely uh what Paul says. First Corinthians chapter five, verse nine and following, he explains to the Corinthians. He he rebukes them for immorality in the congregation, but then he qualifies what he has to say, chapter five, verse nine. He says, I wrote to you my My better not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexually immoral immoral of this world, or the greedy and sweaty Or idolaters, since then you'd need to go out of the world. But now I'm writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother If he's guilty of sexual immorality, or green, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one. What have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges Those outside, then he says, purge the even purge the evil person from among you. And so that's what we're talking about when we we're saying, or when I say that Christians should be intolerant. We should not tolerate heresy or sexual immorality in the church. And yet that's what is Many good hearted Christian folks are doing when they attend the church that violates the most basic doctrines and practices of biblical Christianity. And as we've gone through these seven letters, it's interesting. Again and again, we have Jesus commending intolerant churches and condemning tolerant churches. Back in chapter 2, verse 2, Jesus commended the church in Ephesus for its intolerance. He said, I know how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not And so Jesus is saying to these Christians, Hey, that is good. You don't put up with that stuff. On the other hand He condemned the church at Pergamon for its tolerance. Chapter 2 verse 14. He said to these Believers, I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam, and you're letting it go on. So Jesus had that against them. And then in this passage before us, Jesus rebukes the Christian congregation and Thyatira. Why? For their tolerance of false teachers. And here's really the key verse that explains what's going on in this passage, chapter 2, verse 20. Whoops, I've got to turn back to Revelation. Chapter 2, verse 20 Jesus said, I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman, Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess in his teaching and seducing my servants. To practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrifice to idols. Now, um this is really a rebuke of of uh the spirit of our age in the in churches in America because tolerance uh in most churches is is esteemed as like being Great virtue. Right. Churches fly they'll fly rainbow flags out in front of their uh out in front of their building. Uh inside the church men Many in the leadership, and I've heard this over and over, they'll turn a blind eye to what's going on amongst them within the membership foreign Unlawful divorce, adultery, corrupt business practices, and people say in the church. Well Well, we don't want to be judgmental. Well, they haven't read 1 Corinthians 5. They haven't read this passage here. And there's there's there's a judgmental condescending demeanor that you can have, but there's also a humble approach to people that is joined with the with a conviction that God is a holy God and He calls us to be a holy people. In so many churches, what has happened to the mainline prostitution Church between 1900 and our present day? Well, churches, because they're loving, so they say they're being loving, they have ordained pastors and church leaders who deny the most basic doctrines of orthodox historic Christianity And so this passage is instructive as we look at the spirit of our age. It's instructive to us and to our children, especially our young people. When you grow up and you move out and you look for a church, one of the key things you want to look for is does the church regard highly the holiness of God? Does the church practice Humble, gracious church discipline. Does the church confront what do the people confront one another in matters of holiness, in matters of doctrine? Well let's look a little more closely about the situation in Thyatira. We want to ask four questions. What what what were the Christians here uh tolerating And why were they tolerating it? What warning does Jesus issue to them and to us? And also what does Jesus promise to those who were faithful. And so what was going on in Thyatira? What was the this group tolerating? Uh a little bit of background. Um unlike the cities mentioned in the previous uh three letters, Sayatira was not a was not an impressive uh city it was it was a market city. It was right on a trade route between Pergamon and Up and uh Sardis. Remember I said the letter revel letters, these seven letters They made sort of a circle as you went to these seven cities in Asia Minor. And um Fergamon was located along a trade route. And I read that archaeologists have Uncovered inscriptions that reveal that the city of Thyratyra was dominated by trade guilds. And so there were these trade associations for bakers and Bronze workers, clothing makers, cobblers, weavers, tanners, potters. You may know you may have read Acts sixteen, a lady named Lydia, and then she Mentioned also in the book of Philippians. It says in Acts 16:14 that she was a seller of purple goods from Zia Cairo. And so I'll bet you she belonged to belong to the Dyer's guilds in Thai Tyra. And what's noted what's notable here is that each guild, each trade guild had a God were a goddess, a patron deity that was over their guild. So the linen linen workers guild had its own goddess and the uh and the leather workers guild had its own god and so on Why is that important to know? Well, because if you wanted to succeed in your trade, you had to be a member of a guild Okay, I'll join a guild. Well for if you're a Christian though, here's the rub. When you join the guild, you had To worship the God of that guilt, you would have to go to the festivals and partake of the pagan feasts and the food offerings to these gods. And then at the end of the fest the festival, you could just slip out the back door. You'd have to stick around Around for the sexual wrong that would break out. And a Christian who avoided guild membership uh would be deprived of his or or I would say his uh income and would face persecution. And so to be a Christian and thy tire presented A difficult choice. Do you want to survive? Do you want to support your family? Do you want to maintain your position in society? Or do you want to Stay faithful to Jesus Christ. And so it it was a challenge. Alright? So that's the background. So we're saying, what's going on? What's going on Thyatira. Well, now here's here's what thickens the plot. There was a member of the church in Thyatira, a woman whom Jesus calls Jezebel. Now that wasn't her real name. Her name was Dolores or something like that. But um he calls her Jezebel. That's an illusion. To remember that Jezebel in the Old Testament, uh, this queen, she was a queen of a foreign country, and she married the Israelite king, Ahab, and uh she led God's People into idolatry and sexual immorality. Precisely what's going on here in Thyratirus, and Jesus calls her Jezebel. And here's what she said. She He said, To conquer Satan, you need to become acquainted with his ways. You need to enter his territory Look at the end of verse 24. You need to learn, quote, the deep things of Satan. Well, that's convenient. And so she said, You know what? Go to those feasts. Go to those feasts. Partake in the sexual immorality. You can do this and still remain a Christian, okay? The end of verse 20. That woman Jezebel, Jesus says, is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual morality and to eat food sacrifice titles. One of the commentators, Dennis Johnson, said so she contended That you could do these things and you could remain a Christian. In fact, if you did these things You'd be an even better Christian because now you were acquainted with the deep things of Satan, which is what is Sometimes you hear Christians doing that today, right? I watch these grossly immoral movies because I want to know what's going on in our culture and I want to be engaged in the culture. And it makes me a more fluent Christian as I talk to people. Well that I think what was going on in Thyatira. So that's the situation. But the question then is the second question, why were they tolerating uh this false prophetess? Uh these seem to be very earnest Christians look at verse Verse 19, right? I mean, this was not a group of people who had no proof of Christian conversion. Verse 19, Jesus said to these guys Folks, I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first. And so So this was in many ways a group of diligent believers, and so here's the question again: why were they tolerating a woman who would advise them to engage in idolatry and in sexual immorality. You got me to text that in the same. But I can make I can make an educated take an educated stat about it based on the text. I don't think The people saw this woman for who she was. She was, she called herself a prophetess in verse 20. She had an aura of spiritual rahitas. She offered, as a prophetess, she no doubt offered deep spiritual insights Says in the end of verse 20, she was a persuasive communicator. So she's teaching and seducing my servants. So she was persuasive. And so these Christians regarded her to be a prophetess, someone who spoke forth revelation from God. Who are they? her. I think uh yeah I just think she presented herself as someone with some kind of spiritual authority. I don't know if you buy that I I think that's the best ex explanation there is. And the same dynamic exists in churches in our day. You can have a church with a highly educated Pastor, strong personality, a commanding communicator, someone who always has some novel insight into the Bible Bible. Something you never ever heard of. But this guy or this gal just has these great insights into scripture. And I've certainly talked to people in churches like this and they'll say, well, you know, uh I'm not sure I'm with all that that this pastor is teaching or that these leaders are promoting. But uh who am I? They they seem like they know what they're doing And uh they feel like they're these people feel like they're outgunned in an argument or to really take them on. And I've heard people say, well I'm just I guess I'm just old fashioned, I'm not real comfortable with that, but I need to catch up with the times. Well, when a congregation has not been taught the Bible Well, that's what happens to that that's what happened in the main many of the mainline uh Protestant churches. Good people, goodwill, but for decades, for generations Generations, the Bible was never explained. People were never taught how to handle the Bible. And so somebody comes along, and the feet the people just haven't been equipped to represent Recognize that this is wrong, that this is violating uh scripture. And um so that that that's what goes on. And um this reminds us that the people in the you have responsibility to measure everything you hear against the scripture. And one of the classic statements of this is in Acts 1711 Paul was preaching in Berea, and Luke makes this comment. Luke says, Now these Jews were more noble than Those in Thessalonica. Why? They received the word with all eagerness. Then it says, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. And so they weren't just food winks by some guy who or some woman who a persuasive teacher and might have a lot of knowledge up here about these theories, but they examined what was taught is it according to the Scripture. And in our denomination, we have a doctrinal statement, the Westminster Confession of Faith, written in the 1640s. It's the I think it's the most articulate And compact statement of historic biblical theology. So we use that as a standard when we examine elders, deacons, pastors, right? Does this pastor or elder line up on these doctrines. So that's one way we protect the teaching of the church. Of course there are churches that say they hold to the confession, but don't They don't really. So s so the people in the pew have to know the scripture. You have to be learning the scripture. You have to be in a church that teaches it, right? So Not everybody recognizes heresy when it rears its head. But Jesus recognizes it. Look at the end of verse 18 He's the one who has eyes like a flame of fire and whose teeth are like burnished bronze. That's an allusion to Daniel 10:6. There's a lot of allusions to Daniel Daniel and Ezekiel in the book of Revelation. Daniel 10, 6 speaks about an angel. His eyes were like flaming torches, and his arms and legs like the gloom. So revelation is rooted uh in the Old Testament. In fact, somebody said I said something to the effect that all of the Old Testament rendezvous Booze in the book of Revelation. You're going to see all the Old Testament coming up again and again in the book of Revelation. But anyway, that's an aside. But what I'm saying is, Jesus He has eyes like flames of fire. He sees everything. He recognizes in an instant counterfeit spiritual leaders. And he didn't call that prophetess uh some great spiritual leader. He called her Jezebel, and it's leader like burnished bronze. has the ability to crush, to trample these wicked, deceitful leaders. So that's the what, that's the why. And what's the application then? Well, there's a warning. There's a warning that Jesus issues to tolerant churches. You know what I mean by tolerant, right? Now somebody comes into our church and they're not a Christian and they're involved and they're engaged in some kind of uh unethical lifestyle, we just welcome them in and we want them We want them to sit at the table at the fitnik and we want to get to know them and encourage them and share the gospel. We're not going to correct them. So that's not what we mean by being tolerant. We want to be tolerant there. We're talking about again, tolerance of the of the membership of the church, those who profess to be Christians. Jesus says to tolerant churches You need to repent or you'll be disciplined. And that's what he said, first of all, to this false prophetess in verse 21. I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold, I will throw her onto a stickbed. And so the punishment fit the crime Uh she was on a bed of lust and now she's gonna be on a bed of of sickness. And uh Jesus not only warns her though, he warns her followers probably Good hearted people. He warns her followers that if they do not repent, he will discipline them as well. Verse 22, so I'll throw her on Then he says also strike her children dead. I think that's a reference to her spiritual offspring. And so God doesn't take this lightly. And it's It's amazing the things that are done in churches that profess the name of Christ, but God does not take this lightly. He will judge it. You see the same thing in 1 Corinthians 11 28 to 30, where God says, you know, I'm going to strike you dead. I was in a church once, and uh I found out, well, this there was an elder, he died of a heart attack when he was 15 years old. I found out after he died, he was an elder, that he was having an affair. I'm not saying that's why he died, but that certainly quite My mind. You don't know how this stuff works. So Jesus warns these tolerant churches, repent, or you'll be disciplined, but then it ends with a promise promise versus uh well really from verse twenty two twenty four to uh twenty-nine uh there were many in the church who were not following This lady. And Jesus exhorted them to be faithful. 24 and 25. So here's the encouragement to those who are endeavoring To hold fast. Or let's say 24, yeah. But to the rest of you in Thiaatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan. To you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden. Then he says, only hold fast So he says, Hold fast, Jesus will remain faithful. And And um here's the here's the here's the reward. I'm stuttering today, am I not? Uh here's the reward. If you remain faithful, Jesus says in 26 and 27 You're going to share in my rule over the nations. So I'm going to read verse 26 and 27. The one who conquers and who keeps My words to the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earth and Pots are broken in pieces. Well that that was an image that certainly caught the attention of the potter's guild attire tyrant, right? Earth and pots are broken to pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father. Now we didn't read Psalm two we sang it But if you read Psalm 2, you'll immediately recognize that Jesus is picking up in Psalm 2 verse 9 the image of Jesus Or it's a prophecy of Jesus, the anointed Son, and it says that he comes, he's going to break the nations with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces Like a potter's vessel. But now in Revelation 2, Jesus takes that promise. For the Father said to him, You're going to rule over the nations. And Jesus said To his people, you are going to share with me in that rule over the nations. And so you may be oppressed, you may be disenfranchised right now, you may be even losing your livelihood. But there's a promise here that The day will certainly come when the tables will be turned. And so do not go along with the culture. Do not Take the path of least resistance because if you're faithful, you will rule with Jesus Christ over the nation And just as in a time, this tells us something about the goofy popular view that people have of heaven. That is someplace through Ethereal, and there's not much going on, but everybody just has a glazed smile on their face. This tells us that heaven will not be a place of There will be rule over the nations, there will be progression, there will be development, there will be relationship relationships in heaven, just not tainted by sin. And I think this earth is a good picture of what it'll be like if you take away all the effects of sin. And so I want to say to our young people It's a good place. It's going to be an improvement over this situation. And so Jesus says to the faithful, You're going to share my dominion. Then he says briefly in verse 21 Verse 28, you're going to share my glory. He says 28, I'll give him the morning star. The morning star is the brightest star in the sky. Well, who is this Morning star. We can interpret a lot of these things in Revelation by just looking within the book because you get to chapter 22, verse 16. Jesus says, I am the root and the discipline. And so Jesus is the morning star. When he promises to give the morning star to Christians, he's saying, I'm promised And so reject the the uh the lies and the deception Of the world, and you will have Jesus Christ, and one day you will have him in all his fullness, and you will share in his glory Remember I saw how the revelation was back to the Old Testament? This morning star figure. Goes back to Daniel 12, verse 3. Those who are Wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars Forever and ever. So you're going to share Jesus' rule and you're going to share Jesus' glory. And so do not be discouraged, right? You may young people person you may grow up and you might not have a very glamorous job. You may not be respected by the people of the world, but you're a faithful Christian and you're working hard, you're supposed to Supporting yourself, if you have your family, you're supporting them, you're being faithful. That's good enough. That pleases God. The important thing is that whatever God calls you to That you be faithful. And so in verse 29, remember what Jesus said. He who hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Everybody hear Has an ear, I hope you hear what the Spirit says to the church, the churches. We should not tolerate false teaching or immoral behavior that's unrepentant And we need to, as Jesus said, verse 25, we need to hold fast. So stay in the word, stay in prayer, stay in fellowship with God's people. And put away all those things that distract you from a pure-hearted pursuit of Jesus Christ with power heads