Now, Reformed Christians hold that there are three instruments uh channels, I don't know what what the right word is. Let's say three channels uh by which the Holy Spirit builds up Christians In other words, how does the Holy Spirit convey the benefits of Christ's work to us? And we'd say that the primary way that God does that is through the Word of God, right? The reading and preaching and application of the Bible. Through the sacraments and through prayer. And so we call these three things: the word, the sacraments In prayer, the primary means of grace, the means of grace, the means by which the Holy Spirit influences a Christian by which the Holy Spirit changes us more into the image of Jesus Christ. Real simple, right? These are basic. And yet, you know, if you look back over the past sixty years, uh churches have uh or I'd say many churches, many denominations Have diminished the importance of these three things, these three means of grace, the word, the sacraments, and prayer. And of the three, I would say none has been more diminished in the life and ministry of the church of then the sacraments. In uh it was funny, years ago We had a young lady in church named Dana Tuttle and she moved to Hagerst or her family moved to Hagerstown and so they set out to look for another church and um they checked that one church for a couple months and Dana went up to the pastor and she said, When you guys have the Lord's Supper. And the pastor said, Well, we had the Lord's Supper on those months to have a fifth Sunday Unless the announcements and the drama goes too long. And Dana's said she didn't say it but she said to me, that's criminal. You know, you don't this the Lord you don't have the Lord's Supper except when it seems to work out. And so she moved on, or they moved on in their search uh for the church. But what I what I want to point out is that the Lord's baptism and the Lord's Supper are not secondary in the Christian life. Uh and the Lord's Supper, you might say, is God's appointed drama? You know, if somebody ever says, Do you have dramas in your church? You might say, yeah, we have dramas at Good News Presbyterian Church. But it's not people doing little things in their leotards, but rather it's God's appointed dramas. God's appointed dramas are baptism and the Lord's Supper And in these appointed dramas, we recall Jesus' death for our sin. In these dramas, our fellowship with Jesus Christ is deepened. And God assures us, and this is huge, and I'm going to mention this again, in the Lord's Supper, and the in the baptism, God assures us That we are forgiven and made righteous by Christ. That's part of what the Lord's Supper is. It's like a confirmation, a token, an assurance. And also in the Lord's suffer, by faith, we are spiritually nourished And so what we're going to do this morning, as we look at this passage in Matthew chapter 26, we're going to answer this most basic question. And the question is, what is the Lord's supper? Some of this is familiar, some of this will be new, because uh even though these that this what I say here is central to what the Lord's Supper is. It's not oftentimes uh given due emphasis. And so to answer the question of what is the Lord's Suffer, the first thing I would say Is that the Lord's Supper is, number one, the Christian Passover. And we see that in the first section here, verse uh beginning at verse Where am I? Verse um seventeen, okay, that first section. And so here's the context, and then I'll explain what I'm talking about Jesus is in Jerusalem, right? This is the week of the crucifixion. And it's Thursday. He's in Jerusalem. He'll be crucified on Friday. And it says in chapter twenty-six verse seventeen that it was the first day of unleavened bread. That was the day of preparation for the Jewish Passover. And you'll go back to Exodus twelve sometime if you're not familiar with the Passover, and you'll notice in Exodus twelve thirty-four that When God told the Israelites to leave Egypt, they had to depart in haste. And so they couldn't make bread typical as they typically did with leaven. But they did it quickly. They made their bread without leaven. Okay? And you'll notice in the second part of verse 17 the disciples asked Jesus We're where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? Okay? And this I want to do a little bit of an explanation for those who aren't familiar With the Jewish Passover, this was the great annual festival which remembered the great redemptive event of the Old Testament. The Exodus of Egypt, the Exodus from Egypt. And so in Exodus seven, chapter seven to chapter twelve in Exodus God sent ten plagues on the Egyptians, right? Moses went to Pharaoh and said, Let my people go. Pharaoh said, Go jump in a lake. And so then God unleashed a plague on the Egyptians. And after nine plagues, Pharaoh would still not allow the Israelites to get out of Egypt. And so God told Moses, I'm going to send a tenth plague And this would consist of an angel, a death angel, would go throughout Egypt, and that angel would strike down the firstborn son in each house However, any home that took a an unblemished lamb, slaughtered it, sacrificed it, then took some of its blood, and uh painted it on the doorframe of the house. That angel, as it went through, taking out the firstborn in each home, that angel would pass over the home where a substitute had been sacrificed. Okay? And so that's where you get this uh this name uh the Passover. And so to commemorate God bringing the Israelites out of Egypt, each year the Jews were told you must celebrate the Passover. And in Jesus' day, they would come to Jerusalem, they would sacrifice a lamb in a temple, and they would sprinkle some of its blood on the altar. And then the worshippers would take the lamb's carcass home, they would roast it, and they would have it as their Passover meal. Now, it's not a coincidence that Jesus was crucified on the Passover, right? Because Jesus is the uh final Passover. In fact God take bringing the Israelites out of Egypt. That was just an optic lesson that pointed forward to the greater redemption That God would bring about for his people. Not redemption from the Egyptians, but Christ would affect our redemption from sin, from Satan, and from death. And so you get down to verse 26, you notice they're having a Passover meal, but then when you get to verse 26, Jesus transitions From the Passover to instituting the Lord's Supper. It says in verse 26, now as they were eating Jesus took bread and after blessing it broke it and gave it to it to the disciples and said, Take, eat. This is my body. Now I asked the question, what is the Pass of what is the Lord's Supper? And the first answer we have is that the Lord's Supper is The Christian Passover. The Lord's Supper is the fulfillment of the Old Testament Passover. In fact, the Old Testament Passover was just a type that pointed forward to the reality of the Lord's Supper. Jesus gave the Passover new signs, right? No longer a slaughtered lamb and sprinkled blood. But now bloodless elements, right? Bread and wine, because Christ's blood was shed once for all. That's a huge theme in the book of Hebrews Jesus is the final sacrifice, and so that's why we have bread and wine. That's where we're on good terms with First Baptist Church. We don't slaughter anything in their gymnasium on Sunday morning. The Lord's Supper is the Christian Passover. And so when you take it, one thing you're doing is you're celebrating your redemption, right? Christ brought me he re He liberated me from sin and Satan and death and so that's why you know the Lord Suffer is a solemn occasion but it's also a celebration. That's why we call it sometimes a celebration Of the Lord's Supper in Paul and 1 Corinthians 7. What do you say about 1 Corinthians 5, 7? He said of Jesus Christ, Christ, our Passover Lamb, has been sacrificed. Therefore, let us join or let us celebrate the festival. And so, Christian, Jesus Christ invites you to this, his table of the I was listening to a song by Michael Card recently. It's about the Lord's Supper, and he said, Come to the table that He's prepared for you, the bread of forgiveness, and the wine of release. Come to the table and sit down beside him. The Savior wants you to join in the feast. You think, I fall short, I'm a sinner. If you're a Christian, your sin has been removed. You've been clothed with the righteousness of Jesus. And so Jesus says, I invite you to my table. You're not fit on your own merits, but Jesus Christ has given you his righteousness, and so you can come into the presence of the God of the universe and have fellowship with him. Now let's go back to our passage. You'll notice, speaking about the Passover, I mean the Passover in a sense, verses 20 to 25. Except I want to make one comment. 20 to 25 uh speaks about Jesus predicting Judas denial. There's a few things that we can talk about, but I just want to make one comment Just so I wanna I want to stay on theme here. Uh Jesus said in verse 24, well I better read it. Verse 24. Jesus says, the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. And so Jesus said there that his betrayal must take place, right? He said in verse 26, as it is written. And an example, Psalm 41, verse 9, uh by David foreshadowed Judas betraying Jesus, where uh David said Even my close friend, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. And so it was written that Jesus would be betrayed. In a sense, you could say this was all in the providence of God. You might even say it was foreordained by God. But then that raises the question, well then was Judas not responsible? Um can he be excused then for what he did? And we say, no way, no way, because in the end of verse 24, what did Jesus say Woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. And so we have this tension here, right? We see God's sovereignty And yet we see Judas was responsible for their actions. And how do those things fit together? I say they're a mystery. Some people say, well, that's an easy way out. Well, there's a lot of things in the Bible that are a mystery. And so I we have to affirm those twin truths and just leave it at that. So the Lord's supper, number one, is the Christian Passover. Number two Are you with me? I know there's I was saying to Becky before the service, I said, there's going to be a lot of explaining here. Just bear with me, okay? Secondly, the Lord's Supper, and this is more familiar, is the memorial of Jesus' death It's a rememorial or a remembrance of Jesus' death for our sin. That's why in Luke 22, 19 The parallel passage Jesus commanded his disciples when he instituted the supper, he said, Do this in remembrance of me Well, what does Jesus want us to remember about him and the Lord's Supper? That he was a great teacher, that he lived an impeccable life? You know, what it Is that it? No. He wants us to remember something in particular. He wants us to remember his death for our sins. Chapter 26, verse 26. Let me read the that section again. Verse 26. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take ye, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Not for all, but for many. For the forgiveness of sins, I tell you, well, I'll stop there at verse 28. But anyway What do what Jesus wants to remember? He wants us to remember that the bread signifies his body slain And then when he poured the wine, that signifies his blood shed for sinners. And so when Jesus says You know, this is my body, this is my blood. That points to one of the central themes of what the cross of Christ conveys And that is the concept of penal substitution. In other words, Jesus was the substitute who bore the penalty that we deserved for our sin. Galatians 2 verse 20 Paul said, the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. There's the idea of substitution. Jesus gave himself for us. And so when we say Jesus died for you, we're not saying In some general way, Jesus died for your benefit, but we're saying specifically, Jesus died in your place for your sin. And so in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 26, Paul said, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Now wait a minute. If I preach through the Bible, I proclaim the Lord's death. Why do we have to have the Lord's Supper? Why do we have to have the bread and the cup? Well, the reason we have to have it, and this is why God instituted it. It's because we're dull. We don't get it. And so what the Lord suffer is it's a visible Or I might say it's an object lesson that God puts before our eyes to confirm to us, you know, we struggle. Am I a Christian? Am I forgiven? Why am I still struggling in this area? Well, if you're resting on Christ for your salvation, the Lord Suffer, it's God saying, Yes, you're forgiven Because remember, Jesus' body was broken, and his blood was shed. And here's this fellow at this banquet table, and he invites you to come to it. So yeah It confirms to the Christian that we're indeed forgiven. And so the Lord's Supper is not esoteric. You know, how does God communicate, how does God influence us spiritually during the Lord's Supper? The same way He does through the preaching of the Word, but Instead of communicating it verbally to the ear, he communicates it visually to the eye. One of the Puritans, Thomas Watson, wrote A sacrament is a visible sermon. The word is a trumpet to proclaim Christ. The sacrament is a glass to represent him. God to help our faith does not only give us an audible word, but also a visible sign. Okay? We're a little bit dense. God stoops. He condescends. He helps us. Hey, when you take the Lord's Supper, remind yourself, Christian He's really forgiven me. I can let this thing go. I can let it go. I've been forgiven by the God of the universe. Okay? Lord Supper number one. What is it? Christian Passover? Number two. It's the memorial of Jesus' death. Number three. It's a means of communion with Jesus Christ. And so what I did, I left Matthew, we'll come back to the fourth point. But I went to 1 Corinthians 10, verse 16. And so what I want to say is that, yeah, the Lord Suffer is a memorial, but that's not all it is We're doing more than remembering. We're also celebrating the spiritual communion that we have with the risen Christ by faith. At the present time, we're not just remembering, but we're celebrating. We're having fellowship with Christ. It's deepened in the Lord's Supper, just as it's deepened when we said under the faithful reading and preaching of God's word. Where did I come up with that? First Corinthians chapter ten, verse sixteen Paul said to the Christians in Corinth, he said, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation In the blood of Christ. The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? What's this participation? That's the word you've probably heard the word koinonia. It can be translated participation, uh, fellowship, communion. And so what Paul is saying there is that when you take the Lord's Supper, You're not only remembering what Jesus did when he died for your sin, but you are having a deepened spiritual fellowship with Jesus Christ. Right? If if the Lord's Supper was just a memorial, and many Christian denominations say it's just a remembrance, then why didn't Jesus just break the bread and hold up the cup and say this should remind you of my death It's because he gave it to us to eat, the bread and the wine to eat and to drink, because just as that and those elements nourish us physically, so the idea is that Jesus nourishes us Spiritually. And so Jesus is in heaven, but by the Holy Spirit, when we come to the table, there is a unique fellowship that we have with Jesus Christ by faith And so uh so there's this idea of fellowship, right? Roman Catholics teach that the Lord's Supper is a sacrifice uh that takes place on an altar. There are no altars in Protestant churches. So hopefully we'll build a new church one day, and somebody will say, well, where are you going to put the altar? And we're going to say, we don't have an altar. We're Protestant Jesus' sacrifice was once and for all. We don't need an altar, but we will have a table for fellow for communion, right? So it's not a sacrifice on an altar The Lord's Supper is rather a meal taken around a table. And I know these little elements we have, it doesn't really convey it, but the idea is this great feast that Jesus Christ invites us to Now here's the fourth one, okay? Bear with me and um let me know after the service if this uh if this connects. Here's the fourth thing the Lord's Supper is And this is a little foreign. It's a covenant meal by which God ratifies his pledge to us to be our God, and we ratify our commitment to him. Now a covenant is a commitment that God makes to his people. He seals it with an oath. And what does he promise? He promises that he will be our God. You see that, for example, in Genesis 17, verse 7. For God said to Abraham, I'll be your God and the God of your children. And so the idea is that God promises, I'm going to be your God. Okay? And in the ancient world, covenants, they weren't sealed by signing on the dotted line, but rather they were sealed by a blood sacrifice. And that's what we saw back in Exodus chapter 24. There the covenant made with Israel on Mount Sinai was confirmed. Right? Some strange things took place uh in that in that ratification, right? Animals were sacrificed, and the blood of the sacrifices were was collected in basins. And half the blood, says in Exodus 24, Moses threw against the altar, and half the blood he threw on the people. Then Moses said in Exodus 24, verse 8, Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you. What's going on here? Well this this sprinkling of blood served to seal or to ratify the covenant It was sprinkled on the altar to say that God's wrath had been satisfied, it had been propitiated, God's wrath was no longer against the people for their sin. And then it was sprinkled on the people. To show that they had a share in that covenant. Their sins were forgiven. And so after the blood had been sprinkled on the people, Then Moses and the other leaders, it says in chapter 24, verse 11 of Exodus, they beheld God and ate and drank. So they ratified the covenant by a sacrifice and then by having a fellowship meal with God. Does that sound familiar? Well that's what the Lord's Supper is. It's remembering Jesus' final sacrifice, but it's also a fellowship meal. And God confirms his commitment to us, right? We're forgiven. He's our God. And then we turn around and we confirm our commitment by saying, Yes, Lord, thank you for redeeming me And in taking this meal, I promise that I will endeavor to live in a way that honors you. And so going back to Matthew 26, verse 28 Jesus said, This is my blood of the covenant which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. And Jesus' sacrifice established a new covenant, which was foretold in Jeremiah chapter 31. Jesus sacrifice Is the final sacrifice for our sin. And so the application then on this fourth point Is that whenever you take the Lord's Supper, God reaffirms His commitment to the believer, and we reaffirm our commitment to God And so Matthew Henry said, Every time you take the Lord's Supper, a covenant is to be ratified between God and our souls. We're reaffirming the covenant. And so people say, why don't you guys have an altar call in your church? Well, because you don't have altar calls in the Bible But the closest thing that the Bible has to an altar call is the Lord's Supper, right? Because God is calling the Christian to reaffirm your commitment to Jesus Christ. God calls us to do business with him. And if you've fallen away, if you're bachelor in It's a call. You need to turn back to Jesus Christ and to the unbeliever. The Lord Supper says something as well. It says that the kingdom of God has an inside and an outside. Everybody could come to worship But only those who are repentant and resting on Christ are invited to this table. And so you need to turn to Jesus Christ. Because if you're not trusting in Christ, you're not ready to take the Lord's suffer. And then if you're not ready to take the Lord's suffer, you're not ready to die. And so you need to do business With Jesus Christ. And so Jesus Christ, I said a lot there. What is the Lord's Supper? But we see here, Jesus Christ is our Passover lamb He's been sacrificed for us. He's made us fit. We can come to this table. Let's bow our heads and pray. Thank you, Lord, that we don't have to do anything to come into your presence. All we have to do is believe on Christ the righteous one. And as we come to your table this morning, we pray that your forgiveness will be confirmed in our hearts. The fact that we're now righteous, we pray that that would be confirmed. We pray that in the taking of the sacrament of the sacrament, that our fellowship with you would be deepened. And that you would spiritually equip us and nourish us and help us to know you more and more. We thank you for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to sing hymn number 420 at the Lamb's High Feast. So let's all stand 420. Ever time we sing praise to the glory. Flowing from his peace that's right. Great name who's not divine, it is the bread one more wine. Kiss the body for the beast, Christ the victim, Christ the free Where the pastor blood is good, death or angels he saw Is those try of us go through the wave that drops the boat. Praise be Christ whose son was shed last for bread. With sinister and love in wheel Why she makes him from the sky cause of helping thy Death in the fight thou hast brought up my band. Hymns of glory and praise with the Lord to the relates. Holy Father prayed to thee with those beverages. Maybe seated. Oops, I gotta get this. Okay. So Jesus on the night he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks He broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this remembrance of me. Oh, yeah. So A E. This is the body of Christ given for you. Do this remembrance of him. The supper, Jesus took the cup and said, This cup is a new covenant, my blood shed for many for the forgiveness of sins. Great y'all better. Amen. Thank you, Lord, that uh we have been in Invited, thank you for the fellowship we have with you. We do pray as we go out to deep in, pray for those who are at home, that you would sustain that. We pray that he This world, especially the shutdown. And we pray, Lord, for those who are discouraged, that you keep your hand upon them, and for those that are suffering various afflictions, sustaining We pray for our young people, especially, Lord, that you would equip them to serve you all the days of their lives. We pray this Jesus' name. Amen. Let's all stand. You'll find in your bulletin one verse from Psalm 67. We'll stand, we'll stand Oh, Oh God, if I grace And what I was doing, so I can use your donation for your salvation. Receive now the benediction. Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. I just made the moment for the whole way to sell the other way that you're getting over the world. So hopefully you guys met? Yeah. Yeah.