The five-year-olds, if you're interested, you may go to worship training uh with Mr. Rundell. Fact that away. That's just four and five-year-olds. Let's turn so we're gonna do something uh different. We've been going through Genesis. Let's take a break. Let's get back to first principles. Uh it's been a long time since we've been in the gospel. We went through Revelation. Now we're going through Genesis 12 to 25. It's like, well, what about Jesus? Let's just this Well he's he's the author of all scripture. We understand that all scripture points to him, but still it's nice to have just a flat out plain uh gospel account. That's what we're going to do. We're going to look at John chapter 3, verse 1 to 16. One of the most familiar passages in Scripture. I'm going to read first sixteen verses. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I've told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven, except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish But has, but have eternal life. We're going to talk about conversion, Christian conversion. One of the classic Counts of Conversion is the conversion of John Wesley's. He was an Oxford graduate He was an Anglican pastor. He was a missionary to the Indians. He was an open-air preacher. But there's one thing he was not. For many years, he was not a Christian. He wasn't converted. And he told us that he writes about this himself. He said, so he was doing all these things. He'd come to America, in fact. He preached in Savannah. He had done all these things, but he said, I didn't really know Christ. He went back to England and he went to a meeting of the Moravians, that's a Christian group, right, on Aldersgate Street in London. 1738. And somebody was reading this uh document from Martin Luther, right? Back he wrote back in the 1500s. His preface To the epistle to the Romans. And Luther recounts that while the reader was describing the change which God works in the heart Through faith in Christ, Wesley said, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I felt I did now trust in Christ, in Christ alone, for salvation And at this time, an assurance was given me that he had taken away my sins and saved me from the law of sin and death. Now that's a real classic statement. You know, God opened my eyes. My heart was strangely warmed. That's not the typical testimony that a Christian gives of his conversion. I bet you there's some here that were covered uh dramatically and it was like you move from here to here. at a point in time that you were conscious of. But for many of us, Christian conversion was not a point in time experience, right? It took root over time. I think about I was saying to the high school class last week, I was saying, I know I became a Christian when I was 17, but it wasn't like it just happened I just came to see and to understand and to uh believe. And that's what it's like for many. I recognize now who Jesus is, right? He's God, He's man, He's the Savior of sinners. I recognize that it's His work that saves us, it's not anything we do. And I now have this growing love for Jesus Christ and I want to serve him. Well, it wasn't a point in time, but you know That you are not today what you once were. Or I think about uh children who grew up in Christian families, and they've always heard about Christ. And they can't recall a time when they did not believe in Christ. And that's good, and that's the ideal, right? Well They're Christians, you could tell. They love Jesus Christ, they love his word, they want to serve him. They say, I'm resting on him and not my good deeds or my religion. They don't know when they were born, but it's obvious they were born because they are spiritually alive And so, but you know, whether it's Wesley's very dramatic conversion or whether it's something that was such just sort of you slid into over time, uh, that is Christian conversion. And so this is a very fundamental topic, and we're gonna, I'm not gonna go line by line uh through this passage as I typically do, but rather I'm gonna use it to answer uh three questions. First of all We're going to explain what conversion is. What is Christian conversion? How does it come about? And a huge theme in this passage. Is it necessary to be converted if you're going to see God? If you're going to be forgiven, if you're going to go to heaven? And so I think this passage is useful for everybody. It's useful for Christians. You know you're a Christian, you don't understand all the ins and outs, you don't have an understanding of what took place, but You know you're a Christian. Think about the man in uh m Matthew chapter nine or John chapter nine. He didn't he was blind and now he could see? And the religious leader said, Hey, what happened to you? How did this come about? He says, I don't know. All I know is that I was once blind, and now I see, and Jesus Christ didn't. So that's how it is for many Christians, right? You know the basic truths of Christianity. You don't understand exactly what the Bible teaches about Christian conversion. Well, we're going to look at a lot of it right now. This passage, John 3, is really important for what we would could call the almost Christian. This is the person who thinks he's right with God because he's a religious person, like this guy we meet in chapter in the in this chapter, right? Nicodemus. He was a Pharisee. He was a very religious person And churches in our country are full of almost Christians. Right? And there are people here who would say, I thought I was a Christian for many years. I never understood the gospel. Well, this is for the almost Christian. This passage certainly is for the person who knows I'm not a Christian. I understand that. Well, what's God say to you in this text? So, first of all, what is Christian conversion? And we can look at it from two angles, okay? And the angle that uh John three basically looks at looks at it from is from God's side. What God does, he breathes spiritual life into a person. We're going to talk about this in a little bit. He spiritually regenerates someone. Conversion is our response. It's when it comes, we become conscious of God's work. And as a response to God's work regenerating us, we're converted. And that means basically there's this turning from our sin And turning onto Christ. And that's a good way to describe what conversion is. You're going down the road in a certain direction, and then the Spirit of God so works in you that you turn from your sin. And you start following Jesus Christ. And so there's two elements here. One element is repentance, right? That's the turning away from the sin And then the turning unto Christ is faith. And so repentance and faith, two sides of the same coin. In fact, I think it's in Mark chapter 1, verse 15. Jesus says, repent and believe the gospel. So they're the two elements in Christian uh conversion. So let's talk about those two elements, okay? First of all, what is faith? You know that's one of those nebulous words. Well, it comes up in this passage, right? John 316 uh he talks uh Jesus talks about believing in him. Verse 18 uh Jesus says whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already. Why is that? Because he's not believed. He he does not believe in the name of the very Son of God. And so what does it mean to believe in Jesus? And that's, you know, belief Or faith, that's one of those nebulous uh churchy words, right? And oftentimes you get these vague answers. But the Bible is very uh specific. About what it means to have saving faith or to believe in, or perhaps to say, to believe on Jesus Christ for your salvation. And I think a good synonym uh would be trust. To believe in Christ is to trust in him, right? You recognize who he is. You recognize who what he's done, and you're trusting in him. Where even uh the word I like is rest. You're resting on Christ, right? You're not resting on your religious exercises, you're not resting on your attempts at moral self-reformation but you're resting on Christ. In fact, the Puritans would use the term recumbency, right? Think about getting in the lazy boy recliner. you're you're reclining on Jesus Christ. That's a good way that's a good way to put it. And um if you want if we can if I could just labor this a little bit We could say, you know, there are really three elements to saving faith. It's like a three-legged stool, and if you just have two of the legs, it's not going to work, okay? So the first element in saving faith is knowledge. You have a knowledge of Jesus Christ. You you understand something of who he is. You don't have to be a theologian, right? But you understand he's God, he's a God man and why he came to to do To live a perfect life in our place and then to die uh for our sin. So there's this knowledge. But you can have knowledge of Jesus Christ and really not be saved. In fact, Nicodemus, he had knowledge of Christ, and he had the second element also, ascent. In other words, knowledge, assent, I not only know who Jesus is, but I believe that's true. And we see that in Nicodemus 3, verse 2. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. So he knew who Jesus is, and he says, Yeah, I know this stuff's true. So he had knowledge, he gave assent. But he was not yet a Christian. He was not yet converted because he had not yet trusted in Jesus Christ. Well, he will, because Nicodemus is one of the guys that helped bury Jesus right after he was crucified. But right now he's inquiring. God is drawing him to himself. And so We're talking about or we're trying to explain what faith is, and we would say faith is resting on Jesus Christ. And so my question for you. For those who may not be believers, for young people, you've been in going to church for a long time, you may have Christian parents. My question for you is, what are you trusting in for your salvation? You're trusting in your moral record. You're trusting in your religious acts and whatnot. Or are you trusting in Jesus Christ and in Him alone for your salvation? And so what's involved in conversion? Faith, faith in Christ, not just some wishy-washy adherence to religion. But trusting in Jesus Christ. But I said there's two sides to this coin. And the other side of the coin is repentance. So we had a rather long uh spell, right, of repenting this morning. Well that's what Christians do. We continue always repent. Not that we lose our salvation, but there is an initial repentance, right, that takes place in a non-believer, in a sinner who's not yet trusting in Christ. And we're going to talk about, we'll ask, what is true repentance? And it's not just regret. You know, I fall short. I'm not the man I should be. I want to try to be a better person. That's not biblical repentance. But it involves turning away from sin because you realize you've offended the Holy God, not because you fell short of your own expectations. 1 Thessalonians 1 verse 9. Here's a good verse that gets to the heart of it. Paul wrote to these Christians in Thessalonica, he said, You turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And so there's this idea that repentance involves, again, this turning away from sin. You we we sign Psalm fifty-one, go home and read it today. I mean, David grieves his sin. He renounces his sin. And he endeavors to walk in obedience to God. And so conversion Involves repentance and faith. It's our conscious response to God working in us. Which brings me to the second thing I want to say, point two. What brings about Christian conversion? Going to church. No. Trying to be a better person. Again, no. True can how about this A preacher who can bend your will, who can persuade you, who can perhaps even engage your emotions. No, not even that. You're converted only. Now they could all be means. A person's converted When God breathed spiritual life into somebody who is spiritually dead. Remember in the beginning of the service, I read Ephesians 2? You were dead in your trespasses and sins. What happened? But God, who's who's rich in mercy, made you alive. Okay? So let's let me throw two more things out. The sermon is quickly unraveling into a lecture in systematic theology. That's not my ambition. But there here's two things I'm going to throw out And maybe you can impress others when you're at a cocktail party or something, if you use these words. First one, calling, or more specifically, effectual calling, okay? What happens? When a person is converted to faith in Christ, God calls that person to Himself help. Through the preaching of the gospel, right? What's the gospel? The good news that Christ died for sinners. Through the proclamation of the gospel or through your reading the scripture. And you hear the gospel message, God summons someone who is spiritually dead, someone who is morally rebellious. They hear his call and they come to believe on Jesus Christ. And so 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 14, Paul says To this he called you through our gospel, right? How does God call people to saving faith? Through The gospel. Okay? And so this is the instrument, the proclamation of the gospel is the instrument that God, the Holy Spirit uses. to open our eyes, to recognize our sin, to see our spiritual bankruptcy, and our need of a savior, but then not to despair in ourselves. But to see Jesus Christ as our Savior. That's what happens when God calls somebody. So I think about in Acts chapter 16, verse 14. There was an unbeliever by the name of Lydia, and she heard Paul preach the gospel in Philippi. And it says there in Acts 16, 14. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul, okay? Why did she believe and not the next guy? Because the Holy Spirit opened her heart to believe. And so in our catechism, it says effectual calling is a work of God's Spirit. Whereby convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds and the knowledge of Christ, and renewing our wills, He changes us. so that we can believe on Jesus Christ. And um it's called effectual How about a better word? Effective calling. When God calls someone, it's effective. It works. The person gets the message. So in the past I've talked about the typical illustration you might hear from a preacher who will say, Jesus is knocking on the door of your heart, but there's only one handle on the inside, and you have to turn it And he's pleading with you. That's not how God saves someone. Right? When when Jesus Christ calls someone, he's not begging, he's not pleading. He's not even knocking. When he wants to come to a person's heart, he doesn't go, no, not not. But rather he just kicks down the door, and that person believes in Jesus Christ. And this could take place in an instant. This could take place as over a long span of time, right? And there remember last week I was saying there were two, I mentioned two guys in the church They were coming to church for 10 years. And they said, I'm not a believer yet. Not quite there yet. Then they became believers. Well God was calling them to himself. Why did they start coming? Why were they interested? Well seems like God was calling them, and at a certain point God got their attention. So the Puritans would speak about awakened sinners Right? So this we understand this. We want people to come to church who aren't believers. You don't have to pretend you're a believer. Just say, I'm an unbeliever, but I'm sort of curious and I have some questions. And I'll say, well, read the Bible and Come to, we're going to do, if I want to get some folks interested, we'll do a six or seven-week Christian-explored study where we go through the Gospel of Mark. And then we'll say, well let's do uh let's go through uh remember I remember years ago I went through John Stott's book, Basic Christianity, with some people who aren't believers, and we read it and we let them ask questions and They kept sitting under the Bible and they started reading the Bible. And that's how it is, right? That's how it works when God is calling someone. Okay? But um for God for God's calling To take hold, something else has to happen. And here's the second term we want to use. So the first term is effectual calling. The second term is regeneration. For an unbeliever to become a Christian, God has to breathe spiritual life into that person. He has to open their eyes He needs to give them spiritual birth. And that's what regeneration is. But this is the work by which God imparts spiritual life into someone who is spiritually The Course, right? This is what Jesus is talking about. Chapter 3, verse 7 Jesus says, do not marvel. Is that where I start yet? Verse 7. Jesus says, you must be born again. To whom did he say this? He said this to Nicodemus, a religious leader. He said, listen, you're lost. You need spiritual birth. You must be born again. That can be translated, born from above or born from God, but the gist is the same. You must be a recipient. Of God giving you a rebirth. Look at, go back to chapter 1, verse 13. Same idea. Here, John speaks of those, it says, who are born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Why were these people Christians? It wasn't because they had the will to say, I'm going to become a follower of Jesus. but because God breathed in them spiritual life. Regeneration, you find that word in Titus three verse five. Paul says, God saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. Then it says by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. This is why I had Steve read from Ezekiel chapter 36, 26 and 27. It was foretold. That God was going to give His Spirit. He was going to change their hearts of stone, the hearts of flesh. He was going to breathe spiritual life into them. Jesus shows up on the scene. He talks about the same thing. He's surprised that Nicodemus was a teacher in Israel, right? He says, You're a teacher in Israel and you don't understand these things? Jesus is saying, listen, it's right in your scriptures. It's right in Ezekiel chapter 36. And so it's something, again, that God grants, right? How many of you had a say in your physical birth? I think I'd like to be born in uh I was born in Morristown, New Jersey, December thirteenth, nineteen sixty. Um actually I had no say in that, okay? Uh it just sort of happened and I look back on it and go, oh hey, look at that. I was born. Uh pretty nifty. What a guy. Um it was something That God did. Same thing with your spiritual birth. It's not something that you have a say in, right? It's something that it's something that God grants. And so that means if you're not a Christian, you're out of luck. Is that what it's saying? No, because if we look at the rest of Scripture now. And the scripture tells us that God uses means, the ordinary means that God uses to bring someone who is spiritually dead to spiritual life. Is the proclamation of the gospel, right? So when you share the gospel, you have a friend who's not a believer, you have a relationship. And you have discussions over time where they might ask you a question, you might say something here or there. Well, God often uses that to bring someone. to faith in Christ. Or uh you start reading the Bible. Remember? You know, the whole Bible. Remember I was saying uh some time ago there were two guys in our church that became Christians by reading Ecclesiastes. They were in despair. One guy was suicidal. And they read Ecclesiastes. I would have said, read John, read Mark, read Matthew. But you know, they start there. Um but people do become Christians. Why? Because this is the word of God. And so the means that God uses typically to regenerate someone Is the word of God, the proclamation of the gospel. And you have that very nicely stated in 1 Peter 1, verse 23, and then 25. I'm going to read it So Peter says to these Christians, he says, You have been born again. So there's that term. You have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable how. Through the living and abiding word of God. Then in verse 25, and this word is the good news that was preached to you, right? And so when the Word of God is faithfully taught, preached, God uses that to Awaken people, awaken unbelievers, and they see and they believe on Jesus Christ. And so if you're not a Christian, what do you do? You don't just say, well, if it'll happen, it happens. No. You um you seek after Christ. You open up the Bible. You start reading it. You put down your little electronic device, kids, or your Game Boy, or whatever you're doing, wasting your time hours and hours during the summer, and you say, you know what? There's a heaven, there's a hell Or is there or is there not? But I need to check this out. And there's this document sitting on my dresser. And it's been known as the most influential uh book in history. And it's changed the course of Western civilization. I'm gonna pull it off the dresser. I'm gonna read it. I'm gonna read two chapters a day. I'll get up in the morning and read it. Or I'll whatever whenever you're gonna read it. I'm gonna read it. I'm gonna ask questions And I'm gonna ask my parents questions or the pastor questions or I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna ask so many questions, but I want to get to the bottom of this because I'm not gonna live forever. That's how God saves people. Romans 10:17, Paul said, faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. So God uses means, but still it's a mystery. We're getting close to the end here. Look at John chapter 3, verse 8. Jesus said, the wind blows where it wishes. You hear it sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. Then he says, that's what it's like with the work of God's Spirit. So it is with everyone who's born of Spirit. It's a mystery, but you know that the Holy Spirit is at work because unbelievers become believers, right? 2,000 years after Jesus walked on the earth is still happening all around the world. This that's the Spirit of God. Let's close with this point three. Is Christian conversion necessary? Well you know my answer to that one, right? Three times in this passage, Jesus is exhorting a very religious man, right? He is a Pharisee, he was a member of the of the highest court in Judaism. But he says, listen, you're lost. You must receive spiritual birth from God. Look at verse 3 Unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. The end of verse five. Unless one is born of the water and spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God Verse 7, you must be born again. So he's saying, religion is not going to save you, Nicodemus. Turning over a new root leaf is not going to save you, but you must be born again. Remember the story about George Whitfield? He was always preaching, said what was he, 18th century evangelists going up and down the East Coast. Going through England, preaching, and his sponsor in England, the Countess of Huntington, said, Mr. Whitfield, why are you always preaching you must be born again? And he said, madam, because you must. And that's exactly what Jesus It's saying here, uh verse eight, the wind blows where it wishes. You hear its sound, you don't know where it comes from, where it goes. So it is, with everyone born of the Spirit. And so That may be discouraging. Oh, it's just up to God. He's sovereign. He is. It is up to God. Is that discouraging? The forgotten Jesus saying you must be born again while you have no power to bring it about? Well here's what Charles Spurgeon said. Do I hear someone complain that when I preach on the new birth being from above, that this will be discouraging? But from what will it discourage us? It'll discourage us from trying to save ourselves. And he said, that's exactly what I want to discourage you from doing. You can't save yourself, but you must call out to Jesus Christ. And the good news of the is the gospel of the gospel is that God, the God who commands the spiritually dead to be born again, does for them What they can't do for themselves. And so if God commands something, He gives the ability to follow that command. He will, if you call out to Jesus Christ, He will give you this spiritual birth. And so if you're not a Christian, you know it. The bottom line is repent of your sin and trust in Christ, and you'll be saved. And if you're not there yet, what do you do? You keep reading the scripture, keep asking the questions, keep coming. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Lord, for your mercy toward us in that though we were once dead. You breathed into us spiritual life. You opened our eyes to see. You moved us from unbelief to belief. And for any person who's not yet there, I pray, Lord, that they'll seek after you and that you'll persuade their hearts and enlighten their minds. And give them faith and repentance that they too can enter the kingdom of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.