Turn to Philippians, the book of Philippians. So we started Philippians last week, and this morning we're going to look at verses 9 to 11. And this is a real clear passage. It answers the question. Suppose the Apostle Paul were here. And he said, I'm going to pray for you. Murphy said, I'm going to pray for the people of Good News Presbyterian Church. Wonder what he prayed for. Well, we don't have to wonder, actually, because uh it says right here. Here are some of the things that he would pray for our church, right? This is in Scripture. This is for the church down through the ages. And so it's not only a recitation of Paul's prayer for the Philippians. It's a statement of here's what he'd be praying for us, and here's what we should pray for ourselves and for other believers. Chapter 1, verse 9. Paul writes, and it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment. So that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. So last week we started Philippians and in verses 1, well really verses 3 to 8. We saw how Paul prayed for these people. He prayed for them with thanksgiving, with joy, and with affection. Now in verses 9 to 11, we read about the content of his prayer, the things that he prayed for these believers. And basically Uh he prayed for their spiritual well-being and for uh their growth and grace. This is par for the course with the Apostle Paul. If you look at some of his other prayers in the letters that he wrote to the churches, 1 Thessalonians 1, 2 Thessalonians 1, Romans 15. Colossians 1, Ephesians 1, Ephesians 3. These are prayers that Paul prays, and they inform us about the kind of things for which we should be praying. And if you boil it down, Paul prayed for largely two things. He prayed for the sanctification of God's people, and he prayed for the spread of the gospel. Well let's just pause and ask the question. How large do these themes loom in your prayers? And for most of us, myself included, tend to pray for temporal, uh immediate matters, family matters, concerns The kids, things they're facing or struggles, friends are having, um health concerns and and that's sort of these are important. But it can be overdone. And when I passed through North Carolina, we'd have a Wednesday night prayer meeting. And uh it was like an organ recital. You know, pray for Joe's kidney and uh Nancy's gallbladder and Richard's heart. All things are important, but there are more things on the map, right, to be Praying for, and I'm not minimizing the importance of praying for health concerns. That's a theme in the Bible. James 5 says, if you have a problem, a physical problem, James says, go to the elders and ask them to pray for you. 3 John, the little book of 3 John, verse 2. John says to the Christians, I pray that all may go well with you, and that you may be in good health. And so yeah, we pray for people's health. Paul prayed for his own health in uh 2 Corinthians 12. He said, Um, I prayed that the Lord would take away this thorn in my flesh. He has some kind of physical affliction But so yeah, we want but we want to pray for health concerns. We don't want to minimize that. But if you look at Paul's prayers, if you look at the Lord's prayer that Jesus gave us, They tell us to have a sense of proportion about the things for which we pray And much more important, the Apostle Paul, is our spiritual estate, our growth in holiness. That will increase in the knowledge of Christ, and that we will display the fruits of Christian transformation So we're just looking at verses 9 to 11, three verses. This is the content of his prayer. So we'll see in these verses three things he prays for, and then we'll look at why he prays. For these things. So first of all, verses 9 and 10, what to pray. Okay, this is sort of a template What should what are some things we should be praying for? Well there's three things in verses 9 and 10 that we should always be praying for. They're all in the uh category of sanctification. And um the first thing he says is pray that we'll grow in love. He prays that the Philippians will grow in love. That's what we want to pray for ourselves. And for other believers. Look at the beginning of verse 9. It is my prayer that your love may abound more and more. And so this is a huge emphasis in the Bible, right? This is a huge emphasis in Jesus' teaching. We were peaked in Sunday school, we peaked at 1 John. That's another you know, statement about the preeminence of love in the Christian life. In fact Jesus said if you're to take all the Old Testament commands And boil them down, you come up with two statements. Love God and love your neighbor. Now we need the commands to help us understand what true love is But nonetheless, he said, that is the essence of all God's moral law. Now, we all have different personalities. Um some are big on truth, some are big on love, right? It's this I mean, some people are excelling them both But most of us, you know, we're like, I'm more of a truth guy, justice guy. I remember one of my friends saying years ago, he said, he said I think you should have been a cop, not a pastor. That's just my personality. And um I you know what? I think pr Presbyterians, I mean Some people are Presbyterians by conviction. Others are Presbyterians because they sort of fit that personality. Like we're big on truth. We can explain the covenants in the Bible. We can explain are you omil, post-mill, pre-mill, oh you're pre-mill, historic pre-mill or dispensational? We can hold forth to our glazed over conversation partner. on total depravity, unlimited atonement, or uh uh unconditional election, limited atonement, um irresistible grace, the perseverance of the faith of the saints and so on and so forth, the regular principle of worship, piece of cake But love, you know, ooh, you know, that's there there's a challenge. Um but this is what we're called to. This is what we Presbyterians are called to. He prays that your love may abound more and more. Here's something to pray for. Right? In fact in the marriage class on Tuesday nights. Lord, make me more patient, make me more loving, make me more humble before my spouse. So pray it for your marriage Pray in your disposition toward your children as they d test your patience. And also kids. Pray that you'll love your siblings, that you'll be more kind and gracious and appreciative to your parents. So Paul Paul's uh Paul's offer love. He he's the apostle of love. So we could say they always say that about John. We could say that about Paul. Um but he's not against truth. And um without truth, uh love just uh becomes sentimentalism. And so that's he goes on in his prayer. So number one, pray for love. And then um he says, pray that will grow in knowledge. Where am I? Verse 9. So It's my prayer that your love may abound more and more. And then what does he say? With knowledge. He wants our love to be governed by knowledge. And particularly he's talking about the knowledge of God. And why do I say that? Because uh this particular word in the Greek is found twenty times in the New Testament, and on every other occasion it it refers to knowledge of the things of God. So not just that you know the Encyclopedia Britannica But that you understand who God is as he's revealed himself in Scripture. Let's think about this a little bit. When somebody's converted, You can say that they have come to a knowledge of God. That's the language the Bible uses. Usually we think about conversion as an emotional experience. And that's certainly something that is oftentimes that oftentimes attends Christian conversion. But primarily Conversion is coming to a true knowledge of who God is and who you are as you stand before this God. And so Paul wrote in 1 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4, he speaks about God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved. And then he writes, and to come to a knowledge of the truth. And so That's what happens when somebody becomes a Christian. I mean, it's not just that you become informed. Uh it's not just that you give assent to this truth, but then it changes you. You do an about face, you recognize Jesus is God. He has a claim on my life. I'm going to do a U-turn. I'm going to endeavor to live for Him and follow Him and seek to honor Him. And emotions oftentimes attend that. We're all wired differently, but we would say that the engine is the knowledge of God and the things of God and the gospel. And emotions are the caboose on the train. And it's wonderful when there is a caboose. And so conversion. is about coming to a knowledge of God. And then Christian growth, sanctification takes place As we grow in our understanding of God's Word, what it says about who He is and who we are, and as God, the Holy Spirit, applies that knowledge or that truth. And that's why Paul wrote in Romans 12, too. He said, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And this is something that the Holy Spirit does. He changes us. He renews our mind, but he uses the Word of God to make it happen. So Paul prays. Well grow in knowledge. Now a lot of churchgoers they're uh content uh with the superficial knowledge, the Christian life. Some are even proud of it. They'll say, oh, I'm just a simple man. I'm just a simple Christian. I love Jesus and I seek to love my brother. And you know, that's everything I know about God I learned in Sunday school. And like, aren't I something else? Well not really. Uh that's that's not really uh that spiritual. Um it sound certainly sounds humble. Uh but how do how do you grow in love for someone with with whom you're not well acquainted, right? You fall in love with somebody. You want to know everything about them, right? You want to learn 'em. uh figure them out and uh you know what makes them tick and that's certainly the what we should be striving for in our in our Christian walk, Ephesians 1 17. Paul prayed He says that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. And so Paul prays that will grow in knowledge. And so don't be content. You know, you know John 3. 16, you know some of the basic uh Bible passages, but you want to grow in your understanding. Um you want to learn doctrine, really. What's doctrine? It's just the themes of the Bible put in an orderly fashion. There's nothing that's not a dead word, but People say doctrine's dead. I love Jesus. That's what I want to know. Well that's sort of that's sort of immature. What's doctrine, right? How does God save us? The doctrine of salvation. Who is God the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit? Great book, Knowing God by J. I. Packer. You know, there's a book on the character of God. You'll have to read it slow, but it but it pays great dividends. Um the Westminster Confession of Faith, we go through that every couple years in Sunday school We just did it on the Friday at the Friday men's breakfast. 31 chapters, I think, I forget what it is, of doctrine, but it's doctrine for life. And uh you know some people they like that little devotional book, the daily walk or guidepost. That's fine, but that can't be the basis of your Christian nurture. It's it's a little bit thin. Uh it's the it's the more meaty thing. C. S. Lewis he said, for my own part, I tend to find doctrinal books often more helpful in devotion than the devotional books. And I rather suspect that the same experience may await others. I believe that many who find that nothing happens when they sent set down to a devotional book. Will find that their heart sings unbidden while they're working their way through a tough bit of theology with a pipe in their teeth and a pencil in their hand. And so yeah. Of course if you're woman, you might want to skip the pipe part, um, but you get the point. So we want to pray That will grow in the knowledge of God. Number three, Paul prays in the end of verse nine That we will grow, it says in all discernment. He prays will grow in discernment. The NIV translates the word insight, same idea something interesting though. So you know the Old Testament was written in Hebrew, right? But in time they translated it in into Greek. And in the book of Proverbs, they use the same Greek word you find in verse 9 22 times in the book of Proverbs. And there, it has to do with wisdom or practical insight that enables us to w live uh wise lives. So Greg read Proverbs 4. In Proverbs, as Greg said, it was a father instructing his son, or you might say his children. It's in father instructing his children about if you do these things, if you grow in wisdom, if you grow to be a discerning person, your life's going to be a whole lot easier. Because you can make huge mistakes right between the time you're 16 and 24. You can make life-altering mistakes, and you're so sure of yourself But really, you're not you're not discerning as you should be. So this is really important for our young people, for all of us, but for our young people, To grow in wisdom, right? You want to learn this book, you want to watch others, you want to learn from others, you want to learn from your parents? They're not perfect But they they're a little older than you. They might have some some something from their experience that they can help you with. So this is really important. And it's really important that we not just know a lot about the Bible, uh, but that we have common sense. And it's funny, I remember when I was at seminary. One of my classmates said, you know, a lot of these guys are planning on being pastors. They have all this knowledge about theology. But what they need to do is go work in a diner for a year and learn to talk to people. Because all this information is useless if you don't know how to use it In your relationships. I was reading the lar I think the largest Presbyterian church in the world is in Seoul, South Korea. 50,000 members. Like, well. Okay, so that means our membership, you know, we would be like the uh ushers or something in that church. But um At that church, it's called Young Knack Presbyterian Church, the pastor said we examine our elders in four areas. Okay Bible, doctrine, church history, and common sense. It's like, yeah That's something really important. There's a lot of people, they have all this Bible knowledge, but they uh you know they put tomatoes in their fruit salad because I thought they say tomatoes are fruit But no, uh you need you need a little more you need a little more there in that department uh to make it through life. So Paul prays that we will grow in common sense, that we will be able to discern Not only what's good from what's bad, but what is best from what is good And that takes some wisdom, right? The ability to look down a couple steps in the chain of processes and figure out how is this going to turn out in the long run, you know, how you use your time in the evening But how is this gonna how is this gonna suit you uh in ten years? Things like that, things you look at, the way you relate to others, the way you speak to others And so Paul prays that we'll grow in discernment, we'll grow in common sense, the end of the beginning of verse 10, so that you may approve what's excellent and not just what's tolerable. Okay? Right? Young people since I'm talking to you guys, yeah, I sort of enjoy it. Um, yeah. Can you marry anybody? Oh yeah, the Bible says if she's a Christian, she's not married to somebody else. I can marry her. Well, I guess that's permissible, but is it wise? I said, well, not really. Well, there's not a Bible verse to tell me who to marry. You don't need a Bible verse. The whole book of Proverbs is dedicated to the proposition that there's not a Bible verse for everything. And so we do need to grow in wisdom. Okay? And so that is what Paul is praying: that we will be able to discern what is best He he first talked about growing abounding in love, but it's not a sentimental love he wants. He's praying for a discriminating love. One of the old commentators, a guy named Alfred Plummer in the eighteen hundreds wrote this in his commentary on this verse. He said that without knowledge and discernment Love may go grievously astray. Let me say that again. Without knowledge and discernment, love may go grievously astray. Then he goes on. Misty thought Emotional conduct and indiscriminate good nature are perilous Indiscriminate good nature. You know, this is the church in our day. Love is love. That would be a statement of indiscriminate good nature. Or a church that's just wrapped up, let's make it a Sunday morning pep rally. Let's get everybody juiced up so they can go out, go out of here, encourage, and then they crash Monday morning. What is that? Emotional conduct. And he said, misty thought. No, it doesn't matter what you believe, as long as you're nice about it. And so 150 years, almost 200 years ago, this guy put his finger on the problems taking place in the American church. And so that's why Proverbs 4 verse 5, the Father pleas with the Son, get wisdom, get insight. Spare yourself from making disastrous choices for which you'll pay for decades to come. Let's go on. So there are three things that Paul exhorted, or Paul said he would was praying for, and that we should be praying for. And then briefly in verse the end of verse 10, verse 11. Paul gives the reason why he prays that the Philippians grow in love, in knowledge, and discernment. He praises, he says, so they might be, quote, pure and blameless. So they might be pure uh without mixture. You know, the the English word pure comes from the Latin. I was I was reading about this and the Bible wasn't written in Latin, but I thought it was an interesting observation. about the background on the English word. So the Latin word, it comes from when uh when a a potter in the ancient world would make some fine piece of pottery. He'd fire it in a kiln. And then um if it came out with cracks, he would fill in the cracks with wax. So it wasn't a good piece of pottery, but he still wanted to sell it, so he'd fill it in the cracks with wax, he'd glaze it, and he'd fire it again. And nobody know the difference. Of course, you know, like the Antiques Roadshow, that guy would know the difference, but sell it to you know uh stash or whoever and uh it looks pretty nice. Yeah I'll give you twenty shekels for it. And um but that's not pure. And so Paul is praying uh that will be pure And we'll be blameless. In other words, others can't accuse us of hypocrisy, of our shortcomings And so why? So that we will be ready to meet Jesus Christ. It says so to be pure and blameless for the day of Christ. And we know, and I hope you understand, if you're a Christian You're still fallen, right? You're regularly. We sin. We're not even aware of our sin. So we understand That in our standing before God, God counts us as pure and blameless. He counts us as holy, not because we're so good, but because we're clothed in the righteousness of of Jesus. But we want to pray that in our experience, right, in our lives, that indeed He would by His Spirit transform us. So there you have it, what to pray for. Sure we want to pray for our jobs and our kids with the different things that they struggle with and They face, we want to pray for financial concerns, we want to pray for health and so on. And that's good and right. Because Jesus said Your Heavenly Father has numbered the hairs upon her head on your head. He cares for all those things. But this passage reminds us we should be praying for our sanctification. For our children's sanctification, for our sanctification, for those whom we love, for the people in our church. I've said before, take the church boneless and just pray down ten names a day. And one of the things we want to pray is for our growth and grace. And we want to strive after these things. But we could be confident we're going to make progress. You know why? Because you're such spiritual people. No. What's it saying in verse 11? It says, because this comes through Jesus Christ. He said the same thing last week in verse 6 He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. So I'm going to pray. And I'm going to pray a simple prayer. It's verses nine to eleven. So let's bow our heads. I pray, Lord, for us. I pray for these people that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment. So that we may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Jesus Christ. Fill with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Some so I always say, often say some songs are songs of praise, other songs are prayers. We're going to sing a prayer. 529. Love divine. All loves excelling. Pray God works this in us. 529, let's stand. The divine of exhelling we have overcome down. Take us thy almost all thy holders in his hand She does all passion, you're all Basically has me by salvation and Breathe or breathe by meeting experience into every trouble breath. Let us let us on the promise Take away the same omega End of pain have been in our heart and Come Almighty to deliver. Something return and never never sleep. Thee we will be always blessing Sonny as thy host of pray and praise me with a happiness. Let us be my salvation, but let me restore me. Change from glory to glory till we take our place. Till we have the grass before the lost in wonder Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. Amen.