John chapter twelve. It's good to have some newer folks here this morning. We're marching through John's gospel and we are going to look at the first eight verses. And it's interesting, so somebody uh, well, Ecipod 12, and this is really a this is a hinge in the gospel, this is a turning point. So from chapter twelve now to the end of the book, uh it covers the last week in Jesus' life. So that means almost half of John's gospel is a po is uh is uh dedicated to uh Jesus final week and for this reason it it has been called a passion narrative with an extended introduction. So we just read the introduction, the first eleven chapters. Now let's start uh with the uh I wouldn't say the meat of it, but let's just say the Passion narrative. So chapter twelve, six days before the Passover Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot, one of the disciples, he who was about to betray him, said, Why was this anointment not sold for three hundred deneri and given to the poor? He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself with what was put into it Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. The poor you will always have with you, but you do not always have me. Well let's pray, okay? Father in heaven, we pray that this familiar passage may be used by your Spirit to change us To elevate our love for you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So there's a story. Well I'm going to do that this morning. There was a story of this guy who had a girlfriend. Her name was Susie, and he sent her an email. He said, Susie Dearest Susie, I love you with all my heart. I've climbed the highest mountain, just the look in your eyes I swim the widest ocean just to be by your side. I'd fight against wild beasts if I could only hear the sound of your voice. Love, Johnny P. S. If it doesn't rain tonight, I'll stop by to see ya. There's a point to that. When you really love somebody, it shows, right? Lovers make uh Do crazy things for their beloved. I remember when Becky and I were dating one afternoon I thought, I'm gonna go see her. Well that was a 420-mile ride and I just drove over to Chattanooga and I stuck my face in her door and she was in her kitchen and she screamed because I was there at the door But you do you do you do crazy things or parents make great sacrifices for their children, do they not? They lay their lives over the barbed wire so that the next generation Can cross over. That's what you do. And it's the same with our regard for Jesus Christ. This passage demonstrates when you value Jesus Christ, it shows. And that's the theme. That's what we're going to see. Let's just look at the setting first of all And so going back to verse 1, we read, six days before the Passover, so this was the Saturday preceding Jesus' crucifixion And it goes on to say, Jesus therefore came to Bethany. So he had gone out into the wilderness. And now he relocates to Bethany, and the word therefore connects verse 1 to the last verse in chapter 11, which explains why he came to Bethany. Now, uh 1157, now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was he should let them know so that they might arrest him. So this is telling us that the reason that Jesus went to Bethany is because he knew that the Jewish authorities were going to arrest him and that they were going to execute him. And so that's why he went there. He put himself in harm's way. He had this sense of destiny. He understood the reason he came was to die for his people. And he would not waver from fulfilling his mission. In Bethany, of course, is where Lazarus lived. Remember chapter 11, Jesus raised Lazarus from the grave. Lazarus lived there with his two sisters, Mary and Martha. And Jesus shows up in Bethany and they gave a dinner. Mary, Martha, and Lazarus gave this dinner in his honor to thank him for bringing Lazarus back to life. Now what is most striking about this passage is obvious, right? It's Mary's uninhibited expression of devotion to Jesus Christ verse three. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from Pernard And anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. And so what is nard? It is a plant that is found in India and the oil extracted from it was made or used as a perfume. And we realize it's expensive because in verse five Jesus said this, hey, what's going on here? That's worth three hundred deneri. That's the equivalent of a laborer working for a year. That would be his wages. So how did Mary come into having such a uh ver uh such a valuable uh canister uh perfume? And we would say, well either she was rich Or this was some family heirloom uh that she inherited. But in the end of verse 3 we read, She anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. And so that's the background. And I just want to say three things about this act on Mary's part. Number one, it was prophetic. Number two, it was an expression of her love for Jesus. And then thirdly, it was not without its critics. And so briefly, just the first thing we notice here is that Mary's act was prophetic, just like Caiaphas and what we looked at last week. Remember he said, it's better that one man die for the people? He didn't know what he was saying, but he was really preaching the gospel that Jesus would die for his people. And now Mary unwittingly was preparing Jesus for his burial Verse 7, Jesus said, Leave her alone so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. And then the parallel passage in Matthew 26, verse 12 is even more explicit where Jesus said there, in pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial. So one of the great commentators, one of the great scholars on John's gospel, uh D. A. Carson, he explains that back then people spent lavish amounts of money for funerals, including the cost of perfumes that were designed to stifle the smell of the decaying body. But then he said, here was Mary Lavishly pouring perfume on Jesus while he was yet alive. Small wonder that Jesus saw it as prefiguring the anointing that Joseph of Arimathea in Nicodemus would later perform on Jesus' dead body. And so the act was prophetic. But what we want to focus on is the second uh point on the outline, in that this was an expression of love for Jesus, right? There there's the roads the or the way the byways and the roads in Palestine were hot and they were uh dusty, uh people wore sandals and so when they would arrive at their destination, the servant or the lowest servant would typically uh wash the feet of the guests coming into somebody's home, but in this case it wasn't the servant, but it was the hostess, Mary, who washed Jesus' feet not with water, but with this very expensive perfume, and then she dried them not with a towel, but rather uh with her hair. And you may have read this or heard this that it was taboo in that culture for a woman to let down her hair. That would have been a sign of a loose woman. But she Mary was uninhibited. She didn't she wasn't thinking about what other others how others would perceive her. Her only interest at that time was to serve her serve her Lord whom she loved. And we don't all express our love in the same way, right? Mary did that for Jesus. Martha, her sister, served. We all have different dispositions. We all have different ways of expressing ourselves, but the principle stands. And the principle of course is that when you value someone, when you love someone, it shows in your actions. And Mary, she had been with Jesus and she didn't have a full understanding of his person. But she understood a lot. She saw something of his kindness, of his wisdom, right? She sat under his teaching. She saw something of his grace, and in raising her brother, she recognized he was powerful. He raised the man from the dead. I read something that John Piper wrote in this passage, and he makes one statement that I believe captures the very heart of what's going on here. He said It's a beautiful thing when the worth of Jesus and the affection of his followers match. This was the it was congruent, right? Mary recognized the value of Jesus Christ and the intensity of her affection for him corresponded. So she got it. She Looked at Jesus Christ and it registered this person is unique He's God. He claimed to be God and apparently she she recognized that And when we gather to worship, or you know, just privately, at home, you sit down with your scripture, you open it up to the book of Psalms, you read a passage out of the Old Testament or a passage out of the New Testament And you go through the New Testament and you discover something about Jesus Christ, something you've heard, but it just registers. And when it registers The instinctive reaction of a Christian is to say, Lord, you're a great God, you're a good God, you're gracious, you're loving, you're merciful. You're you are my king. And so that's an act of worship for when we get together on Sunday morning. What are we doing? Basically, we're coming here And we're saying back to God and His Son Jesus Christ things that He has told us about Himself, about His attributes, and about His deeds. Everything we pray, everything we sing, are things that God has disclosed to us about Himself on the pages of Scripture. And so When we worship, we are attributing worth to God and His Son. In fact, that word worship is an old uh English word which means or could be translated or sorry was worth ship, right? Attributing worth. And that's all we're doing. We're thinking about who Jesus is, and we're saying back to him, yeah, you are eminently worthy of our thanksgiving and of our Praise. And you see this in Revelation four verse eleven. There they stand before Jesus' throne, they sing, Worthy are you, our Lord and God To receive glory and honor and power. Why? For you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created And so that's what we're doing. We are getting together, and in our feeble way, we are ascribing to Jesus Christ something of the Of the worship that he is rightly due. And when we do it We're not pretending that we're just barreled over with the perfections of Jesus Christ, but rather, even as we worship We're trying to get ourselves to where we should be. And the first team the first song we sang, we sing it every 4th of July weekend, because Francis Scott Key wrote the song Uh Lord with glowing heart, I praise thee. But in this this hymn, it's number eighty, he not saying Lord, I have a glowing heart and I praise you. No. He's saying, Lord, help me to have a glowing heart. so that I can worship you in a way that is consistent with your glory. So in the first line, second part, he said, Help, O God, my weak endeavor, this dull soul to rapture raise. In other words, I'm a spiritual dullard, right? I'm a Presbyterian. Um I need you to help me Lord, to see your greatness. Help, O God, my weak endeavor, this dull soul to rapture raise. You must light the flame, or never can my love be warm to praise. You have to awaken me. You have to help me to see you And so when you love Jesus Christ, it shows, right? You desire to give him worship. I'm not doing very well, but I want to do better. I want to give you worship in a way that's fitting to your person. You resolve to obey his commands and you want to serve him. I want to do something to serve you. And if nobody sees it, all the better, because that way I can check my motives and I can say, you know what, I'm trying to do better at serving you. Well that's where we should be. You read a passage like this, you think, oh my goodness, uh this is almost a different religion. I'm so I'm so I'm so blasé sometimes. And so how do I how do I raise my dull soul to rapture? And the Bible answers, we need to reflect on the greatness of uh Jesus Christ. Mary caught a glimpse of Jesus' greatness, right? She heard his teaching. That would barrel you over. She saw his compassion and she witnessed his power, right? He raised his her brother. From the grave. Hebrews 6. 5 says that or I can borrow that to speak about Mary. She tasted the goodness of the Word of God And the powers of the age to come. She had met Jesus Christ. She got a glimpse, she got a taste of his teaching, of the Word of God, and she saw His power and so to elevate our worship and our affection for Jesus Christ, it's good to just reflect on His Excellencies. Jonathan Edwards spoke about the Jesus diverse excellencies. He said there in Jesus Christ, this is a great line, write it down, you can press people In Christ, we find this admirable conjunction of diverse excellencies. He was talking about Traits that typically are contradictory, but in Christ they are compatible. For example He's the Lord of glory. At the same time, he's a suffering servant. He's the lion, but he's also the lamb. In Jesus we find justice and mercy. In harmony, we find majesty and meekness are going through John's Gospel. We read the seven I am statements that Jesus said about himself. He said I am the bread of life. I'm the light of the world. I'm the door. I'm the good shepherd. I'm the resurrection of life. I'm divine. I'm the way and the truth and the life. And so, wow, that's amazing. You think about Jesus. Is all of that and all those traits are in perfect harmony And then you could go through, just reflect on the different titles that the Bible ascribes to Jesus Christ. He's called the Prince of Peace. He's called the Alpha and the Omega, the Bridegroom, the Holy One of God, the Horn of Salvation. the Lord of glory, the King of Kings, the Messiah, and we could go on and on and on. I remember when I was uh younger, my brother had a poster of all these titles that were ascribed to Jesus Christ. And then you read his you read his you read his teaching, right? You read Matthew five to seven, the Sermon on the Mount, you say, This is brilliant. This guy knows me better than I know myself. And so much of it is counterintuitive. And yet, when it's put into practice, I have seen how it works in other people's lives. And so we conclude Jesus Christ is eminently admirable And so we want to reflect on who he is and also what he's done. Because we're praying, Lord, stir my affections for Jesus, reflect on Jesus' death on a cross for us. Years ago I read a book on D-Day by Stephen Ambrose, a wonderful book. Everybody should read those kind of books. But um he talked in the end of the book he talked about the twentieth anniversary celebration of D-Day. So this was 1964 Walter Cronkite interviewed General Dwight D. Eisenhower. And uh In that interview, Dwight Eisenhower is looking out over the English Channel and he said to Walter Cron Cronkite You see these people out here swimming and sailing their little pleasure boat, sailing their little pleasure boats and taking advantage of the nice weather and the lovely beach, Walter. It's almost unreal today to realize what it was. But it's a wonderful thing to remember, that what these fellows twenty years ago were fighting for and sacrificing for What they did to preserve our way of life, not to conquer any territory, not for any ambitions of our own but to make sure that Hitler could not steal freedom in the world. And he goes on to say and he said I I think it's just overwhelming to think of the lives that were given for that principal paying a terrible price on this beach alone on Omaha Beach, two thousand uh casualties, but they did it so that the world could be free. And that's That's similar to how we would look at what Jesus Christ did, right? He purchased our freedom. That's what we celebrate in the Lord's Supper. We are welcome. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ as your Savior, the God of the universe says, we can have fellowship now. Your sins have been paid for So the penalty's been dish been paid, and I've given you my spirit, and you are increasingly being liberated from the pollution of sin and from the power of sin. And we're going to sing a song just in a minute. Isaac Watts Lasson did my savior bleed And Isaac Watts stands in awe of God's grace. So he goes, Alas, and did my Savior bleed and did my sovereign die? And then he he says asks, Would he devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? And so what we're doing what we want to do is reflect on who he is and what he's done And just pray like Francis Scott Keith prayed. Now Lord, war by heart. Help me to worship. Help me to serve. Help me to walk in your ways. Well here's one more thing, number three. about Mary's access of first of all it was prophetic secondly it was an expression of her love for Jesus and then thirdly It wasn't without its critics, right? Let no good deed go unpunished. You probably experienced that. You try to do something with good motives, and somebody just comes out and they just ruin the whole thing Look, here's what here we go. Verse 4. But Judas Iscariot, one of the disciples, he who was about to betray him said, Why was this ointment not sold for 300 deneri and given to the poor? So Judah suddenly cares about the poor. Uh verse six. He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put in it. You meet people like that, don't you? Somebody does something, you think, yeah, that's Amorable. Just there's always somebody who will say, you know, you could have done this. You know, you a young person wants to go overseas and be a missionary. Some somebody sitting in the back, well, there's plenty of people here who need to be converted. Why does he need to be going over there? Or um somebody uh worships God in a more expressive manner than your average Presbyterian. And you'd think, um, well, what's going on there? Maybe he's a charismatic. No, that doesn't make you charismatic just because you're more expressive Or a young Christian, a a new Christian who's young and he's spiritually awakened, and he's a little bit overzealous. He goes a little bit overboard sometimes But sometimes people can even be critical of someone like that instead of saying, well, you know, it's gr it's great to see uh a young person just uh zealous for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Jesus defends Mary. As we looked at verse 7, he says, Listen, this is prophetic. She was preparing me for burial. But then in verse 8 He says something, and this is quite interesting, that implies that Jesus recognized his value. He recognized his worthiness. Verse 8, the poor you will always have you you will always have with you, but you do not always have me. Jesus cared about the poor, right? Let's just let's just put that out. We all know that. But he was saying that there would be future opportunities to help the poor. Meanwhile What Mary did was good. And when you read the Gospels, you don't get the impression that Jesus is full of himself, right? He was very humble. That sticks out. But at the same time, he recognized that he was worthy to be worshipped. And that's where we mu that's what what we should learn here. He recognizes his worthiness. It's only fitting that we worship him. So he could talk like that. If I talk like that, you know, imagine Imagine if some of the younger people in church they look at me every Sunday and they go, this guy always wears striped ties. He needs to maybe expand his uh style boundaries a little bit. In fact, it's funny, my wife got me this coat and I was like, uh that's a little flashy for me. And but I I told her I said, I got like ten compliments on this coat. And she said, We're just glad to see you wearing something different. But you know, say suppose some of the more stylish young people say, Let's help this guy out. Let's take a collection. We'll get him a gift card from men's warehouse and he can get a couple m new ties. We'll help him. We'll help him pick it out. And they come up to me after church and they give me this gift card. And I say, Whoa thanks. How kind how kind to do it. Then somebody's walking by and they say We pay him plenty of money. You guys should have given that money to the poor. And I hear that, and I say The poor you'll have with you always, you won't always have me. You think that guy's got a screw loose, right? There's just that's not right. That he's he's he's too full of himself. However, when Jesus talks like that We should be saying, yeah, that's true. He because he is God and He is worthy of our worship And so that's this is a real simple passage, right? When you value Jesus, it shows in your ambition to worship him. To obey his commands and to serve him. And it's not a duty, it's a privilege. And so that's where we want to go. We realize most of us we got a long way to make progress. The good news of the gospel is that it's not our sincerity or our obedience or our service. That merits us enjoying God's favor, but it's Jesus' obedience to the law. And it's his death for our sin that makes us worthy to stand in the presence of a holy God. And that's what the Lord's Supper reminds us of. Yeah, you're spiritually dull, and your obedience is spotty at best. But nonetheless, God receives us because of what Jesus did. And having been clothed in Jesus' righteousness, we still pray, Lord, help me to see it more clearly, help me to obey more sincerely. There's an old Anglican prayer. Where we pray, Lord, what we have not give us, what we know not, teach us, what we are not, make us. Let's pray that.