Our Bibles so we're back in Matthew chapter eighteen Matthew chapter eighteen verses ten to twenty Alright. Jesus, so this is uh one of one of the five discourses in Matthew's gospel. Chapter 18, we're picking up at verse 10. Uh back in verse three, was it back yeah, he says, He said to his disciples, I say to you, unless you turn and become like little children You'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. So when Jesus talks about children, he's not just talking about children, but he's talking about one of his disciples, okay? And he says in verse 10, see that you do not despise one of these little ones. In other words, one of my disciples For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. What do you think? If a man had a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it, truly I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. So it is not the will of my father who is in heaven, excuse me, of my father who is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, just between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you've gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax collector Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loose in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Before we look at the text, let me ask you a couple questions. I'm interested in what you'd say. Don't say it out loud, but just think about it. What should the church do uh when you have a Christian, a professing Christian, and he or she does something uh just completely scandalous. Uh say this person leaves his or her spouse. What should the church's response be? Now here's some kind some answers you get. Sometimes people say, well, we can't be judgmental. We we just need to pray for that person, and it's really none of our business. So that's the approach. How about this? In a church, you could have someone who is just vicious. In the way they gossip about others, in the way they cause division in the church. And I know the church I pastored in North Carolina back in the nineteen nineties There was a couple, and they caused all kind of problems in the church. And I remember one lady saying, well, we just need to love them Is that all we can do? Is that the only tool we have in our toolbox for dealing with something like that? Or thinking about on a a more personal level in your family, in your marriage, with your siblings, or in the church. How are we to respond when somebody offends us? They they sin And uh and we're hurt by it, or we're we're we're angered by it. What what is the response? And typically our response is to retaliate or to To write that person off or to talk about that person behind their back. So these are all the kind of issues that this passage gives us guidance on. And Jesus instructs us here to respond in a way that is more difficult, but at the same time, it's more lovely. Not lovely, it's more loving. It's more loving. And he calls us here to confront one another tenderly, but also to do it frankly. Now it's not easy to be confronted to have someone come to you and say, you know what? Here's something that I've seen that you've been doing or something you've said, and I want to talk to you about it. You know, you just cringe when somebody does that So it's difficult to be confronted, but it's even more difficult, I think, to be the one who does the confronting. And yet that's what Jesus calls us to do. So this is a passage, verses 15-18 in particular. It's a passage about mutual accountability in the Christian community. And I'd say one of the great benefits of joining a church, as opposed to just being a regular attendee, is that when you join the church you enter into a covenant, into an agreement of mutual accountability with the other church members. Because one of the vows we take is this. I vow excuse me, do you vow to submit yourself in the spirit of love to the government and discipline of this church? This is saying Do you vow to be to listen to others when they correct you? Do you vow to receive correction from others in the church? That's a pretty serious vow, and some people say that's a good reason not to join a church, right? Because if things get messy in my life I just want to get out of there. I don't want people confronting me about an already difficult situation. And yet, we're taught in Scripture that this kind of mutual accountability is one of the mechanisms that God has provided for our Christian growth. And so this passage we just read, verses 10 to 20, it's about pursuing straying sheep. This is something we need to be acquainted with because this is something that sooner or later all of us are going to need to put this into practice. So we have here verses 10 to 14, the motive for pursuing trade of sheep, straying sheep. Then we see in verses 15 to 20 the method. of pursuing straying sheep. So first of all, the motive. What's the great motive that we should have for when someone does something that's just crazy? just one of those red letter sins. What should motivate us to say, you know what, I need to go to that person I need to try to talk to that person. What's our incentive? And I think our great incentive is the fact that God is committed to his people, right? The church is the apple of his eye. The church is the bride of Christ. He has numbered all his sheep. They're all important to him, right? We don't want to despise one of the least of Jesus' disciples. And so we look at God's interaction with his people, and we see he identifies himself throughout the Bible as a shepherd. And being in it it would be an interesting study to take a good coordinates and look at how many times in the Old Testament and in the New Testament God Talks about God being a shepherd. We recited Psalm 23. And um Greg just read Ezekiel 34, where God condemned the false shepherds, the false leaders of Israel. He said, You know what? You guys have been looking out for yourselves. You have been looking out for the sheep. And then God says, I myself am going to come, and I am going to shepherd my people, Israel. Jesus shows up on the scene. And what does he say about himself in John chapter 10? He said, I am the good shepherd. And Jesus, the good shepherd In verse 14, says of his father, who is also pictured as a shepherd. In verse 14, he says, It is not the will of my father who is in heaven. That one of these little ones should perish. R. T. France said that God's pastoral care is extended to all his little ones. Jesus and the God and the Father in heaven will not overlook the least of his disciples. And so if you're a true member of the visible church, Jesus says in verse 14, you will not perish, okay? If you're truly a Christian, your shepherd God will not let you stray away. Now some people do stray away and they don't come back. What does that say? Well that says what Jesus said in Matthew 7 21, that not everybody who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. But this promise is for all God's true disciples. And so God says, He will pursue you. Now this is something to think about. This is something for our young people to think about. How does God pursue us when we stray? How does God pursue us when we stray? And one way he pursues us, you know, if you're a Christian, God will not let your conscience rest, right? Remember when David committed adultery with Bathsheba? What was David thinking about? Uh when after that. Was he just walking through sunny meadows, plucking the uh uh petals off of daisies and singing gentle in my mind, just Warm thoughts about Bathsheba. Is that what David said in Psalm 32? He said in Psalm 32, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as in the heat of summer. And so one way God pursues us, and we can say, thankfully in the long run, is Miserable in the short run, but thankfully in the wrong in the long run, God presses down on our consciences. Another way God pursues us is he allows us to taste the bitter fruit of our sin and our rebellion. And that's a good thing because it brings us back. And I'd say if you're a young person, you think, you know what? When I get out of high school, I can just do what I want, and I'm going to go my own way That's not going to work out. What will happen is you will see that the world's promises are lies, and you'll see that all those glittering things they hold out before you They're hollow on the inside, and they're full of decay. And that's a good thing. And so God uses that oftentimes to turn us around. But another way that God pursues the strained sheep, and this is what we see in this passage, is that God uses fellow Christians who carry out the steps that we see in verses 15 to 17 to restoring one of God's straying sheep. And so the great motive we have here for pursuing a fellow believer, and it might not even be someone you know really well, But you're privy to some information that other Christians aren't privy to. Our great motive is that, you know what? Our Father in heaven cares for his sheep, and he uses us as under-shepherds. Now, if you go through the New Testament, you see other motives for pursuing a fellow Christian who's gone astray One of the great motives, the other great motives, is because we want to restore that person to fellowship with God. into fellowship with the community of believers. Look at verse uh fifteen, the second part, where Jesus talks about going to your brother. He says If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. So what's the goal? Is to gain that believer back. into fellowship with Jesus Christ. You see the same thing, First Corinthians five, verses four to five. You can check that out later. But even when you look at verses 15 to 17, this is really an outline of the process of church discipline. And so when you go, you know, so suppose after church, don't do it right after church, maybe Monday, you come to me, you know, I said something that you find offensive. Not here, but I just said something just rude, flippant And you're hurt by that. What should you do? Well, exercise church discipline. What's that mean? You go to me one-on-one, you say, what you said. uh was really uh mean or hurtful, and then my response should be, ooh, I wasn't thinking, my mouth moves too fast, will you forgive me? Well we just had the first encounter of church uh discipline. Even when it has to proceed to the final step The goal there is to reclaim the person who sinned. It's not just to nail that person, it's not just to throw them out of the church, but the goal is to reclaim that person. And even when you have the final step, it says in verse 17, treat him as you would a Gentile or a tax collector. Well, that's excommunication. The goal, again, is to send a message. We love you, but from your outward behavior, if you continue in your rebellion, you're going to perish in hell. Now only God knows a person's heart. We can only go on their outward actions. We don't know whether they're a believer or not. But we're saying from what it looks like You're not acting like a Christian. You may not be a Christian. You should not take communion until you're repentant. But the goal is to try to get that person's attention. Because if they are a Christian, it's going to register and they're going to be thinking, you know what? Maybe I'm not a Christian. Maybe I am headed for hell. But on either account, I need to repent and I need to straighten this thing out because if I don't deal with it the the outcome will not be good. So we're talking about the motives for discipline. Well, because of God's love for his sheep, a second motive is because our goal is to restore that individual, right? To fellowship with God, to fellowship with the community of believers. Another goal or motive is to maintain the health of the church. You see that in 1 Corinthians 5, 6. Paul said, and this is a situation where a guy in a church was apparently sleeping with his stepmother. And the Corinthians were saying, well, that's fine. We're all saved by grace. It doesn't matter. And Paul says, listen, you guys should have done something about this. First Corinthians 5. 6 he adds, don't you know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? In other words. One person's sin can lower the moral temperature of the entire congregation Let me give you an example. Suppose there's an individual who's committing adultery in the church, and it becomes known And there are churches like this, right? It's known. Everybody knows about it. Nobody does a thing about it because it's an uncomfortable uh uh situation. However, it lowers the temperature in the church. And you'll have a teenage boy thinking, you know what? That guy's married. He's in the choir. And he's having this affair with this woman. If that's okay, what's the big deal if I sleep with my girlfriend? I'm not married. She's not married. What's so bad about that? And so another reason then is we want to maintain the health of the church. A little leaven leavens the whole lump Here's another reason. This is from 1 Corinthians 5. 1. We want to protect the corporate witness of our congregation. So back in the 1990s, there the church had passed in North Carolina. There was an elder in that church And he he killed over one day. He was fifty years old and he just keeled over one day from a heart attack. And it was a surprise. But about a year later, I w went out to lunch with a guy and I invited him to church. And um I said, hey, why don't you come visit us? And he looked at me and he said, I would never go to your church. I'm like, ooh, what w what did I say there? Um Why not? And he said, and he explained to me that this man who had died, uh, he had been having an affair for years with some lady that worked in his business. This guy knew about it. Apparently nobody in the church knew about it, or nobody told the elders about the other elders about it. But um it completely discredited the ministry of that church. And there are certainly other people in that business who knew about it. Now so Paul is saying to the Corinthians, so Paul is in Ephesus, 250 miles from the city of Corinth, and he writes to the people in the city of Corinth in 1 Corinthians 5. 1, it is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you. Now Paul didn't have the internet and he didn't have the telephone. But News of scandal in a church spreads wide and it spreads quickly. And so Paul was concerned about the witness of the church in Corinth. They weren't doing anything about this uh about the sexual immorality in a church. And you'll notice on your outline it puts some other purposes the Bible gives for church discipline To vindicate the honor of Jesus Christ, to deter others from like offenses, and then finally to prov to prevent the wrath of God. So there's plenty of reason For us to take uh to to can be cons to consider uh one another, to be concerned for one another. We're not the morality police, we're not we don't go around looking for things, looking for trouble. But nonetheless, uh when something is apparent This is telling us that we need to deal with it as individual Christians and perhaps later as a congregation. So that takes us down to verses fifteen to twenty, if you want to stay with me. We have in this section here then four steps. in the process of church discipline. This is not an exhaustive manual on church discipline, but it gives us something of an outline about how we are to deal with one another when we see unrepentant sin in another Christian's life. And the first step is in verse 15 Jesus says, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fall between you and him alone If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. So the first phrase he says, if your brother sins against you, statement or rude statement, every sinful act, it's your job to go to that person and to set them straight Can't be saying that, right? I mean that would be it, we we would we would have not no time for anything else. We wouldn't even have time to eat. If our job was to g we were our job is to go to each other, say, hey, you know what I see this sin in your life, I think you need to deal with it. That we would never have time for anything else. And Jesus said in Matthew 7, don't worry about the speck in your brother's eye. Right? We have to have a sense of proportion. First Peter four eight, Peter said, Love covers a multitude of sins. Right? We've put up with a lot in one another, in the home and in the church, because we realize, you know what, we're all struggling sinners and We're all projects that God's working on and He's sanctifying us. And you know, there might be ten areas of my life And in uh two of those areas, there's these glaring inconsistencies, but in these other areas, God's working in me. So I say, you know what, he's a bit of a schlub, but he's making some progress in those other eight areas, and so we're we're we're patient there So we have to have a sense of proportion, but nonetheless there are some sins that you realize, you know what, this is really harmful to this individual. This needs to be dealt with, or this is harmful uh to other people that this inner this person is interacting with, or this is harmful to the name of Christ and to the reputation of his church And so, yeah. And when your brother sins against you, what do you do then? You need to do something. What do you do? What did Jesus say? You call the pastor. Peter, I noticed this about John, and I think you really need to talk to him. Is that what Jesus says here? If your brother sins against you, he says, no. You go. Go tell him his fault between you and him alone. So the goal there is not to tell the pastors, not to tell anybody. Just try to deal with it on your own. And uh hopefully, because you don't want to embarrass somebody, you don't want to humiliate someone, uh we want to try to keep this as private as possible, we want to try to keep the circle uh as narrow as possible. And so this is the biblical, this is the beauty of Scripture. You know, why do I believe in Christianity? One reason I believe is because it works. And if I were to make a list of a thousand ways it works One of the points on my list would be it provides a mechanism for dealing with conflict in human relationships. And it's a mechanism that works. The world's mechanism is either you ignore a person's sin or you know if it's one if it's a politically correct issue, you just land base that person and there's no way for for that person ever To be reconciled for that person ever to have that offense lifted from their record. But the biblical approach is You go to the person one-on-one, you point it out, and if they acknowledge it, that's the end of the matter. And the Bible teaches when God forgives, he forgets. Hebrews 10, 17, God says of Israel, their sins and lawless deeds I will remember no more. Now God who knows all things is not saying I I we're not going to have a recollection of that. But what he's saying when he says I remember their sin no more, he's saying I will not hold it to their account. I will not hold it against them. And that's what the Bible is instructing us to do. We go to someone We explain to them our perception of what's going on in that person's life. We look for them to clarify anything, and we pray that they'll just acknowledge it. And you know, if someone is a an earnest Christian, they take a big gulp and they say, you're right, I see it I'm embarrassed that you brought this to me, but in the same way I appreciate it. So I pray that you'll encourage me in this area as I continue to struggle with it You want to go in a certain manner, right? Um Matthew seven, four to five, Jesus says, take the log out of your own eye first. So you want to go in humility, you want to acknowledge, you know, I'm not superior, I'm not sinless, I know that You want to be tender, that's what Paul says in Galatians six one. Brothers, if anyone's caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him how? Right? And when there's somebody's gentle and they're humble, that oftentimes makes that oftentimes disarms the person uh to listen. You don't want to accuse them, you but you want to seek uh some kind of clarification I see this discrepancy. Help me with this. And you pray that they'll listen. Oftentimes they don't. Oftentimes they'll say it's none of your business. But you've done what you can, right? As far as it depends on you, it says in Romans 12 Live of peace with all men. And this is something that's intended to bring peace in the church, peace in the family. The end of verse 15, we're still in the first step. The end of verse 15 says, if he listens to you, you've gained your brother. That's the end of the matter. Nothing else needs to be said. Unless the crime was committed, that's another story. But unless unless it's not that typically, nothing else needs to be said. Step two If the person ignores you, then it becomes more difficult. The process then escalates to the next level. We see that in verse 16. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses So you went to the individual and they said, uh, no, I'm not talking to you. Well, what do you do then? You don't say, okay, you don't want to talk to me. No You you say, okay, I gotta get somebody else, maybe somebody who's close to that person as a friend, and you go to the individual, and what it does then Is it adds weight, it adds gravity, right, to the encounter. You're saying, you know what? I don't like this discussion, but I have an obligation as a Christian To say, you know what, this is not right, and you need to deal with it. And by bringing another along, it adds gravity to the encounter, but also it provides a witness. So what if this this thing's not dealt with right then? And you have to explain what happened in that discussion. You'll have a witness to explain here's what was said in case somebody tries to twist uh what the dialogue was. So that's the second step But unfortunately, sometimes uh there's a third step. Verse 17, the first part, you take it to the church. He says, if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. Now how does that work practically? I don't think it means you should walk up to the church after the service, hey, I have an announcement to make about so-and-so. I think rather you go to the elders and you say, here's what's going on. Would you guys talk to them? And the elders are in on it. And then if it's still nothing happens there The fourth step is the end of verse 17, where Jesus says, let him be to you as a gentle, a gentile, and a tax collector. All right, what's that mean? Well, how did Jesus deal with how did Jesus treat Gentiles and tax collectors? Well, he was gracious to them and he loved them and he cared for them. But he didn't pretend that they knew God, right? He didn't pretend that they were believers. And so it seems like Jesus is saying Don't pretend that John Smith's a believer. You need, he doesn't, by his behavior, he doesn't appear to be one. And so you don't treat him with the business as usual attitude. You pray for him, you call him to repentance. I remember once a friend of my old church, uh, he commit he left his wife And uh we disciplined him and he said, hey, you want to go out for lunch? And I said, sure. We went out for lunch. But we weren't talking about the college football game uh that played last Saturday. We talked about him and his issue, right? Tried to love him But also, you know what? Things are not the way they used to be. Um, in fact, I mean people might say, come to church, sit under the preaching of the gospel, right? You want Gentiles and tax collectors to sit under the preaching of the gospel. Don't take the Lord's supper, though, until you're repentant. And so um And that's where you get the word excommunication, right? Communion, no communion, so the person would be excommunicated From the church, because the Lord suffer. Well, the Lord suffers for sinners, right? It's for sinners, but it's for sinners of a certain stripe. It's for repentant sinners. And any other kind of sinner is not welcome. So if you're not repentant, you shouldn't take the Lord's Supper. And by the way, there's only one sin for which a person can be excommunicated What is that? An adultery? No. If you're an adulterer and you're repentant, you can't be excommunicated. If you're an axe murderer, that's pretty bad. No, you go to jail, but you can't be excommunicated. The only sin for which a person can be excommunicated is a lack of repentance. That's the only sin that anyone is ever excommunicated for because we understand we're all we're all struggling, we all have our sins. But we're seeking to live lives of ongoing repentance. That's pretty harsh, huh? Well it's not as harsh as the world, I don't think. I think it's this is a realistic way. to dealing with Christian growth. And um here's what you'll encounter in some people when they do their own thing and they go their own way and you try to appeal to them and talk to them. They'll just say, it's none of your business. I'm do I do what I want. Uh just stay out of my life. And then they'll say sometimes self-righteously, especially see this in the public Amongst public personalities. They'll say, God is my judge. Man has no right to judge me. John Calvin said, The stubborn and proud are prone to despise the church's judgment on the grounds that they do not wish to be submissive to men. Now who are you? You're just the man. You're just the sinner. Oh, of course we're sinners, but God's called us to mutual accounta accountability And God has delegated to the church. And you see this in verses 18 and 19. God has delegated to the church A measure of authority. It's a ministerial authority, right? Jesus is the chief shepherd, but in 1 Peter 5, he calls elders the under-shepherds So it's a ministerial authority. It's an authority that's regulated by God's Word, but nonetheless, the church does have a real and legitimate authority in the eyes of God To make judgments. Verse 18, Jesus said to the church, Whatever you bind, that means whatever you permit on earth will be bound in heaven. And whatever you lose, forbid, on earth will be loosed in heaven. Now it's interesting. I am reading out of the ESV, and there's a little footnote there. And it points out an alternate translation, or maybe a better translation, the verbs there are in the future perfect tense. Which means in other words, Jesus is saying, whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, conveying the idea that the church is merely declaring What has already been determined by God in heaven. And so when we make a declaration that is in conformity to Scripture, And when we understand the situation correctly, when the church makes a judgment by saying, we're going to treat Joe as a tax collector and a gentile, when we have our Stories right, and we're doing it according to Scripture what Jesus is saying there as you're ratifying something that has already been determined in the councils of heaven. And so the church's authority is delegated by Christ, it's regulated by his word, but it is a legitimate authority. And so why join a church? Oh, maybe I didn't give you a lot of good reasons this morning. Or maybe I did. Maybe I did. Because we need to join a church because we need accountability. And true accountability can only exist when we're under authority. And if there's no authority, there's no true accountability. Now churches can err, right? We don't pretend the church is without cannot is infallible, but in our form of government there are courts of appeal. So say the elders in the church Miss mis uh judge the situation. Well then the individual who was mistreated, they appeal to the next court up, which is the Presbytery? They don't like the presbytery if you don't like what the presbytery said, they the presbytery didn't get it right either, then you appeal to the next court up, the synod. And so that's the value of this connectional government. Because we understand that churches and the the elders group the Elder boards they make they make errors, okay? But nonetheless, we want to try to do this according to Scripture So, all right, this this is pretty this is pretty heavy stuff. It reminds us, you know, being part of a church. It's not just about uh being in community with other Christians and having fellowship and Sitting under the teaching of the Bible and worshiping God together. But there's another element to it, and that's what Jesus is talking about here. We see here that being a member of a church requires An earnest commitment to fellow believers in the church, in that we have a commitment to confront one another. When such occasions, when there are such occasions that demand confrontation, it requires us to humble ourselves and to listen When somebody has something to talk to us about, right? And just to hear it. And to say, you know, it's easy to say in a broad sense, oh, I'm a sinner. Well somebody points it out. That's very humbling. That's part of walking with Christ and being in the church. But then also Finally, being a part of church requires that we're quick to forgive. Forgive, forget, restore. Don't hold a notch against somebody. You know, some people have a list. Now you make ten mistakes, you're done for. I put up with you for nine of those mistakes, nine of those missteps, the tenth one, I'm done with you No. And Jesus goes on to say, and we'll look at this next week. He talks about the importance of forgiving your brother from the heart. So here's this genius, this beautiful balance Between love but also righteousness. And this is a balance that God uses to sanctify us individually and also to sanctify us as a church. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, uh this is this is um a daunting task that you've called us to, and yet it's for our good We do need to be shaped more into your likeness. And Christian growth doesn't come individually, it comes in community. And so we pray, Lord, that we'd be community. Where there's love and grace, but there's also a zeal for holiness and for righteousness and for our mutual sanctification. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.