May you be excused with Mrs. Wisner. And let's turn on our Bibles to Philippians chapter four. So we're making our way through the book of Philippians, and we're in chapter four. We're just looking at two verses this morning. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians So in this final chapter, Paul is giving uh various instructions and exhortations. And in verses 2 to 3, he writes, I entreat Euodia, and I entreat Syndechi to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored by labored side by side with me in the gospel. Together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the Book of Life. This passage seems relatively insignificant, but really I think it's one of the most important passages in Philippians as far as Paul speaking to that congregation. Uh but we see it addresses uh the the need to work for, to strive for unity in the congregation of believers. And this is not an uncommon theme in the Bible. Jesus himself prayed what in Matthew chapter 17? He prayed that they may all be one. We're in Matthew or John thirteen I said Matthew seventeen, John seventeen. Then back in John thirteen thirty-five Jesus said, By this will all men know that you are my disciples. How will people know? He said, if you love one another, that will tip them off. And then Paul in his letters, for example, 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10, he said to the believers in the Corinthian church, I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree in that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united. in the same mind in the same judgment. A couple years ago we did the book of Ephesians, chapter 4, verse 3. Paul said to them, Be eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Then earlier in the book of Philippians, chapter 2, verse 2, which is really a springboard for our passage this morning. Paul said to the Philippians, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Why does the Bible harp on this so regularly? And I think the answer is obvious. It's because when you put a bunch of sinners together, Whether it's in a family or a marriage or a church, even though we're forgiven by Jesus Christ, conflict is still inevitable, right? It just just takes Enough time and it will arise. And each of us we have our rough edges and our blind spots and our insecurities. And we can be rude and self-centered and self-righteous In fact, going to church this morning, Becky said to me, You better get off your self-righteous high horse uh before you start preaching. 'Cause I I was talking about this guy who went through a red light and she's like, You don't do that all the time? And we can be insensitive in in what we say. And we can be overly sensitive about What others say. And so that's why there's this great emphasis. Conflict is commonplace In the church. And Paul's entreaty in verse 2, I believe, is one of his driving concerns in writing this letter. So these are not just throwaway lines in the end of the book of Philippians, as you might think, right? We're we're past the big sections where different themes come up, now we have some throwaway lines. Well not not at all Paul is concerned about what's going on in the church in Philippi. And he I remember I said one, I quoted chapter 2, verse 2. He exhorted the Philippians to be of one mind. Well now you get to chapter 4. He's getting down to the nitty-gritty. Here's one of his concerns in writing this letter to the church. And he names names He calls out Euodia and he calls out Sintiche. Now that doesn't phase us because we live in a culture. uh where the news industry in the social media don't hesitate to name the guilty But it's so it's hard to appreciate how remarkable it is for the Apostle Paul to name these two let the these two women In this letter that was addressed to the entire church. And I say it's remarkable because if you read Paul's letters He does mention people by name, but who does he mention? He mentions his ministry associates. So for example, in Philippians, he'll mention Timothy, he'll mention Epaphroditus. And then in other letters, he names the names of people to whom he sends personal greetings, typically in the end of his letters. But he are he hardly ever mentions bad apples by their names in his letters. He doesn't want to give them the publicity. He doesn't want to lift them up and allow them to be noticed even more. And so the question I have is why does Paul do so in this case? Scratch my head on that one. And there's a lot of commentaries on Philippians. There's one that is really good. A lot of them are repetitive. Guy named Gordon Fee in his commentary on Philippians. He said that Paul names Euodian Syntache Not because they're the bad ones who need to be singled out. He names them because they're his friends. It's like, ah, that makes sense. Yodi and Syndeki are sincere Christian women. Look at the end of verse 3. Their names are in the book of life. They're not heretics. They're not troublemakers. These are sincere Christian women. Their names are in the book of life, and that's a figurative way of saying. That they're in this register that God has, and that's a figure of speech too, I believe, of those who are true Christians, of those who are truly redeemed. So they're Christians, and in verse 3, Paul says they had labored side by side with Paul in the gospel. And those who roll up their sleeves and those who serve in the church will encounter tensions and troubles. That fair weather churchgoers will never know exist. And so, and I and before I go on, I I say it's notable that Paul describes these two members of the church as co-laborers in the gospel. Okay? This tells us something about what a church member is. A church member is not just a inexpli is not just a consumer of religious uh services as if it's some type of commodity that is exists just to uh serve you and to uh build you up But a member of the church is a servant, is a gospel worker, right? We are all to be working, we're all to be spreading the good news. Kids in school and And you're at the workplace. We're to be try seeking to be a light for Jesus Christ. And we're working for the gospel. We're praying for unbelievers to come to know Christ. We're looking for opportunities We're serving in the church. We're building others up in the gospel, and we're seeking to serve outside the church, introducing others to Christ, like we do with the Soccer Bible Camp or the Bible Club. that our people put on here at this school. And um I was thinking about this. Just about everything we do as a church is an opportunity to introduce unbelievers to Jesus Christ. It's not just a Bible club, it's not just a soccer camp, it's not just an evangelistic Bible study. But we're having a church dinner Saturday. And so we need to have this mindset. Hey, this is a great way to invite somebody to meet others in the church. They'll be more comfortable to come and hear the gospel We want to invite people to Sunday morning, kids. You want to invite people to the youth group and to the young adult fellowship in Bible study. And so in all these things We want to be members of the church, being served and serving other members, but also taking the gospel out, right? Inviting others in. But anyway Back to what I was trying to say is that these two ladies, Eodia and Sintiki, are sincere Christian women. And it's not uncommon for sincere Christian men and women in the church to have conflicts. Tuesday I was on a Zoom call with um some leaders in our Presbytery because a a pastor in one of our churches up in New York State, he resigned. Like after eight years, he resigned. He's gonna take another church in down south. But one of the incidents or one of the issues that led him to resign is that the secretary of that church who's been there for decades Is at odds with him and the church won't deal with this conflict. She won't she hadn't talked to him for a couple years. How do you operate like that? Well, she's a Christian, he's a Christian, right? But These things happen all the time. Who was it who in this church was telling me they were in a church in Texas and um The pastor and the associate pastor were at each other's throats, and it turned out they both had to resign. That happens, right? Um And that's the church. I remember one pastor who went through terrible conflict in this church. He said, the church is like Noah's Ark. The stench inside would be unbearable were it not for the storm outside. And he persevered through those conflicts and things are smooth now. It took him about fifteen years to make it And so Paul, that's why we have all these verses, all these statements in the New Testament about resolve it, the need to resolve conflict, the need to strive. For peace in the church. But I do have to make one qualification. We never see Paul calling for peace in the church at the expense of doctrinal purity. When there are those in the church who deny orthodox biblical doctrine, uh we have to take a stand. And that certainly uh what what Paul does in his letters, that's what we see throughout all the New Testament letters really, Jude and First Peter. When there is false teaching in the church, There won't be peace until the doctrine is set straight. And that certainly applies to our day because if you look at the history of Christianity in the United States From say 1850 until our day, what has happened with many churches, many of the mainline denominations is a doctrine has been compromised and they've allowed leaders in the church who called pastors in the church who deny some of the most basic doctrines, the supernatural character of the Christian faith, right? This isn't just a social philosophy. This isn't just an ethical system. But we believe that there's a God, and God changes people by his Holy Spirit They deny the miracles of Jesus. They deny the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Well, that is heretical teaching. To deny the deity of Christ is heretical. To deny that salvation is found in other ways apart from Jesus Christ. That is a heresy. To say that Jesus' death on the cross was just an elaborate expression of God's love is not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that Jesus died on the cross as a substitute to receive the penalty that we deserve for our sin. So that's the doctrine of the substitutionary atonement. And then probably most obviously what's going on in the American church is that churches are denying the continuing validity of biblical ethical teaching. They said, well times have changed. Well times have changed, but the Bible never changes. In fact, when the Bible was written, it was a pagan sewer. But still, Christians were called to be different from the world. And so, if you read through the New Testament letters, you discover that Paul, who pleaded for peace, and Peter and others who called for peace in the church, They deal with heretics head on because that's the only way it can be they can be dealt with But nonetheless, getting back to our passage, what Paul addresses here is conflict amongst honest Christians, not perfect Christians. But men and women of good intention who are trusting in Jesus Christ And if you if you review what's going on, what happens in churches, most of the conflicts are not over doctrine. In Bible-believing churches, there are plenty of conflicts, and they're caused typically by interpersonal offenses. And so we want to now just flesh this out and answer the question: what should you do when these offenses arise? When you are offended or when you offend someone And you know they're mad at you. What should you do? Well, in a nutshell, you just need to leave the church because There is a perfect church out there, and you just haven't found it yet. So just keep looking, okay? Just move on. Just send some general email to me. I think God's calling us out elsewhere. We won't be back. And then you're good to go. Is that what Paul says? No. He says in his passage, you need to take the bull by the horns and you need to seek to resolve these conflicts. And that's what Paul does here. And he's and um so he's proactive, and it's I think it's notable. That he's very he appeals to these ladies. He doesn't say, Tell you Odi and Syndicate to get things straightened out there, okay? Or else we're gonna we're gonna crack some heads when I when I show up back in flip Philippi. No Uh he he appeals to each woman. He in fact he doesn't even say I I entreat you odi and syndicate. He labors it to just uh I think uh y You almost sense the affection here. I entreat you, Odia, and I entreat Syndic to agree in the Lord. And so the first thing he does in um where are we verse two? He uh he appeals to the parties, okay? And he tr he appeals to them Do what you can to resolve this. So what we're gonna say here applies to marriage, it applies, of course, to the church. So, what are the things that we should be doing? Well, the Bible has a number says a number of things, and this is familiar to many. One thing the Bible says, if somebody offends you, Matthew 18 and verse 15, Jesus said, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. So don't gossip, don't stir things up, just go to the person between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. Okay? Then there's some things you should do. Matthew 7 verse 5. Jesus said, before you go point out to somebody the speck in somebody else's eye, make sure you take out the log in your eye. Well, if you start like that, that helps uh that helps disarm the person, right? You acknowledge, here's what I said wrong, or here's how I was insensitive. Will you forgive me about this? And then if I may, I'd like to point out something that you said uh which didn't really set well with me. And then you want to ask for clarification. You know, what what was going on there? Did I misunderstand this? You don't want to accuse. You want to ask for clarification. And um And see what happens. And you know, if you understood correctly that they were truly offensive, then um they need to they need to um acknowledge it And you and you pray they will. Sometimes if you go to them to resolve it, they're glad you did. Because they they want it resolved too, but somebody has to break somebody has to break the ice. Here's something else. Look at chapter 4, verse 5. Paul says, let your reasonableness be known to everyone. And so you need to be reasonable, right? You can't expect perfection in other people, but then be quick to make excuses for your own behavior. Or you can't be one whose your business is to straighten other people out. But then you never acknowledge any of your faults. That's a huge problem in marriages, right? Both partners, we both have to acknowledge our faults. And I would say, you know, I've said this before. It's amazing. 22 years our church has been around. It's amazing the harmony that we've enjoyed. How is that? Well, I'd say a lot of it's because we're reasonable people Uh for the most part, right? It's just um thank thankfully and um people aren't generally consumed for with a desire for attention or recognition or strokes of people aren't so fool themselves that they're easily offended if everything doesn't go their way. And so we're thankful for that. We we pray that will uh continue And so that's the first lesson we see from this chapter, from these verses, is that you need to take the bull by the horns. You need to try to resolve things. If you can. And I say if you can, because it takes two to tangle, right? It's not always the the cr a Christian with the best of intentions and the humblest approach uh nonetheless may fail in his attempt to resolve a conflict. Paul in Romans 12, verse 19, I think about this verse for different situations. He said, if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. If possible And so the upshot is that it's not always possible, but you want to give it your best shot, and you pray You know, pray things will resolve. But it's not always possible. What do you do then? Well, if you've tried, you put your head down on your pill at night and say, you know, I'm just gonna leave I have to leave this in the Lord's hands. And I need to uh let go of it. And so uh talking about dealing with conflict, one thing we see in this verse is the is the call to resolve conflicts that we have with uh with one another I plead with Euodia and Sendech. Try to work things out and to be of one mind. But Paul doesn't leave it there. He says something else that's important. In the principle is seek to be a peacemaker who helps others resolve their conflicts. Okay? And so that's what we see in verse 3. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel. Together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. And so he appeals to this individual whom he calls his true companion. Nobody knows who he's talking, referring to. Is it perhaps Luke who was his missionary partner? throughout much of the book of Acts and then he sort of drops out of the picture after I think it's Acts 17 when they went to Philippi. Maybe Luke stayed in Philippi. Maybe it was Epaphroditus. He was the guy from Philippi who brought Paul the offering, and then Paul sent back this letter, so we we don't know. But he's appealing to some leader in the church. And so the lesson for us is that if you see two people in the church at odds You should consider, I should say I shouldn't put it like that, so you may have a responsibility to do what you can to nurture some kind of reconciliation. That's a real exciting proposition, right? You see two people at odds, so you're like, whoa. Well first of all, it's complicated. You talk to this person, you get an earful Then you talk to that person and you get an earful and your head spinning. Then you try to get them together. And it's still confusing because there's sometimes a long history. How do you deal with that? Sometimes a challenge. Proverbs 18, verse 17. The one who states his case first seems right until the other comes and examines him. So these things can be complicated. Some are complicated, some are Uh but we want to do what we can, then there's also a risk you take, right? Because one or maybe both parties they might turn on you. They might be offended by you because you don't understand it or you don't take your side or whatever But nonetheless, we're given this responsibility. Back to Ephesians 4:3, Paul said: be eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And when folks join the church, you heard it this morning, we asked them, Do you promise to seek the peace, the purity, and the prosperity of this congregation? In other words Are you going to take it upon yourself to work to bring harmony amongst the people in the church? So there you have it, two verses, very relevant. I would say this is all theoretical, because I understand nobody here has a beef with anybody else and uh things are just uh hunky dory at home. And so um but if it ever happens, right? Well, this isn't theoretical, right? If it ever happens, well it's uh surely. Uh uh is there are th there are situations we may be involved in where we need to take the big gulp and we need to do what we can. to try to restore understanding and uh harmony and uh to be of the same mind with others And our great motivation is the gospel, right? God took the first step. To effect reconciliation between us and him. It says in Romans 5:10, we were his enemies. We were sinners. We were separated from him. But God in his love, while we were still enemies, we were reconciled by the death of his son. So there's the gospel. Have you been reconciled to God? And if you have Then you should endeavor, by God's enabling, to seek reconciliation with fellow believers And if we don't, if we just ignore it, we're really denying the gospel, those bowerheads. Father in heaven, I do pray that you'd help us to see our role in the church as workers for the gospel. Help us also to be diligent and to have the courage really to go to others in gentleness and humility. And to endeavor uh to resolve any hurts or offenses or perhaps misunderstandings We pray that we would certainly have this stance more and more in our marriages for those who are married in our family relationships. Help us to uh to do the daring thing and to strive for unity that all men may know that we are your disciples. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let us sing in our hymn book number 196. 196. Come thou long expected Jesus. Let's stand. From our sins releases by rest in the second. Joy on every long joy to know his be