Andy Ludnum, he's a pilot. He should be up here, because he's used to pushing buttons, right? I'm not used to all this stuff. Malachi three, verse thirteen. God saying to the people of Israel, Your words have been hard against me, says the Lord. But you say, How have we spoken against you? You have said, It is vain to serve God. What is the prophet of our keeping his charge, or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the arrogant blessed Evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test, and they escape. So that's one group. that God is offended by. There's a second group amongst the people of Israel that God was pleased with. Look at verse 16. But those who feared the Lord spoke with one another. The Lord paid attention and heard them. And a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve Him. I want you to notice verse 14. The people, God's people, were saying to him, that it's vain to serve God. What is the profit of doing this? And I imagine that many of our young people have had that thought cross their minds. It is vain to serve God and it's understandable. You're swimming against the culture. There's skewed voices in our society that encourage you in the Christian way of life. Few people are saying or are commending you for your endeavor to walk after Jesus Christ. Uh they look at you like you're a little bit strange in fact. Uh your your Christian belief that uh there's such a thing as absolute truth. They see that the world sees that as narrow-minded The Christian claim uh that marriage is a covenant between one man and one woman. Uh they see that as bigoted. The prohibition the scripture teaches about sex outside of marriage they see as unrealistic and um the teaching the Bible's teaching on heaven and hell uh they they consider that imaginary. And so there there are few people outside the Church of Christ who will commend you for being a Christian. And they're gonna and you're gonna miss out on some good times, uh so you're told. You're gonna be looked at as if you're a relic from the past And so I imagine every Christian young person on one day or at one time or another has said, yeah, yeah, what is the benefit of it? It is vain to serve God And then there are faithful Christians who are married to unbelievers. And you've been praying for your spouse to come to Jesus Christ. But still, uh there's doesn't seem to be any movement in that direction, uh, but there certainly is tension in a marriage but in a marriage between a believer and an unbeliever And I imagine uh some in that situation have uh thought, yeah, i it it's vain to serve God. I've been praying for years, and uh what what's the point putting up with detention I think about uh pastors I've known and uh Christian lay leaders, faithful uh Christians They're going along, they're seeking to serve the Church of Christ, and suddenly they find themselves in the middle of some great controversy, as if it came out of nowhere And uh they've been maligned, uh they've been slandered, and uh sadly their family is oftentimes caught in the crossfire. And many of these people, they get so wounded that they back off from the church and they continue to attend the church, but they're no longer going to become real involved in the life and the ministry of the church. I know I can list make a list of pastors uh who've left the ministry, and I know many faithful lay Christian leaders who have just said, I'm not getting involved, I might show up, but I'm not going to get involved. Uh it's been too painful. The passage before us, and I know it's it's uh you have to look at it closely, but if you look at it closely, you're gonna see uh that in this text, uh It's talking about two ways that people in the visible community of believers can respond when God does not resolve a difficult situation. The first way you can respond is to go bitter and cynical. And the second way that you can respond is you can t you can continue To walk in God's ways and trust his promises. It's not easy, but you're going to endeavor to walk in God's ways and trust his promises. So we see this first group in verses 13 to 15, they had grown bitter and cynical toward God because of their hardships. And the second group in verses 16 to did I say 13 to 15 is the first group? Second group verses 16 to 18 They continued to reverence God and they held on to his promises. They remembered the promises that he made to them. And so as you look at this passage, I want you to ask yourself, in which group do I typically fall? Am I amongst those who have grown bitter and cynical Or am I amongst those who even in the valley of the shadow of death were trusting God's promises I might not be walking around with a smile on my face all the time, but I know that God is faithful and his word is true. So let's look at first of all Verses uh thirteen to uh fifteen in that group or those verses talk about those who are outwardly religious But because of their difficulties that haven't been resolved, they've grown cynical toward God. Now here's the context of Malachi. It's around 450 BC, and as I mentioned on other Sundays, the Israelites, they'd been in captivity in Babylon But then the Persians conquered the Babylonians and they allowed many or they allowed the uh Jews who were in Babylon to return to Jerusalem in many waves came back over the decades. They've now been back in Jerusalem for about a hundred years. And um they rebuilt the walls around the city for safety, they rebuilt the temple for worship, and there was an anticipation That they had been given by the earlier prophets, prophets who spoke before the fall of Jerusalem in 587. And these prom excuse me, these prophets promised that in the future now it did define when that future would be But they said in the future, the air is going to be a golden age for God's people, for the people of Israel. And they're looking out, it's about 600 BC, and then they see that the Babylonians conquered them, and then they and then many of them lived to experience the liberation. And they're thinking, once we rebuild the city and rebuild the walls, then this great era of God's blessing, this messianic era, will finally materialize But that wasn't the case. Not yet. They still suffered drought and crop failures They were still the vassal state of the Persian Empire. In the temple, this second temple that they had rebuilt was nothing uh compared to the glory of the first temple. It was smaller, it wasn't as as beautiful. And so there was this great letdown And so the people grumbled, and that's what we saw in verse fourteen, right? Uh they were saying it's vain to serve God. What's a prophet of our keeping his charge, God's charge, uh to be the priests and the Levites who served in the temple to provide for the upkeep of the temple, to provide animals for the sacrifices, to join in the prayers, to sing the psalms. to attend the temple uh worship services. What's the point of it? And then in the end of verse 14. Or of walking as in mourning before the Lord. What is the point of having this repentant posture before God. Because anything we do, any kind of religious exercise or any kind of uh Prayer of repentance, it's all for naught. And some Christians Can say, yeah, that's exactly what my experience has been. And I think about when I was a seminary student in Philadelphia I was in my twenties, and there was a young lady in our church. She was in her early 30s. In fact, her brother was one of the pastors of the church I was a part of But she was a faithful Christian woman, and for a number of years she was praying that God would provide her a suitable Christian spouse And that prayer was not answered. And finally she said, forget it. And she went out and she married some guy. He wasn't a believer. He pulled her away from Jesus Christ. She concluded, it's vain to serve God. It doesn't pay. Uh these promises Really do not pan out. Well you think about a Christian who might work hard in his his or her business and seeks to conduct him or herself in an upright manner And yet uh that person ekes out of just ekes out a living, but then there are others who are less scrupulous who grow rich. Look at the end of verse 15. He can say with the Israelites, evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test, and they escape. And then You can think about our church. We're not the church in China. We have it good. Right? We're blessed. We're not meeting out under some tree, uh hiding somewhere. But still it's a little frustrating. We're a church that's endeavoring to Conduct ourselves, conduct our ministry according to scripture. And yet for almost 20 years now, we've been meeting in rented facilities. Have you told me that When I came here that we would be in p rentals for twenty years, I don't think I would have done it. I could not have imagined it. It's been a lot easier than I thought it would be. It's really not a problem. During this stuff, it's a problem. It would be nice to be visible. But nonetheless, we we can grumble That uh there are really nice some really nice big steeple churches in downtown Frederick, and they have no regard for the most basic uh doctrines Of historic Christianity. How can that be? Is it vain to serve God? And so That's what we may grumble from time to time. How does God take such grumbling? Because he said, well, everybody needs to vent once in a while. That's not what verse thirteen says. Verse 13. God says, Your words have been harsh against me. If you have the King James, I like to have the King James translates it. Your words have been stout against me. That's a good word to say to your wife when she gets mad at you. Your words are stout against me. Now we do see in the Psalms that the psalmist many times expresses his exasperation. uh injustices in the world. And that's that's fair game. God God acknowledges that and God accepts that. Look at Psalm 73. Psalm 73, don't look at it now, but it's a companion psalm to this passage. The faithful suffer and the wicked prosper. How can this be? Then there's a turning point in that Psalm where he enters the sanctuary and he realizes that you know what? God is God, he's in control, and it changes his whole perspective. Psalm 73 But getting back to our passage in verses thirteen and sixteen, the Jews were not expressing other ask their exasperation to God Rather, they were complaining to one another about God. They were grumbling about God, the God who's gone on public record in the Bible to say that he's just and he's loving and he's kind and he has a purpose for his people. They were grumbling about God. And God heard them And he said in ver looks at verse uh thirteen, he said, Your words have been harsh against me. This is a little reminder to us, is it not? God hears our complaints. God hears our grumbling, our outward grumblings to one another. God hears the grumblings that go through our heads. I can be in my car grumbling. God's going to hear it. You can be in your living room. You can be in your workplace. Kids, did you grumble this morning when your parents were getting you out to church? Is it a hassle to go to church? Look at verse 13. What does God say to that kind of grumbling? He says, Your words have been hard against me. God hears our grumblings. Now, so we have this first group. These are the negative Nellies. And then amongst, it seems like amongst those who were perplexed at God's providence were some who did not conclude that it is futile to serve God. Despite their hardships, despite the injustices they suffered, they continued to fear God. You see that in verse 16 now, okay? So verse 16 speaks about the second group. Those who feared the Lord. Those who feared the Lord spoke with one another. So what I want to do now is I want to look at what these people did and the promises that they clutched on to during this hard time. And what they did, this is point A under number two. During heart uh number two, the heading, during hardship, those who revere God hold on to his promises. What did they do? Letter A. They talked to one another. Look at verse 16 again. Those who feared the Lord spoke with one another. Now the Bible, this text doesn't say what they talked about, but whatever it was they talked about It seems to have been a conversation that spurred one another on to faithfulness. They talked to one another. And um and they spurred one another on uh to faithfulness. On Tuesday evenings, if you're not aware, we're having a a 16 week marriage class is called re-engaged. It's been really good we're gonna we're gonna run it regularly. Those who've been in it But the most strike or I should say one of the most striking uh things about this group, we'll bleed suffer, and then we'll go over a uh a lesson in a workbook and people share what's going on But the most striking thing about it is that more than once somebody has said, this has been really helpful Because I'm now aware that I'm not the only one or we're not the only couple who struggles in this area And that's exactly why we need to be in a church. We need to know one another, and we need to encourage one another so that you will know that you're not alone in your struggles. So that we can fulfill the command in Galatians 6 verse 2, where Paul writes, bear one another's burdens And so fulfill the law of Christ. This is why we one reason we want to stay in a congregation. And so after the service Meet someone you don't know, it's a nice day, uh t to go outside in the and uh under that uh pavilion. Or what is that? What do you call that? the roof outside over the parking lot and just chat with one another and uh become acquainted. You might say, you know, hey, how can I pray for you? Somebody looks down. So talk to one another, and then hold on to God's promises. And there are three in this text. I'm going to go through these in quick order, but I just want to I want to uh touch on each of these promises So letter A was talk to one another, and then B, C, and D are promise three promises we find in this text. And the first promise that God gives to his faithful soldiers Is that he promises to hear your concerns? Look at the end of verse 16. The Lord paid attention and heard them. They weren't even talking to him. They were talking to one another. God hears the conversation of those who fear and reverence him. And notice in verse 16, they were not uh I already said this, they were speaking to one another. And so this tells us God hears every tender word of empathy, God hears every kind word of encouragement. And God hears every courageous word of exhortation. And he not only hears, but the end of verse, the very end of verse 16, look at that We read, a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name. Now I don't know if this is a physical book, but it's probably just a figure of speech, it's probably just an image, but it's saying that God keeps a record of those who fear Him and revere his name. And there are several places in Scripture where we read about God keeping a record of the names of his people, and this is just one other example. But this tells us that the loneliest believer the most isolated believer will never be forgotten by God. God remembers his people. I love Psalm 56 verse 8. The psalmist says to God, and he's a he's a he's a distressed man, and he says to God, You have kept count of my tossings. Put your tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book? God keeps a record of all your distress and all your trials if you belong to Him And so what we're learning in this second section, verses 16 to 18, is that when we're distressed, we need to hold on to God's promises His promise that he hears your concern, his promise that he will redeem his people. And in verse 17, let me just read verse 17, God says They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them. as the man who spares his son who serves him. So it's interesting. Back in Exodus 19, verse 6 When God called the Israelites to himself, he said to them, You're going to be my treasured possession. Now we're at the very end of Old Testament history. And God again says to his people, I'm going to make you my treasured possession. And so God's purpose for his people does not change. And then in the end of verse 17 He says, I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. Now, I wonder, I don't really wonder, but for the sake of discussion I might wonder, how could God, who is a holy God, spare anyone? How is God, how is it that God who is light and pure have in his presence someone who is a sinner? And the gospel answer, of course, is because Jesus Christ uh died for our sin. Right? Romans 832 said that God did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us. That's why he can spare those who repent and who are leaning on him. Well, this is in the Old Testament How were these guys spared? Well, they didn't have all the details of Jesus Christ and his work, but they were looking forward to it. That's how God could spare them. And we look back on Jesus Christ in his word. And so what I'm pointing out here from this text Are three ways that we should hold on to God's promises during times of discouragement and during times of distress. Remember his promise. He hears your concern Remember his promise to redeem his people. And then the third thing is remember his promise to judge the world. He will judge the world Uh a few months ago we were in Matthew twenty five a big Matthew twenty four and twenty-five a big judgment uh passage in Matthew. And um The interesting thing that I want to point out about this judgment is that there will be the making of distinctions And that goes against the message of the world in which we live, because our culture abhors the making of distinctions. Our culture abhors making religious distinctions. You know why? Because our culture believes that all religions are equally divorced from reality. And so they're all equally valid or perhaps invalid. And so to make religious distinctions is to be you they'll they'll consider that you're you're a nutcase Our culture abhors the making of sexual distinctions. And it'll say that men and women are interchangeable. Our culture bores the drawing of moral distinctions. As soon as you do that, you're going to be pasted as being a self-righteous, mean-spirited bigot. That's what the culture says. But the Bible is all about making distinctions. Read Psalm 1. Right? Talks about The righteous man and the wicked man. See the same thing throughout the book of Proverbs. The righteous do this, the wicked do that. Jesus comes along in the Sermon on the Mount. He made distinctions, right? He said there there's a wide road that leads to destruction, and there's a narrow road that leads to life. And so he distinguishes between those two roads. And depending on which road you take, that will issue forth in the distinction in your eternal destiny. Read through the epistles and even Jesus Himself. Spoke about true teachers and false teachers And so some religious teaching, and some teaching even in the Christian church, is false teaching. And there's other teaching that's true teaching. And this is the teaching that accords with Scripture. And on the day of judgment, if the day of judgment is about anything, it's about the setting forth of distinctions. It's about categorizing people. It's about bringing forth a great separation And that's why Greg read from Matthew 25, right? Jesus said he's going to separate the sheep from the goats. And so look at verse 18 now. So this is the third promise, and then we're going to be done. So God says to his people, his faithful people, then once more you shall see the distinction. Between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve him So he says, then once more. Why is it once more? Well because God had done this previously in Israel's history, right? He made distinction. He made a distinction between Sodom and Gomorrah and the Israelites. Or when he sent the ten plagues on Egypt, he made a distinction between the Israelites and they're following uh the false gods. And uh and got and God's people, Israel, who followed uh the God of Scripture. And so If the final judgment is about anything, it's about this great separation: the wheat from the chaff, the sheep from the goats, the faithful servants from the unfaithful servants So there we have Malachi, these two groups, and it says, it speaks to us at times when we grow cynical. On account of difficulties at home or uh out in the world, it reminds us uh we should or in our nation, right? We can grow cynical about what's going on in our nation? We're praying But God reminds us, you know what, uh we still need to fear him. We still need to hold on to his promises And let me just suggest uh just a few things that you can do uh during these times of discouragement, or I'd say during those times when you are discouraged And one thing we should do is we should just pray, recognizing our weakness and our bankruptcy. And we need to pray, Lord, change my heart. Help me to trust you during this hard, difficult season. So call out to God. And that's what the Israelites did. God promises to hear his people. And then immerse yourself in the scripture. And I understand that not everybody here is well acquainted with the Bible. And so start with the gospels or start with the Psalms. But immerse yourself in the scripture. Read it slowly. Take note of all God's promises. But the value of this, besides being reminded of God's promises, it reminds you what's true. Because, and I've said this before, the Bible has a self-authenticating quality It proves itself true. It rings true in your heart. And so when you're discouraged and you keep reading the scripture, you're faithful each day, you read it, you take your time, you reflect on it You know, is this the word of man or is this the word of God? And I'm willing to stake my life. This is the word of God. I'm going to continue to walk with you, Lord Jesus. No matter what the world may say, because you have persuaded me by your spirit that this is your word. And I want to say then, so there's my they're my that's my suggestions, but I want to say to our to our young people I want to say to our young people, don't let the world deceive you into abandoning the Christian faith. When you get when you grow older, you leave your home, you go off on your own. Don't let the world deceive you. Press on. And be part of the Christian counterculture and trust that God will get you where He wants you. And so let's pray. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father in heaven, now help us to be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, trusting. That our labors for you are not in vain. We pray, Lord, for those who right now are discouraged, that you would sustain them. We pray that we would be a caring community to look out for one another. Help us not to forget those who are housebound. uh during this pandemic. Help us to reach out to them. We pray, Lord, for those who are not yet Christians, that they would examine the claims of Jesus Christ. And you would work faith and repentance in them, that they might see that Jesus Christ is the Savior of sinners, that Jesus is their Savior. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing a perfect hymn of this passage. It's number 128. God moves in a mysterious way. We're going to sing the first four stanzas God moves in a mysterious way thus stand and sing.