Okay, let us turn to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12. So good to have some new folks with us this morning. We're going through Paul's letter to the Romans. And here we are, uh chapter twelve, beginning at verse seventeen. Paul writes, Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible. So far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, vengeance is mine. I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So, has someone ever done you dirt? And most people, if you've been a inhabitant of of this planet for Uh just a little bit of time, you'd say, yeah. It's happened many times. It could have been some kind of car dealer sold you a bomb or uh some car repair shop and a Put you on the hook for repairs you didn't really need. Could be somebody didn't keep their word they they broke an agreement Some here were betrayed by a former spouse. You put your life on the line for this person, and they betrayed you. Uh oftentim or uh probably all of us we've been slandered or misrepresented or or gossiped about. I think uh young people know this, especially with social media. A lot of hurt. goes around on social media. And then there's the more common everyday offense is just living in a family, being a part of the church or being in a In the workplace, there are slights, there are times when we're not given the respect just out of common decency that everybody deserves And if you have a strong sense of justice, and many of us do, this is going to be a challenging passage right here. And so what we have in this passage are four principles that should guide us in how we respond to those who do us evil. And so this is a great passage. I mean it it's you cannot read it, you know, sometimes you'll read a passage of the Bible. And you're saying, why is it there? Now whatever you're whatever chapter of the Bible you're in, you have to know that These passages that we read, they're not just there by accident, they're not just history lessons, they're not just nice religious platitudes, but every book of the Bible Is driven by an intention that God gave the author. He's dealing with some issue. He's trying to convey something. And so wherever you are in the Bible, You want to try to figure out why is this chapter in the Bible? When you get to Romans chapter 12, you don't have to speculate because it's all these exhortations about how we should conduct conduct ourselves. In the first exhortation, Paul gives is do not be vengeful. Our instinctive Response. Well, most of us, well, alright, me, our instinctive response is that uh when somebody offends us We want them to know. I want that person to know that they did something wrong. And then If they don't acknowledge it or they don't ask for forgiveness, then I want to get him back somehow. I want them to know. And uh the Apostle Paul And is Jesus he's reflecting Jesus' words in the Sermon on the Mount. Paul, you know remember where Jesus said, turn the other cheek, Matthew chapter 5. Paul says the same thing, beginning in verse 17, repay no one evil for evil. And then verse 19, he wrote, Never avenge yourselves. Now if there's anybody Who had grounds to be vengeful, it was the Apostle Paul, right? Remember how he was treated? You read through the book of Acts I mean, his fellow Jews slandered him, falsely accused him, flogged him, stoned him, imprisoned him. And then the Christians, you read the uh Galatians, 1 Corinthians, even the Christians were maligning his motives and slandering him. And so if anybody uh had a had a right to be vengeful, it was Paul, but He still can say, turn the other cheek. He still could say, repay nobody evil for evil Now, how could he come to say that? How could he instruct the Christians in Rome to have that disposition? Well, the answer is found in the first eleven chapters of the book of Romans. Right? These eleven chap the first eleven chapters, as I mentioned last week That's the doctrine. That's the theology. Well, let's make it more clear. That's the gospel. And so Paul explains in a very thorough way We were completely lost, we were under God's wrath, but out of his sheer mercy, he showed us grace by sending his son to live a perfect life where we failed, and then to die for our sins. Eleven chapters. You get to chapter twelve. And now he begins to explain, here's the payoff, here's how it should affect your relationship with God, chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. Offer your life as a living sacrifice. Here's how it should affect how you view yourself, verses three to eight or so. Don't think more highly of yourself than you ought to. Here's how it should affect your relationships within the church. Verses nine to 13, 15, and 16. Hey, you need to put others first. You need to look out for other people. And then our passage this morning, verses 17 to 21 Here's how it should affect your relationships with unbelievers. You should not have a vengeful disposition And if you do, it's a sign that you do not understand what God has done for you and Jesus Christ. Now when I pastored in North Carolina, this is in the 1990s, a girl got hit by a car, a girl in our church got hit by a car at her school bus stop And she was injured. She had to go to the hospital. She wasn't critically injured, though, and she recovered, and she, you know, nothing, nothing, uh, no long-term uh problems. Years later. The lady who drove that car joined our church. Well, this girl's parents, they would not talk to her, they would have nothing to do with her. But every Sunday morning, they would recite the Lord's Prayer: forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors. If they truly understood the forgiveness that they'd received from God, they would have cut this lady. Who, you know, it was an accident. It was bad weather. They would have cut this lady some slack. Now let's make a qualification here before we go on When Paul forbids revenge, he's speaking about our personal disposition to those who rob us toward those who rob us, toward those who wrong us. He's speaking about our disposition. He's not saying that criminals should be punished. You read a couple verses down next week, we'll be in the ver chapter thirteen And the very first thing he says there is that God established civil government for the very purpose of administering justice. Chapter 13, verse 4. Paul says of the civil rulers, or the civil ruler, he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. So if there's anything the government should be responsible for, it should be for uh establishing justice. And so we we must have government, we must have courts, we must have a penal system, and there must be the administration of justice But nonetheless, even as we seek for justice, because that is a reflection of God's rule, it's a reflection of God's holiness, even as we seek for justice Our personal disposition toward those who wrong us should not be characterized by a desire for personal Vengeance. Here's something else Paul's not saying. He's not saying that Christians should not defend themselves. That's different from having a spirit of vengeance. He's merely saying that when we think about those who wrong us, when we deal with those who wrong us, uh we need to deal with him deal with them out of a a zeal uh for the holiness of God, that they might know they're living in God's world, they're under his rule, they're accountable to him. And we want to uphold that holiness. And so we pay no one evil for evil. I think it's probably more useful to consider how this command has implications for just our everyday interactions at home. Are you ever vengeful toward your spouse? How do you do that? You pout. Okay, I pout. I w I withdraw. You withdraw. Um the silent treatment Sarcastic comments, withholding physical affection. These are all acts of vengeance. Or kids. Kids can be vengeful toward their parents. You correct them, you discipline them. Sometimes you get a chip on your shoulder, right? I don't like that. You should be doing that. You have this sense, how dare uh you you say this to me? Well Instead of acknowledging the truth of what your parents are saying, you turn things on them. Well, what's Paul saying here? That's vengefulness. That's having a bad disposition. And so this is these are the kind of things we want to think about this week So he says, do not be vengeful. Instead, point two, be kind to those who mistreat you. Look at chapter uh verse twenty. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. So back in like, what was it, 2013, 2014 There was this push for gay marriage in Maryland and Chick-fil-A had a moral stance against that, which I commend them for. I don't know what their stance is today But they had this moral stance. And so there was this group of protesters down outside the Chick-fil-A and Urbana Pike. They were saying Chick-fil-A is a bunch of bigots and this and that. No, they were just, they have moral principles Or at least in the corporate office the leaders did. And so but anyway there was the there were these protesters, but it's commendable In that the manager of that Chick-fil-A, he had his workers, this was in July, he had his workers take water bottles out to the protesters. And That's what the verse is saying, right? And it may not have of course it didn't convert them, but it could not have given these protesters a grudging respect uh for the people at Chick-fil-A. Because they had you can have moral principles, you should have moral principles But you don't have to be mean about it. And so they they carried that out. If your enemy is thirsty, give him something to drink. Go down to verse 21. We're going to come back to verse 21 again after this But Paul says there, do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And may some of you may have read the the book uh the title is Unbroken by Laura Hildebrand Hildebrand. And so it's the story of this American soldier During the Second World War, uh Louis uh Louis uh Zampurini. Louis Zamparini. So The guy he had a miserable ordeal. I think he was at sea like 47 days or something like that. He in a lifeboat. Just floating around and then he was captured by the Japanese and these his captors were just monsters And the way they tortured this man for two years. And there was one in particular that was the epitome of evil. And finally, the war came to an end. Louis Zanprini survived this amazingly. He was seventy-five pounds when he was released But he returned to the States, he returned to uh civilian life. But understandably, uh he was possessed by a desire to strangle his captors. And he said, I I would have these nightmares at night where I was strangling these Japanese prison guards. And uh i it was so bad that it was destroying his marriage and finally his wife was about to divorce him. Somebody invited her, this is nineteen forty-nine Somebody invited her to go hear Billy Graham, who is preaching in Los Angeles. And his wife went, she heard the gospel, she understood the gospel, she became a believer. And she um she went back to her husband that night and she said, I'm not going to divorce you, but I want you to come with me tomorrow night to hear Billy Graham. And he went with her and he trusted in Christ. That was nineteen forty-nine. In nineteen fifty-two He went back to Japan. He wanted to meet his captors, and they were all in prison. And so he wanted to meet his captors, but not to strangle them now. He went there to share the gospel with them. I thought that's remarkable. And he did share the gospel, and several of them became Christians. Now you've got to ask yourself. Why'd he do that? Well, the guy wasn't a Pollyanna, and the guy wasn't a do-gooder. But he understood His standing before God outside of Jesus Christ, and that God forgave him. And so that enabled him to turn around and realize These guys are lost too. Their destiny is going to be one of misery. And they were blind. How could they do that? And so he went to them And he shared the gospel. God had supernaturally changed Louis Zamparini. That's what happens when you become a Christian, right? It's not just you understand this doctrine, Christ died for sinners, da da da. But God impresses that on you that you're a sinner and you're lost. But in his grace and his mercy, He has made provision for your rescue. And so the when you see that, when God impresses that on you, Then it does move you to be gracious toward other people. Look at verse 14. There Paul said, bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse them. Now If the gospel can change a guy like uh Luis Amparini, who was the victim of such monstrous cruelty. To show grace toward his persecutors, then it should move us to be a little more gracious toward those who mistreat us in lesser ways. And when you do that, look at the end of verse 20. When you do that, and I'm talking about in these lesser ways, when you're gracious to somebody, to a family member, to a co-worker. It says in the end of verse 20, you will heap burning coals on his head. In other words, It's likely that you're going to cause that person to blush with shame and remorse. And we saw that, right? 1 Samuel 28, Dave read, 28, 24, where David was gracious to Saul. And Saul was undone, right? He i i David heaped burning coals on his head And so verse 21 again, do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And that's something to think about. You know, we look at we are a despairing people, right? We watch the news, we look at what's going on in the culture. And like every other conversation, we're just shaking our heads. We're done for. That's the this is the end of the country. So we want like we're desperate now. We want to do something. How can we change our country? Well I think a lesson in this passage is that maybe we shouldn't focus so much on the big canvas, but we should focus on the smaller canvas, our personal relationships, our interactions every day. in the way we we respond, in particular uh to toward unbelievers. And Paul saying If you want to overcome evil, overcome it by conducting, by responding to people in your daily interactions in a gracious manner. And that's how you're going to get the attention of others. You're probably not going to change the country by some movement you're a part of, though it's great you're in that movement. But you have a pretty good chance of changing the people in your circle and having that flow out if you're gracious, if you act in a distinctively Christian manner Let's go on to verse point three. I'm sorry, point three. Here's the third thing we see in this passage. Paul says, do everything in your power. To live at peace with others. This is a great verse. It's one of my favorite verses, actually. Verse 18. Look at this. He qualifies it twice. He says, if possible, as far as it depends on you. So there's two qualifications. If possible, as far as it depends on you. In other words, it's not always possible, and it doesn't always depend on you. Live peaceably with all. And so that's our ambition. We recognize it's not always possible, right? You mess up. Anyone ever say something uh You shouldn't have said like, yeah, all the time. Somebody gets mad at you? You ask him for forgiveness, or you ask her for forgiveness? I'm not gonna forgive you. What do you do then if they don't forgive you? Here's what you do. You go out and you hang yourself. And that'll be sufficient. Any anything short of that though, it's they're not going to be satisfied. So what do you do? No, you don't go out and hang yourself. You ask the person for forgiveness. You acknowledge that you misspoke or you misacted or you were responsible or you forgot this or that or whatever it is. Will you forgive me? No, I can't. I can't forgive you Well what do you do then? You go home, you go to brush your teeth, you go to bed, you put your head on your pillow, and you go to sleep. It's off you. It's not your burden anymore, right? It's their burden. They're gonna have to figure it out. They're gonna have to forgive. But now the ball is in their court And so if possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with all. Here's a movie recommendation. It wasn't very popular, I don't think. Uh a movie titled The Straight Story, S-T-R-A-I-G-H-T. The Straight Stories made back in nineteen ninety-nine. And the main character is this old man, his name's Alvin Strait, he lived in Iowa. And his eyesight's going, so the they they took away his driver's license But he has a brother named Lyle who lived in uh Wisconsin. And Alvin and Lyle had a falling out like ten years ago. But then Lyle had a stroke And Alvin's upset. He's not right with his brother. He wants to go see Lyle before Lyle dies to uh straighten things out. He doesn't have a way to get there, but he had a he has a John Deere riding mower. So he packs up, he gets his wagon on the back, hooks it to the back of his mower What do you call this wagon chute? Not not like a little red wagon, but you know, those mower carts. And he fills it up with food and a sleeping bag. and uh gas cans. Of course they'll stop and get gas along the way to to refill it. But like this is like several hundred mile trip. It takes the couple weeks from the tape. But the story is about the nice people he meets along the way. It is really it's a great it's a great movie. But anyway Alvin, you know, he's sleeping he stops to camp one night at this campground and this guy's like, hey, who's this old man on the lawnmower? And uh he asked him what he's doing and why he's going to Wisconsin. And here's what Alvin said. He said, My brother and I said some unforgivable things the last time we met But I'm trying to put that behind me. And this trip, and this trip is a hard swallow of my pride. I just hope I'm not too late. A brother's a brother And that's what it needs to be reconciled, right? You gotta take a hard swallow. And it's it's awkward, uh it's humbling But that's what this passage is saying. There is a cost to discipleship. Nonetheless, it's not always possible to live peaceably with all. So let's go on. The fourth thing we'll see here. And I think this is helpful, especially for those who have a strong sense of justice. Paul says, in the end of verse 19, he says, leave vengeance to God. And so early when Paul said, Don't take revenge, He's not calling you to ignore justice, but rather he's just saying, let someone else administer it. And in this life, right? I mean, somebody said, uh, God doesn't set twiddling his thumbs until the end of time uh to administer justice. God administers justice in this life, right? Chapter four thirteen, which we'll see next week. There are courts, there are laws. There is a penal system. Chapter thirteen, verse four. The civil ruler is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer And so God does uh administer justice through the faithful execution of our laws. And we understand that's not always the case, depending on who your district attorney is, uh, but that's that's the model. God also administers justice in this life. We saw this, you see this at the end of Romans chapter 1. You see this in the book of Proverbs. God administers justice by allowing people to suffer the built-in consequences of their sinful rebellion. Nonetheless, not every evildoer comes to justice in this life. And for that, we take comfort in knowing that there's the final judgment. There will be a day when justice will be administered. And we should pray that evildoers repent and trust in Christ, but when they don't There's consolation in knowing that the God of the universe is a just God. Psalm 97, the psalmist said, righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. And so in the end, there will be justice. And for the repentant, now we all deserve justice, but God gave us mercy. And so for the repentant The demands of justice will have been satisfied by Jesus Christ, who bore the penalty for their sin. But for the unrepentant, uh there will be a day of judgment. And you think about uh the moral monsters You read about, you think about the corrupt politicians, you think about the sub dictators down through history. Well, there will be a day when they will stand before their maker and their judge. And they will suffer the wrath of God. We pray for mercy. We pray God will open their eyes to see and to believe. But there will be justice. Here's a Bible verse. I've never seen it on an embroidery in somebody's little kitchen or whatnot. Psalm 58 verse 6, the psalmist prayed, O God, break the teeth in their mouths. That's what he prayed. And some of you remarked, you know what? Some gu sometimes God allows the wicked to smile before he breaks their teeth. But nonetheless. There will be a day of justice. So that's what Paul can say now about to Christians, about our disposition. Remember the Christians in Rome. They were being some of them were being persecuted Paul said, as far as your disposition is concerned, verse 19, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. And Jesus Christ is our example. 1 Peter 2, verse 23. Peter said about Jesus, when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to whom? To him who judges justly And so I asked you in the beginning, has someone done you dirt? You can probably think about a couple situations, right? Remember what Paul said, as far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. And also, you know what, for that to happen You might have to take the big gulp and have a conversation with somebody. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven, uh this word is hard and it's uh can it's convicting But we also understand that this is what it means to follow Jesus. And so help us to be willing to do what we can to resolve things, to live peaceably with others. We pray that in our home life we'll do better, we'll be more gracious. in our church family will be more gracious and also out in the world. For those who do not know this Savior, we pray you'll move them, help them to understand. Salvations by grace and not by what we do, help them to rest on Jesus as the one who bore the penalty for their sin. as the one who who gives them new life. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.