Five year olds, if you'd like, you may go back with Miss Becky to worship training. And let's turn in our Bibles to Psalm fifteen. So this is a a one-shot sermon. We just finished Titus And so sooner, maybe next week, maybe a couple weeks after, we're going to return to the Gospel of Matthew where we left off, which would be chapter 15. But right now we're going to look at Psalm fifteen because this is the memory passage for this summer that we've been encouraging The kids and everybody in the church to learn if you're a kid and you learn it word perfect. You're gonna get a gift card to the uh sweet frog yogurt shop. If you're an adult and you learn a word perfect, then God's word is going to bear fruit in your life. And so that's a great benefit, too. So we're on Psalm 15, written by David. And he asked the question, O Lord, who shall dwell in your tent? Excuse me, O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? Here's the answer. He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. Who does not slander with his tongue, does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up reproach against his friend, in whose eyes a vile person is despised. But honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change, who does not put out his money at interest, and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. Now when you think about it, there's all kinds of questions that we ask in life, especially when you're young, you get a lot of things ahead of you. What am I gonna do when I grow up? Where am I gonna go to school? Will I go to college? If I go to college, what will I major in in college Or maybe you're not going to go to college. Well what vocation will I pursue? Uh where am I going to live? Am I going to get married? Who will I marry? What am I looking for? inner prospective uh spouse. Am I gonna have kids and how many? And as I get older, you know, how m where should I live? Where should I should I continue my job? Should I how will I plan for retirement? All these kind of All these kind of questions that we ask right now, but hundred years from now, not one of these questions is going to be on the radar. They're all going to be completely irrelevant. But there is one question that will continue into eternity. And that's the question that the psalmist raises in this passage. In a nutshell, it's this. What makes a person fit to stand before a holy God? Well, in other words, what must I do to be Adequate to come into the presence of God. Or if I might put it in more concrete terms, in the here and now, Uh what, excuse me, who is fit to worship God? That's the question David is asking in verse one. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent, who shall dwell on your holy hill And he mentions the tent in the Holy Hill because in the Old Testament, God was only encountered in very specific localized places, right? From the time of Moses. to the time of David, uh God met with his people, God was encountered in the tent, where it was also called the tabernacle, this portable sanctuary. The Israelites took it with them through the wilderness during their forty-year sojourn in the wilderness. The tabernacle was right in the middle of the assembly of Israel, so as to say That God was in the midst of his people, and then when the Israelites landed in the uh promised land, they put the tent down and they went to worship God in that tent or tabernacle. Then Solomon came and Solomon built a temple, and it was built on Mount Zion, the holy hill in Jerusalem. And thus David speaks of the tent. in the Holy Hill. Well, we live in a New Testament time, right? Jesus came along in John 4, he's talking to this marriage and woman. And he says, listen Doesn't matter where you worship. You can worship up there in Samaria. You can worship here in Jerusalem. It's not going to matter because with my coming God is with his people wherever, and what's important is that they worship him in spirit and in truth. But nonetheless, So we can worship God in the cinder block cafeteria in Frederick, Maryland. We don't have to go to Jerusalem. There's nothing spiritual about taking a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Interesting tourism, interesting history, but it's not more spiritual to worship God in Jerusalem than it is to worship at the cafeteria at Tuscore Elementary School. But nonetheless Remember, worship is spiritual, and we still have to be fit to come before God. Whether you're worshiping God, you're sitting in your chair at home, and you're reading your Bible and you're praying, and you're having private worship, or you gather weekly with the believers, which is commanded on Sunday mornings. What makes a person fit to worship God? And in our more inclusive than Tao culture, we're told that anybody's fit to worship God as long as they're sincere Uh during that time of worship, uh it ain't just ain't so. Remember one of our members was telling me a couple weeks ago The tradition he grew up in, he said, Yeah, you can go out and get drunk Saturday and you can go to church Sunday and that was just fine. It it didn't matter. Uh as long as you didn't take this church stuff too seriously. You think about where you think about Downtown churches on Christmas Eve, these downtown churches are full of people. And it's likely that some of these worshipers have no regard for God the rest of the year. So is God happy to receive their worship? Or if I have a blood-curdling argument with my wife And I harden my heart to her, and I have no interest in being reconciled. That starts Friday, and we both stew on Saturday, and I I make no effort to make things uh better And then when I come to church Sunday and I put my glazed evangelical smile on, is God going to be happy with my worship? Is that going to cut it? Or if you're sleeping with your boyfriend or your girlfriend or you're cheating in your business practices or you're lying to your parents and this is the way you do things, this is your way of life. Is it going to work? Is God going to find your worship acceptable? So that's the question that David asks in this Psalm. Now we're going to before we look at the specifics, we're just going to uh explore this a little bit more by way of introduction. And so Who is fit to worship God? And the ultimate answer is that based on our own merit, based on our own Righteousness, none of us uh has a has a prayer of offering God acceptable Worship, right? There's not one of us here who we can say as we look at the psalm who walks blamelessly and speaks truth in his heart. We might speak truth outwardly, but in our hearts our hearts are deceptive, right? uh we're confused. We're not always speaking the truth even to ourselves or about ourselves. There's not one of us here who never speaks an ill word about others. There's not a one of us who consistently rejects vile people in their vile messages, and if we did, we'd be turning off our TV a lot quicker than we often do. And there's not one of us that keeps our word all the time without exception, and without exception deals honorably with other people. And so we might as well just uh close our Bible and just walk out of here in despair because the psalmist asks the question, he gives the answer, we do not measure up to what is required To worship God. Well, don't walk out yet because we have to understand what the Psalms are about. We have to understand what the Old Testament is about. The Psalms, like the rest of the Old Testament, point to Jesus Christ. The Psalms are about Jesus Christ. And I'm not just reading into this, just stay with me for a minute, okay? Jesus, yeah, we we understand he's the only one who ever lived a blameless life. He's the only one who ever spoke truth in his heart. He's the only one who never did evil to his neighbors. Far from it He laid down his life for his enemies. He's the only one who consistently swore to his own hurt. And so he swore to his father to obey him. And he didn't waver even when it cost him his life. And so as Christians we understand how this is all fulfilled in Christ, and we could say, yeah. My only righteousness is the righteousness of Jesus Christ that is imputed to me when I have faith in Jesus Christ. Romans 5. 19 Paul said, by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. Well, and how about David? Well, he was before Christ came Yeah, but he was looking ahead. He was looking ahead. Just like Abraham was. He saw these things from afar. He didn't understand the specifics about how God was going to redeem his people and make them righteous. But he was trusting God's promises. So David was looking forward to Jesus coming. We look back on Jesus coming. And as I said, the Psalms are about Jesus. Remember Jesus after the resurrection in Luke 24, 27, he's walking down the road to Emmaus. What did he say? He didn't say Forget the Old Testament, that's passe. Rather, he said, beginning with Moses and all the prophets. So talk about the Old Testament, beginning with Moses and all the prophets. He interpreted to them, his disciples, in all the scriptures the things concerning himself So he explained to them every section of the Old Testament concerns me, and that includes the Psalms. And we usually think about the Psalms as just a bunch of eclectic worship poems and prayers, but really there's a structure to the book, there's a structure to the Psalter. And um if you look at Psalms three to fourteen, there's a theme that uh pulls them together These were all written by David, he who foreshadowed Christ, right? That's why Matthew 1. 1, when it gives the genealogy of Jesus, it calls Jesus the son of David, the son of Abraham. It's showing that Jesus is the fulfillment of these Old Testament figures. And so Psalms 3 to 14 written by David point to Jesus rejection by men. David was rejected by men. That's pointing to how Jesus was rejected in the ultimate sense. Then you turn from Psalm 15 to 24. That's another unit. And that, written by David, points not only to David's acceptance by God. but to Great David's Greater Son, Jesus, acceptance by God And you could tell that Psalms 15 to 24 constitute a distinct section of the Psalter Because these two the beginning in the last the fifteen and then Psalm twenty-four there's a lot of similarities uh that are repeated. If you look at you might look at Psalm twenty-four later, it's asking the question, who can stand before God. So this sets this out. It's like they're like bookends saying this is a distinct unit in the Psalter. And so what I'm trying to say, maybe I'm taking too long to say it, I don't know. What I'm trying to say And tell me later if I happen happen to come a happen to say it, is that Psalm 15, to understand this psalm, it points to Jesus. He fulfilled all these requirements on our behalf. And then he turned around. He died on the cross. to pay the penalty for our failure to fulfill these commands. And so that's why we can say the gospel is found in Psalm 15. He, Jesus, fulfilled it for us. And so we can say Psalm 15 is about the gospel, and we get great comfort from the gospel. But the gospel is not only a comfort, the gospel also issues a call. And you can't have the comfort of the gospel. The comfort of knowing that Jesus lived this perfect life where you failed, you cannot own the comfort of the gospel without also pursuing the call that issues forth as our response to our forgiveness in Christ. And so in a nutshell, if you're a Christian You're going to pursue the traits outlined in Psalm 15, right? James 2. 26, Kevin read, Faith apart from works is dead. If I believe this stuff is going to issue forth in my seeking to grow in godliness. I understand I fail. I'm not going to make it on my own merits, but this is what God calls me to pursue. And so, and here's something else, okay? And then um you think we're just getting on we haven't even the plane hasn't taken off yet. Well it's gonna be a short journey in the plane, but we just have a little one more turn in the runway here. Um Those okay, as a Christian, as someone who has been forgiven, I've been given the righteousness of Jesus Christ. I will endeavor to live in a way that this psalmist prescribes. And so we can say as you read a psalm like Psalm fifteen that the Bible does speak in terms of I use the term relative righteousness. What am I talking about? You have to understand this to understand some of the things that the Psalm says. Turn to Psalm 18, okay? Psalm 18, verse 23 and 24. Now what uh ver 18 verse 23-24. Go ahead, turn there. And um look what David says about himself. He says about himself, I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from guilt. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. But David's righteousness wasn't absolute. He acknowledged that in Psalm 32 and Psalm 51, where he repented of his adultery. It wasn't absolute. David was not saying that he was without sin. But he was saying, you know what, compared to the godless, I am pursuing obedience. I am trying to obey God. And David's faith in many ways issued forth in a transformed life. And so when you read in the Psalms or you read in the book of Proverbs, where it talks about the godly and uh the wicked or the righteous and uh the unrighteous, you have to understand these are not talking about people or who are without sin, who are without moral blemish. But it's talking about people, their hearts are inclined to walk in God's ways. They understand, they stumble regularly, but these people are living lives of ongoing repentance. So we know that we're not saved by our righteousness, that we're doing a pretty good job in the areas outlined in Psalm 15 We understand we're not going to attain these characteristics perfectly in this life. But nonetheless, we understand also That the message of Christianity is not just you're saved by grace, so don't worry about it. Do whatever you want, right? We say you're saved by grace. There's nothing you can do to contribute to your salvation. But those who know God have received the Holy Spirit, and we cannot but change. That's the evidence of our spiritual regeneration. And Michael Stell on the Christian Ed Committee, he's the one who recommended we learn Psalm fifteen uh this summer. And he said, you know what? This psalm embodies the attitude that we should have toward God's commands, toward God's law. This is a We want to learn this psalm. And we want to uh live in a way that pleases God. So with that brief introduction No. That wasn't an introduction. That was most of the sermon. Let me just make a couple comments on the psalm here. Just a couple comments, just a short jump. We're just flying from here to uh Hagerstown uh this morning, so no snacks along the way. Um Verses 2 to 5, a character sketch of the kind of person who has been justified by faith and who is fit To worship God, okay? Because that was the question I asked in the beginning, right? That's the question the psalmist says. Who's fit to come into God's presence? Well, those who've been regenerated. How do you know you've been regenerated by the Spirit of God? One thing you see in verse 2 This man or this woman's character is upright. He says, David says, he who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. He who walks blamelessly, it doesn't mean you're perfect, it doesn't mean you're uh flawless, but the the root word there carries the idea of of wholeness, of honesty, of integrity. And saying, you know what This person's genuine. He's wholehearted. What you see Sunday morning is what you're going to see Monday morning. Genesis 6. 9. It says of Noah He was blameless in his generation. Well, we know Noah wasn't without sin, but he was generally an upright man. He was a man after God's own heart. David, or sorry, Abraham in uh Genesis 17, 1. God commanded Abraham, walk before me and be blameless. God knew Abraham was going to sin, but nonetheless he said, you know what? It's possible to walk in a wholehearted manner. It's possible to have integrity before me. And integrity includes when you sin, you acknowledge it, you confess it to God, you receive forgiveness. And you know, and I mean I'd say of most people here, and certainly people that I know uh well, I mean there are are many people here I'd say Here's my social security number. Here's my credit card. And in fact I just gave it to John Filburn a couple my social security number. I hope you're one of those guys. And um here's a password to my bank account, my checking account. I can't take care of this. Can you help me with this matter? I would not have the slightest hesitation, right? Because people prove themselves, right? I can trust you to take care of this for me. And I no sweat, no sweat. I can trust you with uh some secret not to go and blab it. Uh because you've shown yourself uh to be a whole-hearted person. And that's what David says, you know, he who walks blamelessly, in other words, the per this person is whole-hearted. This is what we want to pursue Can you be trusted? That's an important thing. Can you be trusted when nobody's looking? Are you still the same person? This is something for kids to think about. Can your parents trust you to do the right thing when they're not around? I know he's gonna do it. You know, I'm not there, but I trust him. He he he showed himself to be reliable So that's the first trait. You know, this person is wholehearted, uh sincere, genuine. Uh second trait, uh the psalmist or David talks about in verse 3. of the person who is fit to stand before God, the person who's obviously been regenerated by the Spirit of God, his words are restrained. Look at verse three. He does not slander with his tongue, and does no evil to his neighbor, nor take up a reproach against his friend. He doesn't take up a reproach. He doesn't talk He doesn't mock people. He doesn't say that person is fat or ugly or uh stupid, doesn't gossip, doesn't speak ill of other people None of us can say that we're we're we've nailed that one, right? Good prayer, Psalm 141, verse 3. Psalmist praise, set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth, keep a watch. over the door of my lips. That's why this is a good psalm to memorize. Like, ooh, that's going to come back, right? You start saying something like And then you can remember what the psalmist said. Verse four, at least the beginning of the verse, and a a heading for it I would use is His evaluation of other people is discriminating. Look at the beginning of verse 4. The psalmist says, in whose eyes a vile person is despised. Now he doesn't think he's superior to other people, but out of love, out of recognition of the holiness of God, he does not esteem people who oppose God and promote wickedness. I'm not going to get excited, or I should say I should not get excited about celebrities and musicians and athletes who live publicly depraved lives uh and yet we we live in a celebrity culture where people, even Christians, just get so excited about these people. It's like, all right, I'll I'll I'll tolerate them. But I'm not going to bow down and worship them, I'm certainly not going to give them uh my money. And they say, well wait a minute, uh Peter, that that that doesn't sound very charitable. Didn't Jesus say you should not judge, judge not, lest you be judged? Yeah, right there. Matthew seven one. That's probably the best known verse in our our culture. It's no longer John three sixteen, but it's Matthew seven one. Judge not lest you be judged. Of course it's ripped out of context. Uh because Jesus, just a few sentences later, Matthew 7. 5, he judged, he said, Do not give to dogs what is holy. Do not throw your pearls to pigs in Matthew 7. 15. He referred to certain religious teachers as false prophets. That's a little bit judgmental. If I went to some ecumenical uh pastors meeting, which I avoid at all cost. Um if I went to some ecumenical not pastors meeting with Bible teaching pastors from other denominations, but just this completely uh I I can't find a good word that I might not get in trouble with. A completely disreputable group. Uh and I said something like that, I call them false prophets, I'd be I'd be run out of town. Uh Matthew 23, Jesus, gentle Jesus, speaking mild. How did he talk about the scribes and Pharisees? He called them hypocrites, blind guides, whitewashed tombs, serpents, and vipers. And so when Jesus said in Matthew 7, judge not lest you be judged, he was not prohibiting, making moral distinctions. He was not prohibiting us from calling a spade a spade But he was prohibiting having an overly critical, self-righteous, censorious uh spirit toward other people. And so it's good. Right? You want when you young person, when you get married, you want somebody who's not just some limp dish rag uh with no opinion about any b any issue or anybody. This person, yeah, that's good. That's bad. That person's upright. That person's evil. Not from a position of superiority, but just saying you recognize people for who they are And that's what David's saying in verse 4, in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but then he goes on, but honors those Who fear the Lord. And yet we should honor the humble, gracious, earnest Christian Maybe not the person who's up front and gets a lot of notice for what they're doing, but that faithful Christian. That's the person we should honor. Or, you know, if your eyes, you're married and your your eyes tend to wander You didn't even think about your spouse. I think about my wife. She's an honorable person. She deserves my attention. Uh she deserves uh my my praise. Uh not that whoever you know I see walking down the street or whoever I see. uh on the TV screen. And so um and I say to our kids, this is the kind of person you should look for in a friend. Somebody who you want to honor those who fear the Lord. It might not be the most popular kid in your school, but is this person is this person upright? Let's go on, verse uh or section, uh the next section, the end of verse four and verse five. Who's the kind of person who is fit? By God's grace to offer him worship. Well, this is a person whose dealings are honorable. Look at the end of verse 4. David says, this is one who swears to his own hurt and does not change, right? He keeps his word. He keeps his promises. He keeps his his or her wedding vows. These are her church membership vows. And you just say, you know, Jesus said, let your yes be yes, you no be no And so kids, you know, when you go home today and your friend you might have a friend who calls, hey, hey, you want to come over Tuesday and play some board games? You say, yeah, that sounds good. Then this afternoon you get a c or this evening you get a call from another friend. And your friend said, Hey, I got an extra church ticket to Hershey Park. You want to come with me on Tuesday? What do you do? Well, the psalmist says it right here, right? Uh who swears to his own hurt does not change. You keep your word. The missionary to uh China, Hudson Taylor, he said, a little thing is a little thing, but faithfulness in a little thing is a big thing Especially when it comes to keeping our word on the little things. Let's go on. Talking about his business dealings in verse 5, it goes on. who does not put out his money at interest. What is this saying? Is this saying that you can't lend your money? So if you put your money in the bank, you're putting out your money at interest because they're lending your money to someone else. Does the Bible forbid lending or loaning your money at interest? And we'd say no, you see in the parable of the talents in Matthew 25, verse 27, the master commended his servant for investing his money with the bankers and getting a good return. So then what's going on here? Well, uh if we look more closely, we'll discover the Bible does not forbid lending your money at interest. But it forbids us lending to other people at interest when they're in dire straits. You see that Two scriptures I could point out in the Old Testament. One's Leviticus 25, verse 35 to 37. The one I'm going to read is Exodus 22, verse 25. There God says, if you lend your money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a money lender to him. You shall not exact interest from him. And so the principle, as far as I understand it, is that you shouldn't take advantage of people who are in need. If somebody needs some help Don't loan them money at interest. They're having enough trouble, right? It's just saying you we need to have compassion on our on on other people, especially those in the family of God. Then talking about the way we deal with others, the other verse 5, he says, and does not take a bribe against the innocent. This is the person who's fit to worship God, someone who does not take a bribe against the innocent. And I think of politicians who will support the abortion of children Because they want votes. That's taking a bribe against innocent children. I think of politicians who keep children uh consigned to the uh Terrible inner city schools because they want money from the teachers union. That's taking a bribe against the innocent. But we just don't want to talk about them. We look at we want to look at the psalm Encourage you to memorize it or at least read it slowly, reflect on it, read it a number of times in the days to come. And the first thing it should do, and we've already talked about this, but this is just by way of summary by way of summary, this psalm strips us of any sense of righteousness. That we have, right? The first thing this psalm does is it makes us look to Jesus Christ He's the only one who perfectly embodied these virtues. And so we can say, you know what, I have fallen short, but in Jesus I can come into the presence of God. I can know that when I die, I'm going to stand before God and without any shame and without any fault attributed to me. Not because I'm perfect, right? But it's because I've been clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And you'll notice Here's where the security is in the presence of God for all fit, all of us who are trusting in Christ Are fit to stand in God's presence as we do right now. And that's the only secure place in this world. If you're not fit to stand in God's presence You have no security in this life. Look at the end of verse of the psalm, the last line. The psalmist asserts, he who does these things shall never be moved. That's the only safe place. You can have all kinds of alarm systems in your house, all kinds of life insurance policies. Listen, the only place of security, though, in the ultimate sense Is that if you know God is for you, and He is for you in Jesus Christ. And so once we know that we're accepted by God, we can have confidence no matter what happens to me. God is for me. He's my rock, He's my refuge, He's my dwelling place, He's my protector. All is well in the world, and yet we still want to thank God for his grace. And so Paul said in Philippians 1. 6 He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. So we pray, Lord. I want to learn this psalm, and I want you to continue your work in me. Make me more pleasing to you. Make me more useful to you. Let's bow our heads and pray. We do pray, Lord, that we would hide your word in the deepest recesses of our heart. And by your Spirit, it would change us to be more pleasing to you, more useful to you, to have a more attractive testimony to a watching world. We pray this for our kids. We pray this for ourselves in Jesus' name, Amen.