And we are in uh John chapter twelve. It's good to have some new folks with us this morning. So we're marching through John's Gospel and this morning. We come to chapter twelve, verse thirty-five, John twelve, verse thirty-five. Jesus, this is just uh this is the week on which he'll be crucified. He's in Jerusalem, he's talking to the Jews in chapter 12, verse 32. He spoke about being lifted up. Which really is a term that has a double meaning in this case. He'll be lifted up in the cross, but in being lifted up He'll also be exalted because he will rise from the grave. And so he said, When I'm lifted up, I'm going to draw all men unto myself. And we're picking up this morning in verse 35 Still speaking to these Jewish people, we read, so Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he's going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of the light. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, so that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah may be fulfilled. Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore, they could not believe. For again, Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart. Lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him. But for fear, fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. And so I scratch my head. And I wonder. Two people hear the same gospel message. One believes And the other doesn't believe, just completely eludes them. Why is that? Well you think about many of the people here this morning, we grew up in non-Christian homes, and then at some point, or teen years, adult years We heard the message of Christianity. Not a message that if you do good or you try to be religious, you'll go to heaven, but that Jesus is God, He died for sinners, and if you rest on Him, You'll be forgiven and you'll be in a right standing with God. We heard that message, and there was some there was something something compelling about it. And almost like instinctively Our response was, hey, that rings true. But then there are others They grew up in Christian homes. They heard Christianity taught. They heard the Bible taught. They were given a clear presentation of the gospel. And They haven't the slightest curiosity about searching these things out. How is that, right? That's why I scratched my head. I'm still scratching it I think back, I I can think of people. I can think way back to when I got out of high school, first, second year in college. I had two high school friends, a guy named Mark and a guy named Jim Jim was third in our class. We were in the band together. And Mark was first in our class. So they were really smart fellows. Mark went to Cornell. Jim went to Virginia Tech. I think they both studied engineering But anyway, I'm a new Christian and I'm home in the summer and I saw these fellows on different occasions. And I'm talking to Jim and I'm saying, hey, you know, here's what I understand Christianity be about. Here's why I believe it. We had a couple conversations. And it didn't really faze him. Then this other guy, Mark, I just had a brief conversation, and I gave him a little book called More Than a Carpenter. And notice we have that on the book uh table back there. You can take it if you're interested, more than a carpenter. I'm like this guy, he just seems completely disinclined against Christianity But you know, I took a deep gulp and I said, Hey, Mark, would you read this book? And he read it And I don't know, I was I guess it was a few months later, he became a Christian. After he got out of college, he went to Cameroon and he worked there with Wycliffe Bible translation translators for many years. How why why would one receive it and not the other? That's what we're asking. That's the question this text raises. Why do some believe and others do not? And I'm raising it not b just because it's interesting, but because The apostle John is knows that this is what the early Christians were asking. These first Christians who were Jewish were wondering Why do so few of our fellow Jews believe? Especially because of all people the Jews had the scriptures, right? They had the prophecies. They had the promises about the Messiah in the Old Testament. So one of the great uh New Testament commentators, uh D. A. Carson, wrote, Some explanation must be given for such large-scale catastrophic unbelief. How can John account for this to his readers? If Jesus is the Messiah Why is it that so few Jews believe? And in our text, we have an answer to that question. And more broadly, we have an answer to why people in general reject Christianity. It's not everything that could be said But there are three important things that are taught in this passage about why people reject Christianity. And the first reason he gives is that They ignore the evidence. So the Jews in Jesus' day had Received ample evidence that Jesus was indeed the promised Messiah, right They heard his teaching. He was right before them. They witnessed his character. They saw these miracles, right, in John chapter 6. He multiplied the fish and loaves and fed 5,000 people. And in John chapter 9, there was a man who had been born blind, and Jesus gave him sight. And the leaders of the Jews saw that. And then chapter 11, Jesus raised Lazarus from the grave. Hey, that's where you think that guy's the Messiah. Not everybody does that, right? But what what happened? They rejected him. Look at verse 37 again Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. So that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. And then we have this quotation, Isaiah 53, verse 1, right there in verse 38. Isaiah foretold that the Jews would reject his teaching. Who has believed what he heard from us? And then Isaiah foretold that the Jews in Jesus' day would reject his miracles, to whom the arm of the Lord had been revealed. And it's the same today, right? Just as many Jews in Jesus' day are ignored the evidence, so there are many people. Of course there are many people who've never been introduced to Christianity, to the Bible, to the gospel. We understand that. But nonetheless, uh there are many people who have been introduced And yet they reject it. They're not interested. They dismiss it. How is that? And one reason is they ignore the evidence that is set before them. We read we read no we didn't read it. We sang Psalm 19. In the beginning of Psalm 19, which I alluded to, I got ahead of myself. In the beginning of Psalm 19. We have the first piece of evidence that God's given, the created order, the heavens declare the glory of God, the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day by day to day, pours out speech night to night, reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Johannes Kepler, the father of modern astronomy, said the undevout astronomer is mad. How can you Observe the vastness of the universe and the order of the planets, and not be persuaded that there's a God. Or just thinking about the creation, you think about the delightful um diversity of animals and flowers and food and cultures. uh different kinds of people and geography, right? The beauty of the of the earth. How is that? And we say, well there's a God, right? There's a reason we don't eat just oats. We don't subsist on worms. Because there's a good God and he made all these good foods to delight us and also to point us to him. How do you explain the millions of very complex, intricate biochemical processes if there is no God? This is just sort of come to be? Was there this heightening of the ordering of things? And we'd say no. You think about the human eye and the complexity of the human eye. How is that? And then that you could look out and you can see different things, then it registers in your brain and now all those processes work? And we have this ability to reflect and to reason. And then I was reading Proverbs 30 the other day, Proverbs 30, 19 uh remarks on the mysterious dynamic that takes place when a man and a woman fall in love, right? And if there's If there's no God, if the naturalistic philosophy is true, if we're just a uh the sum of different chemical reactions? Well that's not a very satisfying answer And so this is what Paul refers to in Romans chapter 1 verse 20, when he says, God's invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen. How's that? From the creation of the world and the things that He has made. And so creation points to the existence of a creator. And so that's why Paul says, so that men are without excuse. They cannot plead ignorance. And so we're saying, so why don't people believe? Some people ignore the evidence, the first line of evidence, I just touched on the evidence of the created order But then there's also the evidence of Scripture, which I've rehearsed many times, so I'll just try to be succinct. You know, we just read Isaiah 53. a very specific predictive prophecy. I think I told the story years ago. I was talking to a Jew Jewish fella. And I said, hey, read this. It was Isaiah 53. He wasn't familiar with it, but I said, who's that talking about? Then I said, well wait a minute. That's in your scripture. That was written before Jesus was born. How can that be? And he said, I don't know, which was a good answer. How do you like remember Ricky Ricardo? Explain this, Lucy. How do you explain the unity of the Bible? Right? It's consistency, its coherence, that it's one message from Genesis to Uh Revelation, right? The Bible's one unfolding story of God's plan to save his people. Then you have you go through the Bible and it's talking about this little matter and it fits with everything else the Bible says on that subject. Hundreds of different subjects. And yet there's a coherence. So there's a coherence to the Bible, but then there's also a correspondence between the Bible and our lives. The Bible describes us. It describes the world in which we live. You read this book, and I say this to our young people. You young people sleeping. I say this to the young are young people. I saw I say this like every week. I know. It must be tedious to be a young person. But anyway, makes me feel better. You read the book of Proverbs. You read the Sermon on the Mount. You're like, hey, somebody's been reading my mind. How is this? Well It's from God. He knows you. He made you. He knows our motives. He knows our fears. And he has our number every time. Right? That's why Hebrews 4. 12 says that God's word discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart. How can this ancient book be so relevant to me and my insecurities and my aspirations and how can it expose my motives Well the answer is the guy who made me wrote this book and then it works when you put it into practice. If I didn't believe in God, if I wasn't a Christian, and I wanted to write a manual on marriage or a manual on child rearing or on how to deal with guilt or how to handle your money I would take the wisdom out of this book. It goes against the spirit of our age. It's counterintuitive, but I've seen it works. If I were an atheist and I was a and I was a benevolent dictator And I was an atheist, and I wanted to design an ethical system for the happiness and the well-being of the people under my rule I would still teach the Sermon on the Mount, I would still teach the Ten Commandments, I would still say that the way to resolve difficulties with other people is through confession and asking for forgiveness. I would say extramantal sex will lead to personal misery and societal destruction. And I would say, because I'm such a good dictator, I want everybody to take off one day a week and just rest, be at home. Focus on other things, sharpen your sword, be with your family. Where did I get this? Well, I got it from the Bible. I'm not going to tell if I'm not a believer, I'm not going to tell people that. But um And so people ignore the evidence of creation, they ignore the evidence of Scripture. And then there's the, you know, we could talk about the evidence for the resurrection of Jesus Christ who had these disciples, right, when before Jesus was crucified, they were shaken in their boots and then after What, uh three days later, they're out proclaiming on the streets of Jerusalem that Jesus has ra has risen from the grave. How do you count that change? You think about the Apostle Paul, this vicious Persecutor of Christians overnight he becomes this fearless evangelist, the greatest evangelist who ever lived How do you explain that one, Lucy, or the empty tomb, right? Why did the Romans or the Jewish leaders produce a body? That would have squashed these rumors of a resurrection Well the answer is there was no body to produce. And we can go on and then we could talk about the evidence that changed lives. I could point to people in this room, if you knew this person before they were converted, you would not like that person. She'd be really she was really different, but now uh she's delightful. He's just this great guy, just a caring fella. How do you explain that? We would say It's because Jesus Christ works in people. And so reasons why people reject Christianity Uh that was the longest point. Uh number one, they ignore the evidence. A second thing Jesus teaches here Is that people reject Christianity oftentimes because their hearts are hard. So go back to verse 35. Jesus said to them, remember he's talking to the Jewish people, the light is among you for a little while longer. He's talking about himself. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light. And so They had Jesus Christ before them. And as I said, they saw his works, they observed his character, and they heard his teaching. They understood But they would not bow before him. And as a result, Jesus warns them God is going to abandon you to your sins. And he acts that out in the end of verse 36. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. And so he was acting out the judgment of which he had just warn them. And he's saying, because you will not believe, the day will come when uh You're not going to be able to believe. God's going to harden your hearts. Here we are, verse thirty-nine. Therefore, they could not believe. For again, Isaiah said, and this is Isaiah chapter 6, verse 10. He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart And turn, and I would heal them. And so because they rejected God's word Jesus Christ, His person, and His message. There came a time when God withdrew the light Jesus withdrew, and God hardened their hearts. And so we refer to this as a judicial act of God, a judicial hardening. It's a it's a perilous warning, right? The day may come. If I'm you know I'm studying in church every week and I'm hearing the Bible and I have the Bible at home and I have uh Christians in my family, and I'm hearing about Christianity, the day may come when God will solidify That hard heart that you have, where he may lock that hardness in place 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 10 and 11 speak similarly. Paul there writes of those who are perishing. Why? Because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. And here's the point. Therefore, God sends them a strong delusion So that they may believe what is false. And I'll tell you what, there are people, there are unbelievers. They won't consider Christianity, but they hold to the wackiest philosophies. They read their horoscope or they're in some crazy thing that It's just bizarre. And what what's going on? I think this is a description. God sends them a delusion so that they may believe what is false, right? Romans 1. It has the same idea. There comes a point, God revealed himself, they suppressed that knowledge, and so it says God gave them over. He let them go their own way. And so that's that's a serious uh sobering truth I need to consider. Is my hard heart toward Jesus Christ or is it open? to the truths of the gospel. Where am I in this? Today if you hear his voice, Hebrew says, Don't harden. your hearts. If you do, God may allow that hardness to in fact solidify. So reasons people reject Christianity, they ignore the evidence, their hearts are hard Then finally and briefly, they love the approval of man. And we all can relate to this one. Verse 42. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him. And so there were Jewish leaders who believed in him. But for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue, because to be put out of the synagogue It wasn't just meaning you couldn't do you didn't have something to do on Saturday morning, but that you were cast out of Jewish society. And so what's what's verse thirty or forty-two saying? It seems like these people, they were people who were persuaded that Jesus was the Messiah. But they would not confess him. Verse 43 gives the reason. For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God And we can understand that, right? They wanted to be respected. They wanted to fit in. However, uh life is short Eternity is long, and so we need to weigh out how important our social standing is. And so Proverbs 29, 25 says, the fear of man lays a snare. The fear of other people's opinion really lays a snare. And um it could lead to our damnation. And so, hey, that's a pretty clear passage. Uh what do I do then? You know, I'm I've been dowling with the claims of Christianity. What should I do? And I just say uh reflect on the reasons for your unbelief. You know, are are they are they valid reasons or is the the real hindrance uh to your becoming Christian it's not because there's intellectual obstacles. You you you see you find re can find reasonable explanations for your concerns. But it's ethical. You just don't want to submit to Jesus Christ. Or you're concerned about what people think about you. And so this is why we say, you just If you're not there yet, immerse yourself in the scripture, read it, reflect on it, ask questions about it, keep coming. And Pray that God will open your eyes. You can't convert yourself. God has to do it. First uh Corinthians two fourteen Paul said, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. So just say, Lord, I am spiritually dull. I'm blind. And I'm going to stay in this book and help me to see. Help me to recognize this. Let's bow our heads.