Seven year olds. And so it's good that we see s we have some new folks here today. We're glad you're here. We are we have a guest preacher, Clark Brooking. Come on up, brother. So Clark is endeavoring to gather a core group for a church plant that we're seek we're helping with in Eldersburg. We have some families over that way. And uh Clark's over that way. And so we appreciate your being with us. They have a Sunday night Bible study at the Lawrence's house. If you know anybody Who might be interested in uh being a part of this or at least learning about it, uh speak to Clark sometime. So thank you. Thank you, brother. Well, good morning. It's a privilege to be with you in our uh in our passage this morning. We are absolutely assured that God gives wisdom without measure. He does so generously He does so gladly. He does so unbegrudgingly. He gives wisdom to every child who asks him. with expectant faith. We're going to be considering this instruction from James. If you have a copy of the scriptures with you, let me invite you to open to James chapter 1. James chapter one, and we'll read verses five to eight. James one, five to eight. Hear the word of the Lord. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Now James begins with the word if. And that is the word, but in the Greek you can tell grammatically what the author expects, whether he expects a positive or a negative for that if. And here he expects that you do lack wisdom. When you lack wisdom as you surely will, or if you lack wisdom as you surely do, now what is wisdom? That's kind of a hard one to simply define. You know, we have a whole set of literature in the Bible called wisdom literature to get you a a handle on that, but Basically, wisdom is the ability to know and do the right thing in any given circumstance. It's good navigational skills. But you know, it's not wisdom in the abstract that James is talking with us here uh about. Uh you know, we dove right in. James has been compared to like a New Testament Proverbs, and you know, in Proverbs sometimes you don't need a lot of context. The Proverb is all it is. But we need the context. So let's back up one sentence and look back to verse 2. James says, Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. So the context here is trials. Um navigating hardships and difficulties in life. Those hardships they have a purpose A divine purpose, a sanctifying purpose in our lives, so that even the worst things that we ever face are actually occasions for joy, not sorrow. But they don't feel that way, do they? For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. And so that's what James wants us to focus on. the outcome of those trials, of those hardships that we all face. And so much so he wants us to think of that, that we don't think of you know, a silver lining to our dark clouds, but he wants you to grasp that the dark cloud is actually all silver. He wants you to to to count it pure joy. Count it that way. It's an act of the will an act of the will that comes from faith. I if you want to call it a leap of faith, that's fine, but it's the kind of a leap that a that a child does off the diving board to dad. It's not blind, it's centered in Who's gonna catch him? It's a confident leap. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. And so what those trials do then is to build up our endurance. What the uh ESB calls steadfastness. Your faith is made to endure a challenge And that makes it stronger. You know, like your muscles are tried when you lift a uh a barbell or a dumbbell, and the result is greater strength. Greater endurance until your faith is made perfect and can endure anything at all. That's the context So when James says, if any of you lacks wisdom, he's specifically thinking of the wisdom to put suffering in perspective. Which allows us to stand firm through it. And and we we really must stand firm. Only those who persevere to the end will be saved. Jesus was very explicit about that. The one who endures to the end will be saved. So What we lack, what we need, is the wisdom to count our trials as joy that our faith might grow stronger and stronger. Now, is James saying that in those times of trial all we need to do is ask, and you know, assuming we don't doubt, which we'll get to in just a minute, but Assuming we don't know it, we just ask, and then we'll be able to understand our trials. Is that what he's saying? That God's going to explain to us why we're suffering? Boy, I wish I could say yes to that, but I can't. That's not what He does. You know, isn't that the hardest part of trials, though? Not knowing why you're facing them. But you know, it really does make sense that God doesn't give you the why. When we suffer. It doesn't make it easy, but it does make sense. You know, it is our sin that demands an explanation. Not faith. Think about this. If Job had been in on those conversations between God and Satan, how would the book be different? It would have still stumped for Job, don't misunderstand, but it wouldn't have been the same sort of trial, would it? Wasn't the whole book of Job about Job wanting to know why? Why is all of this happening to me? Tell me why I am enduring this. And it's the same question that you and I have in our trials. But you know that is the the where you can see the difference between faith and our sinful flesh Our flesh wants answers. We want understanding. We want to know why. So that we can get behind the trial, you know? If I only knew why I'm facing what I'm facing, I'd be much better equipped to just, you know, buck up and endure. I might even be able to be happy about it, right? But that's not that's not counting it joy. That's finding it joyful, and those aren't the same thing. Liking it because you like it, you approve of it. That's not the posture of faith. Faith doesn't have to see the roadmap. That God has planned for us so that we could approve it. You know, not many believers would choose the path that the Lord actually leads them down. We want to know the why of it all, but what happens if we don't like the why? What we really want is not just to know why we're suffering, but we want to approve of the explanation. We want to stand in judgment on God's plan for us. Our flesh does. But what God is after in our lives, what these trials are intended to strengthen, is our trust in Him. Trusting the Lord with all your heart, do not lean on your own understanding in all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths. He wants you to be able to say with Job, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. So when James asks, are you lacking wisdom? What he's really saying is, are you having a hard time hanging on? Is the trial threatening to overwhelm your soul? Do you need faith? Then ask God. That's the provision he gives us. He gives us a way to acquire the wisdom that we need to endure. And that way is prayer. Prayer is the appointed means that God gives us to get the wisdom to endure. We are guaranteed very positive things when we pray. And yet, prayer meetings tend to be the least well attended. It really shouldn't be that way. We shouldn't have to bring cake. Look at the promises that we have. Grounded in God's character, God is generous toward us. He is not a reluctant giver. And you know, we'll come back to these qualities uh of God the Giver in a minute, but I really want to deal with this doubt thing uh lest you misunderstand it. There are a few translations out there that have waiver, which is better, but most translations use doubt. And the problem with doubt translating the word doubt here, is that when we hear that word, we tend to think of lacking confidence, uh, you know, a sort of uh an uncertainty in our minds But nothing could be further from what James is talking about than that. Of course you are uncertain. It wouldn't be a test if you weren't. Of course you're struggling. In Mark chapter 9, uh Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Transfiguration. And he finds his disciples arguing with the scribes, and at the center of that controversy is a man, a desperate man. He had come to seek help. His son is possessed by a demon. It made him mute. It would Seiz him, he'd have seizures where he'd foam at the mouth and grind his teeth and become rigid And when Jesus asked him how long his son had been like this, the man said, From childhood, and it is often cast him into the fire, into water, to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us. And help us. If you can do anything. And Jesus sees this precisely on that Uncertainty, right? If you can, all things are possible for him who believes. Now, do you remember the man's response? Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I believe. Help my unbelief. Now I'm sure that Jesus would have loved to have spent a little more time with this guy on that, but the crowd was pressing and he had to move on. But do notice that he did heal the man's son. So Jesus saw faith. And I think there's a lesson for us here, too. You know, in the Bible, doubt is not a little crack in your confidence. It's not some little dark corner of uncertainty in your mind, hiding deep down, threatening to make an appearance and damning us forever. We all lack confidence. We all lack assurance at times. And this man certainly did. Doubt's not a lack of confidence. What James is talking about is indecision. And that's a different thing. He calls it double-mindedness. In Greek, the doubter is a two-souled man. He's schizophrenic. He's at war with himself. That's why he's tossed this way and that. He's like a person who's learning to ski and one ski's pointing this way and another ski's pointing another way. He's not going to be able to ski, all he's going to be able to do is fall. You can't trust God and rely on yourself You can't ask God for something and not believe He's going to give it to you. It's inherently unstable. James is talking about the actual direction that you're pointing. The man who wanted Jesus to heal his son was pointing in the right direction. Because his hope was directed at the right person. Listen, Abraham's given to us as an example here. In Romans 4. 20, Paul says of Abraham No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God. No unbelief made him waver. Seriously? How about passing his wife off as his sister in fear? But just as Job's attitude was though he slay me, yet will I trust him, so when Abraham was faced with slaughtering his only son. The fruit of the pop promise that God had made him. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. That doesn't mean he wasn't crying when he lifted the knife. It doesn't mean that there wasn't relief when he heard the angel's voice or saw the lamb caught in the thicket, the ram caught in the thicket. That's the point. Faith isn't a feeling. Faith is personal. It's about who you are trusting. It's about putting confidence in a person. It's not that it's not that Abraham felt good about it. He just knew God was able to resolve it. He put his faith in the person of the Father. And you you you can trust a person even when you don't understand what they're doing That's what James would have us grow steadfast in, is trusting God even when we can't see and understand what he's doing. It's the true nature of faith. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. That demand for understanding our trials, that's really just another species of the sin of the garden. Adam and Eve thought themselves competent to sit in judgment on God's word, and that's what got us in this mess in the first place. And so in God's providence, his solution for our sin, which was fully purchased for us by Jesus Christ, it's access through this very point, trust. To use a seasonally appropriate illustration, that's the difference between Zechariah's response and Mary's response. To Gabriel. Zechariah asked, How shall I know this? For I'm an old man and my wife is advanced in years. In other words, how can I be sure? I'd like to believe you, but how can I know for sure? I need some proof. Mary, on the other hand She's just as confused. She doesn't understand how this could be. But look at her the way she asked the question. How will this be since I am a virgin? But you can see that she placed herself fully in God's hands with her next words, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. You know, those words were about to cost Mary very dearly all her childhood dreams, her fiancé, her dignity and reputation. Shame. And yet she fears God, she trusts God, and so she holds true. That's the point of our trials. We're to trust God even when we don't understand. It's about how we see God's character. Is he sovereign? Is he good? Is he trustworthy? We're to believe him precisely when we don't understand, and we're given this promise. If we want to trust God, even when we don't understand the trials that we're facing, then we are promised this. If we will pray, And if we will ask for the wisdom to endure, we will get it. Why? Because that's who God is. He is generous. He is profligate in his generosity. He gives and he gives and he gives and he never tires of giving. You know, just as the the mama bird doesn't look at her chick and go, again? You want me to feed you again? So our benevolent father, he rejoices to give gifts to his children. He loves it. And so even when we come crawling and begging, he doesn't upbraid us. He doesn't smirk because that's what he wants us to do. You know, we're always losing phone chargers in my house. Not me, because I hoard them. But uh but that makes me the guy that everybody has to come to to get a phone charger, and when they do I look at them with that look that says, you know, I want this back. Don't lose this one too, like you've lost every other charger that I gave you, right? God doesn't do that And I try not to do that anymore either. But you give the idea. He doesn't give us that look. He just blesses. He just gives. It's who he is. And even though he makes his sun to shine on the evil and the good, and sends his rain on the just and the unjust, even though he gives generously to everyone, Only the one who is willing to trust him can expect anything from him. So, seeking wisdom, asking for it, isn't about quarreling with providence or demanding explanations, but rather resting in God's character trusting his wisdom, trusting his love. God's neither stingy nor reluctant to bless. Remember, that's the lie that was told in the garden in the cross. proves it's a lie. So when you ask, expect to receive the wisdom that you need. After all, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? He never rolls his eyes at a begging child. He delights to give. So won't you come to him with your sorrows, your confusion, and your pain? Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded and watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him. Firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be dominion and glory forever. Will you uh pray with me? Oh, Father, we confess that we we often don't like those hard providences you bring our way. And so, Father, we ask that you would help us when we face them. You have told us through Solomon to trust you with all our hearts. Not to lean on our own understanding. And that is our desire, Lord, the desire of our heart, and yet we confess that we are terribly imperfect at it. We know that your ways are right and are true and are good. We know that there's a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. Path is broad on the way to destruction, but narrow on the way to life. And so, Father, we we repent. We repent of every demand of an explanation from you. Every refusal to rest until we understand. Father, we choose to rest in you, to acknowledge you in all our ways, believing that you will direct our path. Give us that desire of our hearts, Lord. You told us through Isaiah to let him who walks in darkness and has no light trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God. So we will trust when we cannot see. By your grace, we trust you, Lord. Help us to trust you more. Holy Spirit, you promise to help us Even in our deficiencies here, for we don't know how we ought to pray. And yet the Spirit Himself intercedes with us with groanings too deep for words. Do that for us, Lord. Turn our own groans into faithful conviction, our confusion into confidence, our weakness into power, your power, manifested in us as we rest in you. We ask it all for Jesus' sake and in his name. Amen.