Turn from Proverbs chapter one, we introduced the book last week looking at the first seven verses. Now we come to chapter one, verse eight to thirty-three I'm gonna read. I notice there are a few Bibles here. There are the NIV, the New International Version, and my version is called the ESU. The English Canada Virgin is a pretty close version of read the Bible, though, so we have to figure on that stuff out. Proverbs 1, I'll begin at verse 8. I'll read the first part of the text and then we'll come back to it. And so um oh that at the Zoom so we've got more trouble. There's about three hundred people on Zoom. It's just spinning. We can't do anything about it. So we'll just hope for the best. There came back, okay. Um Proverbs chapter one Beginning of verse 8. So the father says, Hear my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching. For they are a graceful garland for your head, and tendency To your net. My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. If they say, Come with us, let us fly away from blood, let us ambush the innocent without reason. Like shale, let us follow them alive in the hole. Like those who go down into the pit. We shall find them all precious goods. We shall fill our houses with Plunder. Throw in your lot among us, we will have unhearse. My son, do not walk in the way with them. Hold back your foot from their past, for their feet run to eat evil, and they make haste to shed blood. For in vain is the nest spread in the sight of any bird, but these men lie in wait for their own blood. They set an ambush for Their own lives. So last Sunday when we introduced Proverbs, and so Proverbs is a pimpy statement that's packed with practical insight. And it's but you know, so it's funny about Proverbs, but you don't get to the Proverbs until you hit chapter 10. So what are the first nine chapters of Proverbs? Well, these chapters are a pep talk. That's really what they are. It's it it's composed is too much of a ring here, Jason, or is it me? Alright, okay, you're good. I I'm good. Okay. I get too upset about things like that. You you see Okay. So we'll yeah we gotta figure all this up But anyway, so in the first nine chapters, there are these are composed of several poems that are tributes to mis And the purpose of the poems, of these tributes, is to spur us on to seek wisdom. And we have from verses eight to thirty-three Solomon's opening lecture on the value of wisdom. And he's thinking young Young people, young people, he's speaking more mom doesn't have your son. Wake up. I'm not joking. He's speaking To young people, and um what does he have to say to his son and to other young people In his very first speech, okay, what sublime morsel of advice does Solomon give? What else Insight that Solomon had for you young people. He says, basically, listen to your mom and dad. Stay away from idiots, and I don't mean people who are mentally deficient, but people who are morally deficient. So listen to your mom and dad. Stay away from idiots Then he said, don't be callable. That's basically what's going on here, and we're going to see it. So verses 8 to 19 are steer clear of Fools steered clear of wicked people. And in the beginning, in verse 8, that's where he says, Listen to your parents. Look at that verse 8. Listen to your parents Listen, my son, to your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching. Now there is an assumption here, and it's reasonable that your parents though Flawed are relatively wise people. That's not always the case. Some kids have parents who are fools, and that's tragic. But most parents especially to us Christian parents, we're trying to do our best, we're trying to aim our kids in the right direction. So you want to listen to your parents and the writer goes on to say listen Listen, if you do this, it's going to shape you to be a beautiful man or woman of character. So verse 8. They are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck. So the garland is a victor's read. You know what you see in the old victors of the Romans with their wreaths on their heads. That's what it is. It's a graceful garland and then it's a pendant around your neck. And so something there uh to adorn you uh to make you more attractive. And um after that he goes on to warn young people again to stay clear of the wicked people you meet down the street or wicked people you have access to because you look at your phone and you you see web Websites and uh things written there that are trying to pull you off in the wrong direction. It could be something you see on TV, directly movies, and so on. And He goes on to say it's completely understandable why you might be attracted to follow these people because there's an appeal. Talks about what's appealing about these people in verses 11 and 14. If you go along with the gang, verse 11, it's going to offer excitement. So look down at verse 11. If they say, Come with us, let us lie and wait for their blood. Let us ambush the innocent without reason. And so they're saying, you know what? We're going to have fun doing this, but what they're going to do is harm others It says there in verse 11, they're going to harm others without any good reason. That's interesting. The book of Proverbs here's one of the reasons I the Bible's true. Because though, for example, the book of Proverbs was written some 3,000 years ago, it describes exactly what's going on today because it describes human nature which does not change. And we know this uh kids who are in school say They know that there's an in-group and oftentimes they'll focus their guns or they'll aim their guns at one lone child who has a perfectly good kid But for some reason, they choose to mock him or her or to ostracize that child. Why would they do that? And the answer is right here, for no good reason Reason, or you may have seen on the news in the past couple years we'll show a clip of somebody walking down the street, perhaps like in New York City, and somebody comes up from behind It just punches a person out, or they push the person onto a subway platform, and then they have a friend recording it on their phone and they post it Why would they do that? Well, it's our nature. But the writer says, well, it's for no good reason. And so verse 11, going with the gang offers excitement Verse 13, going with the gang offers easy money. He writes, we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses. But plunder. Last Monday there was an article in the newspaper. Tens of thousands of federal employees stole taxpayer money by And so going with the gang offers easy money, uh perhaps the biggest draw, going with the gang In verse 14, offers camaraderie. And so that's what we see in verse 14 they say, throw in your lot among us, we shall have one first. And so we have these collective pronouns. Hey, you want to be a part of the group? Or you want to be on the outside? And so there's this appeal. And so to steal us again or to strip us against the entire Enticements of the wicked, Solomon exhorts us in three directions. First of all, he tells us to refuse Their enticement. You have it written there in verse 10. My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. He's saying, Don't take the van Don't go along with it. Exercise some moral courage. And so what do we do when we're enticed? Psalmist says we need to refuse Their entreaties, the second thing he said, and this is even better if we can do it, if we have this opportunity, he says, avoid them. Verse 15. My son, do not walk in the way with them. Hold back your foot from their paths. And so our friends are maybe the in group out in the world or things to see out in the pop culture. They're saying adopt this lifestyle or adopt this set of beliefs. And it's very enticing. We all want to feel like we fit in. We all want to fit Like we're we're we're okay uh with the culture. And Solomon says, just say no, then he says, avoid them. And thirdly, in verses 17 and 19, he says So look at verse 17 now. He writes, For in vain A net is spread in the sight of any bird. But these men lie in wait for their own blood. They set an ambush For their own lives. Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain. It takes away the life of his possessors. And so it's interesting, you know, we birds are notoriously are are notorious for their small brains, right? So we have the term bird brain. But he says even a bird is not so painfully stupid as to step into a trap. that it's been put out for it. On the other hand, a fool sets his own trap. He doesn't realize what he's doing. You see the same kind of language in Psalm 7 verse 15 and 16. The psalmist says of the pool. He makes a tip digging it out and falls into the hole That he has made. His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own skull, his violence descends. And so this remind us, you know, just as you don't break the law, right? You don't say, I'm gonna go jump off the building, I'm gonna break the law, Rahdy. It's never gonna work, right? The law gravity is going to break you. And so it is with God's law. We don't break God's law, but many people have discovered that God's long breaks them. And so this is talking about those who are just flaming fools. We probably know met people like that But it's also talking about us, right? Because every day we are enticed by various temptations and we like to nibble around Around the edges, and we don't talk ourselves through these things as we should. We don't remind ourselves of how foolish uh These decisions can be, even the small ones. And so we do also like the flaying pool fall for the enticing sense of camaraderie, fitting in of easy uh advances of that that sin and foolish people will for us. And so yeah, maybe we're haunted. Maybe you're haunted by foolish decisions that you've made and uh even right now You have a tinge of regret. So what do you do? You can't go back and change the decisions you've made, but you can look to Jesus Christ, right? Because he was tempted, it says in Hebrews 4, he was tempted in every way as we are, yet without yet was without sin. Why was he tempted? Well because he had to live a completely righteous life where we failed. So we often say Say Jesus Christ died for our sin. That's why we're saved, right? That's why we're forgiven. Well, that's half of it. The other half is Jesus Christ obeyed God's law. Perfectly. And so because he did that, he gives us his righteousness. And so we can know not only forgiveness for our sin But we can know that we're clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And that's why a Christian who's repentant, who's trusting in Christ Despite all our failures, we are still invited into his presence and have this fellowship meetle with him, the Lord's Supper. And so the first thing we see in these verses, verses um 8 to 19, is just a warning. And these warnings are going to come up again and again. And the warning here is to steer clear of the wicked. Now, let's go on. We're going to meet a very interesting woman. Her name, we're going to call her Woman of Wisdom That's commonly how she's referred to, lady wisdom or woman wisdom. And she's one of the main characters in the book of Proverbs. We're going to But then more fully acquainted with her when we get to chapters chapter eight and chapter nine, but we make an initial acquaintance with this very Striking woman in verses 20 to 33. Okay? Let's read. Wisdom cries out of the street in the mark She raises her voice. At the head of the noisy streets, she cries out. At the entrance of the city gates she speaks. Here's what she says. How long those simple ones will love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and full saint knowledge? If you turn in my report Behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. Because I've called, and you refuse to listen Have stretched out my hand, and no one has heeded. Because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, I also will lack your calamity I will mock when terror strikes you, when terror strikes you like a storm, and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anxiety But they will call upon me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but will not find me. Because they hated me Knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord, would have none of my counsel despise my reproof. Therefore they shall eat the For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them But whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster. So I have four questions Questions on the outline, just to help us become acquainted with this woman. First of all, we ask the question who is woman wisdom? Well she's a literary device. She's a personification of God's attribute of wisdom. And so in chapter two, verse six, we read The Lord gives wisdom, it's a woman Women's wisdom is just a personification of the wisdom that God gives to those who seek it. And uh I think she's called woman wisdom because going to meet in chapter 9 an individual called woman folly and so you have this contrast between wisdom and folly. So that's who she is What is she like? Well, the most striking thing about this woman, whom we call wisdom, is that she's not hidden. She's out. God's wisdom is not a secret knowledge that is concealed. And only can be found by the spiritual lead. It's not hard to find God's wisdom. You don't have to go on some philosophical quest or spiritual journey to attain it. It's not a still small voice that's only accessible to those who have Have mystical, charismatic experiences, but rather is accessible to anyone who would seek after it. In other words, God's wisdom As I said, is public, okay? So look at verses 20 to 21. What does it say? Well, let me read it again. She cries aloud in the street, in the markets. She raises her voice. At the head of the noisy street, she cries out. At the entrance of the city gates, she speaks. So she's right out there in public. not uh behind the the church walls but she's out there and and uh she's in the marketplace uh you can't miss her and uh she doesn't she doesn't talk In the tender tones of an out of uh when the uh posts on National Public Radio introduced his Saturday afternoon symphony selection. Uh she's more like an uh She cracks, she's loud, she pleads, she scolds, she threatens, and she mocks. That's the woman we meet here in the Bible. So where, if I say it with God's wisdom is public, then where do we encounter the wisdom of God? We'd say, oh, several sources. The primary source, the foundational course, of course, is a scripture, but it's influenced people, it's influenced our parents so we want to listen to our parents generally uh is certainly should influence the church if it's a Bible teaching church and it influences Christians, true Christians And God's wisdom is also displayed in its effects. You can see those who live according to God's wisdom, even by God's common grace, by his general revelation and by our culture that was founded on Christian principles, we see that there is there are benefits to doing things God's way. We look at the outcomes of those who spurn God's commands, we see the miserable effects it brings to their lives of us. socially, uh financially, in their marriage and whatnot, and we realize that that's not the way to do it. Look at verse 32 Talking about the misery of those who who sperm God's wisdom. The sin who are killed by their turning away. In the complacency of fools, the And so what Solomon is saying is that if ye don't hear the voice of Of wisdom, it's not because it's hidden. The problem is that your ears are closed. You close Your ears. I don't want to hear it. Let me learn for myself. Verse 22 and 23. How long of simple funds we love being simple, right? I like doing it my way. How long will scoffers like their scoffing and fools make knowledge? If you'll turn on my reproof, I'll pour out my spirit on you. So the first thing we learned about this woman is that she's not hidden, she's out in public. Then how the fools respond to lady wisdoms and trees, and uh this is the whole thing. They they ignore them. They don't want to hear what she has to say. In other words They know certain things are true because they're made in God's image and they're living in God's world. And they may have even an acquaintance with God's commands and scripture but they ignore them. And so that's the fundamental characteristic of the fool. I said this last week I think. The fundamental trait Is that the fool is unteachable? You see that in verses 24 and 25? Wisdom says, I call when you refuse to listen. I stretch out my hand. No one heeded it. Because you ignored my counsel, you would have none of my reproof. Begin at verse 29. They hated knowledge They did not choose to fear the Lord, verse thirty. They would have none of my counsel. They despised my reproof. And instead Uh they had time for tribulal pursuits, they had time for shallow social gatherings. Uh they're okay staying up with the latest and possible Culture and they're fully invested in their careers, but they have no time or interest in the things of God So I read an antidote about the 4th century BC Greek philosopher Demosthenes. He was also a state. In Greece, and he's trying to speak to the crowd about matters of life and of death. And they wouldn't listen. They thought he was a fool. They want to have anything to do with what the man had to say. And so Demosthenes, he quit talking about philosophy and he told them a story He said it was a hot summer day, and a young man hired a donkey to take him from Athens to Megara. And the donkey and the young man And the donkeys drive there are going along as noon. The sun's blazing down. And they decide to take a rest. And the fellow who rented the donkey And then the driver of the donkey, they began to jump fighting for a spot to sit in a donkey shape. In the render, the young So listen, when I rented this donkey, I rented not only the beast, but I rented the right to set in its shadow. And the other said, no. No, and you rented the donkey, you only rented the the beast, and I retain the right to sit in the shadow. And so they went on and on And then at that point in the story, Demosthenes turned his back on the crowd and he began to walk away. And they started yelling out, don't go! Tell us the rest of the story. And Demosthenes turns around and he says, you all want to hear about what happened to the donkey ship. But you refuse to listen when somebody talks to you about serious matters. And that's exactly what people are like In our culture, probably exists in all cultures, right? We're mesmerized by the trivial, but we don't have any interest in matters of substance How do we get here? What's the purpose of life? We're all going to die. What's going to come of us? Is there something more to come? And if there is a God, how can I know him? And if it's the Christian God, how can I know if I'm right with him? And I say to young people, and for for getting on your skin. But um it's young there's this young people like that many young people I should say like to spend their time playing with these electronic video games. It's fine in moderation, but you only have so much time on your view. I think it would be a good use of your time. To do other things, to read things, certainly to read the Bible and challenge other people. At least a chapter a day, one chapter a day in the Bible And I know when you're starting out, a lot doesn't fit together, but a couple years go by and you're sitting in Sunday school and you're sitting in the sermons and whatnot, it starts to come together. And God uses it to shape you and to shape your desires and to make you into a man or a woman of God. Let's go on. One more question then. And so we see the fool's response to wisdom. He doesn't want anything to do with her. He's not anything Interested. And so now we ask, how does woman wisdom respond to fools? She doesn't tolerate that. Beware the wrath of the woman's sword is certainly true in the way that woman's wisdom responds to the fool. And she He says that she'll have the last flat. So let's look at verses 24 to 26, and then we'll end the plane 24 to 26. So she says, Because I called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand, and no one needed, because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof. What will she do? 26. I also will laugh at your calamities, and I will mock when terror strikes you. These are harsh words, but they're meant to arouse the complacent. Do you ever hear somebody say? God always answers prayers. That's not it's not in this passage. Look at verse 26. It says, There comes a day when God may, does it say he Will, but it says he may close the door. Let's say verse 26, verse 28. Then they will call upon me, but I will not So that's interesting back in verse 26. The fools refuse to Listen to wisdom's call. In verse 28, there's a warning that the day may well come when the God Who gives wisdom will refuse to listen to the pleas of the fool. So that's what we have as a For example, in Hebrews 3. 15, for the writer says, Today if you hear his voice, do not pardon your heart. And we must say that the scripture is the voice of God, right? This is God's Speaking to people. This document is a living document. And so today if you hear his voice, do not harden Your heart. Because you know, Proverbs uses the language of wisdom, but it's not some abstract philosophy or or uh system but rather to reject wisdom is to reject the voice of the Lord and you'll see See that this afternoon in verse uh precisely in verse 29. Because they hated knowledge, what's it saying? They did not choose the fear of the Lord. We saw last week in one seven that fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so there you have this very stern entreaty. And um and every day, right? Those of us who are Christians, every day we refuse to submit to God's wisdom, we choose rather that which is expedient uh that which has a short-term payoff of pleasure or whatever the whatever the payoff is and wisdom calls allowed to us so it's not just to the the the as I said, the flaming pool, but there's foolishness in all of our hearts. Wisdom Christ asks us, how will all those simple love how will those simple ones be used? So this says to us don't be gullible, but seek God's wisdom. And then to those who are Are not young Christians, uh the challenge I have for you is to please explain to me how the wisdom found in Proverbs And the wisdom found uh in the entire scripture, the wisdom we hear coming from the mouth of Jesus Christ and the Sermon on the Mount and elsewhere How do you explain the brilliance of such wisdom? And I think the answer is Because this wisdom is from the God who made you, who knows you, and who's given it to us. To point us not only how to live and please you life, but it points us to Jesus Christ, who is the ultimate wise man. Let's bow our heads. Thank you, Father in heaven, that you haven't left us to grow in the dark and wonder how to live a life that's pleasing to you. Have a little light that is successful in your sight, even if it's a difficult life. Help us, Lord, to seek after wisdom. Forgive us. Lord, for the many ways that we are foolish. We're thankful that Jesus Christ, His blood, covers all of our sin. And I pray, Lord, for those who were not believers, I pray that they would mine out uh the wisdom in the Bible, that they would discover Jesus Christ. The wise man, but he's the savior of sinners. In his name we pray. Amen.