So let's turn to Proverbs chapter two. So we're making our way through the book of Proverbs. Come to chapter two. Let me just um make a couple comments because this is sort of long uh sort of the theme of it, but I want to I want you to just I want to take a moment to help you appreciate The brilliance of the Proverbs, it's not just a collection of sayings slapped together, but really it's a tightly structured composition. It's organized with mathematical precision. And you don't realize that just reading through it. But chapter two is a good example. I can do this occasionally so we go through the book. So chapter two The original Hebrew, can anybody bring their Hebrew Bible to any chance? But if you didn't, just take my word on this. The original Hebrew is 22 verses reflecting that there's 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet And it divides into two sections, two equal stanzas of 11 verses each. And each stanza breaks down into three symmetrical sections. Then there's even more intricate levels of structure, something called chiasm. That's where the first part of a stanza mirrors the second part, or the first part of a sentence mirrors the second part. And so there's these very intricate uh structures here. So why am I bringing this up? Well it's not because we want to have a little exercise of literary analysis But rather is because the careful structuring of this book, in addition to the effectiveness of its teaching points to its divine origin. This book is from God. So let's read chapter 2. This is a father, Solomon, talking to his son, but you remember a book from two weeks ago that Proverbs is not only written to young people. Look at chapter 1, verse 5. It's written even the wise people. Let the wise hear be an increase in learning. So we all need to heed what Solomon writes in chapter 2. He says, My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your attentive to wisdom. And declining your ear to understanding. Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it, ask for hidden treasures. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity. Guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints, then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path. For wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will watch over you, understanding will guard you Then it goes on to talk about how wisdom will guard us, delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech. Who forsake the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked, and who are devious in their ways. So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words, who forsakes the companion of her youth, yet forgets the covenant of her God. For her house sinks down to death, in her path to the departed. None who go to her come back, nor do they regain the path of life So you will walk in the way of the good and keep the paths of the righteous, for the upright will inherit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it. But the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. Sometimes I ask them, this is my kids, sometimes I ask the young people in general, I ask them the question, where do you want to be five years down the road or ten years down the road in your life as far as your walk with price is concerned, as far as your maturity level is concerned, as far as where you want to be vocationally or academically or whatever. Where do you want to be? Five years down the road or uh ten years uh down the road. And um, you know, I hope they said, well I want to be a I want to be a godly man, I want to be a godly woman, I want to have some uh wisdom and the way I relate to other people. I want to have some uh noble interests. I want to be able to interact well with other people. And um and I want to be resilient in the face of adversity. Well these aren't just questions that uh are suitable for young people. These are questions uh that are suitable for people of all ages. And then I say your progress, your progress in these areas hinges largely on the initiative that you take today, not tomorrow, but the initiative you take today, what you do this afternoon, what you do this evening. The things you do today will largely influence who you are in five or ten years. Are you seeking to know God? Are you seeking to know his word? Are you seeking to grow in him? Are you seeking to serve him? Are you seeking to understand his world? Are you learning Winner mothers are you watching them? Or are you complacent And so Solomon, I mentioned this last week, the first nine chapters, is a pep talk on the importance of pursuing wisdom. Now if I go through each of these nine chapters and I just talk about that, I think it's going to get redundant. So we're going to look at some different things, focus in on some different things as these chapters unfold. But this morning we're going to go through chapter 2, and we're going to see the main contours of what it's saying. And in the first eight verses Solomon says, well he encourages his son to pursue wisdom, and he says, listen, wisdom is something you pursue, but it's also something that God bestows. And so it's wisdom is something that we should see, and at the same time, we have to recognize that only God can give us wisdom And so in the first five verses, Solomon first of all says to his son, Son, I want you to see wisdom. In other words, I want you to be a spiritual self-starter Last week we looked at second part of chapter one, and chapter one, verse thirty-two, the second half of that verse. Solomon warned, the complacency of fools destroys them. Now we get to chapter 2, and he says basically, instead of being complacent You should actively pursue wisdom in the knowledge of God. So let's look at the first five verses again. And notice how he keeps saying the same thing over and over, okay? So chapter 2, verse 1 He says, son, my son, if you receive my words, in other words, if you internalize what I'm saying to you, don't just listen. Don't just Stick to it because this is what the Father does and you and you're stuck listening to him, but take it in. Heed it. Then he says, treasure of my commandments. Verse 2 make ye make your ear attentive to wisdom. Inclining your heart to understand. In verse three, he talks about calling out for insight, raising your voice for understanding. Verse 4 Seek it like silver. Search for it. Ask for hidden treasure. Now has anybody just when you're walking through some field or you're hiking, maybe up in Gamble Park And you just stumbled upon a pile of silver. Has that ever happened to you? And if it has, can we talk to you about our building fund? But it probably hasn't, right? Because that's not how you find silver. You have to you have to You have to go and dig up a hole in the ground and mine it. You have to hammer it, chisel, and work on it and sweat and even risk. Your very life. Well that's what Solomon is saying here. So he's saying, if you're going to grow spiritually, and if you can grow in wisdom, This is something that you're going to have to take the initiative to do. He says that out of one side of his mouth, and then out of the other side of his mouth. Solomon says, God gives wisdom. Look at verse six For the Lord gives wisdom, from his mouth come knowledge and understanding That is just right James chapter 1, verse 5. The book of James has a lot in common with the book of Proverbs, it'll see. James 1. 5, James says, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without approach, and it will be given to him And so, wisdom is something that we should pursue. And at the same time, wisdom is a gift that God gives. Okay? And so in wisdom, and I said this I think a couple weeks ago, wisdom in the book of Proverbs is not some abstract virtue uh separated from the knowledge of God in his son, Jesus Christ. In fact in First Corinthians one twenty-four What does Paul say about Jesus? He is the wisdom of God. And so wisdom is an attribute of God. And we see it disclosed most clearly in his Son, Jesus Christ. So that's interesting. That makes perfect sense, right? We're blind by this wisdom, and yet we're not to be complacent, we're to pursue it. And there's an analogy In that, how does someone come how does somebody become a Christian? Well, on the one hand It says that God has to save you, right? God has to give you a saving faith. And you might be, there might be something said here this morning, you know? This is very intriguing. Uh I'm drawn to Christianity. I'm not sure if it's true. So what do I do? I mean there are a lot of religions and philosophies out there, so How would I know that Christianity is true? How do I know that the claims of Christ are credible? And uh one thing I'd say, I'm going to talk out of both sides of my mountain, because the Bible does. One thing, the Bible says, is that only God can open your eyes to see and to believe. Let me give you a couple of texts for that. John six forty-four. Jesus said nobody can come to me unless the Father draws him. Who comes to Jesus Christ? Why are you a believer and not your neighbor? Well, it's not because you're so smart and virtuous, it's because God by his grace drew you 1 Corinthians 12. 3. Nobody can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Here's another one. Forgive me for piling these things up, and sometimes I think it's helpful. 1 Corinthians 2. 14. The man without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. He cannot understand them. Because they're spiritually discerned. Many, why is it that you came to believe? Well, the day came when God lifted the veil. And things that you had heard or things that you had read, it clicked. Well, because God gave you his spirit. Same idea in John chapter 3. Remember Jesus talking to this religious guy Who was not saved? Jesus said to Nicodemus, you must be born again. In other words, you must receive spiritual birth from God. You must be regenerated. And so on the one hand, the Bible says, if anybody is going to move from unbelief to belief God has to grant that person belief. He has to spiritually regenerate, spiritually give life to that person. So what do we conclude then, if you're not a Christian? If you're not a Christian, just sit back and don't do anything and hope you get sound. Self the Bible says. No. Here's an important text I've used this and mentioned this over the years. I think it's very helpful. You might want to look it up. 1 Peter chapter 1 Verse 23 and 25. So 1 Peter 1, verse 23, Peter writes to these Christians. He says, you have been born again. Not of perishable receipt, but of imperishable. Then he says, through the living and abiding word of God. And so Peter says to these folks. Here's how God gave you spiritual birth. Through the living and abiding word of God. And then he goes on in verse 25 to say And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So you hear that? And I say that to if you're not a believer, or perhaps some of our young people, you still wrestle with this stuff. What do you do? You get a nice, clear, reliable translation of the Bible, and you open it up, and every day just read a chapter or two chapters and think on it, and come to church, come to Sunday school and ask questions. In I mean, in time it comes together, but in time the Bible authenticates itself. And so that's what we see here, okay? It's the same with pursuing wisdom something that we should pursue if God gives us It's the same with salvation. Romans 10, 17. Faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. So sit under the Word, read the Word, and yet recognize That if God's going to give you saving faith, if you can have saving faith, excuse me, is something that God will grant to you. Okay? So Just get warmed up here. So seek wisdom with all your heart. And then he goes on in verses nine and twenty-two to explain the benefits of wisdom. And in this chapter He talks about wisdom as guarding us. Wisdom he says is like a bodyguard that knows Judicial. You're going to be in good shape. If you grow in wisdom. You see that in the end of verse 7. He's like a shield to those who walk in integrity. Verse 8, guarding the path of justice, watching over the way of his things. And so in the beginning, five or so verses, he says, if you seek wisdom, And now he goes on to say, then, for example, verse nine, these will be the consequences. And so what I want to point out to this passage is three benefits, three ways that wisdom guards those who seek it. Okay? So first of all, If you grow in wisdom, it will guard you from making foolish decisions. Just because you're a Christian doesn't mean you don't make care-brained decisions. And it's just amazing. I mean Christians, they'll say, well, they're not a Bible verse. uh forbidding or prohibiting a particular course of action, boy guess it's okay to do it. You know, you can make a foolish a relational choice, the person you date, or the person you marry, or you make a foolish uh decision about something are you going to purchase or about how to deal with the horny situation. Want to do this? And then the thing just gets worse. And so, but there's no there's no Bible verse that condemns it. And so we just plunge ahead onto some foolish course of action. And sometimes we sanctify our foolishness by saying, well, I prayed about it, and uh everything's gonna work out fine. Well The first protection of wisdom, verse 9 to 11, is that it will guard us from moral ignorance. So let's read this down, verse 9 to 11. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity in every good path. For wisdom will come into your heart, knowledge will be pleasant to you Verse eleven, discretion will watch over you, understanding will guard you Now it's not a promise that if you grow in wisdom, you're always going to know what to do, right? It's a fall and roll, things are complicated, we understand that. But you will understand the main principles that are at play in this situation. The entities should have the the should be wise enough then to seek counsel from other people. And there are really wise people, right, that we go to, right? Kurt Young, uh pastor and uh retired pastor in Silver Spring. Easy guy to go to. I can't figure it out, and nobody else can help me figure it out. I'll follow Kurt So I say he's the wise man in our question cherry. So we want that. Proverbs 12, verse 15 The way the fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. That's why we're in the community of believers, right? Because we can't figure everything out. And so Solomon is reminding us, telling us Pursue wisdom because wisdom will guard you. So guard me from your own foolishness. Here's a second thing wisdom will guard us from. Wisdom will guard us from evil men. And that's in verses twelve to fifteen. Before I read those verses, I want to I want to set it up a little bit. So my wife and I, we've been trying to help a young lady who's had some real struggles and I don't want to share him with details, but her mom's a drug addict, her father who's out of the picture is a drug addict. and uh just terrible upbringing and uh mental illness uh in in the family. And um over Christmas I met her brother briefly. I was surprised to meet him And I was really surprised because he was a most impressive guy. He's a young guy, he's in the Navy in California You know, just kind of briefly I thought, you know what, I need to talk to this fella because I need to understand uh his sister a little better. How much do we push her, how much do we patient And so um I took him out to lunch, counter service place of course, but um we had lunch and um and I was asking him about himself, I was asking about his family. And I said, listen, you don't know me, I don't want to find. But I said, here's why I'm going to ask you the questions. And then we got inside We got on to his being in Navy and I said, hey, that's great. You joined the Navy. That was a good move. And uh we were talking. And he said, I why didn't you get out after this tour I said, well, we're talking more than that. He said, I'm a Christian. How'd you become a Christian? And he said there's a there's a Baptist pastor downtown Frepper. And he was going through the project, evangelizing, and he met this fellow when this young guy was in high school, and he shared the gospel. And it stopped. It changed his life. And this young fella started going to church. So he's this young fella completely different from his family. But anyway, so um So why do you want to get out of the Navy? Because this is good. It'll get you set up for a good career and training. He said, Well on the ship, the ship I'm on, there are no Christians. I said, on the whole ship you don't know any Christians or no fellowship? He said no. He said there's a lot of temptation. We have the men and the women on the ship together. They said there's a morale problem. There's a lot of immorality. He said, listen, it's good to be in the nate, but it's not working out for me. I gotta get out, so I'm gonna stumble And I did not want to violate uh my commitment to Jesus Christ. And I thought, well Where'd you come from? Because he had there was no influ it seemed like there was no influence in his life, in his family, uh in his his social circles growing up But this pastor went down and he reached him with the gospel. I guess he's probably been a Christian four or five years, and he's such an earnest young man, doesn't have a lot of social confidence. But he's a truly earnest young man. But I thought about it. This is exactly what the book of Proverbs promises to those who seek the knowledge of God. So look at verse 12 now. We're going to read this section. In verse 12 and following, it says, Wisdom will guard you from wicked people Who tried to make you stumble speaks about delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech. Who forsake the paths of righteousness to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil Men whose paths are crooked and who are demoists in their ways. Well, this young fellow recognizes evil, he also recognizes his own vulnerability. And so wisdom is guarding him. And he's making wise choices. That's what I want to say to our young people. You know, between the age of 16 and 24, you can make some dreadful choices That could possibly affect the rest of your life. And so hear what Solomon says. Solomon exhorts you, he exhorts us to pursue wisdom. Let's go on. So wisdom will protect you from your own foolishness. Wisdom will protect you from evil people. And then he says to his son, Wisdom will guard you from evil women. This is verses sixteen to nineteen. Let's read it again. So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words, who forsakes the companion of her youth. And forgets the covenant of her God. For her house sinks down to death, and her past the departed. None who go to her come back Nor do they regain the past of life. Excuse me. Whoops. Now. Now first thing I want to point out, we're gonna have to talk more about the adulteress in chapter five But it's interesting in chapter 5, while Solomon mentions her physical appearance, her alluring, enticing appearance, in chapter 4, uh, I'm sorry, chapter 2 What does he mention that makes her so alluring? What does he mention? Well, he speaks here about her speech. So he doesn't mention her appearance in these verses, but rather verse 16, the second part. The adulteress with her smooth words, right? She flatters, You're so strong, you're so handsome, you're so wise, or whatever And so she speaks seducely. So this is a warning, right, to our boys, to us men. 22 verse 14, the mouth of the adulteress, excuse me, the mouth of the forbidden woman is a deep head. So this is the warning, right, to us guys, uh, be careful about flattering women. When I think about years ago when Mike Pence was the vice president, he mentioned, I don't know, in some interview or something, he said, I make it a practice not to have go out for lunch or dinner with a lady to whom I'm non-married. And the press had a great time with that. Oh my pets, that's so immature. You should be able to dwell with another woman and not worry about having an affair. And they made great fun of him, but then one reporter, a guy named Mark Hemingway, he said that many of the journalists who mocked Mike S had themselves Been unfaithful to their spouses. And so in verse 11, wisdom will give us discretion. Right? We'll have discretion. If you're married, you'll be careful. You won't talk overly familiar with somebody of the opposite sex. Well, particularly if you're not with your spouse because you things could be confused, things could be uh misconstrued. And here's what I hear some Christians object. I understand honest Christians can differ on this, but I hear this objection. Well, you know what? Christians should be able to, as brothers and sisters in Christ, you know, married guy and married gal, they should be able to go out for coffee and go out for lunch and encourage each other in the Lord and pray for each other in the Lord. and not worry about some kind of affair starting. Anyone think that's a good idea? No, because we We're weak and we could send wrong signals or we could misperceive a signal or things might not be going well at the moment in your marriage, and you could be vulnerable And so wisdom will protect you from someone of the opposite sex, beginning to make making some bad choices Well let me broaden this a little bit, so I want to step back, and so the principle there, wisdom will protect you from the forbidden woman, I want to step back a little bit and speak more broadly now to our young people and to our singles about exercising wisdom when choosing a person to marry to date or to marry Right? You're an earnest Christian gal, you're an earnest Christian gal. And there's not many prospects out there. Um it's too bad. Not many desirable prospects. It can be tempting, well just settles, right? Uh this girl or this guy has some good qualities and uh he talks about uh building church and stuff and And so, yeah, there's some problems with the I see a couple of red flags there. It doesn't seem um to be very uh hardworking or if she seems a little bit self-centered or I'm not sure I can trust this guy because he sometimes shapes uh the story or and she's not a spiritual self-starter. Well, what will wisdom do? Wisdom will protect you from settling and protect you from compromising your convictions And it's not uncommon for a good, honest uh Christian guy or gal to just slide into a marriage, right? It's like, well, I think about a relative of ours. But he would, you know, w when she would think this guy uh he didn't seem like he said, Oh yeah, she said he's a Christian. Well does he go to church with you? Well no, he doesn't really want to go to church. Then he had he has a son. He's got a 40-year-old son who's living in his house still. And um like he said, I don't I don't think this is really wise. Oh well we pray about it. We think God's bringing us together. So now they're married and a couple years down the road And this lady's complaining, you know, hey, he will go to church with me. Or his son's living in our basement But so wisdom will protect you. Here's something else, okay? What time is it there? I shouldn't tell you there's a clock back there. Alright, we have done. I usually don't look at the clock, but we're having a meeting and we have to be out of here by 1230. Let me just say something else a little closer check out. Um verse 17. And this is helpful for those uh looking toward marriage, those who aren't married. Uh it speaks about the adulteress that says she forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God. So two key words there, and those words in fact are repeated in Malachi, chapter 2, verse 14, where the wife is referred to as your companion and your wife by covenant. And so this is what I say, in fact, just in the newsletter uh we put out, I said, marriage is a covenant of companionship. So when we say it's a covenant, we say It's a binding agreement, right? It's a binding agreement which God is the witness in what I do the premarital counseling. I say that the heart of the wedding ceremony is the taking of the vows, right? You make a covenant with God, with the person you're marrying, and really with society, that you're going to seek to be faithful uh two your wedding vows. And so you when you marry, you're making this covenant To be a companion to this person for the rest of your life. So an application to those of us who are married is this, are you seeking to be a companion to your spouse? You might not look like everything that your spouse likes. But I know that Becky likes gospel music and for years I've rolled my eyes when she played her gospel music. Then I realized how much that uh brought her down. And so I realized, you know, I I need to start and not to be so cynical and to try to encourage her. And so now once in a while we'll go see some gospel music singer And I'll enjoy it. I've I've grown to appreciate it. You know, growing up in New Jersey, it's not a hot bed of gospel music. That's you know realize I need to be a companion in this area for that area. So that's something for us to think about. And so the exhortation then in verse 4, seek wisdom like silver, search for it, as it in treasure, and then the benefit is that it will guard you. And um it'll it'll it'll save me from much misery. And so here we are, three sermons into the book of Proverbs. So here's what I want to say to you or ask you. Have you thought about this and said, you know what? This is something important. I'm sorry, I've been a little complacent about this. Have you resolved? Yeah, I really do need to pursue wisdom. More earnestly need to be more deliberate in how I use my time and maybe young people and the people, those the friends I hang around with. And you should be saying, I don't want to drive this foolishness out of me because I do want to be pleasing to God, and I don't want to do something that's going to just cause a disaster In my life. And um the promise is here. Look at verse 21. If you walk in wisdom, Says the upright will inherit the land. Now this is written to Israel, right, talking about the promised land. But that was just the picture of a greater land, eternal life, life of God, and life in a place where righteousness reigns. If you're growing in your knowledge of God, you're looking at Jesus Christ, you're growing in wisdom, then you will have that inheritance. But those who reject God's promises and his word and his Savior, it says the wicked will be cut off from the land. They will have no part of it. And so this points us to the way that we get this inheritance, and that is in Jesus Christ. Let's bow our next. Father in heaven, thank you that you've made the way very clear. I pray certainly for our young people, that they would have the spiritual initiative to pursue wisdom, to pursue the knowledge of God. to seek you in your word. We also know, Lord, that we've all made very harebrained choices and we're still suffering the consequences. of those choices. We're thankful, Lord, that you not only forgive us for the things we've done, but also you restore us and you help us along and you bring healing. And I pray the word for those here whose hearts are heavy because of such decisions And I do pray, Lord, that you would grow us the wisdom, and certainly that we all would know Jesus Christ, who is wisdom from God. In His name we pray. Amen. Amen.