Four to seven year olds who are interested have the option to go back to worship training with Mrs. Lindy. And I'll ask you to turn in your Bible to John chapter twenty And so somebody was saying to me last week, so we started John's Gospel two years ago, and it just happens that we're on chapter twenty on uh Easter Sunday So I had that all planned out two years ago. No. I saw where we were coming about four weeks ago and I thought, uh, I think I can land a plane right there on Easter if I if I move things along here. So we're going to do the whole chapter. I'm going to read the first uh section and then keep your Bible open, of course, if you don't have a Bible. There's some in the back or you could pull that up even on your phone. John chapter 20, ESV. So John chapter 20 Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved. So John's referring to himself, but he's a modest guy, so he just doesn't mention himself by name. And said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloth lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb He saw the linen cloths lying there and the face cloth which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead Then the disciples went back to their homes. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept, she stood, she stooped to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet They said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary, she turned and said to him in the aeroboni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples I have seen the Lord, in that he had said these things to her. So John has a singular purpose in chapter 20, and that is to persuade us of the reality of Jesus' resurrection He wants us to understand to believe that the resurrection isn't just some myth that developed over the decades after Jesus' ministry on earth. But no, it was it it it was a historical event and he wants us to understand that it wasn't some kind of ethereal, spiritual resurrection in the minds of his disciples, but no, he wants his first readers and us to recognize that it was a literal physical resurrection. And so the angle John takes is in this chapter, he presents to us witnesses to the resurrection. He says These are people who saw the risen Christ. It's interesting in 1 Corinthians 15, the Apostle Paul takes Or took the same approach. So Paul wrote First Corinthians fifteen, about twenty-five years after the resurrection. That's important. Because here's what he says. This is 1 Corinthians chapter 15, beginning in the middle of verse 4. He said that Jesus was raised on the third day In accordance with the scriptures. Okay. So he says this was all foretold. Okay? And that he appeared to Cephas, that's Peter, and to the twelve, the twelve apostles. Then Paul says he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time. Here's the important part. Most whom are still alive. Though some have fallen asleep, some have died, but most are still alive. And so Paul is saying, you don't have to take my word about Jesus' resurrection. There are scores of witnesses, and they can corroborate my testimony. And John is doing the same thing. He's saying, let's look at these these people who saw the risen Christ. Why is he telling us this? It's not just a history lesson. His goal is so that we will believe that Jesus is God. that he rose from the grave, that he saves us from our sin. And so the first witnesses we looked at we just read the first eighteen verses. Where uh John writes about uh Mary Magdalene and then Peter and John, and it says, going back to verse one again, that it was the first day of the week, so it was Sunday Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. And so Mary was the first to go to the tomb. The passages, the parallel passages in Mark and Luke tell us that at least three other women accompanied her And in Mark chapter 16, verse 1, it says the reason she went to the tomb was to anoint Jesus' body with spices. And this uh I'm just gonna read Mark 16, verse 3. Mark writes, they were saying to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance to the tomb? And then in our text, when they came to the tomb, they saw that the stone had been taken away. It had been taken away. Not because It had to be removed for Jesus to exit the tomb upon his resurrection, but rather it had been removed so that visitors could look in and see that the tomb was empty. And uh Mary's first thought was that uh grave robbers had this thing keeps moving. All right, I I just won't lean on it. If I collapsed, you know, it's because this thing's on wheels. But anyway. Mary's first thought was that somebody stole the body. Grave robbers were common back then. And so that's why it says she ran verse 2, she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved and said to them, They've taken the Lord out of the tomb And we do not know where they have laid him. Now, I just want to make one comment as we're starting out here. It's interesting, no, I shouldn't say that. I should say it's significant that John tells us that the first to go to the tomb, the first witnesses of the resurrection were women And I say that because in the first century women's testimony bore no weight, it had no credibility, it was not admissible in a court of law. And yet here John is trying to persuade us, trying to persuade his first century readers of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So why would he lead by saying that women went to the tomb? Well, there's a reasonable answer for that, because that is what actually happened. And so John is just he's not making up some story to persuade people. He's giving an account. Here's what happened. And so the fact that John reports that women went to the tomb, it lends credibility to his testimony. And so Mary ran to Peter and to John. She said, the tomb's empty. Peter and John, run to the tomb, go back to verse 8. Then the other disciple, that's John, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed. For as yet, this is important verse nine, for as yet, they did not understand the scripture, right? The Old Testament. They did not understand the Scripture. That he must rise from the dead. And so that's notable also There are those who claim that the disciples manufactured a story about a resurrection. Because that would fit the Old Testament prophecy about a resurrection And as I mentioned earlier, there are some texts in the Old Testament that intimate a resurrection. However, at this point The disciples didn't recognize that. It didn't click. They didn't understand the scripture. In fact, it would only happen 40 days later on the day of Pentecost when Jesus poured out the Holy Spirit. on his church, including the uh these apostles, it was then that the apostles began to understand the scripture. And that's why Peter preaching in Acts chapter 2 He's quoting these Old Testament texts about the death and the resurrection of Jesus. But at this point They didn't understand that. They had no expectation that Jesus would rise from the grave. And so all I'm saying regarding verse nine Is that the empty tomb caught Mary, Peter, and John completely by surprise. And so a theologian, we don't always agree with this guy, but he has a good insight here. N. T. Wright said The early Christians did not invent the empty tomb in the meetings or sightings of the risen Jesus. Nobody was expecting this kind of thing. No kind of conversion experience would have invented it. And to suggest otherwise is to stop doing history and to enter into a fantasy world of our own. And so The disciples didn't expect a resurrection, and yet uh 40 days later, or not well, that week, they're proclaiming the resurrection. And it's interesting, uh similarly, so later on, the Jewish authorities accused the disciples of stealing the body in fabricating a story about a resurrection. But again, they were the disciples were not thinking along those lines. They were as shocked as anybody was about a resurrection. And here's something else, if I may. If these guys were lying, right, if these eleven disciples made up a story about a resurrection It's quite remarkable that they held to that story for the rest of their earthly lives. With what ten of the remaining eleven dying martyrs deaths? People die martyrs' deaths for things that they uh may be deceived about But if you know, if they knew there was no resurrection and they held to that so tedaciously, I don't think that's not reasonable that they would go to the grave for a lie And then um then as long as we're going around we're going around the poll a couple different ways here, um I don't know if you're following, but I gotta get this out of my system. Um there are others say That no, the disciples did not steal the body, but rather the authorities moved his body. Now think about that one. If the authorities moved the body of Jesus Christ. When the disciples turn the whole world upside down, when they turn Jerusalem upside down, preaching the resurrection of Christ. Why didn't the authorities then just produce the corpse of Jesus? That would have put the disciples' proclamation to rest. They would have been out of business. And so one theologian wrote that the apostles' preaching of the resurrection could not have been maintained in Jerusalem for a single day, for a single hour, if the emptiness of the tomb had not been an established fact for all concerned. So the authorities were not denying that the tomb was empty, but they were just saying that no, we don't agree that he rose from the grave And so the reason they didn't produce a body, of course, was there was no uh body to produce in the and the silence of the authorities really uh speaks volumes about this. Let's go on looking at verses 11 to uh 17. Let's just read it again just to make sure we have the storyline. Verse 11 But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain. one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing But she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir If you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Raboni, which means teacher Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet got ascended to the Father. And so It's interesting, looking at verse 14, as is often the case when Jesus appeared to uh his followers, Mary didn't recognize him. But in verse 16, when she said when when Jesus said what? When he said Mary, then she recognized that, ah, it's Jesus. Like it clicked. And that's interesting because back in John chapter 10, verse 3, Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. And I, when we were back there in John 10, I said, yeah, this is what happens when somebody becomes a Christian, right? They're reading the scripture. Or they hear the scripture, explain and taught and applied, and They recognize this this is true. You cannot get around it. Now when I became a Christian, I I just I can't explain this away. This is true This has the ring of truth. That's what happens. That's what happened there with Mary. That's what happens when somebody becomes a Christian. Then 17 again, Jesus said, Do not cling to me, I have not yet ascended to the Father. Right? That would take place in forty days. And then he says, Go tell go to my brothers and tell him, tell them That I'm here and I will ascend to the Father. Well, let's go on verses 19 to 23. Then Jesus appears to the other disciples. Verse 19 On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, right? They thought the Jews were going to come and string them up too. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hand and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven. If you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld. And so Jesus sends these men now in he sort of commissions them uh at least the beginning. He sends them out into the world to tell others, right at the end of verse twenty one, as the Father has sent me, so I am sending you. And so when he sent them out, I want to say the first thing here is he equipped them for success, right? That's what's going on in verse twenty-two. It says he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. And this foreshadows Jesus giving the Holy Spirit in forty days, or however many days it was from there, in Acts chapter 2. So that's interesting. These guys had been with Jesus for three years, right? They'd been in a seminary with Jesus. He taught them for three years. They observed his character, they heard his teaching, they witnessed his miracles, but that wasn't enough. If they were going to be effective emissaries for Jesus Christ, they must be equipped with the Spirit of God. And of course that's true. in all ages is true for for all Christians, right? It's not it's not just how smart you are or how winsome you are or how financially uh grant or how much finance you have to get things done. But no. This is we are engaged in a uh in a spiritual ministry, we need the Holy Spirit to make our uh efforts effective, to make them fruitful. And he also not only equipped them for success, but he gave these men the authority. He gave them his authority, right? Look at verse 23. He said to these disciples, If you forgive the sins of anyone, they're forgiven. If you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld. Now they didn't they didn't have the authority to forgive sins, but they but Jesus did. And so when they forgave sins, they were declaring What Jesus does, right? When you trust in Jesus Christ, they declared, even as the church declares, right, your sins are forgiven. And so if you're talking to somebody and the person says, I want to become a Christian and they repent of their sin and trust in Christ, we can say to them, yeah God forgives your sins. That's not the church's authority, but that is Jesus' message to all who turn to Him. So we're flying through this, this is a long chapter, but I want to do it as one chunk because he's making a unified argument. And finally we come to Thomas. That's in verses 24 to 31. And so, right, you go back up to verse 19, the disciples met them on, it says the evening of the first day, right? So the disciples went to the Sunday night service. Thomas didn't, and so he missed out on Jesus. And it says in verse 24, Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the so the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord, but he said to them Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails and place my hand into his side, I will never believe. And so now Jesus meets Thomas, and look what Jesus says. Really, verse 26. Eight days later, the disciples were inside again, and Thomas with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands and put out your hand and place it at my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. So it's interesting, excuse me. So Jesus showed Thomas the evidence, right? That yeah, it's me. But it's interesting, in the end of verse 27, Jesus said to him, do not disbelieve, but believe. Now some of you have the NIV version. And that says, stop doubting and believe. But in this case, the better translation is the the ESV and some of the others that say do not disbelieve but believe because to doubt it means like yeah I believe this stuff but I have some questions, I'm not entirely sure. But Thomas, it doesn't seem that he was really a believer yet. He was following Jesus, but it didn't click. He wasn't a believer yet. And um it's a little bit surprising because, like I said, right, he had been with Jesus, he had he'd seen his heard his teaching and witnessed the miracles and all that And he had the scripture that Jesus was explaining all through those three years. And He heard the testimony of the other apostles, right? These other guys had seen the risen Christ. Thomas wasn't yet a believer. That's interesting. So, some of you You've been sitting under the preaching of the scripture for years. You may even you know paging through the Bible, reading it for years. For years, some of you have had the witness of family members or um uh friends who are Christians And yet you haven't come around yet. So what I what I say here is, when are you gonna come around? You know, what's it gonna take? We say, well it's gonna like I said earlier, God's gonna have to open your eyes to see and believe. But you also have a partners, right? So keep keep seeking these things out. Um John John sorry, yeah, John doesn't record so Jesus invited John to touch his hands and his side. John doesn't say whether Thomas in fact poked Jesus in his side or touched his hands. But something happened where there was this recognition. Right? So there here we have this now this confession of Thomas where he did come to believe, verse 28. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God, Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. And so Uh that's us, right? We haven't seen the resurrected Christ, but God has given us the scripture, He's given us the Spirit, who opens our eyes. And for so for those those here, you're not there yet, you don't believe, all I'd say is stay at it, stay in the scripture, right? What's my I always say this, faith comes from hearing the Word of God. And um consider the claims of Christ, consider the evidence for the resurrection. How do you explain the empty tomb? I remember as a as a new Christian in my early twenties Reading uh reading a book uh Josh McDowell, Evidence of the Man's Verdict, a guy named Frank Morrison, Who Moved the Stone. And so there's these are the kind of things when you think about the resurrection How do you explain, as I said earlier, the change in these disciples? They were in hiding and then uh suddenly they're these fearless evangelists. How do you explain the apostle Paul, the great persecutor of the Christian church? fanatic, zealot, all of a sudden there's this change and he becomes the greatest evangelist who ever lived. And then you see just ordinary people They're they were unbelievers, and then they became Christians, and there's a notable change. There's a notable change in that person How do you explain those things? And so as Jesus said, do not disbelieve, but believe. But here's something else. And then we're almost there. Jesus' encounter with Thomas reminds us that not everybody comes to faith in Christ quickly. Sometimes it's a process, right? And in a sense, you know, I said, quit disbelieving but believe. But in another sense, we can say, you know what? If it takes time, that's fine. All I would say is keep coming to a Bible teaching church, preferably this church. Uh keep setting under the teaching of the Bible. Open your Bible, right, every day. Just keep reading it. Ask questions. And there are people, uh Jason Jacks, would you come for six years, became a believer, the end court came for ten years faithfully. before I became a believer. And there are others, right? So it takes time, and that's fine. And just so you know I'm not going to press you to like pray the prayer. No, I'm just glad you're coming and asking questions. That's that's because it takes some people longer to incubate than others That's just fine, but don't give up the search. Keep keep at it. But there does come a time, right, uh, when you've received sufficient evidence and Now it's probably not really a problem with the intellect, but it's more a problem with the heart and with the will. And if that's the case, then you need to really say, you know, what is preventing me From bowing myself before Jesus Christ. Well now we get to the Krim de the Krim, verse 30 and 31. This is the purpose of John's entire gospel. Okay? And so it's a great couple verses, verse 30. John writes, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples. Which are not written in this book. He said, there's a lot he did. I can't put it all down. But he he says, here's why I put down what I did. I wasn't just giving you a travelogue of the life and times of Jesus and Nazareth, right? He said, I have a very specific purpose for writing what I wrote. Verse 31. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, in that by believing You may have life in his name. So, you must understand, John is out to produce converts He's out to persuade unbelievers that Jesus is God, that he rose from the dead, and that he has a rightful claim on our lives. And he wants us to know, he wants his readers to know, listen, you turn from your sin, you recognize you're a sinner, but you also recognize that he's the savior of sinners. If you rest on him as your substitutionary sacrifice, you are forgiven. You're right with God. And all is well, and you will be in the presence of God without sin and without shame one day. That's his message That's the good news. And also there's a message right for Christians. John was out to produce converts. And only God can make that happen, but He has called us to be His ambassadors. And so we should be about that, engaging people when we have the opportunity. Let's bow our heads. We're thankful, Lord, that uh you've you've broken into history We're thankful for the persuasive nature of the Scripture, and we're thankful, Lord, that though there's much sadness, misery And also guilt that there is forgiveness and life in you. For those who aren't Christians yet I pray they'll continue to search these things out, to call out to you, to examine the scriptures. And open their eyes to see, give them faith, give them repentance. And help us, Lord, to those of us whom by your grace you've opened our eyes Help us to be zealous, joyful ambassadors carrying forth this message of new life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well let's sing hymn number 274. Hymn number two seven four, thine is the glory. So it's in the Why does the morar country side Oh Jesus brings us on the rain. He freaks us, gatherers, fear, and mood. The church with badness to price for Lord and death has lost the seed. And this is the way we That's a lot of dreams. You may be sweeter. Let's be sure to give Our appreciation to those who have led us in music this morning. It's been a wonderful time to listen to and to sing the praise of our God. But to na but now we come to the Lord's suffer