Children, if you'd like to go off to worship training with Mrs. Ludlam, uh if you're under the age of four and you're able to walk, you have that option. But let's um let's turn to the book of Revelation. So we're in Revelation chapter eleven. So we're for those who are new this morning, we're marching through this uh this book of scripture. Why would we do that? Parts of it's confusing. Well, the obvious answer is because it's the Word of God, and it wasn't just for the church in the first century, it's for the churches down through the ages. And so that's why we're doing it. And some parts of the scripture are a little bit challenging, and that's certainly the case of Revelation. But we can do it. You don't have to understand every detail of the Revelation to be blessed by it. Let me um put on your thinking caps this morning, okay? I know you do that every every Sunday. But this Sunday is going to require extra concentration. Because there's a lot of explaining to do. Usually to try to balance it out. Half of the sermon is explanation. The other half is application. But there is a lot of explanation in this, and I'm not gonna nail down every detail just because uh it's too much, just too much to take in. But nonetheless, we're going to, I think we'll get the main lesson, and then there will be a payoff in the end. But let me just give you something of a review and a context for where this chapter 11 falls. First of all, for those who haven't been here, Revelation is about history from the but in the period between the time Jesus rose from the grave and ascended to heaven and the time he returns. That's my understanding of the book of Revelation. It was written to Christians living in the first century in Asia Minor, modern-day Turkey, so they were part of the Roman Empire. And they were suffering persecution by the Roman government. The government was saying you must bow and say Caesar is Lord. So in other words, they were saying you must be idolaters. And they lived in a culture where idolatry, paganism, pagan temples were all over the place, and in fact if you didn't participate in these pagan celebrations, then you would be ejected From your trade guild and be hard to make a living. So it's written to Christians in the first century. However, the lessons in Revelation are for all Christians down through time. In fact, in the first chapter, uh uh where it is, I can't remember where it is, but it says, oh yeah, chapter 1, verse 3 Blessed are those who hear and keep what is written in this book. In other words, anybody's going to be blessed. No matter when you live, if you hear this word to you from God and you keep it. Now, that's the big picture. Now let's move down one layer and let me give you something of the context where we are. As you read Revelation, don't think of it as a story, as a timeline. Think of it as cycles. Here's the things that are going to happen over and over in history. The first cycle, chapters 6 to 8, talks about a scroll that has seven seals on it. Jesus Christ in chapter 5 is described as a lamb. who is worthy to open each of these seals, and each of the seals as they're opened, disclose God's plan for history that are that is executed Because Jesus Christ is worthy to execute that plan. He's worthy to open those seals. Then you have a seventh second cycle, and it goes from chapter, I think, chapter 8 to chapter 11 about seven trumpets. So you had seven seals, then there are seven trumpets, same idea. These are again images of God's judgment. Down through history, trumpets to warn unbelievers to take note and to repent. And then a little later in the book, we'll see seven bowls of God's wrath So like I said, a lot of symbolic numbers. The number seven comes up again and again. It was written to seven churches, and we see the number 10, the number 3, a lot of uh symbolic numbers. Now When you're done with the sixth seal, there was an interlude in chapter 6 to answer the question God's people were asking as they were being persecuted. What about us? We're suffering terribly. And um, I'm sorry, in chapter seven, uh God stuff there's an interlude before the seventh seal is open, and in this interlude, in this pause and the opening of the seals God promises pe promises his people, I'm gonna protect you, I'm gonna be with you. I have put My stamp of ownership. Chapter 7, verse 3 says, my seal of ownership upon you. Alright? You get the seventh seal, then you start a new cycle, the seven trumpets. We looked at the uh first six trumpets last week or two weeks ago, and now there's another interlude before the sounding of the seventh trumpet In chapter eleven, verse fifteen. This interlude again is God's assurance. In chapters ten and eleven, this interlude is God's assurance to his people He's going to preserve you to the end, regardless of what kind of physical suffering you may endure. All right. Take a breath. Now. So we're in chapter 11. See I'm the I've been circling the airport. Now we're coming down. I think I found uh the right landing strip. We're on chapter eleven And there are two scenes in chapter 11. Okay, so I'm orienting you now to what we're going to read. In the first scene, the Apostle John, or the first vision, The Apostle John is given a measuring rod, and he's commanded to measure the temple. And then in the second scene, which begins in verse 3, A voice from heaven describes the prophetic career, the assassination, and the resurrection of God's two witnesses. Okay? That's what we're going to read. And I'm going to tell you the lesson of this chapter. Because I'm trying to make it as clear as I can. Here's a lesson. It was to encourage Christians in the first century, and it's to encourage Christians down through time. To persevere in your witness, for God will preserve you. He will hold you. You will never fall away, even as you suffer for the gospel. Alright, here we go. Chapter 11. John says, then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, rise and measure the temple of God. and the altar, and those who worship there, but do not measure the court outside the temple. Leave that out. For it is given over to the nations, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months. Now the second vision about the witnesses. And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. And if anyone would harm them Fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed. They have the power that shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have power over the waters. to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they desire And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them. and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically is called Sodom in Egypt, where their Lord was crucified. For three and a half days, some of the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth But after the three and a half days, a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them. Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up to heaven in the cloud, and their enemies watched them. And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven. The second woe has passed, behold, the third woe is soon to come. Now I've read that this is the most challenging chapter in the book of Revelation. I sure hope it is, uh, and I think it is, because I Went through this once m uh years ago in a Bible study and I think this was the most challenging. But there's a there's a there's a blessing uh to be had in it. We're not going to work through every detail. That would be too that would be asking too much. And also I think we would miss the forest for the trees. But nonetheless, we're going to get down the same the main message and we will have to cover a lot of detail. So first of all, we're looking at verses 1 and 2, the description of the measuring of the temple. We want to ask two questions. What is this temple? And what is the significance of measuring of this temple? So, what is the temple? Is it talking about the temple in Jerusalem? I don't think so. The temple in Jerusalem had been destroyed by the Romans 25 years earlier. This is about 96 A. D. now. There was no temple in Jerusalem. Remember, I said Revelation is full of symbolism. In fact, I think it's in verse 8. Um we'll get there. It talks about you need to read these things symbolically, okay? But anyway. The temple is rooted, this temple vision is rooted in the Old Testament book of Ezekiel, so another apocalyptic book, Ezekiel chapters 40 to 48. And in that vision that God gave Ezekiel, the city of Jerusalem and the temple were measured, and the very last verse of Ezekiel. It says after the city and the temple are measured, it says, the Lord is there. And that's a good summary. of what Jerusalem was about and what the what the temple in the Old Testament was about. That is where God dwelt amongst his people. Okay? That's why they had a tabernacle in the wilderness like a portable tent. And then they had they built a temple, because that's where God dwelt amongst his people. But that was just a type. That was just an object lesson pointing forward to a greater reality that would be fulfilled in the coming of Jesus Christ. And what he would do in his people after he died for their sin, gave them the Holy Spirit, they would be God's temple. Think I'm making that up? Think I have a fertile imagination? Absolutely not. Look at Ephesians chapter 2, verse 21. Paul talking to the church, he says You're a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. So the temple in the Old Testament, that was just provisional. The real temple was when God, by the Holy Spirit, dwelt in his people, not only individually, but collectively. And so Paul said in Second Corinthians six sixteen to Christians, We are the temple of the living God. And so the temple in chapter eleven, verse one, refers to this true temple, this spiritual temple. Or to put it more clearly, God dwelling in and amongst his people. And in fact, whenever you read in the book of Revelation And it refers to the temple. It's referring to this true temple, of which the Old Testament temple was just a type. Don't believe me? Look at chapter 21, verse 22, where we read of the heavenly Jerusalem. John says, I saw no temple in the city. For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. Right? God dwelt right there in the city, and that's where his people are. Chapter 3, verse 11. John says to the Christians in Pergamon, The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. You don't take that literally, right? You're not going to be a granite pillar. No. We're not spiritualizing it, but we're reading it according to its genre It's apocalyptic. It invite apocalyptic literature has imagery, and so we read it accordingly. We understand this is imagery. You're going to be a pillar in the temple of God, temple of God, if you endure, okay? In other words, you're going to be a part of God's temple. Again, just to be redundant. 1 Peter 2, 5. Peter said to Christians, You yourselves are living stones. Sorry, you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house. Now, go home this morning, go home this afternoon, read the New Testament, count the number of times you find the word temple. You'll find it occurs 15 times Fourteen of those fifteen times, it refers to this heavenly temple, the reality of which the physical temple in the Old Testament Pointed forward. And so John is not being asked to measure a physical temple. What is he being asked to measure then? He's being asked to measure the people of God who were fearful of persecution. Okay? Verse 2, then he says, do not measure the court outside the temple, leave that out, for that's given over to the nations. So the temple stands for the people of God. What then is the significance we must ask of measuring the temple? For God to measure the temple is for Him to separate it from that which is profane and to protect it from harm. So in verse 2 he said, don't measure the court outside the temple. It wasn't protected. And so you see in verse 2, it would be trampled by the nations. But God measured the temple to say, I'm setting it apart. And so it's interesting. Remember I said there was an interlude back in chapter 7? before the opening of the seventh seal. And now there's this interlude in chapter 11 before the sounding of the seventh trumpet. Both interludes make the same point in chapter 7 verse 3. God sealed his people. Chapter 11 here. God measures his people. And they're both making the same point. These are my people. I've marked them, I've measured them, in other words, they're under my ownership, they're under my protection. Christians may suffer and do suffer around the world, and even here, contempt, ostracism, violence And in some places, martyrdom. That's the case. But if you belong to Jesus Christ, you will not suffer God's wrath. That's the important thing. We have to have this long view Old Scottish commentator, G. D. Carrott, said, God does not offer the church security from bodily suffering or death. It is his intention that they should remain outwardly vulnerable to the full hostility of their enemies Secure only in their faith in the crucified and risen Lord. Okay? So God promises in the first two verses He's going to protect His people Now let's move on, alright? You probably winded, I'm winded. But let's do it. Let's just muscle through this Get to chapter three eleven, verse three to fourteen, talking about two witnesses at verse three again. And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. So another conundrum, right? Who who are these two wit who are these two witnesses now? Well all kind of speculative uh answers have been given. Some say, well that's Moses and Elijah, two great Old Testament prophets, and then others will say, no, uh these uh were probably two great witnesses who lived in the time of the early church When this persecution was going on, and others others will say, no, these are two great uh witnesses who will live um before Jesus Christ returns, back in the late 1800s uh Christians, many Christians were saying, well that's D. L. Moody, right? The great American evangelist, D. L. Moody. And he had a song leader named Ira Sankey. So the two witnesses are Moody and Sankey. And they I'm not making this up. This was popular. Um and they were saying, you know, they're gonna Moody and Sankey they'll minister for twelve hundred and sixty days And then that's it. Well, we can come up with all kinds of suggestions and they sound good, but remember the key to interpreting something confusing is to interpret scripture by scripture. We want to start by interpreting it within the very book. And so if you interpret Revelation according to other passages in the book of Revelation, I think you'll conclude that the two witnesses likely represent God's people down through time. Now there's two reasons I say this, so let's concentrate and then we'll I think we'll be in good shape. Two reasons that I I'm persuaded that these these two witnesses refer to the church Okay? First reason is that the two witnesses in verse 4, if you look at verse 4, these two witnesses are likened to what? to two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. Okay? Well, all right, we're interpreting Revelation one passage by another passage, and you go back to chapter 1, verse 20 And there you had seven lampstands. Remember the seven churches in Asia Minor were referred to in verse chapter one, verse twenty, as the seas the seven lampstands are the seven lampstands. churches. And so the original recipients of this letter, the seven churches in Asia Minor, chapter one verse eleven. were referred to as lampstands, but they really represent all churches down through time. And so I'm persuaded that these two lampstands, just talking about churches, just talking about Christians Then you say, Well wait a minute, there were seven lampstands in chapter one and now he's talking about two lampstands. Why is that? And I'm not sure. It could be maybe there were only two of the seven churches that were faithful the church in Philadelphia and the church in Pergamon, or it may be because in Scripture you see this in Deuteronomy 1915, Matthew 18, 16. that the testimony of two witnesses were necessary for testimony to be heard and accepted. So I'm I'm not sure But it's referred to in chapter one as two witnesses, and in its testimony, or these witnesses in their testimony-bearing function. They're like the Old Testament prophets, right? They're proclaiming Christ. It says in verse um, the end of verse 3, they're clothed in sackcloth because the gospel includes the call to repentance So that's the first reason I think these witnesses are referring to the church, in other words, all Christians collectively. But a second reason, if you look at two verses, look at chapter 11, verse 7, okay? There's a parallel between chapter 11, verse 7, and chapter 13, verse 7. Chapter 11, verse 7, notice it refers to the beast. That rises from the bottomless pit. And it says, He will make war on them, the two witnesses, and conquer them and kill them. Okay? So the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them. You go to chapter 13, verse 7, talks about the same beast, and it says, it was allowed to do what? To make war on the saints And to conquer them. So that's notable. Both those verses speak about a beast making a war against In chapter 11, verse 7, and then 13, 7, is defined as the saints and conquering them. And so we're still putting this puzzle together. I conclude that the two witnesses are talking about God's people, the church, okay? Hey, it makes sense, doesn't it? What are we called to do? What did Jesus say to his disciples in Acts chapter 1, verse 8? You'll be my witnesses, right? This is our calling. This is why we're having this evangelism class. This is why we I should make every effort to engage unbelievers in gospel conversations, right? It's not enough. It's not enough. I love R. C. Sproul. I love theology. I love listening to this guy and this guy and uh their sermons on the internet. That's all great. But we're delinquent if we're not making an effort to engage unbelievers in gospel conversations. So the two witnesses, I believe, refers to God's people, the church. And then the promise, and this is where we're going, the promise is that God will preserve his people. Those who oppose God's witnesses will face God's wrath. Whoop, the um the zoom went off. Sorry. I'll have to repeat everything I just said. I'll have to send you Zoom people my notes. My apologies. I'd be repeating it to my wife because she's loyal, but everybody else is like, I'm done with this guy. But um God will preserve his witnesses. First thing we see here, you know, those who oppose God's witnesses, they're going to face God's wrath, right? He's put a seal on them, he's measured them And um when you mess with God's people, uh you're you're messing with God. And uh that's what Paul said to the remember I'm sorry, Jesus met Paul on Damascus Road Acts chapter 9, I think verse 4. And Jesus said to Paul, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Paul wasn't persecuting Jesus, Jesus had ascended to heaven. Why did uh Jesus said to Paul, you're persecuting me. Well, because to persecute the church of Christ is to persecute Christ. Zechariah 2 verse 8. God says, He who touches you touches the apple of his eye. And that's a gist. Now look at chapter 11, verse 5 and 6. Chapter eleven, verse five and six. God says, if anyone would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed. These witnesses, they have the power to shut the sky, but no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying. And they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they desire. the imagery of Moses and Elijah. But nonetheless, God's saying, here's one of the reasons the wicked suffer. It's because they reject they reject the messages, the message of the witnesses, and they persecute them. And I know uh when I was a seminary student, I had the privilege of serving uh an internship for a year with I w I with A man who I would say is one of the most godly and gifted pastors in our country. But he was new in his church And it was a formerly liberal Presbyterian church, theologically liberal Presbyterian church. And there was a group in that church, a group of men, who attacked him in his life viciously. And they made his life miserable. I I I I was stunned to see this kind of uh evil in a church. And um, you know, and they had thought many a many times of leaving. I was in session meetings, and there was this lawyer who was slip as slippery as can be, and I saw him And I'm not saying that of all lawyers, but I'm saying this guy, um he was he was wicked. And he chewed, he lashed uh this pat this young pastor Well, so I that was a one-year internship. I left. Ten years later, I'm talking to a friend from that church, and I'm asking what's going on. And my friend uh gave me a recitation Of what happened in the personal lives of this group of church members who opposed this young pastor. And um there many of their lives had just imploded. A divorce, financial ruin, and uh for some death Now I I can't read into that. You can't read into Providence. But the thought did cross my mind, the verse in Psalm 105, verse 15. For God says, touch my excuse me, he said, touch not my anointed ones. Do my prophets no harm. I know honest people differ on church matters. I'm not talking about that. But I'm saying when there are evil people set apart from one of God's people, then you better watch out. And that's exactly what verses 5 and 6 say. And it goes on. Verses 7 and 9. But you know what? If you're Christian, you're going to be persecuted. Verse 7. When they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them. Okay? We're going to see when we get to chapters 13 and 17. That this beast is referring to the power of the state, the godless power of the state persecuting the church. And we would say that one of the most uh or I would say the greatest persecutor of Christians down through history has been The state. But nonetheless, even in the face of such persecution, God says, you know what? I want you to be faithful to death for a saint Their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically is called Sodom in Egypt, where their Lord was crucified. And um so Whoops, that yeah, it says there's that verse symbolically. Okay, verse eight. That symbolically is called Sodom and Egypt. So Revelation itself says, you know what? This book is full of Symbolism. One of the New Testament commentators, Leon Morris, said that the great city stands for civilized man, organized. against God, right? Think about the Tower of Babel, man standing against God in the first century. The city that stood against God was Rome. And it's fitting that the city is likened to Sodom, because Sodom was a place of moral degradation, and it was likened to Egypt, a land of oppression. And but this great city re represents those who stand against God's people uh down through time. So there will always be this conflict between the city of man And the city of God. And finally, we'll see in chapter 17: one day Babylon, representing the city of God, will be destroyed in the new Jerusalem. the city of God. Babylon, the city of man, will be destroyed. And then chapter 21 and 22. This new Jerusalem, the city of God, it says comes down from heaven, and there will be a vindication. I think I'm going to skip I'm going to skip ahead. Verses 9 and 10, then verses 11 to 13, that talks about God's people being vindicated. And then I just want to draw this lesson now. Okay, and I'll send you my notes if you want to look at those verses in detail. But We have the measuring of the temple and uh we have the witnesses. So the lesson is God is going to protect his people. He has marked them off. He has set them apart. He's going to protect his people, even when it involves suffering. And we know as we read history that Christians down through history have been persecuted and will continue to face persecution, right? In Pakistan, Christians are persecuted. In Afghanistan, they're probably going to be slaughtered, and I imagine some have been slaughtered. Um places like Turkey, China, and we can make a list. You could Google uh uh and g get the statistics on persecution, one of the most uh egregious countries. And you know, even in our country, all right, you're not going to get stoned, at least right away, right? But um persecution uh can take takes the form of social ostracism Financial loss in other ways. And I I read in the paper on mont last Monday, a guy named uh John Gibson, he's a Christian. And he was the CEO up until Monday of this uh this game company called Tripwire. But he's a Christian. And he was fired, I guess, on this week this past weekend because he publicly voiced his support for this new law in Texas that restricted abortion. And so they fired the guy. Yeah, and you think, in a sane world, you wouldn't think that it'd be controversial to say that I'm happy that less babies are being murdered But that's not the country in which we live anymore. And so this guy was was ousted. And um where you think about this teacher, this uh PE teacher down in Leesburg. He went to a board of edit, his name's Tanner Cross. He went to a board of ed meeting, and he said, you know what? I don't think it's right for us to call children Who are confused about their gender, I don't think it's right to go along with their delusion and call them by some preferred pronoun That's cruel to them. That's doing them a disservice. So he got fired. They went to court and they put him back in. But how could that be that there are So few adults out there that are willing to stand up and say, this is wrong But if you're a Christian and you're out in the world and you're rubbing shoulders with the world, you're going to have opportunities to face this kind of conflict And our calling then is to stand for Jesus Christ. And now the lesson of this passage for you and for me. Is that God promises you here that He will protect you And so be willing to suffer for the gospel. That's the whole lesson boiled down, okay? Squeeze this, we squeeze this chapter, but that's the lesson God promises you right here that He will protect you and so be willing to speak for Christ and to suffer for the gospel because this stuff is true. And then if you're not a Christian, because this stuff is true, you need to become a Christian. That's the lesson. Jesus said in John 10, 28. Do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body. That's whom you should fear, and that's why you should repent of your sin and rest on Jesus Christ as your substitutionary sin bearer. Let's bow our heads.