Well not all of them. Four to five year olds and they get a worship training. That's your interest. Thank you, Paige, for taking them. So we finished Revelation. We're gonna do a couple uh one-shot uh sermon This morning we're going to look at I think a key passage on a key issue to understand them why our church does things the way it does. And also instruction for our future elders and deacons, so you understand something more of what makes uh what what drives uh our approach to worship. I want to ask you to turn to John, the book of John, chapter four. We're looking at one verse, but we're gonna re read the passage to give some context. I'm gonna begin in verse seven. So this is Jesus' encounter with the Samaritan woman at the well. And in verse seven We read, there came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty, or have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband, and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. Well, you have said it's true Woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming. And is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. Now here's our text. Verse 2. twenty four. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship In spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that the Messiah is coming. He was called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am he. Okay? So chapter four, verse twenty. Now, most of you have been in uh various churches, right? Some some this is your first church Church, which is really good if this is your first church, because you don't have anything to compare it to, you say you think this is a great church, okay? So you're it's funny how that's worked. Over the years. I can name some names. Some of some have never been to any other church, they don't know any better. But anyway, um but I've been to various churches and uh became a Christian You know, at one end of the you have the spectrum at one end you have very high church services So those who are from a Catholic or Episcopal background, you know what I'm talking about, right? Uh processionals, and then the priests wear vestments. They have these stoles sometimes with multi-c- Color that would just embarrass me to do that. Um and they have these very complex detailed liturgies, right? Everything's written out right there. The bulletin, prayers are read, there's kneeling at certain times, and so on. There's incense, they call it bells and smells, right? You hear that Then at the other extreme, and more people are familiar with this, right, in the evangelical church, we're a Bible-believing church. But in the evangelical world, um there the services are more casual. It's like it's been this revolution really in the past twenty-five or thirty years where these churches have just completely shifted and you wonder is there any kind of theological uh insight driving these shifts? And we say, well no, there are basically pragmatic. So now you have these casual service with sk sk skits and uh video clips and the special uh lighting uh started by Willow Creek in the seventies So now you have these guys in her sixties and seventies. And the seventies are over, but they're still singing uh uh the seventies soft rock music 'cause I think that's contemporary, but uh uh they don't they they're in this time warp. Then there's a star uh Starbucks kiosk in the back of the uh sanctuary cause you could just sit in the middle of uh service you maybe walk back and warm up your coffee, right? Because everything is so casual and uh spontaneity is equated with authenticity and expressiveness Is equated with spirituality. So you have these two ends of the spectrum, and then you have a church like our church, which does not fall in either of these camps. And so why do we worship in our I'm talking about our public or corporate worship services on Sunday morning? Why why do we do things the way we do them in our church services? Some people might say, well that's Peter's preference. Uh no. Some might say, well, because they're Presbyterian and they're just blindly adhering to some tradition. And I say, no, they are too, because churches in our denomination have different styles of worship. Some are the those very casual coffeehouse services and then some are the highly liturgical uh services. So why do we do things the way that we do? Why do we read the Bible? Why do we pray various types of prayers, right? We have the opening prayer, which is a prayer of praise Then we have a confession, a prayer confession, then there's a pastoral prayer where we pray for various uh needs. And so if I could uh just boil it down to one sentence, here's the question we want to answer this morning. And it's not so much why do we do what we do, but how about this? How want God to be worshipped in the public worship services Of the church. Does the Bible say anything concerning this? And I think that's an important question. Not many people ask that question when they look for a church, right? What most people said, well I like that service because it appealed to me. Uh not surprisingly not many churches ask that question. How should we order and structure and what should be the concept Not many churches are asking that. They're asking the question what are people like? Draws people in and keeps them. But we want to ask the question I got a froth in my throat, sorry about that. What about God? You know, what about God? Has God said anything about how he is to be worshipped? Or does it not matter as long as we're sincere? So that's the question. What does God think about the subject of his people of worshiping him uh corporately. Well, as it turns out, you don't have to be a genius to figure this one out if you The Bible says quite a bit about how God wants us to worship Him And I read chapter four of John because in verse 24, that one verse serves as an overarching principle about how God is to be worshipped. And so Jesus Met this Samaritan woman at the well. And after Jesus confronted her with the fact, he said, Hey, you have you've had five husbands, and now you're shacked up with a guy who's not your husband The woman deftly uh changes the subject, and all of a sudden she has a theological interest, and um she talks about you know, you guys worship in Jerusalem, we worship in On this mountain in Samaria, which is it? And it's in response to that statement by the Samaritan woman that Jesus makes this revolutionary statement about worship. Verse 24: God is spirit. And those to worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. And so you see right there, there's a bustness about how God is to be worshipped. It must be done in spirit and in truth. And so our task this morning is just to consider those two principles, worshiping in spirit and worshiping in truth. Okay? So we're going to start with the in-truth part, and there's more weight on that, and then we'll get to the in-spirit And so to worship God in truth is to worship in accord with God's character is to recognize his holiness, is to worship or to respond to him in a way that is appropriate To who he is, and as such, we must discover in Scripture how God has instructed us to worship him And in a nutshell, well, I'm going to say a number of things here, actually, not in a nutshell. Here's a huge principle. Worship that is in truth must be governed by Scripture. And so only that which is prescribed in the Bible, either by command, by an example, Or by a necessary deduction may be part of the church's public worship. Okay? Only that which is instructed in and uh positively instructed in the Bible. So this down through time there's a label that's a term that we uh Christians began to use Called the regulative principle of worship. So this is to say that we are to worship only in ways that God has commanded us to do in the Bible. That differs or a contrast with a good way of doing it called the normative principle of worship. Okay, two theological terms. I know they're not in the Bible, but they summarize what's how churches do things. So the normative principle of worship would say You can worship God in various ways as long as what you do is not explicitly forbidden in the Bible. Okay? So there's a difference there. Okay, that explains the difference between Between a Presbyterian church like ours and say a Lutheran church who which would hold to the normative principle of worship. service that God positively commands us to do. Normative principle? Well there's a lot more latitude and um as long as God hasn't uh forbidden it. And so then you'd say That helps us understand why some churches would say, Well, we're gonna do skits, we're gonna have liturgical dancers. Uh some of the high churches will have a blessing of the animals. Where'd that come from? Well, Jesus blessed the animals, so they said, Well we c he didn't bless the animals, he blessed the children. Is that redundant? No No. He didn't bless the animals. They make it up. And so it's like, well, God loves the animals, right? So they have a blessing of the animals. Uh church service on Sunday. Um something I did. And so my as a I've been a pastor thirty one years over the years of I've I've thought things through I've been challenged by some very uh smart people in our church, in this church. And so when I started here, uh we had to add the lighting of the advent reef. That's a wonderful thing, right? You do that during Christmas Eve Four Sundays leading up to Christmas, and then one of our elders said, Where's that in the Bible? And I sort of scratched my head, and then I said, Well, you know, we're recognizing Christ first sort of an object lesson. Where's that? Well, where's that taught in the Bible? So we took that away, much to the consternation But if I can't justify in scripture, I don't think we should do it in the worship service. Now some people say, well, I like the advent wreath, or I like, you know, I like a skit. And you and you say, Well this guy Peter is still a little bit strange to object to this. But if we start allowing things because you like it, well, that might be fine with you, but next time around, there might be might be something somebody else likes, and you'd be thinking this is way off the uh this is way off the grid here. And so where do you draw the line as to what's appropriate in worship? And he decides, the pastor, the elders? Or is it the scripture? So we have to have some um some parameters and uh because what's taboo today uh might be in vogue tomorrow And so does God care about the way he is worshipped, or does God like variety? Well, Isaiah 55 says God's ways are not our ways. And because of that, God has instructed us in how to worship. Where is that? It's throughout the entire Bible. Start with the Old Testament. The book of Exodus, chapters 25 to 40, are these detailed instructions about how the Israelites were to construct the tabernacle, the place of worship for God. All these painstaking details, the lesson there Was that God is a holy God, and his people may only worship him in the way that he has instructed us to worship. The entire book of Leviticus. contains instructions about how this holy God is to be worshipped. Second commandment, Exodus 20, verse 4, says it prohibits worshiping God through images. And so there's a there's a love principle there. You can't make it up as you go along. God said, nope, no images. Exodus 32. Remember the story about the gold Israelites made a gold And um they way well may have thought this is a way to honor God because this cat was strong It was muscular and so it would uh convey the strength of their God. So you think God would have been flattered, he would have been honored by this But he wasn't. His wrath broke out against Israel. Then the passage we just read, Leviticus chapter 10. It's a key text. So you have these two priests, Nadab and Abihu. They were priests in Israel, and they were offering incense to the Lord. And that's what they were instructed to do. But then it says in uh chapter uh 10 verse uh one they offered unauthorized fire before the Lord which he had not commanded them And so they did something in bringing this fire for the incense that was prohibited. Exactly what it was, but they did not do it in the manner that God had prescribed. And so God's response, what he did. He said, Well, their hearts were in the right place. And so I accept that. No. It says in chapter ten, verse three, well, he struck them dead. Then it says, among God says, Among those who are near me, I will be sanctified, I will be treated As holy. Say, well, that's the Old Testament. Well, it's in the Old Testament. But still, there's principles here that God's a holy God. He hasn't changed the New Testament You turn over to the New Testament, and this and the same themes continue. Matthew 15, verse 9. Jesus rejected the worship of the Pharisees Because they worshiped in ways that God had not prescribed. Jesus said there, Matthew 59, In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. So their worship was influenced by the commandments of men, not by what God had revealed. Colossians 3, verse 22 and 23. Paul called the worship being promoted by the false teachers in the church In Colossae, he called this worship self-made religion. Or like how the King James translation Translates it. Will worship. You know, it was an act of their will. It was their idea about how they should worship. God care about how he should be worshiped in the New Testament. First Corinthians chapters eleven to uh fourteen, you have numerous instructions Regulating the public worship services of the church. So there's guidelines for prayer, for singing, for preaching. For the Lord's Supper, for having order in the services. And so, yeah, sincerity is indispensable, but what we see in Scripture Is that it's not enough, it's not sufficient. We must be sincere, but we must also only approach God and worship Him in ways that He has positively prescribed. And so I'm just going to get go into a little more uh detail here. It's a topical sermon. For those who are new, I usually stick to a text, but now we're just sort of going a little bit uh wide I want to sort of explain why some explain why we do what we do. Okay, we have certain elements in our worship service, right? You look at the bulletin, there's a call to worship, there's a invocation. um prayers and scripture readings and s and so on. Okay? Well all these things are found in the Bible. So the elements of worship are the what in a worship service. What are we doing Right? Well we're singing, right? We have numerous commands in the Bible to sing. We have this opening prayer, we call it an invocation. We're calling on God to be with us. We see that for example in the Psalms and other passages. We have this one's debatable. Honest Christians differ on this. We have some kind of statement we make. Today we read from the Westminster Confession. Sometimes we'll say the apostles We have the summary statement of our belief. Call it a confession of faith. Well we're not commanded to do that in the Bible explicitly But it's a deduction we make because there's another there should be an objectivity to our worship. And so what we were saying together, here's the stuff we believe about God, about how he worships And it seems like there are these little summary statements in the Bible of Christian belief. fifteen verses three and four first Timothy three sixteen. So you have these examples in the Bible, and then in Second Timothy one thirteen, Paul talks about keeping the pattern of sound words. And so when we have that little confession, just saying here's an overview of what we believe it has an instructional benefit for our people and for our children There's a confession of sin and an assurance of pardon during the service. You see that in Psalm 32, Psalm 51, Isaiah chapter six and so on. Pastoral prayer, the things we pray for in the Bible, are things we pray for, like for civil authorities, for the ministry and mission in the church, for the salvation James chapter 5, you know, pray for those who are afflicted. So we do that in our service. We have scripture readings, right? Typically we'll have an Old Testament and a New Testament reading. Why is that? Uh some people say well that slows the pace of the service down, especially the contest That's negative. And then you have this long Old Testament passage that slows down the pace. And uh well, we do that because on 1 Timothy 4 13, Paul commanded the Psalm 96, bring an offering and come into his courts. There's a sermon, not a dialogue, but a sermon. 2 Timothy Paul says, preach the word. What is a sermon? You read the Bible, you explain what it means, you talk about how it applies. See that? Nehemiah chapter 8, verse 8. It says they read from the book, from the law of God. Clearly, they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading. Then we have two sacraments, the battery. Baptism and the Lord's Supper, because those two sacraments are taught in the Bible. Then in the end of the service, there's the benediction. You know what that means? Just a Latin term. It means the good word. It's not the good word from Peter, but you have benedictions at the end of many of the New Testament letters and also what not Numbers chapter 3. So I I just quote one of those verses, and it's a blessing from God, right? So it's not you look up, you receive this good word from God. So it's not like the Pope when he goes like this. You know what the Popes do when he goes like that? He's saying, Hey, you Italians, get off the grass. Sorry. Now, somebody's gonna send me an email. Well not about that, but about this next thing Um because you're gonna say or something else to have to service. And I understand what this is the these are the questions that come up. Well, everything we do in the service is not commanded in the Bible, right? Does it command you to have a podium? Doesn't command you to have a microphone? So why you all of a sudden you're so concerned about some things in a service, but not other things in a service So the way we deal with that, and I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but I want to say there's an answer to that because we could also talk about the forms and the circumstances of worship, okay? So details, just bear with me one second. So we can talk about the elements in our service. That's the reading of the Bible, prayers and whatnot. But then they can take different forms, right? Our prayers take different forms. They have different content, different themes, different structure, right? We could, I mean I'll pray about we we'll pray about some things. Uh so the element of prayer has a various forms, but also various structures. That's also I might pray the prayer extemporaneously. We might read the prayer together as a congregation, but we might sing it, right? are just prayers. And so prayers can take various forms, same with the scriptures, right? Different content, different content for the sermon. But then you talk about, you know, what about the podium or whatnot? Well, that's what they would refer to as the circumstances of worship. When do we worship? Well, on the Lord's Day, that's commanded. But whether it's ten thirty or four thirty in the afternoon, there's no stipulation. Um how do we arrange the chairs? Um how long should the service be? Um Do we put the words in the hymnal or take the words from the hymnal or do we put them in the bulletin? All those things are just the circumstances of worship so we understand that we just use wisdom That's what the Westminster Confession says, chapter one verse. Says there are some circumstances concerning the worship of God common to human actions in societies Which are to be ordered by the light of nature and Christian prudence. Just common sense, that's what it's saying. According to the general rules of the word, which are always to be observed And so there's great latitude in the circumstances of her worship. That's why there's a lot of differences amongst churches, right? That are holding to this regulative principle. Of worship, but still you want to use wisdom. So when we build the church building, Lord willing, we're you know, we say, well, God can be worshipped anywhere, so let's make the inside the let's make the sanctum It looked like a theater. It'll have a black ceiling and uh theater seatings. We'll have a nice big stage up there, and maybe I could stroll across it with a a lapel mic and while I'm posing holding my uh light Lot I am Ian. Well, there's no there's no command against that, but that would not reflect wisdom. That would not reflect Christian prudence because we may be unwittingly sending a message that coming Sunday morning is a former Christian entertainment and that's the farthest thing from what it is. And so where you want to worship and truth. Another trait of this, and I'm just going here There and there is that worship that is in truth is filled with scripture. I hope you notice that about our worship service, right? John 17, verse 17 Jesus said, your word is truth. And so everything we do in our church service is an expression of the Word of God. Think about it. What do we do? We read the word, preach the word, sing the word, in that our songs and hymns are either psalms or songs that reflect the truths of Scripture, right? So we preach it, we read it, we sing. it we pray the word in that our prayers reflect the priorities of scripture and even the language of scripture in some And we see the word. Where's that? Well, God's given two symbols in the Bible that should be part of worship: the Lord's Supper and baptism. So they're visible expression. Of the gospel or demonstrations of the gospel. And so worship that is in truth is filled with God's word and um and that Certainly telling about singing uh informs us about uh the kind of songs that we sing and worship. So there's on our church website I have an article I wrote years ago, the songs we sing That'll that will explain uh our what drives uh the how the things that we sing in our church services. In a nutshell, well the lyrics certainly have to be scriptural, right? Because in Colossians uh three sixteen, Paul talked about singing psalms and hymns and songs that are so packed with biblical truth that quote, the so that the word of Christ may dwell in you richly. So that's a way to build God's word into us by uh what we sing. We want the lyrics of course to be God-centered, talking about who God is and what he's done. With not a focus on sentimentality or Christian experience, that would be secondary, but we want to focus on God. We want to sing songs that reflect a broad range of Christian experience, right? Many song churches You know, there's three strings on their guitar. Uh joy, grace, and love. But you look at the songs in the Bible, there's this broad spectrum, right? Sure Joy and God's love and His mercy toward us and His grace, but also His holiness and the call to uh self sacrifice. Then he had uh number of the psalms are laments. They're sad psalms. Well that's part of life in this fallen world. And so we sing those kind of Songs too. We want to sing songs with lyrics that express a literary maturity. Right? So Friday morning at the men's breakfast we were talking about this. And I said, here's how you can tell a Good song as opposed to a cheesy one. It's not because it has this great tune, but if you could read the lyrics of that song and they reach down in to you apart from the music. It's like that's a good song. So go home. Read the lyrics to God moves in a mysterious way. That's a beautiful poem. And then we're talking about Friday There's this uh song, Our Gods an Awesome God. If you read those lyrics without the music, like it doesn't cut it. Um the music It should be well crafted, right? Also in First Corinthians, like you're thinking uh or think like men, be mature. And so we want the melody and the harmony and the rhythm rhythm. uh to be appropriate to the lyrics and um and it needs to be singable right it's not just the people up front if they can sing it everybody's sort of standing there trying to follow So you need a cadence that's singable. You don't want to sing songs that are written for individual uh performance, but you want to sing songs that are written for congregational singing that has a regular Cadence. And so we want to worship in truth. Then let's move on. I'll try to be more brief. Uh we secondly uh we want to Worship in spirit. And so you'll notice in John 4, the Samaritan woman, she was concerned about the externals of worship. She said, well, she said to Jesus, where should we worship? On this mountain or in Jerusalem? In verse 21, Jesus said, neither. So with my coming, uh the location in other externals concerning worship are no longer important. What is important, what will always be important is that worship be done in spirit. And that's there's a musness about that. So what does it mean to be what does it mean to worship in spirit Say a couple things. Number one, it's done in the Holy Spirit, right? The Holy Spirit is a third person of the Trinity. It's not a it. It's a he or he's a he, okay? Right? God with us, Jesus gave us The Holy Spirit to Christians. And so the Holy Spirit is God with us, God in us, enabling us to know God and then to worship Him in our spirit. So worship is a spiritual endeavor. So it's done in the Holy Spirit. And it also means when we say we worship in spirit Spirit. It's from the heart, right? It's not enough just to show up to take your seat, to take your psalm book, to stand up, to mount the words, but it has to be you have to be engaged God is spirit. And we only worship God when our spirit meets with God and we praise Him and we recognize His greatness and His power and His goodness. And his kindness and his mercy. So that's why Jesus condemned the religious leaders in Jerusalem for their perfunctory worship. He said, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. And so it's an offense to God. Same thing about Sincerity, um Ephesians 5. 19. Paul commands us to be singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, right? So we're engaged emotionally or affectionately. are engaged. Well how does that happen? Well, I'll come to church and uh the the the the uh melanies and the the music it'll just sort of get me in the groove there and I'll be elevated and then I'll worship God. No. To be spiritually engaged, you have to prepare yourself, right? Sunday's coming. Saturday night. You read the Bible. You pray. Lord, help me to recognize who you are. Sunday morning Have things in order so that there's not so much chaos. You can take some time to pray. Lord, I'm coming to church this morning, uh not to just have Warm milk poured over me. I'm coming to church this morning because I want to offer you the honor that rightly belongs to you. That's a huge difference in mindset, right? Right? And so we want to worship from the heart. So we have to prepare. Here's something else, and then we're done. Talking about worshiping in spirit It's done in the Holy Spirit. It is from the heart. And the third thing is that spiritual worship, the spiritual worship of which Jesus speaks So think about the difference in the worship between the Old Testament and uh the New Testament. And the Old Testament had all these complex procedures and ceremonies and the people or the priests had to worship for the people in the temple in Jerusalem and there were all these painstaking and Instructions about how the priests were to consecrate themselves to lead the worship, the dimensions of the room, right in the tabernacle, the furniture, the priestly garments, the schedule of offering times, the calendar of holy days, how the sacrifices were to be offered, and on and on and on and on. What was going on there? Well they were just object lessons given to the people people of history, uh given to the people of Israel, pointing forward to Book of Hebrews says Jesus Christ The final priest, the final sacrifice, and the true temple. Okay? So they were all types of Christ. So that's all been fulfilled in Jesus' Christ. And so now our worship's simple, right? Meet here in a cafeteria, it works great. And it's legitimate worship. Uh there's only one holy day now. When is that So it's funny, not funny. I'll have to put this in the newsletter sometime. I have this calendar from uh the eighteen hundreds and it said a list of Christian holy days just has Sunday highlighted for the fifty two weeks of the year. Well that's yeah that's simple, right? There's one holy day There's only one priest, Jesus Christ, and there are only two symbols, the Lord's Supper and Baptism. And because it's simple, it can be conducted anywhere. It can be conducted here. It can be conducted in this beautiful cathedral with a marble floor. It can be conducted At the roofs barn up there in Thermont, it's all good. And that's why when there's a simplicity of worship, you could just take it on the Road. It's transferable. John 4 21, Jesus said, Believe me, the hour is coming. When neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem, you're going to worship the Father. You see this simple worship Now in the New Testament church, Acts chapter two, verse forty-two says that early Christians devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, to the fellowship, the breaking of Bread and prayers. Well that's a lot easier than what was going on in the temple. So there you have it. I want you to notice one more thing, chapter four, verse Verse 23. Jesus said the Father is seeking worshipers. That's her highest calling. That's our John MacArthur says that's our ultimate priority. And to truly uh worship God is no small endeavor, right? It takes preparation. It takes time, take time to confess your sin, to pray, to reflect on God as He's revealed in Scripture. And so my encouragement Encouragement is that you'll take this task uh more and more seriously uh before you come to worship on Sunday, prepare, be engaged, young people, children. Don't just say the guy's going on too long. Try to concentrate. Sing the songs with all your heart. And rejoice that God has called us into his presence. Children of the King. God is spirit. Those who worship Him must worship in spirit and in truth. Let's bow our heads.