Who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name, standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hands. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, and here's their song. Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the Ten of Witnesses in heaven was opened. And out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven flagues, clothed in pure bright linen. with golden sashes around their chests. And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives for ever and ever. And the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. Now in the end of the day, if you were to boil all humanity down, In the end of the day, there are two groups of people. This is what we see in Revelation. You have the company of the redeemed who sing God's praise And you also have the company of the unrepentant who suffer God's wrath. They are the two categories. You see them represented even in the passage before us in verses 2 to 4. We see those who sing God's praise, and then in verse one and then five to eight, we see those who suffer God's wrath. And so real simple Way to approach this passage. So, first of all, we're going to look at those who sing God's praise, the company of the redeemed worshiping God. And so you'll notice it starts out in verse 1. He writes of seeing seven angels carrying seven plagues. But then before he describes these angels and the plagues that they're carrying. He interrupts himself. He says, well let me first tell you about this other vision That God disclosed to me. In this vision was of the redeemed in heaven worshiping God. So verse 2, he says, and they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb. And so who are these people? We could say these are the church triumphant. You ever hear that term? We talk about triumphant about the church militant and the church triumphant. So the church militant uh that are that is those believers who are alive now, right? We're still in the battle. We're still fighting the good fight The church triumphant consists of those who have conquered, right? They've died. They're with God in heaven. They're before his throne. And as it says in the end of verse 2, it is those who have who had conquered the beast. They conquered the beast. Because they held to Jesus Christ. That's what it says back in chapter 12, verse 11. They've conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. Remember the word of their testimony? Money doesn't mean that they told their conversion story, but rather means they gave witness to Jesus Christ. And so they were victorious. Uh they conquered. And really in the end of the day, the reason that they were conquer they conquered wasn't because uh they were so strong or they were so spiritual, uh but it was because Jesus Christ preserved them in the faith And he enabled them to be victorious over the world, over the flesh, and over the devil. And so at the end of verse 2, these are the ones who conquered the beast. So after they conquered the beast, they're now ascended to heaven. And what are they doing? What are they saying? Are they giving each other five high fives saying, we did it Are they saying we should write a memoir of our experiences? They're not doing that either, but rather what they're doing And what they're doing is the only fitting response. They are singing praise to God who gave them to the victory. God the Father and at His right hand, God the Son. Look at the beginning of verse 3 And they sang the Song of Moses, the Servant of God, and the Song of the Lamb. Now before we jump into the sort of the heart of this song, I want to ask you a question, or I want to ask not you a question, I'll ask it to me because I'm going to answer it. Why in verse 3 is their song called the Song of Moses, right? Moses, he was dead, he'd been dead for a couple thousand years. So why is this song called the song of Moses. And the reason is, and you may have picked up on this in the Old Testament reading, the reason is it alludes, this very song eludes to the song that the people of Israel sang after God rescued them from the Egyptian army And so there are a number of parallels between God delivering the Israelites from bondage to the Egyptians, and now here, God delivering us from this greater bondage. to sin, Satan, and death, of which the Exodus deliverance was only a type. It was only an object lesson Pointing forward to this greater deliverance. And so a number of parallels. Let me give you a couple. The first one God delivered the Israelites by sending ten plagues against the Egyptians. He delivers us from the beast. And you might remember from chapter 12 and 13. There was the dragon who represented Satan. And then in chapter 13, there was the beast who represented Satan's instrument, worldly powers, okay? So God delivered us from the dragon and from the beast. It says in verse 1, by sending seven plagues. And so you have this connection between the plagues, between uh Revelation. and then also the Exodus deliverance. Another Exodus revelation parallel is that, and I said I've said this before, in Scripture, the C represents The realm of judgment and chaos and death. But after the Israelites passed through the Red Sea, what happened? Well the Egyptians were killed by the waters, but it says in Exodus fourteen twenty nine, the people of Israel walked on dry ground through the sea. And so for the Israelites, the dreadful Red Sea was rendered tranquil. And that's what we see in our passage. It says in verse 2. After God gave his people victory over these worldly powers, that the sea of, excuse me, the sea appeared as a sea of glass mingled with fire. So it's saying That God has subdued the forces of evil. Here's something else, okay? Talking about why is it called the Song of Moses? Well, in both the Exodus deliverance and now in this final deliverance, what did God's people do? They sang a song of victory, right, after God drowned Pharaoh's army. For the Egyptian army in the Red Sea. It says in Exodus fifteen one, the Israelites sang, right? They'll say, I'll sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea Well that was just a precursor of the greater deliverance that all God's people enjoy in Jesus Christ. And so that's why it says in verse 3, they sang the song of Moses. Why? Because God granted them and in Jesus Christ when we trust in him. God grants to us the victory over sin, over Satan, over the flesh. We're looking back at verse chapter 13 again. over totalitarian governments, chapter 13, the second part, over false prophets and the deceivers that inhabit this world. And so because we have this victory, that's why the people before God's throne in heaven sing And that is why we who likewise have been redeemed, sing with them. In this spirit, as we worship together, we are lifted up before God's throne. It says that in Hebrews 12. So when we sing together, when we worship together, we are coming before the throne of our God. That's why we sing. Now what I want to do, something a little bit different, but I think it's justified in this passage. I want to look at this song. Because I believe this song, as are all songs in the Bible, for example, the songs you find, which the Book of Psalms is the Book of Song Book of Psalms. These songs are instructive as to what we should sing when we come before God. Let me give you four examples by looking at this. Four traits that should characterize the songs that we sing to God. Many more traits could be discussed, but I just want to draw four from this passage. The first thing we see, or we learn about the songs that we sing to God, is that the songs that we sing should be God-centered rather than man-centered, right? If you look at this song that they sing in verses 3 to 4, they weren't singing about how they felt about things. Or how they felt about Jesus, or how they felt about God, which many songs, many of the gospel songs written in the late 1800s, and then also many of the contemporary songs They're about how I feel. You don't see that. What we have here is a focus on God, on who He is and what He has done. And so this is the character of biblical worship. It's focused on God. I'm secondary. I'm an afterthought. It's focused, look at the end of verse 3, it's focused on God's works. What do they say? Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God Almighty. It focuses on God's character, his righteousness. Just and true are your ways. They praise God for His sovereignty, O King of the nations. They praise Him for His sovereignty Moral purity. You alone are holy. They praise him for his authority over the nations. It says, all nations will come and worship you. And so this is why Our ambition is to be selective as to the songs we sing, and we want to sing songs that turn our heads up, I should say, turn our eyes out from ourselves. Unto God. And when we sing a song of praise or when we we pray a prayer of praise, all we're doing is and I'll say this to the kids, we're complimenting God. And so our worship time, the object of our worship time Isn't to enter some trance-like state where I feel like if I become entered this mystical state, and this is a huge thing in the American church right now, If I enter this mystical state, then I'm becoming connected with God in that mystical, uh, emotionally elevated state. Is nurtured by the pulsating rhythms or whatever, you know, the way the music is put together. That is not, that doesn't make you closer to God. If you have an elevated emotional state, that's fine. But that's a byproduct of worship. The goal of our worship is to say to God, you're a great God. And we praise you, we recognize your glory, and we thank you for what you've done for us. That's all this song does. That's all we do. And if you can sing to God, if you can compliment Him, you are worshiping God. Even if you don't get all these sort of feelings, tingles, or whatever That's not the point. The point is to praise God for who he is. And so we're looking at this these verses, verses 3 and 4. We're asking a question. What do we learn about the traits of the songs that we should sing to God? Well, they should be God-centered. And nobody would argue with that. Here's something else. The songs that we sing should give the reason for our praise. And so you'll look at the song in the passage here. And They give many reasons why God is worthy of their praise, right? For his deeds, for his power, for his rule over the nations, for his holiness. And so they're beholding the the m the uh character and the works of God and they respond appropriately Now I know that music in a church is a tender subject, right? A lot of people are very opinionated on this And so in fact I have discussions with people to my right and people to my left, and I try to say, just do it like I do it, because I just have I've attained the perfect mean. So whether you're on my right or whether you're on my left Just follow me and you'll be good. Um don't laugh, I'm not telling. Now So, to those on my left, we say, we want to sing more contemporary songs. Conversations I've been having for 21 years, okay? And then in my former church, okay Let me give you one of the reasons we tend to sing more hymns of the faith. And let me say this as a caveat. It doesn't matter when the song was written. We don't have anything against modern songs, okay? And there are a lot of older songs that we don't go near. For example, in the garden, but I just insulted half the church. But the reason we tend to see more historic hands Rather than contemporary songs, is that the great hymns of the faith give the reason for the praise, okay? And so David Wells, great church historian, in one of his books he cited a survey of contemporary worship music. And this survey, if they examine you know, just reams of contemporary worship songs and compared it to the great hymns of the faith, they found that 59% of the more recent compositions Offer no doctrinal grounding or explanation for the praise. Now this song isn't of rec recent, but uh one example I think about is that probably a lot of people for this Bill Gaither song, let's just praise the Lord. Okay? So it goes, here's the lyrics. Let's just praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let's just lift up our hearts to heaven and praise the Lord. Let's just praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let's just lift up our hearts to heaven and praise the Lord Alright, all right. Well, I picked up he's calling us to praise the Lord. However, he doesn't give one reason why we should do that. Now you take that and then you compare it to the first Psalm We sang in our service this morning, Praise to the Lord the Almighty. It gives numerous reasons Why we should praise the Lord Almighty. He is the King of creation. He reigns over all things. He sustains all things. He he ha he has ordained everything that happens in our lives and he defends us and protects us and so on. And so That's a song with some reasons in it. Here's something else. The songs we sing should exhibit mature poetry We see that in the uh in the little just the two verses uh before us. And here's a test of a good song, regardless of when it was written, okay? A simple test of whether a song is worth singing, especially in a public worship service. is just read the lyrics of the song without the music, and you'd be surprised, okay? What are the traits of good poetry? I'm going to make a list. It's compact, right? That's one of the defining characteristics of poetry. It's compact. And the words are the words are at, right? It's just the right word. And it's just the right String of words to express to express the thought, to convey the thought. In other words, it's not cheesy, it's not trite. There's a progression. It's not just repetition verse after verse, but there's a there's a progression through uh the verses And uh the sound patterns are pleasing. You know, one of the little books on writing, I think it's by Stronkey said The art of writing is uh about the sound that words make on paper. And that's true of poetry. That's certainly The sounds of the words as they're as they're as they're put together uh need to be pleasing to the ear because our hymns are a form of art and we are we want to artfully uh praise God. And it's interesting, so when I I wrote my my sermon earlier in the week, I gave as an example And I don't know if everybody knows this hymn, but you need to go home and read it. By William Cooper, but it's spelled C-O-W-P-E-R, and the hymn is God Moves in a Mysterious Way. Read that poem and then click click the tune on your uh computer. The tune's done D. But don't listen to the uh even the music. Just read the poem. It's beautiful. It reaches down into you. But it's interesting. I I drove up to the upstate New York uh Wednesday and came back yesterday. to the presbytery meeting. By the way, one of the retired ministers from Presbytery snuck in, G. J. , glad you're here, brother. But anyway, I'm listening to this book, an audio book uh by David McCullough, The Johnstown Floods. Johnstown, Pennsylvania, a dam over the town that was in the village, a town of 25 people, 25,000 people. the dam broke and describes how the whole town was just washed away and the terrible thing it was, just unimaginable. and uh it's just breathtaking. But months after the flood, uh the I think the governor of Pennsylvania came and uh they had a memorial service. And the hymn that they sang at the memorial service, where 25,000 people died, right? People lost their mothers, fathers, children. um spouses was God moves in a mysterious way. When you're standing over the grave of a loved one A mighty fortress is our God. And I say to our kids right now, you sing these hymns in church, and it's like I like more upbeat or snappy uh melodies You're going to appreciate this one day where in days of times of bitter loneliness, there are hymns that we're singing. That are going to reach down into you. And they're going to serve you and minister to you. But one of the characteristics of these hymns is that it has a mature poetry. So you take a hymn like God moves in a mysterious way, then you pull up some song, you know, no ever hear that song, Open the Eyes of My Heart, Lord will catch you tune. more contemporary uh composition. But if you read the lyrics there, it's a pretty song. But just read the lyrics. I mean it's just it's just vacuous. y y i it's not it's not gonna it's not gonna serve you in those times. So we want to give expression of our praise to God uh with we're with songs that are God centered with songs that give a reason for our praise, with songs that employ mature poetry. And then a fourth thing I'll say before we move on is that the lyrics in the songs we sing must be scriptural. Well that's true of this one, right? That's an easy But of course the lyrics and the themes, not the lyrics, the language and the themes of the song uh should reflect uh the language and the Themes of Scripture. Why? Colossians 3. 16. Paul says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And so we want songs with lyrics that reflect the language of Scripture, and we want these songs to be joined to fitting tunes so that they can drill into us. And that they will dwell in us richly. Because the songs that we sing have a huge impact on how we view uh God and how we view the Christian life. That's why Luther made the comment. He said, give me the hymns of the church and you can teach what you want. Why? He was saying because the music is tends to be much more influential over the long run than than the sermon. And so we want music that is appropriate to to carry these lyrics. I remember uh years ago I was at a Good Friday service, and you know a Good Friday service tends to be or or uh more sober, right, and and austere and somber we're thinking about the death of Christ. Excuse me. And the choir the choir took one of these uh songs, I forget what it was, you know, it could have been like Alaska Did My Savior Bleed, or one of these hymns One of these dark hymns that talk about the suffering of Christ on the cross, but the choir sang it to like this doo-op-doo-wop tune. And so it was just absurd. Remember turning to Becky and So you know, like, you know, Jesus suffered and died on the cross and everything was sort of upbeaten. It didn't work. And so the music must be appropriate uh to the to the lyrics, or else it's not the not gonna get the job. Done. And so what does the company of the redeemed do? The company of the redeemed sing praises to our God. We want to practice now. We practice on Sunday morning. Well not, I shouldn't say practice. We are doing it. But we want to do it more and more earnestly and wholeheartedly. Here's the second group we see, the company of the re- the unrepentant. And I'll be more brief about this section. This is verses 5 to 7, okay? The company of the unrepentant, they're not seeing God's praise, but they are the subjects of God's wrath. And I just want to make three comments on God's wrath, okay? The first comment I want to make. is that for especially for our young people, people say, you know, God's wrath, that's that seems mean. Uh that makes God a frightful being But what we see throughout Scripture is that God's wrath is the natural consequence of the fact that He is a holy God. You see that in verse 4, he's referred to as holy. Verse 6, the angels are clothed in pure bright linen. Why? To depict the holiness of God in his judgments. And so God's wrath is the inevitable response. when his holiness is violated. And we'd all say, right, we have violated God's holiness in spades, right? We have fallen short of his glory, and as a result, we're subject to his wrath And so the question that the gospel poses to every person is, would you be interested in suffering? that punishment, that wrath yourself, or would you have Jesus Christ suffer that wrath in your place? And so what is a Christian? A Christian is somebody who says I would prefer that Jesus be my substitutionary sin bearer. And so we can speak about God's wrath, but in the same breath we see the Scripture speak about God's about his mercy and his grace and his love to anyone who sees their sin and their need of a Savior. So that's what the cross is about, right? Right? The mercy of God and the love of God meet right there at the cross of Jesus Christ. No one needs suffer God's wrath. Because Jesus Christ offers himself as a substitute. Well we're talking about just briefly, uh what do we see about the company of the honor penalty? They suffer God's wrath. Number one, that wrath as an expression of His holiness. Number two, uh God's wrath comes. This is interesting. God's wrath comes in part as a response to persecuted Christians crying out to God to vindicate them Now it's interesting. Back in chapter 5, verse 8, it talked about the prayer, it says the prayers of the saints were held in bowls. Look at our chapter, verse 7. There it says God's wrath is poured out from bowls. It seems to be making a connection between our prayers And God vindicating his beleaguered people by pouring out his wrath. I think that's why it's the Back in 5. 7 it says that God's uh the people's prayers were were were set in bowls. We saw the same thing last week, just so you'll know I'm not just speculating here. Last week, we're looking at chapter 14, chapter 14, verses 18 and 19, says an angel came out from the altar and then commanded another angel to execute judgment. So we asked the question, why did that angel in chapter 14, verse 18 come out from under the altar? Well, we went back to chapter 6, verses 9 and 10. And there we saw the souls of the martyrs cried out to God where? From under the altar, for God to avenge their blood. So that's why I think in 1418, their prayers were the God's wrath came from under the altar. What's the point I'm making? Here's my point. The wrath was poured out in bowls to say to God's people, I heard your prayers. The wrath was delivered from under the altar to say to God's persecuted people. people. I've heard your prayers. And so the lesson for us is that if you think it's a waste of time to pray on your own. Or if you think it's a waste of time to come to the monthly prayer meeting on Sundays. Or if you think it's a waste of time to call calling on Wednesday morning to the prayer meeting. If that's your understanding of prayer, then you're at odds with Scripture. Because Revelation seems to be a pains to say that God is pleased to advance his purposes through the prayers of his people. It's not just some religious thing that religious people do, but this is the means, this is the instrument that God has ordained for advancing his purposes. So we're talking about God's wrath, and God's wrath comes as a result of our prayers. Because we want justice, and those who have been dealt unjustly, they're crying out for vindication. Here's something else, then we're done. This is C2C. The opportunity to find refuge from God's wrath will one day cease Here, let me let me explain this. Remember we said Revelation is giving us the history of the world from the time between Jesus came the first time and ascended to heaven and the time he returned. That's what Revelation is. It's the history of the world in the New Testament age. And there are cycles. These cycles are repetitive. And so in chapters 6 and 7, we read about the seven seals, seven seals that were opened on this scroll that disclose God's purposes and his And then in chapters 8 to 11, we read about seven trumpets Which covered the same span of time, but they're called trumpets because God's judgments are also warnings to the unbelieving world. To repent and to come to Jesus Christ. But as these cycles progress, there things are heightened, okay? And it becomes more it the language is intensified because when unbelievers refuse to repent, After noting God's judgments on the world, there comes a day in a person's personal in your personal life, and there will come a day in history But there comes a day when God initiates his final judgment. Now here's the thing you've got to listen to. I'll show you this in a second in the in the past. The thing I want you to listen to is that God's final judgment, it doesn't necessarily necessarily begin When we all stand before God's throne, that's called the final judgment. But it is oftentimes initiated in the present and will be consummated when Jesus returns. So look at chapter 1, verse 1, the end of the verse. Notice it says about these seven plagues. These are, quote, the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished. But history is still going on as these seven plagues Are being poured out. But these are the last. So that's it. We've come now to the end. One of the commentators on Revelation, I think the best one volume accessible. uh Commentary and Revelations by William Hendrickson. I want you to I want to read to you what he what he wrote about this. I know it's hard to listen to something that's written, but I'm going to try to make it clear. Hendrickson, you know, referring to this uh the end of verse one where John says these are the last judgments, and then God's wrath is finished, he said. Whenever in history the wicked fail to repent in answer to the initial and partial manifestation of God's anger and judgments The final effusion of wrath follows. Then he says, it is final, though not complete, until the judgment day. These plagues are the last. They leave no more opportunity for repentance. When the wicked, often warned by the trumpets of judgment, continue to harden their hearts. Death finally plunges them into the hands of an angry God. And then he says, but even before they die They may have crossed the deadline, the line between God's patience and God's wrath. And you see this in the Bible and other places. Let me say it like this, give a couple more examples in case that doesn't sink in. Think about the ten plagues that God poured on the Egyptians, right? In the beginning it says, Pharaoh hardened his heart against God or against Moses. But you get to the sixth plague, chapter 9, verse 12, and it says, the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart. He had crossed that line. The deadline came. His heart was still hard. He still rejected God's or Moses' entreaties. And God judged him, and he was done, and there was no going back. The Lord hardened his heart. Romans chapter 1, the same thing. It says that there could come in a person's life A day when God withdraws from them the opportunity for repentance. So chapter 1, verse 24, 26, 28. You have the same kind of language repeated. God gave them over to their sin. Paul's saying, if somebody resists the revelation that God discloses They know in their heart of hearts that it's true, but they want to do their own thing and go their own way. That's a perilous approach Because God may very well let you go your own way and give you over and allow your heart to grow hard and crushed it over. Right? And and this happens. You know, some some of you so some of you might in their younger years, you know, they were raised in a Christian family, or found raised in a Christian family. family, they have Christian friends. And they heard the gospel where they were going to church and they were they were open to the gospel. But they said, you know, minna later. I don't want to deal with this now. But it but it it really troubled their conscience that they didn't respond. But what could happen is that you can say, I'm not going to do that now, I'm not going to deal with Christ now. Well, God may withdraw his light. And you're older, you're the decades past, you're now older. And it just sounds you hear the gospel and you're like, that's foolishness. That's foolishness. I remember my brother when he became a Christian, he wrote a letter to my grandmother. And she just like crumbled it up. It's like that's foolishness. He's trying to tell her about the gospel. That's foolishness And that's what could happen. God could give you over. And that is a perilous, a perilous position to be in. And so that's why in Hebrews 4, verse 7 The writer says, Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. And so we have these two groups. We have the redeemed who sing God's praises, then we have the unrepentant. who suffer God's judgment. And that judgment uh could very well be unleashed in this very life. And so this this is This is the passage where there's a warning. And it asks the question, in which group are you? In which group are you? Let's bow our heads. Our Father in heaven, uh you are worthy of our praise. Forgive us, Lord, for our feeble attempts to worship you. Help us to see more clearly your greatness, your majesty, And all the good things you've done for us in Jesus Christ. And we thank you, Lord, for Jesus that He stood in our stead and he suffered the wrath that we deserve. That we need not face it. We thank you, Lord, for our redemption. And I do pray, Lord, for those who are not yet believers. I do pray that you would so Move them, draw them to yourself, help them to see uh that they have everything to gain and nothing to lose by resting on you as their savior. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well we're going to sing the last song that's right in our bulletin. Holy God, we praise your name. Let's stand in prayer And say oh Oh my god, all the many. In the middle can you get Yeah, we're not coming along with him. And wrong to sell his son. God we make through God we make people Now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and evermore. Amen. Yeah. How are you? Welcome over.