Jesus is our wonderful counselor. He suffered everything that we suffer, but he did so without sinning. Who could possibly give better counsel than somebody who lived that kind of life? And Jesus is mighty God. He did God things. He said God things. He claimed God qualities. He called himself, I am, the name of God. And he called himself Son of Man, who would ascend to the throne of the ancient of days. Jesus is either mighty God or a mighty fraud. Of the four epithets that Isaiah assigned to the Christ, Today's is by far, at least in my opinion, far and away the most head-scratching, the most bewildering. How can the one who called himself S Son of man be called everlasting father. And if he is that, why do we Christians for two thousand years now, why have we been calling him the son of ever? of God. Opponents of Christianity have long argued that one of our biggest weaknesses are the contradictions that exist within our sacred text. And this is one they will point to frequently. That the one you call Son of God is also called Father. And many heretics throughout the centuries have leaned heavily on this verse to deny the Trinity. And to argue for an absolute oneness in every aspect of the Godhead. So how do we think about this? How do we handle this? It's a thorny question and a difficult verse. But in my opinion, here's the biggest challenge before us this morning. Isaiah clearly, clearly means for these names of the Messiah. To be a comfort to the people of God. It's absolutely a core part of what's going on there in Isaiah 9. That these names would comfort a beleaguered people. So if we spend all of our time wrestling with doctrinal questions, if we spend all of our time debating theological nuance Are we going to come away comforted? Are we going to get anything out of that? So this morning we do have to wrestle with the truth of what is taught here. But more than that, we need to understand the message to us and the comfort that is found in the promised Messiah being everlasting Father. Give ear now and honor to the Word of God. Listen carefully as I read from Isaiah 9, verse 6 To us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called, Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Let's pray. Spirit of God, we ask for your help this morning, understanding this your word. What it is that you have said through the prophet so long ago. Help us to know it rightly. And help us to find in it the comfort that was intended for your people. For we need that even today. And so we pray in Christ's name. Amen. It was September of 2004. September of 2004. And one of the greatest pitchers in the history of baseball was shelled by the New York Yankees. In the post-game interview, he was asked for his own personal analysis of what went wrong. And he said that he thought he actually had pitched pretty well. And he said just on that day the Yankees were hitting good pitches. And then Pedro Martinez of the Boston Red Sox said a sentence that I'm going to bet he wished he could take back. He said, what can I say? I just tip my hat and call the Yankees my daddy. It's 20 years later, he's enshrined in the Hall of Fame in Canton, and he still will testify that when Yankees fans recognize him on the street, they ask him, who's your daddy? Mr. Martinez's choice of words reflects the reality that word daddy doesn't always mean daddy. And it's going to be key to our understanding of the passage in front of us. You see, on that September day, the Yankees hitters, they made Pedro Martinez, one of the all-time greats. looked like he was a little kid playing ball with his daddy in the backyard. And so he called them daddy. Not because of who they were in their person, but because of what they had done. By virtue of their doing and not of their being, they were his daddy. The breadth of the meaning of the word father is going to be key to understanding our passage this morning. So with that, as kind of the backdrop, we set the stage for what we're going to do Let's work our way up to that point. Before we get then to the content of the term, we need to give a few minutes and pay attention to the context of the term. the context in which Isaiah gives this phrase. You know, the first chapter of our confession of faith, the Westminster Confession, First chapter, paragraph nine, it gives us guidance on how to rightly understand the scriptures, particularly difficult texts like this one. It says the following. The infallible rule of interpretation of Scripture is the Scripture itself. And therefore, when there is a question about the true and full sense of any scripture Which is not manifold but one, it may be searched and known by other places that speak more clearly. Let the clear text interpret the difficult text. That's kind of a summary of what it's saying there. Supposed contradictions arise in the Bible only if you see the Bible as 66. separate texts, separate books, written by maybe 40 some odd different authors. If you imagine that some of it was written by Moses and some of it by Jeremiah And some of them by Peter, and if those are all distinct, then you might arise arrive at the conclusion that there are contradictions. But the confession says, no, the Bible is one text It's one book written by one author, the Spirit of God. And therefore, a difficult passage can be understood by looking at simpler passages. So in the spirit of the confession, let's consider what I would argue is probably the plainest, simplest text in all of the Bible. On this question of the Trinity. Now, we don't have time this morning to fully develop the Trinity. We don't have time in our lives to fully develop the Trinity. It is a complex mystery. But nevertheless, there are some places where it is laid forth plainly. The baptism of Jesus is probably the simplest, easiest place to go to consider the Trinity. At his baptism, the Spirit of God appears as a dove. Meanwhile, the Father from heaven makes a pronouncement. And what is the pronouncement? This is my son. Right there. You've got the Spirit, the Father, and the Son all present All in the same scene at the same time, and yet all clearly distinct from one another. This is not a case of the persons of the Trinity being blended and fused into one. No, they are distinct persons. Let that clear text Set guardrails for us as we consider the text in Isaiah. Isaiah, then, how do we think about what's going on? If we take that backdrop and go and look and focus in here on Isaiah 9, what do we find? Well, the first thing we find is that Isaiah 9 isn't really talking about the Trinity at all. In relation to the Godhead, the Messiah, the Christ, is the person of God, the Son. In other words, in relation to the Godhead, this text doesn't apply. It's not addressing Trinitarian issues. Isaiah is not teaching theology proper, the study of God. He is preaching rather on Christology, the study of the Christ, the study of the Messiah. He is teaching about the Messiah, not about the nature of the being of God. This text does not apply to a study of Trinitarianism. And to use it in that manner, to say that there is no Trinity, and that the Son and the Father are one in the essence of their being. is to misuse the text. Rather, Isaiah's discussion is in relation to Israel. This is addressed to the people of God. It's addressed to the church. It's meant to be a comfort for them And he's saying in relation to the church, in relation to Israel, this will be Father. This one will be everlasting thought. Not in how he relates to the other members of the Godhead, but in how he relates So in short, applying this passage to theology and Trinitarianism is to misapply this passage. It's not what it's about. Rather, it's about how the Messiah relates to us. Which brings us to the more important part of our study and where we're going to spend the bulk of our time. What is the content? of this term? What is the depth and breadth of the meaning of this phrase, everlasting Father? Well, we're going to begin first by looking at each word independently, and then we're going to look at how the two go together. So first of all, this question of everlasting. Let's look at this idea of what it means to be everlasting The reality is that we really kind of looked in some detail last Christmas at the idea of the everlasting nature of the incarnation. And so I don't want to spend a lot of time on that because we went last year we we took this up in some amount of detail, but I do want to touch on it briefly again this morning. So imagine with me that if there's a mouse that enters our building. We would say that that mouse came into our building. It has come into our building. But now imagine that she lives in our building for a while. She scavenges some things out of the kitchen. She gives birth to a litter or mouse litz. Is that a litter? I don't even know what to call a group of little baby mice. We're going to call them mouseelets and call them a litter of mice. She gives birth to these mouseelets in our church. We would speak of that second generation as being in our building But we would never speak of them as coming into our building. Why not? Because they didn't exist before. They never existed out there and then came in. Mama existed out there and came in. The babies just existed in here. Now why do I say that? Because Jesus constantly uses that phrase with regard to himself. I have come into the world. I came into the world. That verbiage, that wording, presupposes a pre-existence. It's not verbiage you would use of somebody who didn't exist in another situation and then come to be in this situation. Jesus saw himself As one who had an existence before he came into this world. He was everlasting. The person of God the Son existed before time. And then he took on the human nature which began at that first Christmas. It's also notable that the last two epithets in Isaiah 9. 6, they look different in your English Bibles. Their grammatical structure is different, but that's really a quirk of English. They are exactly the same in their grammatical structure in the original Hebrew. In other words, we could actually translate those two with exactly the same structure in English So you could read Everlasting Father, comma, peace prince. Put the noun second and the adjective first. We put Father second, we put everlasting before it. We could put prince second and put peace before it. But it also means this. You could easily write each of them in the other structure. Father of eternity, Prince of Peace. Both of those are completely valid translations. And it gives you some sense of what's going on here. This one who would come at Christmas was the father of eternity. When it says everlasting Father, don't imagine that that implies, well, from this point forward, he will last forever. He came to be at Christmas, but then will last forever. No, that's not the sense of the Hebrew text. He is the father of eternity. He is the one who existed beforehand. He predates dates. You know, before there was such a thing as yesterday's solstice, he was. He is the father of eternity. And he still exists. We've got to remind ourselves that the cross killed the human nature, but the person of the Messiah, the person of the Christ. He is everlasting. And because he is everlasting, and because the human nature was added to his person, and because that human per uh nature was perfect. He too is everlasting, having been raised from the dead. And so Jesus now resides in the presence of the Father while he and all the dead who are his await his return to the earth. Where he will reign for all eternity. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Well, how does the psalmist say it? From everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You see, the child that was promised to the prophet Isaiah is the father of eternity. He is everlasting father. He is everlasting. Now, to be sure, we can spend a lot more time on this, but we kind of sort of did last week. You see, last week we said the Christmas child was mighty God. And I think all of us hold with absolute conviction that God is necessarily everlasting. So I'm not going to spend more time on that aspect this morning. Rather, I want to move on to this question of the second word, Father. First of all, I think it's the part of this that gives us the most trouble, but it also is the part of this that offers the most comfort and hope. Sorry. And this is where we are going to fall back on our opening illustration of Pedro Martinez. You know, the Yankees hitters that day, they were not his daddy by virtue of their person, but rather because of their performance. The Messiah is not the person of God the Father. His fatherhood flows out of what he did, not who he is. Just as the Yankees were Pedro's daddy by virtue of their performance, they hit him like he was a little kid pitching to his p his pop. The Messiah is our Father because of what he has done to us and for us. And we're not going to be able to fully sound the depths of this amazing reality. But we can begin to comprehend something of the mystery pretty quickly and with great reward. So here are four ways, four aspects of how the one who came at Christmas is rightly regarded as father. First of all, he is a federal father, a federal father You know, in traditional cultures, the head of the family was the representative of the entire family. He was the federal head, in addition to being the biological and economic head. He spoke on behalf of the whole clan. and he uh uh after half of the whole clan. We see this at in the in the seconquest of the promised land When Aiken steals the material from Co. , he and his family are put to death as their representative, as their federal head. He sinned on their behalf and acted on their behalf. Adam was our federal head. He was the father of all of us in that sense. Not in a biological sense, but as our representative. He was, as our representative, whatever he did, he did on our behalf. Had he obeyed, we'd have all been blessed. Because he sinned, we all die Adam was the federal head of humanity. Now we've got we've not gotten this far in the book of Romans, in our study of Romans to see how Paul is going to expound on this point to make Christ the federal head of a new humanity. And I don't want to preach that sermon coming up in a few weeks. I don't want to pull it into now and preach it this morning. But I do want to point out that one of the ways that the Christ, the Messiah, can be regarded as Father is in his federal representation of a new humanity. He speaks on our behalf. He acts on our behalf. He represents us. What is true of him is true of us. He stands in our place as though we were there. The Christ can rightly be called a father because of his federal headship. That was the custom of families in that day, and it would be certainly one of the understandings of the people who received the prophecy of Isaiah initially. The crisis of federal Father. Secondly, the Christ is a founding father, a founding father. We often speak of founding figures as Father. That's very common in English. And it was also common in the Bible. If you were to turn to, you don't need to, turn to if you were to look at Genesis 4, you'd see two men. who are described as fathers who were not biological fathers. Jabel is said to be the father of all those who dwelled in tents, the father of nomads. Now, a careful analysis of the rest of the scriptures would tell you he is not the biological progenitor of all monads. Rather, he was the first person, notably, to live in this manner, and others imitated him, and so he became the father in that sense. His brother Jubal Cain is described as the father of all who play instruments. Again, many of the instrumentalists among us may not be able to trace their lineage back to Jubal Cain. But the point was that this was the first man who notably played instruments, who produced music of a memorable quality so that others took notice. And he is described as the father of all musicians. We certainly speak this way of our nation's founding fathers. Those who set up a system of government that we follow. We walk in their way, even if we're not biologically descended from them. And so if Herodotus is to be called the father of history, then it is appropriate to call Jesus the father of humanity's future. Blazing a path by which we might follow him to everlasting life. If Gregor Mendel is going to be called the father of genetics, Then Jesus can rightly be called the Father of a new and glorious inheritance, making us joint heirs of God's unfathomable riches. If Socrates is the father of philosophy, seeking truth through reason, then Jesus is the father of those who worship in spirit and in truth, finding truth in him. If Hippocrates can be called the father of medicine, then is not the great physician rightly called the father of all those who have their souls healed? And if Freud is the father of blaming your father, Jesus is the father of all humanity. Who in humility repent of their sin, turn from themselves, stop looking for help within, and begin to look for help by faith in him He is rightly called a federal father as the representative of a new humanity, but he is also rightly called a founding father. for the ways that he blazes and sets a new path for us that we can follow in. The Christ is also a functional father, a functional father. Not only does he represent a new humanity, but he adds to their number, gives rise to their existence, bearing them, if you will. As new spiritual children added to the family of God. Jesus is in this way the life-giver, the begetter of believers, the head of a new line of humanity. How does Jesus say it in John? He that has the Son has life. He is functionally our spiritual father. For it is in him that we have spiritual life. Just as our biological fathers are fathers by the fact that they gave us life, so he is our spiritual father. functionally speaking, giving us life. So he is in this regard a federal father. He is a founding father. He is functionally a father as the life giver. And he is A father figure. A father figure. We come at last to our sermon text marked in the bulletins. Please open your Bible if you have not already to Hebrews chapter 2, verses 10 through 13. If you're using that red pew Bible, it's on page 1188. Hebrews 2. 10, page 1188. Follow along now as I read these verses. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, there's a little taste of that everlasting that we saw in Isaiah. In bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation, and there's that hint of the founding father, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again I will put my trust in him. And again, behold I and the children God has given me. The wording of that last quotation is strange, and it is wonderful, and it is beautiful. Look at verses 11 and 12. They paint a fraternal picture of Jesus' relationship to believers. He's a brother. But then in verse 13, the relationship is portrayed as paternal. We are his children. It's the picture of a caring older brother, a caring sibling. who looks out for us, who watches over us, who teaches us, who protects us, who takes care of us as something of a second parent. In his defense against his friends, Job says it this way: I was a father to the needy, and I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know. Job's care for the poor was such that he could call himself the father of the needy. That's the sense of Hebrews 2. That Jesus' care for the children of God makes him the equivalent of a second father to us He is the big brother who would always look out for us, always protect us, always have our back. Isaiah, later in his own prophecy, is prophesying against the self-serving, self-seeking, evil kings of Jerusalem. And he talks about how God will depose those kings and raise up in their place a king who, quote, shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. You see, technically, by virtue of his place as the son, Jesus is our elder brother, our big brother. The first of the family of the people of God. But he is such a brother as we have never experienced in this life. His care for us is so tender and so compassionate and so attentive that he is like a second Heavenly Father to us. We have a heavenly father, to be sure. This is not a case of the Heavenly Father having died and left the church widowed, and therefore Jesus has to be step up. This is not a case of the heavenly father having abandoned the family and so the older brother has to do the best he can to keep the family afloat. No, this is a case of a heavenly father whose son is in his exact same image, who loves us every bit as much as the Heavenly Father does, whose care for us is every bit as rich, every bit is full, every bit is attentive. Whatever the horrors of your older brother, Jesus is none of those things. I am so glad my younger siblings are not here to testify about who I was But Jesus is the exact image of the Heavenly Father, and is therefore like a second father to us, Hebrews says. That's why the author of Hebrews could quote this verse that makes the people of God the children of Jesus. No, he is not the person of God the Father, but in his functioning toward us, he is utterly fatherly. Jesus is a federal father, he is a founding father, he is a functional father giving us life, and he is the ultimate father figure. The older brother who would never let anyone mess with us, who would give his life for us, who is as good as a second Heavenly Father. The Christ of Christmas is everlasting. The Christ of Christmas is a father. But we've got to put those two together. And understand what it means that he is an everlasting Father. It's astounding how often we will miss important things because of their simplicity. Because of their relative ease, we glance over them without stopping to ponder them. Nothing I'm about to say is going to be profound in and of itself. It's going to be exactly what you expect. If you take the concept of everlasting and you wed it to the concept of everlasting and you wed it to the concept of Father and you put the two together, we're going to get exactly the conclusions we ought to get. But that doesn't mean we should skip over them. That doesn't mean we shouldn't think about them. Quite the contrary. There's tremendous value in pondering these things. You see, if Jesus is an everlasting federal father, That means we will never be on our own. We will never be without him as our representative. There will never come a day when he will abandon us. We will never have to give an account for our own actions. We will never have to stand before the judge of all the world. and speak for ourselves. If he is an everlasting father, then he is an everlasting federal father, which means he is our perfect and eternal representative. So on the day of judgment, the ugliness of Scot Shaw, the the sin that is so deeply embedded in who I am, is not going to be on display for all to see because I am not going to have to stand and give it a account for myself. My federal Father Jesus is going to stand in my place as my representative. And he is going to say, I paid for his sins. They're all accounted for And I've given him my righteousness. He is good to go. And I won't have to face that on my own, nor will you. He is everlasting federal father. And since Jesus is the everlasting founding father, then the foundations will never be shaken. No one cares today who you might actually call the father of alchemy. Because alchemy doesn't matter to us anymore. It's gone. It's a non-issue. It's a non-science. Who cares? That's never going to be true of the church. There's never going to come a day when the foundation of this bride of Christ will fall. It may feel like it's falling in North America. It may feel like the church is caving in here. But it's only just beginning in China. And it's burgeoning in sub-Saharan Africa. There will never be a time on this earth where there is not a remnant for our God. His church will stand. The gates of hell will not prevail. Because he is the everlasting founding father. Our foundation is sure. We said that he was the functional father, the spiritual life-giver of a new line of humanity. And if he is the everlasting functional father, then that means there will always be new people, new human beings coming to faith. You do not have to worry about your witness to friends and family. Got an unbelieving family you're going to be with over the holidays? I'm not going to bother talking to them because nobody comes to Christ anymore. No. The father of life is still the father of life, and he still brings people into the church, and he is still giving spiritual life to those who are dead in their sin. And since Jesus is the everlasting father figure, his protection and care and concern will never End. There will not come a time that you cannot take your concerns to him in prayer, that you cannot Cry before him over your sin in his loving presence, that you cannot count on his advice or help or love. This is an older brother who will never be called off to the army and leave us without him. This is an older brother who will never abandon us. in the way that earthly father figures may have. This is an older brother who's father figure in our lives. Will never end. He is the older brother who loves you like a second father and who will never stop doing so. You see, there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord, and his name shall be called Everlasting Father. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. You, Lord Jesus, are Just profound and amazing to us in all that you are. As we begin to understand you in new ways, as we explore this idea that you are the older brother who loves us so much. That you are like a second father to us. It was a profound thing. We turn to you today Loving you new, loving you anew in a new way, understanding you in a new and a fresh way, desiring to walk in this truth in a new and fresh way. And we ask that you'd minister to us this morning. That we would go forward with the confidence that Jesus Christ is our everlasting Father. We pray this to you and through you and in your name. Amen.