You can turn in your Bibles if you'd like at this time to Luke chapter 5, and we'll take a look at that here in a few moments. Luke 5, we'll begin in a minute at verse 1. Before we turn our attention to Luke 5, I want to read for you from the prophet Isaiah, the Word of God, Isaiah 9, verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Wonderful counselor points primarily to the Messiah's humanity. He is a credible counselor, we saw last week, because he suffered as a human. His wisdom is to be trusted, since he navigated this life sinlessly as a human And it was as a human that he died on the cross that we human beings might be healed. The wonderful counselor is a wonderful human. And so it's striking that Isaiah juxtaposes wonderful counselor with mighty God. This promised Messiah is to be both man and God, mortal and immortal, human and being. We're going to look at this this morning through several texts, but as I mentioned, we're going to focus first and foremost with Luke 5. Join me now, following along as I read Luke 5, beginning in verse 1. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on Jesus to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret. better known as the Sea of Galilee. And he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and talked to people from the boat. And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, that is Peter Put out into the deep and let your net and let down your nets for a catch of fish. And Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing But at your word, I will let down the nets. And I'll pause there. But at your word Peter has come to grips with Jesus, the counselor. Because you say it, I will do it. I will heed your advice. Remember, we saw last week that obedience in this life is the principal indicator of saving faith. Because it indicates those who trust Jesus with the here and now are likely to be the ones who are trusting Jesus with their eternity. And because Peter has come to grips with this idea, because he has come to a point of trusting Jesus and following his instruction in this life. Something amazing is going to be revealed to him, affirming his faith. Let's pick up in verse 6. And when they had done this, that is put out, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Go away from me, O Lord, for I am a sinful man. Let's pray. Spirit of God, reveal to us the message of this text. Show us the mighty God Who resides today even in the body of Jesus of Nazareth, who is joined with human flesh to become the God man who is our Savior, who does redeem those who have faith in him and draw them to himself. Let us see him for who he is, to the degree that we are able to understand helpless to do so. And in the mystery and in the things that we can't comprehend, give us faith to cling to your word and hold to your truth. Because it is true. We pray this in his name. Amen. Noted New Testament scholar Bart Ehrman, professor at North Carolina University, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. He reflects a position that is held by a lot of people when he argues that Jesus never claimed to be God. Jesus never claimed to be God. Now, in one sense, that's kind of true. Jesus never said the sentence, I am God. But that ought to send up a red flag in your mind. You ought to be thinking to yourself, wait a second, Pastor, all of Christianity rest. on this idea of Jesus being God. The question of his deity is central to our faith. You see, we worship Jesus Something we should not do if he is not God. And more than that, if Jesus was not God, then he cannot possibly be the fulfillment of Isaiah 9. 6. And Isaiah 9 is clearly recognized by everyone as a messianic passage. So if Jesus is not God, he's not the Messiah And if he's not the Messiah, he can't save us. And if he can't save us, what are we doing here? And of course When Professor Bart Ehrman came to the conclusion that Jesus never claimed to be God, he quit going to church. It's the only logical thing to do if you come to that position. So we have to be prepared to answer that question. We heard earlier how the shepherds went and told others what they had been told about the child. If someone came to you and said Jesus never claimed to be God, could you defend his deity? Could you show how Jesus himself said he was God? Of course, Jesus never introduced himself that way. There is no verse you can point to. He never walks up to anybody and says, hi, what's your name? My name is Yahweh. But nevertheless, it's there. Jesus claimed to be God. Think about it for a moment. So far as I'm aware, I may be wrong about this, but so far as I'm aware, Tom Brady has never claimed to be football's goat, the greatest of all time So does that mean he's not the best football player ever? Well, of course it doesn't mean that. Most football observers, most football historians, fans, even Boston hating fans. have got to admit that this guy is the greatest of all time. He can lay claim to seven Super Bowl titles. When he retired from the game, he was the owner of 17 NFL records in various important categories. He never said he was the greatest of all time. That doesn't make it not so Jesus never actually said, I am God. But that doesn't mean he didn't assert himself as the deity. So we're going to look at nine ways that Jesus did lay claim to deity. The first two of these are going to come directly out of our reading, our scripture reading from Luke 5. The first thing we see is that Jesus demonstrated divinity through signs and wonders. The first way that Jesus lays claim to deity is by what he did. Tom Brady has ever claimed to be the greatest player, but what he did established him as the greatest football player. Jesus never said, I am God. But in John chapter 10, there's an interesting discussion that's happening. Jesus is walking in the temple. And uh uh uh uh John tells us he was walking in in the place called the Colonnade of Solomon, and we read this. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Now, Jesus responds, I told you, and you do not believe. And some of them were probably getting ready to go, wait a second, when did you ever tell us? But he cuts them off and says this, as this: the works that I do in my father's name bear witness. about me. Talk is cheap. The Roman emperors claimed to be gods. Even the kings of the small nations surrounding Israel, they claimed to be gods Jesus made no such explicit claim. Rather, he did God things. He actually took the more difficult and impressive path to establishing his deity. It's one thing to say, I am a God. It's another thing to have power over creation. We look back at the last line of our New Testament reading. After Jesus ordered the sea to be calm, what do we read? The disciples were filled with great fear. You actually know the Greek word there, mega. A whole lot of fear, and said to one another, Who then is this? That even the wind and the sea obey him? The twelve were in that moment coming to grips with the fact that the the man they were following, the rabbi that had called them, was something more than just merely a man. In time it would dawn on them that he was God. And to be sure, that is exactly what was happening in our sermon text that we read. After using Peter's boat as a platform from which to preach Jesus says to Peter, hey, let's go fishing. We read it. Peter kind of reluctantly agrees, okay, I'll guess I'll go. You heal my mother-in-law, I should give you the benefit of the doubt. And Peter goes and they go fishing and they shove off into the lake and they catch more than their boats can hold. And amid all of this, Peter realizes that he's just witnessed divinity in action. The one in front of him is no mere man, but is also God. Jesus demonstrated that he was the mighty God in the things he did. Which leads us right into our second way that we that that the text demonstrates that Jesus was God. He accepted worship. Jesus accepted worship. Now to understand why this is a big deal, let me set the stage. Let me step back a little bit in time and go to an earlier event in Jesus' life. When he's tempted in the wilderness, when Satan comes to him and says, Bow down to me, Jesus quotes Deuteronomy 6. 13. Jesus says to him You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Unless we're led astray, the word serve is a common synonym, synonym in the biblical languages for worship. That's why we call this a worship service. So to worship and serve to mean the same thing. Jesus says You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve. Jesus clearly understood the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me. And yet something amazing happens in this boat. When Peter falls at Jesus' feet, Jesus doesn't correct him. Doesn't lift him up, doesn't rebuke him, doesn't in any way dissuade him from worshiping. Jesus accepted worship Even though he knew that only God was to be worshipped. After he walked on the water, we read that the twelve worshiped him, and they said, Truly you are the Son of God. We've got to constantly remind ourselves that in that culture, the son was co-equal with the father. In a family, the son, the eldest son, that firstborn son, had all the rights legally of the father. make decisions on behalf of the father and on behalf of the family, could could execute uh legal actions on behalf of the estate. To be the son was to be co-equal with the father. Or to think of it in a more modern term, to be the son of a Shah is to be a Shah. To be the son of God is to be God. We throw that term around a bit more casually nowadays. We talk about how everybody is a child of God But that's not what is being talked about here. This is not an adoption. Yes, we are children of God by adoption. This is a natural child. To be called the Son of God in that culture was to be called a God, and Jesus accepted it. What do we read of what happens in the tomb, I'm sorry, not in the tomb, at the tomb, outside of the tomb, on that first uh Easter morning. The women fall down and worship Jesus, and he accepts it. And let's not forget, it's Christmas time. How did his life begin? What did we read about as we lit the third candle? That the shepherds went and worshipped him. The magi will come and worship him. His life on this earth began by being worshipped. And not at any point was that ever uh turned away or set aside or the people told not to do it. Jesus clearly saw himself as worthy of receiving worship. And at this point, we don't have to go any further. We could quit at this point. You really are in a position of there is no neutral ground with regard to Jesus. He is either a complete crank who was deceiving everybody and was blasphemous as the Jewish leaders said he was. Or he is God, and we need to bow before him. That's really the only two options. But we go on. The third way that Jesus identified himself as God is that he affirmed those who called him God. Besides accepting worship, besides affirming the worship, he affirmed those who called him God. Thomas, when he touches Jesus' wounds and recognizes who it is, what does he cry out? My Lord and my God. And Jesus accepts it. He doesn't deny it. He doesn't say, no, Thomas, you got it wrong. No, you've misunderstood. It's worth noting Peter's wording in the boat. After the catch of fish, what does Peter say? Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. Now some some will argue That in that culture, the word Lord could be used as a generic honorific. And it can. We have to acknowledge that. If I call you Sir I'm not pretending that you've been knighted. There's a technical meaning to the word sir, and then there's a general use of it as an honorific title. And that's true of Lord as well But it is worth noting that's not how the passage opens. At the beginning, at the top of the text, Peter doesn't call Jesus Lord, he calls him boss, master, chief. And he switches. It's also worth noting the context in which he switches. After seeing the miracle, he falls before, he bows at the feet of. So in the physical position of worship, Peter takes the word, he doesn't use the word master, he uses the word Lord. And then we remind ourselves that Lord is what the Jews had been using for several hundred years in place of the proper name of God. If you look at the Bible called the Septuagint, the Bible that Peter and Jesus would have read from and would have been using, over 200 times it has the word Lord in place of the name of. God. Peter is bowing in worship, and he says the name of God. You are Lord. You are Yahweh. You are the true God. And again, Jesus doesn't scold him Later on, when Peter will get it wrong, what it means to be the Messiah, Jesus goes after him big time. Get behind me, Satan. No such correction here. What Peter says stands. In Luke 22, in the midst of his trial, others would accuse him and call him God, or say that he claimed to be God, and he would simply say, It is as you have said. He affirms it when others call him God. Number four, Jesus forgave sin. Peter's response in the boat is worth pointing out again, because it brings us to this other aspect of how Jesus claimed to be God. Peter, when he recognizes Jesus as God, is immediately attentive to his sin. Get away from me, O Lord, for I am a sinner. Later on in that same chapter, down a little further in Luke chapter 5, we have the story, you probably remember it, we have the story of the four friends who tear the roof off the house. So they can lower their buddy down through while Jesus is teaching in this crowded place, and they lower their paralytic buddy on a mat down in, and they're hoping that Jesus will heal him physically. But Jesus instead heals him. Spiritually. He says, son, your sins are forgiven. Now to be sure, we can forgive some sin. If I sin against you, you can forgive me. But we cannot forgive all sin generically in a blanket statement. For the psalmist reminds us in Psalm 51, against you and you only have I sinned, O Lord. The psalmist reminds us that sin is first and foremost, not an offense against our brother or sister. It is first and foremost an offense against God. And the only one who has a right to forgive sins in that blanket way is God Himself. And the opponents of Jesus recognize it. The moment that uh Jesus forgives the young man's sins, the people in the crowd begin to whisper to each other, who does he think he is? Only God can forgive sin. Jesus claimed to be God by forgiving sin. Number six, Jesus claimed divine authority I've skipped one, I'm sorry. Number five, Jesus claimed divine attributes. Besides performing the activities of God and his miracles, besides forgiving sin Jesus claimed the attributes of God. In John 17, he says he existed before creation, that he has eternality, which only God has. In Matthew 25, he sets himself up as the judge of all the world, a prerogative that belongs only to God. In Matthew 28, he says he is omnipresent, a characteristic that is only true of God. All of these are God qualities, and all of them are things that Jesus claimed for himself. He clearly saw himself as mighty God. Number six, Jesus claimed divine authority, not just the attributes, but also the authority. The rabbis of Jesus' day, like pastors today, they spoke not in their own authority, but in the authority of God's Word, in the authority of the Scriptures. But Jesus preached differently. Jesus took an entirely different approach to the Scripture Mark tells us in chapter 1, and they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, Who is this? A new teaching with authority. Now, what did the authority of Jesus look like? You know one of the reasons that we print most of our scripture text in the bulletin, but not the sermon text? You know why that is It's so that you have it open in front of you. So that you can see the context. So that you can look a little higher up and a little further down to make sure that the man in this pulpit is being faithful to that text. Because I have no authority to go beyond what the Bible says. But what do we hear in Matthew chapter 5 in the Sermon on the Mount? Five times Matthew records Jesus saying the following. You have heard it said, but I tell you. You have heard it said, do not murder. But I tell you, anyone who hates his brother in his heart has already committed murder Five times Jesus feels free, as if he actually has the right to change how we understood the law. He preached with the authority of God. And don't miss the fact that at his departure at the Great Commission, what does he say to the twelve? All authority in heaven and on earth has been given me One of the most powerful people to ever live, Mao Zetong of China, had almost absolute authority over everyone who lived in that country. But at the time, China made up about 20% of the world's population. One of the most authoritative people that have ever lived had at best authority over about 20% of the world's population. Jesus alone says, all authority. Not even just all authority on the earth, but all authority in heaven and on the earth is given to me. Only God can make that claim. He is either a crank who needs to be ignored and blotted out from human history, or he is mighty God. It's one of those. Jesus demonstrated his divinity through signs and wonders. He accepted worship. He affirmed the statements of divinity that others made about him. He forgave sins, he claimed divine attributes, and he claimed divine authority. Six ways that Jesus claimed to be God We're closing in now on the last three. They are the ones that I would argue are perhaps the most significant, the most important, the most profound claims of his deity. And they were also amazingly bold, so much so that we're going to see how the people of his day responded. Number seven, Jesus claimed equality with God. We already read in John 10 about the account in the temple courts. Later on in that same passage, down to verse 30, Jesus says, I and the Father are one. Now, a lot of people have tried to explain that away. Jesus was speaking metaphorically. He was talking about they have oneness of purpose. He was talking about they were one in the sense of, you know, working really well together, but that's not how his audience understood him. Let me read more of it. John 10, starting in verse 30. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones to stone him. Jesus answered them, I've shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answers him, it is not for a good work that we're going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God. They earned what he was saying. He was claiming to be God when he said, I and the Father are one Now, it's interesting when unfolds in the verses that follow, Jesus doesn't try to backpedal. He doesn't try to correct their understanding. He doesn't say, no, no, you got me wrong. I didn't mean it that way. Just the opposite. He actually quotes Old Testament scriptures that point to the plurality of God. That point to the fact that there's a Trinitarian nature of God. He doesn't backpedal from his claim. He reinforces it. And they came after him hard And John says he hid himself, implying that he did so miraculously. Two more on our list. Number eight, Jesus claimed, I am The name of God. You'll recall at the burning bush, Moses is finally convinced that he's got to be the spokesman for God. After a whole lot of back and forth and arguing, Moses finally gives in and says, okay, fine. Whom shall I say has sent me? What am I going to tell you tell them your name is? God says from the bush, tell them, I am that I am. And that the bush, God through the bush, tells Moses is to be my name by which I am known throughout all the generations. I am. And it's from where we get the Hebrew name of God, Yahweh. I am. In John 8, Jesus and the Jewish leadership are having yet another dispute. And in this dispute, the Jewish leadership It says, starts talking about the fact that we know, we know who our father is. Don't lose sight of the significance of that at Christmas time. What are they doing? They're kind of reminding the crowd. Wink, wink, nudge, nudge. This guy's a bastard. He didn't know who his daddy is. His mommy was pregnant before she got married. They're calling Jesus out. They say, we know who our father is. And they say our father was Abraham. We're the children of Abraham. And Jesus says, if you were the children of Abraham, if Abraham was your father, then you'd believe me because Abraham believed me. And they're like, whoa, wait a second. You ain't even 50 years old. How could you have possibly met Abraham? And how could Abraham possibly have believed you? And in John 8:58, Jesus says, Before Abraham was, I am. And they go berserk. They knew exactly what he was doing. He was saying, I am. He was claiming the very name of God. He wasn't taking a title of God. He wasn't taking to himself a role of God. He was taking the proper name of God. I am. And they picked up stones yet again to stone him, and yet again he hid himself because it was not yet his turn to die. A lot of the accounts of the deity of Jesus would re look at those eight. A lot of them would either end there with the I am statement or they might begin with it as the the big one. and and go down from it or they'll build up to it. Both of those are completely appropriate to do. But I want to actually tack on one more. Because I think it ties last week and this week together. Our ninth and final way that Jesus claimed to be God. is in what he called himself most often. Of all the things the scripture uses to identify Jesus, the book of Acts, he's usually referred to as Jesus of Nazareth. Many of the writers would refer to him as the Son of God. John refers to him as the Son of God a lot. But the term that Jesus used for himself. Is profoundly telling. More than any other, he calls himself son of man. Son of man And we have to understand the significance of that. When we see him call himself Son of Man, I'm going to look just at some samples from Matthew, from the Gospel of Matthew. I'm not going to look at all the other Gospels for the sake of time. And I apologize to the note takers, not all of these got into the bulletins. So we have in Matthew 9, Matthew's version of the account of the paralytic being lowered through the roof. And Jesus says to them, so that you know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins. He calls himself the Son of Man and associates that with authority. In Matthew 12, Jesus is speaking again of himself, and he says, the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. What a bold thing to say! I have control over the very day set aside to worship God. Matthew 16. And here we begin to see even a little more clearly how Jesus uses this self-identifier. He speaks of how the Son of Man will come with his angels in the glory of his Father. Now, is Son of Man a claim to being human? Sure. All of those people in that house, when that guy came through the roof When Jesus said the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins, everybody in that house could say, Well, I'm the Son of Man. I have a human father and a human mother. I'm a child of man. Everybody could say that But who can claim to have an entourage of angels? The Son of Man will come with his angels in the glory of his Father. In the very next verse, Jesus says, the Son of Man will come in his kingdom. In Matthew 19, he says, In the new world, the Son of Man will sit on his throne in glory. In Matthew 24, the coming of the Son of Man will be accompanied by lightning which stretches from the east to the west. Still in Matthew 24, Jesus says that all the tribes of the earth, quote, will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and grace. And finally, in Matthew 25, Jesus speaks of the Son of Man coming in his glory and all the angels with him. Then he will sit on his glorious throne. Son of man is the term Jesus uses most often of himself, and it speaks of his humanity. But it speaks of his humanity in bizarre ways. It speaks of humanity with this emphasis on authority, on kingdom, on glory, on thrones. Twice he mentions clouds when he uses the term son of man. Twice he mentions heaven when he uses the term son of man. In other words, Jesus was consistently taking the phrase son of man. Applying it to himself and linking it to Daniel 7, our Old Testament reading. Flip back in your bullets into page six, looking at Daniel 7, our Old Testament reading. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven. There came one like a son of man. Why does Daniel say like? Is it what he was not really a human being? No, it's that Daniel can't make sense of this, which by the way he admits later in the text. Daniel admits that he couldn't make sense of what he was seeing. Because it makes no sense that a human being would walk up to the throne of God, that a human being would approach the Ancient of Days. Moses was spared. Moses asked to see God, and God went, no, no, no, no. If I do that, you're going to drop dead. Isaiah sees God and is afraid he's going to drop dead. Anza don't even see God. He just touches the box that holds the presence of God. And he drops dead. You don't see God and live when you are a human being, merely a human being. And for sure you don't walk up to the throne of God. But Daniel says, and this is why Daniel says, if one like a son of man, I sure look like a human being to me, but I can't make sense of what happens next. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And if the next words were, and he was struck dead, I think Daniel would have made sense of it all. But the next words Daniel couldn't comprehend. And to him was given dominion. And Glory, another one of those key words Jesus uses. And a kingdom, another of Jesus' key words, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Another reference Jesus makes to this passage. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom shall uh kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Daniel couldn't make sense of what he saw. But Jesus uses the term Son of Man and links it back to this passage over and over and over and over again. And he is making the argument: I am that human being. I am the one who can go to the throne of the ancient of days. And not only will I survive that encounter, but I'm going to be given a kingdom. And a throne, and an everlasting dominion, and power, and authority, and glory None of which befalls a mere human being. Jesus may never have said the sentence, I am God. But he clearly claimed to be mighty God. So what? So what? Well it would take years to answer the so what question, to fully delve into what it means to be mighty God is not something we can do in the time that remains, or in my life, let alone this service. But it does remind us of this. A wonderful financial counselor might tell you how to invest your life savings. But he or she cannot prevent the next stock market crash happening a week before you intended to retire. The world's top legal counsel cannot keep someone from uh uh uh filing nuisance lawsuits against you. You see, the wonderful counselor guides us in living this life. Mighty God controls this life. And mighty God guarantees the path to the next life. Jesus is a man, but he is also God. Mighty in power, able to save, able to bring us home to him, able to bring all of history to the conclusion that he has promised. The one who is our mighty, our our wonderful counselor is also mighty God. Let's pray. Lord, help us to see this truth and be reminded of the awe that it ought to inspire, the confidence that it ought to build, the faith that it ought to uh uh spur in us, that we would see you not only as this amazing friend, this accessible counselor, this wonderful helper, but that we would also Be afraid. That we would have a fear of the Lord that prompts wisdom within us. the wisdom to trust you, the wisdom to have faith in you, the wisdom to tell what we know about you. As we prepare to meet with family, as we prepare to go to office parties and work parties. Help us to be like those shepherds, sharing with everyone what we know to be true of that baby. That He is mighty God. We pray for this grace in our lives. To the glory of your name. Amen.