In his introduction to the book of Romans, Paul promised that he was bringing to the Roman church and to us. A message of good news, a message of the gospel, and yet everything he has said since has been anything but good news. He has offered perhaps that which is technically news, but it has not been good. He has managed to blast one group of people after another. First, he went after those who are just utterly wicked in the way they live their lives as proof that God has just given them over to the wickedness of their hearts. And then he went after the one who imagines themselves to be a good person, but who is not a godly person, one who does not follow God and he said they too stand condemned. He then addressed the the religious person. The Jew at that time might be the the average churchgoer in our day today. And he said that even they were not in good standing with God just by virtue of who they were And in fact, nothing so far that we have read in Romans would be anything that constitutes good news. If you're listening to Paul, if you're following his logic, that he's gone from those out there who are really wicked, to those out there who see themselves as good, to those in here who at least practice some form of religion, he has said that each stands condemned before God. And you might be tempted to retort with that old line, well we can't all be wrong. Can eight point two billion people all be wrong? And Paul is going to say today, absolutely. There will still be no good news. The letter of Romans is still not going to turn that corner that gives us any sense of hope. And in fact, it's going to heap on us that sense of doom. That yes, in fact, all 8. 2 billion people can stand condemned before God. Romans chapter 3 this morning. We're looking at Romans chapter 3, verses 1 through 20. It's on page 1118 of that Pew Bible in front of you if you're wishing to use that. Romans 3, verses 1 to 20. Before we delve into this, let's ask the Holy Spirit to guide us. Spirit of God, save us from any delusion that we might have about ourselves. As you set the record straight before us today, help us see this truth. That we might hope in Christ alone and in no other. We pray this in His name. Amen. Romans chapter 3, let's remind ourselves of where we left off in chapter 2. One of the things we have learned is that Romans is this continuous stream of logic. We can't jump into the one place without a good sense of where we are. So to help remind us of how chapter two ended, let me offer this illustration. Imagine there are two cities vying for an NFL franchise. This thing actually happens rather recently, rather frequently, I mean. One of those cities builds a beautiful state of the art stadium It has the poshiest of amenities. It has got the splashiest technology. It's got this transcendent architecture. And the other city offers none of that. So what's going to happen? Well you need only ask the cities of San Diego and Los Angeles what'll happen. It was not that long ago that the Chargers moved from San Diego to LA for precisely that reason. Los Angeles built a six billion dollar stadium, SoFi Stadium, and it attracted two franchises, actually, one from St. Louis and one from San Diego. to move there to Los Angeles. You see, the City of LA went all in on its efforts to to provide all the trappings, all the amenities, all the outward show of lavishing upon these franchises their love. In Paul's day, Jews had all the outward splash. They went all in to impress God They wore the zitzi, those little tassels on their clothes. They had the phylacteries on their foreheads. They had God's name on their temple. They bore the mark of his covenant in their own bodies. They went so far as to abstain from bacon and crab cakes. If that's not commitment, I don't know what is They went all out to impress, to show commitment, like the city of Los Angeles. And what do you expect to have happen? You expect the relationship to be consummated, to be fulfilled, to expect it to come to a completion. The Jews had gone off, they had put on a a wonderful display of religiosity They had met every show of support for God by what they wore, by what they ate, by how they worshipped. Yet Paul closed chapter 2 by saying that a Gentile who kept the law, though he had none of those outward things, He was in better standing before God than the observant Jew who did not keep the law. Now, can you imagine the outrage, the lawsuits, if Los Angeles had built SoFi Stadium at a cost of six billion dollars? And the chargers had not moved there? That's the sort of outrage Paul has sparked at the close of Romans 2. What? We've done all this? We've sacrificed not just our animals, but everything We don't eat what we would prefer to eat. We don't wear what we prefer to wear. We don't live in the ways that we might prefer to live. And now you're saying that God isn't impressed, that he doesn't care about any of that? What was the point, Paul? Why did we bother? And so Paul's discourse with his imagined opponent picks up right there in chapter 3, verse 1. Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Why did we bother? We're all dressed up with no place to go. Is there any good to being a Jew? Much in every way, Paul says in verse 2. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What advantage is there to being a Jew is in having the Word of God? You see, the one who has the word of God has God. We cannot forget the word, the creative power of the word of God. He spoke into existence that which did not exist. He didn't make this world out of pre-existing materials He's not like a kid with Lego bricks that takes apart one thing to build another. No, there was nothing, and by his speaking everything came to be. The word of God is power. Jesus demonstrated that by speaking life into Lazarus. And Paul's point here is that Jews have the Word of God. Which means they can have God. By His Word, He speaks Himself into our lives. He makes Himself real to us and alive to us. Not in the sense that he wouldn't have otherwise been real, but in the sense that he becomes known to us, revealed to us. And Paul is saying that's the advantage of being a Christian, of being a member of the covenant family of God But you have his word. You have his revelation in your life. Now, when we ignore that, when we imagine God to be something he is not, when we make him out to be what we wish he would be, what we would prefer that he be We negate the power of that word in our lives. We take away the advantage of being part of his covenant family. And so Paul continues. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? Okay, Paul, if circumcision has value only for the Jew who keeps the law, and if the oracles of God are an advantage only to the Jew who allows God to speak through them. Then are God's covenants limited by us as people? Do we have the power to keep God from saving anyone? That's basically what's being asked there. And Paul answers it emphatically in verse 4: By no means. Let God be true though everyone were a liar. 8. 2 billion people can all be wrong if they all conclude that God will not keep his covenant to Israel, to his chosen people. God will always do what is right. And to prove this, Paul then quotes Psalm 51, 4. As it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. If we're going to understand this quote, we've got to put it into context. Psalm 514 is obviously part of Psalm 51. Psalm 51, you may recall, is the confession of David of his sin in his affair that he had with Bathsheba. David is Israel in microcosm. Israel had a covenant relationship with God. David had a covenant relationship with God. Israel had sinned against that God. David had sinned against that God. And so what we see happen in David's life is this little miniature picture of what happens when covenant people go astray. That is the argument that Paul is making here. Now, in the moment, if you remember what the covenant to David was, it was that he would have a son who reigned eternally on his throne. Do you remember what happened to the son he had with Bathsheba? That son did not live eternally. That son didn't live out the week. But died as a baby. And in that moment, it would have looked like God had not kept his covenant with David It would have looked like God had been unfaithful because David was unfaithful. Is that the case? Is that what's going on here? Quite the contrary. Of course that's not the case. You see, we struggle to handle, our society cannot handle, the sexual sins of powerful men. From the Me Too movement to the recorded admissions of presidential candidates, we just don't know what to do when men in power are sexually perverse, when they are sexually abusive. Yet we have to nod our heads and agree that day God did what was right with regard to David While we don't know how to handle that, God clearly did. He did not let David off the hook. There was no wink, wink, nudge, nudge. There was no sense of, well, you know, boys will just be boys God held David accountable, even King David. And we have to admit that that was the right thing to do, and that's kind of Paul's point here. Is that in the judgment of David, we admit did the right thing. In other words, it's not wrong for God to covenant partners accountable for their sin. And in fact, we would have condemned God for not condemning David. The very fact that he held David accountable shows us That God is truly righteous and truly just. And Paul is by extension making the argument to all the covenant people of Israel, to the Jews themselves. That if you break the terms of the covenant, God is not obligated to just be nice to you In fact, his justice requires that he punish you, that he discipline you. We read in Sunday school this morning about how the fact that God disciplines those who are genuinely his children, and God should do so here. In light of this verse and of the geopolitics that we are involved in at this time, probably a The application point that needs to be made quickly, more of this will come in chapter eleven in Romans, but very briefly right here. You know, uh uh uh uh despite the the Gentile takeover of the church, even in the time of the book of Romans, God still has a plan and a place for Israel. They are still his covenant people. So to be wholesale anti-Israel, anti-Jewish is to put oneself on the wrong side of God's future plans? And yet if God did not let David slide, but punish his transgressions, do we imagine that God today will overlook any national atrocities of Israel? You see the tension? Israel does not get a free pass to sin simply because they are Israel, but neither should we imagine that Israel is not important to God. Again, we will come back to more of that in chapter Back now to Paul's argument in verse 5. But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unjust to inflict wrath on us? I speak here in a human way. You see, Paul knows his quotation from 51, Psalm 51 raises a philosophical question Namely, that in a certain way, David's sin glorified God. Think about it. In all the surrounding nations of ancient Israel Kings were gods unto themselves. They were deities incarnate. And so by definition, what they did couldn't be wrong. But not so in Israel. In Israel, the king was not above the law. In Israel, the king was not a god unto himself. In Israel, the king was answerable to the God, and the God of Israel held David accountable. David, the boy who was so brave that he fought off lions and bears to protect his father's sheep, the boy who was so faith-filled that he would take on a giant and win. The one who would become the warrior king of Israel, the champion of God's people, the one who would be the psalmist, the hymn writer of the ancient Church of Israel. That David didn't get a free pass. God held him accountable. And every Joe in Israel would have been amazed. Our God is not like the gods of the surrounding nations. Our God is truly just. He is truly righteous. He is indeed the Holy One of Israel. And Paul's audience of this letter. The recipients of the of the letter to the Romans, they were good Presbyterians. They were sitting there thinking to themselves, if our chief end is to glorify God, and if David's sin did that, Then why does God punish sin? Doesn't our sin accomplish exactly what we're supposed to accomplish? The glory of God? Of course, this will be answered several times over in the book of Romans, but for now he says in verse 6, by no means. For then, how could God judge the world? He appeals to three things that are just axiomatic for a Jew. First of all, that their God is the judge of the world. Secondly, that the judge of the world must necessarily be just, or he is not worthy to be the judge. And finally, that a just and righteous judge will truly condemn the wicked, the guilty, period. The idea that God would let our sins slide because it glorified him somehow, is utterly rejected. Verse 7 continues the thought from a slightly different angle. But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still condemned as a sinner? You know, the fool who opens his mouth in the company of the wise, by comparison, makes the wise look wiser. So is he less of a fool? Has he, by his stupidity, actually glorified wisdom, and therefore he expresses some wisdom himself, and therefore we should let the fool off the hook? No! That's not how it works, Paul says. You can't lie so that there's a contrast for God's goodness and his truth and his righteousness, and then somehow claim that as okay. The way he fram, he doesn't even bother to answer this question, okay? He frames it up. It's a rhetorical question, framed in such a way that the answer is obviously no. And it continues in verse 8. And why not do evil that good may come? As some people slanderously charge us with saying, their condemnation is just Paul has stepped out of the philosophical realm, out of the conceptual realm, out of the hypothetical realm, and has stepped back into the real world for a brief moment. We find a thread through the writings of Paul that he apparently was routinely accused of preaching grace to an extent That it gave the appearance that he had a licentiousness to him, that he was willing to promote sin. And he is saying that is not at all what we are saying. Do not imagine for one second that my message of grace somehow permits sin. I would say to you, dear brothers and sisters, take heed here. For whatever reason This illness seems to be found more often in our reformed denominations. There are some who will practice and even brag about their licentious nature As a means of proving how much they are hoping and trusting in grace. That is forbidden. That is anathema. Paul is saying, let that never be said of us. And he is so confident that that's not what he's preaching, that he says, anybody who claims that that is what we're preaching, they should be condemned. Their condemnation is just. In these eight verses, Paul has shown us the value of being a Jew. The advantage of being part of the covenant community is that you have the Word of God. Israel has a covenant relationship with God, and those that is an advantage. But he's going to go on to say that he's already said one must never imagine that on that basis alone God is just going to overlook our sins. God is righteous. That has been his theme over these first two and a half, three chapters. is to drive home the point. He said in chapter 1, verses 16 and 17 that a righteousness from God is being revealed. And he is trying to make clear that the one who is truly righteous truly judges, and all those who are sinners will be judged accordingly. His argument has been that all y'all, no matter who you are, are sinners, and that your condemnation is just Justice is righteousness. God is righteous, so God ought to condemn all sinners, whether they are part of the covenant household or not. So for the better part of three chapters, this has kind of been his point over and over and over again And the conclusion we've just reached that the covenant recipients like David and deserve condemnation, if that is so, then by logical extension it applies to each and every one of us 8. 2 billion people can all be wrong, which is the point now Paul now brings home powerfully. Picking up in verse nine. What, then? Are we Jews better off? Not with regard to salvation. No, not at all. For we have already charged that all both Jews and Greeks are under sin, as it is written in Psalm 14 and Psalm 53 None is righteous. No, not one. Pay attention to the pronouns He's going to change them up in a few moments, but right here he's using singular pronouns. No, not one person. Individually, all of us are flawed. You remember the standard we saw two weeks ago of God's righteousness, of his perfection? It was absolute God will not eat what we called a cat box brownie. Any sin pollutes. And Paul is saying if you search all the world, you will not find a truly righteous person. Not true and true. The Dalai Lama, well he comes off as easy, laid back, never gets in any arguments with anybody But you can't deny the true God and be righteous before the true God, no matter how serene you might appear. Jimmy Carter, hey, habitats for humanity are definitely a good thing, but even President Carter was quick to admit his own sins, to confess them before God. Some of y'all, maybe all y'all, think Becky's pretty amazing saint because she lives with me. And she is. But even she's not perfect. There is no one righteous, not in the absolute state declared by God. Now, some are very righteous, some are more righteous than the rest of us, but in the final judgment, God does not grade on a curve. It is not a relative scale, it is absolute. By that judgment, none is righteous. No, not one. Eight point two billion people can Are all wrong. And in verse 11, Paul emphasizes that this is not merely a rhetorical device, but he focuses now on the individual reality. He goes so far as to say, no one understands. Everybody's mind is polluted by sin. No one seeks God. That's a profound statement. For all the world's religions sure appear to be seeking God. They try, they look like they're trying to find God. But when you look closely Every religion of man is trying to find something that will come off as God. But still let us be okay. Let us be our own means of salvation. We will create these godlike figures, but there will be that little nuance. If we just please that enough, we can save ourselves If we just do this or that enough, we can redeem ourselves. In the final analysis, there is no one who pursues the real God. On their own. Because the real God has a standard of righteousness that we know we cannot live up to. No one seeks after God. Verse 12, all have turned aside pursuing these false gods. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. It was a difficult truth. And yet it's a truth that's confirmed even by the pagan religions of our world. There's the famous yin and yang symbol, that little circle of black and white swirls chasing each other around. The white, the light, the dark, the black, the darkness. And what do they show in there? If it was just solid white and solid black, it wouldn't re-match reality And so in the white, in the light, there's a speck of darkness. There's a mark of evil. For in their perception of the world, it is impossible to conceive of true, pure goodness. Because it's never been seen on the earth among humanity. Except for one. We get to that next week. The pagan religions admit there is no one who is purely and truly good. There is no one who is through and through righteous. No one who is utterly and absolutely pure. No one does good. Not even one In verse 13, Paul now moves to plural pronouns. He has talked about the individual condition of humanity, and now he talks about the impact. that it has when humanity comes together. What we see next is not applied to every individual humans, but is a description of us collectively. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. In verse 11, we saw that no one understands. Our minds are corrupted by sin. Here we have our mouths, our speech, what we say is corrupted by sin. And again, it's not saying that every single one of us is like this, but this is what we are collectively. This is why we have to have lawyers. Because what we say can't be trusted. Because we will find some way to get out from underneath it. This is why we have to go to great lengths to lay out contracts and agreements. Because the words out of our collective mouths are not believable Again, Paul is not saying that every single person has this poisonous, venomous way of speaking, but that we collectively as humans do. This is why online bullying is so devastating to youth. Because we are collectively poisonous with our mouths. It's how secular universities pollute a young person's mind because we are so uh we we what we say is so poisonous, is so deadly Collectively, our speech cannot be trusted. He's talked about our thinking, he's talked about our talking, and now he's going to talk about our doing in verses 15, 16, and 17. Their feet are swift to shed blood, and their paths are ruined ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. Again, the pronouns are plural. Paul is not trying to say that every person is swift to shed blood, but that as a whole, humanity is unbelievably violent. We've got to see how this truth transcends humanity. It's easy in this time right now, in the midst of a political season, to see one set of ads That seems to take this side that says, oh, look, they want to legally kill the unborn. Look how violent they are. Look how bloodthirsty they are. Look how their feet are swift. Is shed blood. But we've got to remember that the other side of that political debate Thinks that the first thing you ought to do when you're the slightest bit scared is pull out your gun and shoot somebody That if you don't like what's happening at the border, you can put their lives at risk. We all are swift to shed blood We are way too quick to dispatch somebody's life because of what we do or do not like. There's a person I know, a person I respect highly, who's got a house full of firearms. And yet in submission to this idea right here, in understanding that he should not be quick to shed blood, none of those firearms is available for personal defense or home defense In his wife's nightstand is a bank- uh bottle, a can of bear mace. If it'll drop a grizzly, it's gonna drop a home intruder And do so without killing them. So that his wife would never have on her conscience the stain of having taken a life needlessly Are there t is there a time and a place to kill? There is. It's why we have the Christian ethic of just war. It's why we have the idea that the state wields the sword for the protection of its citizens. But we should not be quick to shed blood. Well, Paul says that's a sign of wickedness Verse 18 What underlies it all? There is no fear of God before their eyes Ten or so years ago, a beautiful stadium in Los Angeles was promised. I already alluded to it earlier And it turns out today to be a gorgeous stadium. It is an amazing piece of architecture and an amazing place to gather 80,000 plus people all at once. It has all the glitz and all the glam that one would associate with Hollywood, with Beverly Hills, with the wealth of Southern California. And two former Los Angeles football teams, the Rams and the Chargers, have both agreed to move back, both agreed and have moved back to LA to be in that stadium. You know what's interesting? And the owners of those teams will never say this publicly. But I'll bet you some of the players, some of the coaches wish they had never fallen For the beauty of that stadium. For something interesting has happened. A couple of years ago, the Los Angeles Rams were on their way to winning a Super Bowl. They were that good that year. And they're in the playoffs. This is not some run-of-the-mill mid-season game. And they're playing the San Francisco 49ers from just up the coast, and 60%, maybe more, of the fans. We're wearing San Francisco red, not Los Angeles blue. A couple of weeks ago, the Chargers had a home game. And it was filled with the black jerseys of their opponent, Las Vegas Raiders. This is the point that is being made here. Paul says that God doesn't want our outward things to look alright, to be attractive. To put on a good show. God cares about the inward things. What's it really like if I come into the stadium of your heart? Will I be booed? Will you be cheering for my opponent? Would you rather see sin and its pleasures take its course in your life? Are you really rooting for me? And that's the reality that Paul is exposing here. That it doesn't matter how glimpsy and shiny and promising our outsides are. What matters is the pollution in our insides That we're cheering for the wrong team. That we want the other guys to win. And he brings that home in verses 19 and 20. Now we know that whatever the law says it's Speaks to those who are under the law, that is, to Jews, so that every mouth may be stopped. At this point, he means every Jewish mouth. You see what he's saying? You guys were entrusted with the law of God, you were entrusted with the oracles of God, and I've just recited a half dozen different Bible verses, and they all say you all are sinners. You, as a Jew, have to just stop talking Let your mouth be stopped. To put it in a vernacular, shut up. You've got no justification, no claim of righteousness. Don't point to your phylacteries, don't point to your Zs, don't Don't imagine that abstaining from bacon cheeseburgers is going to save you in any way. Because the very Word of God you've been given says otherwise, that you are inherently wicked And so it logically follows. If that's true of the covenant people of Israel, then we read on: the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. Can 8. 2 billion people all be wrong? Absolutely. Because if this is what God says about Israel, then it must necessarily be true of all the rest of us. Everyone is a sinner. Everyone offers God a cat box sprownie at best. Many of us just offer him the cat box. So no matter how you slice it, Paul argues, humanity comes up short. We are collectively and individually all in trouble. You see, Paul wrote a letter promising good news, and this is our fourth straight week of nothing but depressing, discouraging. Daunting, disheartening, dismal, dispiriting, distressing, dreary news, and that's just only the D's. What's going on? The clue comes right at the very end. Through the law comes knowledge of sin. Not a cure for sin, not sin's remedy. To be sure the law is a blessing, for without it you might not know that you're a sinner. It's the knowledge of sin. But if you're turning to it To find your way to righteousness, you've missed the point. In the law is the knowledge of sin. There is that adage that says The first step to recovery is to admit that you have a problem. But it's only the first step. It's not recovery itself. In the law, we have the potential for that first step. And so after Paul spent chapter 1 talking about all those wicked people out there and how bad they are, how he spent the first half of chapter two talking about the good people out there and how bad they are. After you spent the beginning of chapter 3 talking about the good people in here and how bad they are, the question to you is: this: can you admit that you have a problem? Can you look at this logical flow that Paul has been giving and say, I'm in there. That's me on that page right there. That's me in that line right there. I am one of those people he's described. I have a problem. If God did not wave off King David's sin, surely I don't stack up to David. And I admit that I'm a sinner. Will Romans contain good news? It'll contain a great deal of good news. But there's no point in explaining that news if the audience isn't ready for it. I'm ready. I'm tired of preaching the sin and the condemnation of God. I'm tired of preaching these first three chapters of Romans. I'm exhausted by the dire nature of humanity. Which Paul is expounding. I want some good news. And that's Paul's point. That's what he's trying to accomplish. He has to bring us to a place of eager anticipation, every single one of us.