Well good morning, brothers and sisters in Christ. It really is wonderful to be here with you all this morning. Um last summer we were able to come and we had such a great time that we decided to come back and you guys let us come back, which is a big We actually did come back with reinforcements this year too. I just want to first thank you guys for all agreeing to let us come for hosting us, and I look forward to this week of warm fellowship as we serve with one another. And I mean it's too the special the fellowship is so much special because it's the body of Christ. You're not going to find that anywhere else in the world. So this morning we are I've been told that you guys have been going through a study of the book of Psalms, so we're going to continue that this morning. And we're going to be looking at the 61st chapter. So if you have a Bible, I would ask you to turn to the 61st chapter of the Psalms. And if you are able, I would ask you to stand for the reading of God's Word. Psalm 61. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I, for you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. For you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. Prolong the life of the king, make his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him So will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day? Let's pray. Lord God, your servants are listening. Speak clearly to us this day, and may we leave this place both refreshed and renewed. Amen. Please be seated. Dear friends, there is a great danger that is going on in the world that we live in. This danger is present in eastern Maryland. It's very much present in Harrison Township, where Knox is located. And all the incredible advances of modern medicine haven't diminished the the effects of this danger. Despite millions of people possessing sources of information in their hands, more information than entire civilizations in the past. This peril's still lurking around cor every corner and it's behind every door. This danger is sin, my friends. Sin, which is a force that is more deadly than the harshest disease. It's destroyed the mightiest empires of the world and defeated Earth's strongest champions. It is invasive. It's evident in every man, every woman, every child. It's diabolical and it's utterly sinister. At its very core, sin is rebellion against God. It is an attempt to remove God from his throne and to put him on the level of man. Or more commonly, sin is an attempt to place man on the level of God. Sin almost always hurts those around the sinner, but ultimately sin is an attack against God. And attacks against God have consequences. Because He is a holy God and He cannot ignore sin. Now it's easy for us to see the effects of sin and the consequences of sin on other people around us. We see the high-level executive who fuds the numbers ever so slightly and then is off taken to jail. We see the baseball player who takes performance enhancement drugs to get the extra edge, and he is banned from the game. We see the kid who's looking over his shoulder during test time looking for the answers, they receive a zero. And when we see things like this transpire, when we see these things happen, we lift our chins a little bit. Well we say things like, oh, serves them right. Or that's exactly what they deserve. And we're very quick to pass judgment on these people around us. And we're more than happy to play the executioner if someone were to ask us to do so. But I'm afraid that we don't see the danger that we ourselves are in. Sin is not something that everyone except me does. Sin is a practice that we all participate in very regularly and very freely. Each one of us is a sinner, and our sin only leads us to one place. The Puritans described in their described us in our sinful state as dwelling in a pit. One that we are actually unable to climb out of. There's a great ep epidemic running through the world that's related to this problem of sin. One that Satan, the dark forces in the world, in the spiritual realm, that are very they're rejoicing over because they know that we don't know. But the people are unaware that they are in this pit of sin People are unaware of the danger that they're really in. There are sinners that are contently standing in their own graves, completely unaware of the tombstone that's right behind their heads. Worse yet, even worse than all these dangers, is that we were the ones that placed ourselves into the pit. No one forced us to enter in. We freely walked in and then we proceeded to get comfortable to dig farther down and settle in. We tend to make ourselves very happy in this pit. We enjoy it. If we were to look at our lives, we could it would be look a lot of like the patterns of the prodigal son in Jesus' parable in Luke fifteen. as who was living recklessly, who enjoyed all the follies of the world, who was oblivious to the trouble that we get ourselves into, and in the sorrow that we bring upon our Heavenly Father. But eventually our strength runs out. Our youth fades away. Our resources and our wealth, the things that we thought would never run out, they run out. And those who are closest to us end up deserting us and we are left with utterly nothing. Friends, no matter how Much of how many times we attempt it or try to disguise it, the pain of our pit of our sin is still a pit. Calling it a safe place doesn't make it less of a pit. Using pleasant-sounding descriptors doesn't make it something that it isn't. The pit of our sin may seem wonderful now, but it only leads to destruction. We may have been the ones who climbed into the pit. We may have been the ones who made ourselves at home there, but there's no way for us to escape. The o we must cry out for salvation to the only one who can pull us out of the pit. That person is Jesus. From the end of the earth, from the end of the pit that we are in, we have to call out to him. We must call out to him. We need to plead with him to lead us to the rock that is higher than us, to a refuge, a place of safety. I ask you today, have you ever cried out to Jesus Have you seen the folly of your ways, the pitiful state that you are in? If you've never called out to Christ, if you've never sought him out, don't wait any longer. Call out to him today. Cry out to him while he may be found. Do not wait until it is too late. Taste and see that the Lord is good. Experience the joy of knowing a God who not only made you, but who loves you, who died for you, and invites you to have a personal relationship with Him. Cry out to the God who hears your prayer and answers you. Cry out to the God who's given you his literal word and revealed himself to you. Christianity stands out amongst all the other religions of the world because that's the only one in which believers can actually know and be close to the God. God's grace is sufficient for even the vilest of sinners, and he offers salvation to all those who call on his name. One powerful thing example from scripture that I remember is the moment of Jesus' crucifixion while he was on the cross. And then that there was the man who was next to him on the cross as well. And he asked Jesus to have mercy on him. In the midst of his pain, he's literally dying. He asked Jesus to have mercy on him. And if you remember, how did Jesus respond? He said, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Now in the Roman Empire, the common criminal wasn't crucified. We're not told exactly what this man did to be nailed to this tree, but we can be certain that it wasn't this minor offense. Yet Jesus had mercy on this man, not because he deserved it, not because of how the man had lived his life. But because God is a merciful God who saves sinners. Now if you have cry out to God for salvation Uh pr praise God for that. If you have asked God to deliver you from the pit of sin, then you can have assurance that you have been saved. Romans 10, 9 is a verse dear to my heart. It says, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. There's no need for us to periodically become a Christian over and over again. If you ask Christ to come in your heart, he will do so. If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart you will be saved. So we don't need to keep saying the sinner's prayer over and over again. But we still must be constantly crying out to God. The sinner no longer has to cry out to be delivered from the wrath of God, as they've been saved by the blood of Jesus, but the Christian cries out to God on all occasions Because he realizes that apart from God, he is nothing, and there's no hope apart from him. The Christian ought to be constantly seeking God Take the author of our psalm this morning, King David. How often in the Psalms do we read that David is crying out to God? David was a manly man. He was a mighty warrior. He's a man that talks about killing lions and bears. The man who had defeated the Philistine giant Goliath. He had led countless military victories. Israel never had a more prosperous time in s history when David except when David was king And yet, when trouble arose, as it often did in the life of David, he cried out to God. Similarly, there is never a time where we have no need for Jesus or God. Verse 3 of the passage that we read this morning describes God as our refuge and a strong tower. How foolish would it be for us to reject our refuge, the strong tower that we have to protect us? Christian, the enemy is like a roaring lion who is seeking to destroy you and all those who bear the image of God. We must be watching out for him and his minions, and we must not be taken by surprise. Scripture tells us that Satan's death warrant has been signed. He knows that he's been defeated. But he's still seeking to bring down as many souls with him as he can. So we must watch for our schemes. We must be vigilant. Don't abandon the tower that God has opened up for you. The tower, this tower of Jesus, he's not just a recharge station that we go to once in a while. It is a mighty fortress that can never be conquered And we've been brought up onto the strong tower for with a mission to warn others of this danger. Becoming a Christian should be viewed as being given an admission ticket to an amusement park. Becoming a Krishna awakes us from our slumber, our spiritual death, and we are given a mission The mission to tell other people that about the present danger that they're in. We have to tell them about the pit. And we need to and we also need to tell them about the one who can provide salvation. We tell them of the danger they're in. We also tell them what's outside the pit. We tell them of the place where God sets us up after reaching down and saving us from destruction. We tell them of the place where God sets us up and tell we tell them what it means to dwell in the tent of the Lord. Now if you're familiar with the narrative of the Old Testament, you doubtlessly remember the tabernacle. After the Israelites had been freed from slavery, after they had passed through the Red Sea, after they'd been given the Ten Commandments. They were commanded to construct a large tent with a few different compartments. And God gave them very specific measurements and instructions on how to build the structure. But God wasn't telling them how to build a tent for camping purposes. I will say though that a product line named Tabernacle Tents does have a really nice ring to it, so I might trade that mark myself. But this tent that was called the tabernacle was the place in which God Himself dwelt with His people A cloud which contains the glory of God hovered over the tabernacle. But it was in the a single room. It was called the Holy of Holies, where God made his dwelling. Once a year the high priest was allowed to enter this holy of holies, to to burn some incense, to sprinkle sacrificial blood in the Ark of the Covenant, to make atonement for his people. How incredible would it have been to enter into the very presence of God? We tend to get starstruck over seeing celebrities in person or knowing someone that saw a celebrity in person But imagine being in the same room as the creator of the universe. To feel his presence, to hear his voice. It's no wonder that the psalmist wrote that he he asked God to allow him to dwell in the tent of the Lord forever. Because once we have heard and seen what the Lord has done, we realize that there is nowhere that we can go to find truer satisfaction. There is no greater place in all of creation than the throne of God. It is there where we find refuge and rest. It is in Jesus that we find peace and joy. Now, this doesn't mean that we're no longer going to suffer or go through persecution. In fact, Jesus clearly tells us that Christians are going to suffer just as he suffered. It's too often Christians act surprised when things don't always go our way, when our plans don't always work out But we should be, we should be the ones who understand that there's going to be suffering in life. There are trials in this lifetime. We realize that because we are living in a broken world that is full of sinners. But despite the pain of our current situations, we can rejoice as we look forward to the home that Christ welcomes us into. A place where there is no more pain. There's no more suffering. A place where the lion lies with the lamb. A place where every saint is together, where we are reunited with friends and family who have gone before us. The tabernacle was a wonderful place, but it was a foretaste of what is to come. The high priest was only allowed to enter the Holy of Holies once a year on behalf of the people. But in heaven, all are invited into the Holy of holies. The curtain has been torn. The blood has been shed. And our high priest Jesus Christ has invited us in. Thinking about heaven can be a great encouragement to us, especially when we looked at the world around us, which seems to have so few Christians. I recently had the opportunity to bring a group of our Knox High Schoolers to Scotland, and specifically we went to a place called Poor Tree, which is in the northwest of the country. Now, Scotland, in my opinion, this is an opinion, is the most beautiful place on earth with the outward appearance, but the spiritual state of the country is dismal. A country that has such historically Christian backgrounds and roots, today is just a shell of its former self In Port Tree, which is where we serve, in a town of about 2,000 people, only about 10% have some connection to a church or relationship with Christ. Now while our team was there, we assisted a church, uh, it was called the Poor Free Church, which is a part of a sister denomination of art of the PCA. And we were our mission was to help them with a summer holiday bible club. And they were extremely grateful for the help that we were able to offer them. And while our assistance with the club was helpful, well as beneficial, the fact that a group of fifteen Christians came all the way to the Isle of Skye was a great encouragement to their congregation. And that encouragement actually may have been more meaningful to them than the club help. They could have got other people's help with the club. You can't bring other Christians like that. That's one of my favorite parts about mission trips. Groups of Christians from around the world gathering together and encouraging one another. Now there may be language barriers, cultural differences. Some people may say y'all, and others don't. Some may call it soda, others call it pop or coke, those ones are weird. But despite all of the differences, the ties of Christianity transcend all of that. I love the picture that John paints for us of heaven in the book of Revelation. He said, After this I looked and behold, a great multitude. that no one could number from every tribe, from all from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, And crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. If you listen to the radio once in a while, you'll hear all these songs about heaven, what heaven's like. Drives me crazy. They obviously don't know what it's like. Heaven isn't sitting on clouds and drinking coffee. I know we have a lot of coffee drinkers, but that's not what heaven is all about. Heaven is sitting before the throne of grace, and it's praising the one who has brought us there with all the other ones who have saved. That's what makes heaven heaven. And this kind of leads us to our final point. We didn't have a sermon outlined on the page, which I apologize for, but first we were crying out to the Lord of our salvation. That He shows us the place that He brings us out of that pit. But what we need to look at as well is how are we supposed to respond to these things? How are we supposed to respond to the God of our salvation, to the place where he brings us? And I would argue the only proper response to the work of Jesus is worship. Just as when we are in heaven we'll spend each day praising God over and over again. On this side of heaven we're supposed to do the same. We're supposed to join in with the Course of Angels and Saints. We're to thank him for all that he has done. We are to thank him for his steadfast love that he has shown continually shows to each one of us. We are to sing praises to our King, and we are to use every day that God grants us to serve him. The life of the Christian should be of that of obedience day in and day out, never tiring of submitting to the Lord God. That doesn't not mean that we won't stumble. That doesn't mean that we're not going to sin. But it does mean that we ought to plan our steps to bring God glory rather than ourselves It means when we make major life decisions, we will think about how this brings glory, if it pleases God, if it builds his kingdom. And if that if the answer to those questions is no, then that's not what we're supposed to do in our lives. It means that we should be writing the Word of God in our hearts and our minds, and we're supposed to be teaching these statutes to our children. We repeat the words of Joshua that said, As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Christians, are we reading our Bibles? Are we encouraging our family to do the same as well? We can't write the Word of God in our hearts if we're not reading it ourselves. God doesn't just send us messages subliminally, He sends us messages through His Word So we need to be reading it, we need to be studying, we need to be teaching it to our children. Submitting to the Lord means that we will make prayer an essential part of our days. So much so that a day would feel incomplete without speaking to the Lord. We would actually feel empty if we didn't spend time in communication with our Savior. Friends, he has saved us from our sin. He's pulled from this pit. The least we can do is talk to him at least once a day. We need to make them a bigger habit. I'm speaking for personal self as well. We tend to make prayer The least to think lasting our objects on our list of the daily routines. That's something that we need to desperately change Submitting to the Lord looks like starting our week in the house of the Lord, which I rejoice that we all are here this morning with the fellowship of believers. It means that we listen to the Word of God and we allow it to transform our lives so that we are more Christ-like. A year from like a year from now than we are today. It means that we are willing to have those difficult conversations with those who who we love when we see them disregarding the way of the Lord. It means taking the time to lovingly correct them in an attempt not to make it to them to follow your standards, but to follow lead them back to Christ in the path of righteousness. And on the flip side, it means that we graciously need to listen when someone kindly corrects us or admonishes you, not responding with anger or insult, but with thanks. If I'm being honest with husbands, we don't do a great job when our wives tell us to change for the better. And we are to do all of these things day after day. We are never to tire of doing good, but we're supposed to be seeking out opportunities to serve the King. Friends, I asked you this today. Is your life marked with the things of the Lord? Are you performing your Christian vows? Are you actively praising your King? Christ has reached down and He has plucked us from the pit of destruction, and He has given us a place at His table. Make him a priority in your life, because he deserves our all. Build your life on him. Psalm 61 is a special psalm because we see David go from crying out for deliverance to praising and singing praises of his deliverer. If you have been saved by Christ, this should be our response or your response as well. Only the Lord can turn our cries into songs of praise. Hallelujah, what a Savior. Let us pray. Lord, this morning we cry out to you because you are our deliverer, and we are in desperate need of deliverance. We confess that we don't make conscious choices every day too. But you at the top of our list, we tend to drop off the things of the Lord, but Convict us, Lord, transform our lives so that a year from now we are closer to you and further down the road of righteousness than we are today. We pray as we continue in worship, help us to sing loudly your praises for all to hear, and then may we leave this place to tell the people the danger that they are in. In all these things we pray. Amen.