Open your Bibles please to Acts chapter eleven. Acts eleven. It is the third account in rapid succession in the book of Acts of the same basic events. But this time through it, there's a little different spin, a little different interpretation and application. And so we're going to take a look at that this morning. From Acts 11. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. What that means is simply this, that if you want to know how to think, what to believe, how to live, how to understand Christmas rightly Then you must know this book. And so I invite you now to follow along as I read from Acts chapter 11. We'll be looking at verses 1 through 18. Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the Word of God. So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party greeted him, saying, You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them. But Peter began and explained it to them in order. I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheep descending, being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me. Looking at it closely, I observed animals and beasts of prey, and reptiles and birds of the air. And I heard a voice saying to me, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But I said, By no means, Lord, for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth. But the voice answered a second time from heaven, What God has made clean do not call common This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into heaven. And behold, at that very moment three men arrived at the house in which we were, sent to me from Caesarea. And the Spirit told me to go with them, making no distinction. The six brothers here also accompanied me, and we entered the man's house. And he told us how he had seen an angel stand in his house and say, Send to Joppa and bring Simon, who is called Peter. He will declare to you a message by which you will be saved, you and all your household. As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, just as on us at the beginning. And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. If then God gave the same gift to them as He gave to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could stand in God's way? When they heard these things, they fell silent, and they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life. Lord, work repentance in us. Turn us from our way to your way. Turn us from ourselves to your Savior. As we hear this text. Expounded and explained, we ask, Lord, that you would work in us just as you worked in that house of Cornelius. We pray this in Christ's name and for his sake. Amen. Did you hear about the cannibal who arrived home late for dinner? His wife gave him the cold shoulder. Peter would have appreciated a cold shoulder. His reception back home in Jerusalem was even more difficult than merely the cold shoulder. For he does not walk back into Jerusalem and receive the silent treatment. He walks back into Jerusalem and is immediately attacked. He is immediately criticized. The cold shoulder would have been nice. Instead, he is under scrutiny instantly They come to him and attack him. You went into the house of a gentile and you ate with them. What were you thinking? Now at the moment this is happening, I'm guessing Peter is thinking something along the lines of this. I was kind of expecting a better welcome All in all, I had a pretty good trip to the coast. I mean, I I I healed Aeneas, the lame man, I raised the dead Tabitha. And I shared the gospel and brought another family into the household of God. I don't know if Peter was expecting to walk in and to high-five Thomas Do a little chest bump with Thaddeus. I don't know if he and John were going to have some secret handshake, but I'm going to guess that this was not the greeting he was looking for. That this abrupt criticism was not what he wanted. A party would have been nice, but not the party described. For what is listed here is the circumcised party, the party of the circumcision in some translations. Now what is that? That's not a party, woo-hoo, yippee, we're gonna have together, you know, balloons and streamers, and it's not that kind of party Just think about the name, Circumcision Party. That doesn't sound like a woo-hoo type of fun party, does it? Instead, this is more akin to a political party, a group of people with similar thinking. It's that kind of party. It's interesting. I was reading George Washington's farewell address. You remember President Washington, kind of an important guy in our nation's history? In his farewell address to the nation, he actually warned against political parties. And one of the reasons was that he was concerned that it would lead to lazy thinking. That rather than wrestling with each individual issue or each individual candidate or each individual situation, we would just say, oh, they're part of our party. They must be okay. Or, oh, they're part of the other party, so they must be wrong. And we have a little bit of that going on here. The circumcision party Says, we know where we stand. What he did doesn't line up with our group and our way of thinking, and therefore it must be wrong. Peter, what were you thinking? Now, before we look at Peter's thinking and we're going to, I think we need to better understand the thinking of the circumcision party For here in 21st century America with our Western sensibilities and our pluralistic society, we can look at this and think of this as just, it's parochial. Uh it's xenophobic. It it's it's just bigotry. But there's more going on here This situation is more loaded than you might realize. Let me see if I can help you understand the position that Peter's opponents were coming from. So Friday night we had the youth over to our house for a Christmas party and we went out caroling through the neighborhood. And I don't remember how exactly, but Somehow, the back part of the last few of us in the line, as we were walking down the sidewalk, uh the subject came up uh a little game of, wouldn't it be interesting if so-and-so answered the door? Go to the door, you knock on the door, what if they answer the door? And one of the interesting ones, now this is a little insightful, gives me some insight to how you guys are thinking at home. The biggest scariest monster that one of our teens could come up with was Hillary Clinton. What if Hillary Clinton answered the door? Now imagine for a moment, let me play that scenario out. So you pick your child up from my house and you're headed home and you're in the car and you're driving along, honey, how was the party? Oh we did this, we played this game, and did it, did it, did it, oh that sounds like fun, and we I got this little yeah, I don't know what Pastor Shah was thinking of this little weird gift, but this is what he gave me. I don't know, it's a little weird. Um we're going along, we're driving along, oh honey sounds like you got a good time. What else do you do? We went Christmas giving, oh, we got laughing about what happens if uh you know So we got, you know, oh, I'm sorry. Imagine for do an imaginary thing for a moment. So imagine this, and your child now sets you in the car. And guess what, Mom? At one of the houses, Hillary Clinton opened the door. And of course mom says, well you guys walked on, right? No, we sang Christmas garols to Hillary Clinton. Okay, well that's not so bad. I guess that's okay. But mom, no, she invited Pastor Shaw in Well he said no, right? And walked away. No, he went in. Pastor Shaw went in Hillary Clinton's house. Now imagine this. That you find out from your child as you're pulling in the driveway at home that not only did Pastor Shaw go in her house, but he sat down at her kitchen table and had hot cocoa. Well, there's no way to drink hot cocoa quickly. This is now an extended stay in the house of Hillary Clinton. Well, that had to be a long, awkward silence, for surely they had nothing to talk about. No, Mom, they gabbed the whole time. They were talking and back and forth. And then it dawns on you, you're in the kitchen and it dawns on you, honey, how do you know what happened in the kitchen? Well we were there too, Mom. What? Honey, get in here. Do you know what our pastor did? Our pastor took our kid in. This is unbelievable. This is an outrage. This is an outrage. That's a little bit of what they were feeling like here. But now add this in. While there are certainly some policy views, political positions that we can firmly root in the scriptures, there are many Such things that really are a matter of personal preference. What they're debating here is firmly rooted in the scriptures. For it was God who told them not to eat certain things. This wasn't a political party It was God who said, I have set you apart as a holy nation, I have chosen you with my treasured possession, and I do not want you to mix and mingle with the other nations. It was God over and over and over again in the law of Moses. God says, you are a holy people, you are to be set apart, you are not to be among them. This is not parochial bigotry coming out from these Jewish believers. This is a sincere conviction before the Word of God. And we will not understand this text if we don't understand that. They are outraged, and they are outraged. For good, sound, conservative, biblical reasons. So how does it play out? Let's take a look at Peter's response. Let's take a look at how Peter answers to them. First, Peter says, we've got the first part here, it is a gospel for all, Peter says. Do you understand what happened to me? This gospel is to go out to everyone. It's not just for us, brothers and sisters. It's for all. Look at verses 1 through 17. Let me We've read this a couple of times now, so let me just kind of sum it up and kind of walk through it. So first of all, we see it's explained in order there in verse four. I think Luke wants us to understand that it was presented to them in a very logical sequence Some of the things that are interesting there are some of the things that aren't there are interesting. It's notice how Peter says, so I was in a house in Joppa. He doesn't say I was in Simon the Tanner's house. The previous chapter, Simon the Tanner is mentioned twice. No mention of it here, why not? Because Peter already knows he's in deep. And tanners were unclean. What does a tanner do? Now, by the way, folks, this is not you go pay $30 to lay in a bed of ultraviolet lights. Not this kind of tanner, okay? This is the kind where you take the skin of a dead animal and you turn it into leather. But Jews weren't supposed to touch dead animals. They were unclean. So if you're a tanner by profession, you are perpetually unclean. And Peter's staying at a tanner's house. But Peter conveniently omits that detail. I don't need to get in any deeper with the trouble I'm already in. So he says, I was in a house in Joppa. And there comes a vision to me. And the vision, there's a sheet that comes down and there's all these unclean animals on there. There's birds of of of uh there are carry-on birds like vultures. And and there are pigs and and crabs. I know it's hard for us to imagine here on the Eastern Shore, but crabs were once considered unclean. And Peter says, and a voice came to me and said, Peter, kill and eat. You can just hear all the Jewish brethren. Oive! What? Killing me? No, I'm a what Peter. And Peter says, no, I'm a good I was a good Jew. I argued. I argued. I realized this vision might not be legit. This might be something I ate and it's just I'm making this up in my own head. It's a dream. So I argue. No Lord, I wouldn't do that. Good, good, good, Peter. That's right. You should argue with God. That's the way right way to handle it Peter says, but you don't understand. It couldn't be something I just made up in my own head because it happened again a second time, exactly the same way. And by the way, God tacked on to the end of it I am telling you to do this because I have made them clean. Don't call unclean what God has called clean. And it happened a second time, brothers. How can this be? And then it happened a third time. I didn't imagine it once. I had an actual vision. And it was repeated for emphasis' sake, so that I knew for certain that it came from God. But you could still be doubting the vision. But let me tack on here, brothers, that it wasn't just my vision. There's some objective external realities. For the moment that my vision was done, there was a knock on the door, and at the door was a man, three men, telling us that we were to come with them. They're looking for me by name. I've never met them, they've never met me, they know my name, they know what house I'm staying in. And they're asking me to go to Caesarea. Folks, that's not my vision. And by the way, these six those two guys there were with me, him, him, and ODQ hiding back here in the corner, because they're really scared about what's happening out here. All six of us, these all six of them saw it They heard the knock on the door. They were in the house with me. They saw what happened. They heard the testimony of these men who had never met me before, but knew my name, knew what I was saying, and told me they were sent by an angel. So I went with them, and I got to the house in Caesarea. I got to Cornelius' house, and he told me that an angel had stood right there in his house and sent, told him to send for me. Now let me tell you, brothers, I didn't want to enter into the house of a Gentile. But if an angel can, and I was sure to stand exactly where the angel stood, I asked Cornelius, where'd the angel stand? Angel stood there. I'm going to stand right there because I know that must be holy ground. It's okay to stay, I don't know where these other six stood. They probably stood in some unholy place. I stood where the angel stood. And then I shared the gospel. I told Cornelius about the gift given at the very first Christmas, about how God became a man and lived among us. I told Cornelius about how he lived out a perfect life but was killed anyway, how his death is in place of our sin. If we repent of our sins and turn to his life and his death and his resurrection, then we will be saved. And brothers, something amazing happened. Tongues like fire descended from heaven, rested on their foreheads. Doesn't that sound familiar? And they began to speak in other languages. Doesn't that sound familiar? And just like what happened to us back at Pentecost, how do we know that we have received the Messiah? How do we know that we're right and all the Jews that reject Jesus are wrong? Because the Holy Spirit sealed us. Brothers, it happened in that home. In the home of the Gentiles. The same thing happened And the words of Jesus came back to me. He said, John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. And it dawned on me that the first time I heard that happened The first time I saw baptism of the Spirit, I presumed it meant you, this group, those of you who are clearly are Jews, you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. But this time around, I realized it meant something different. It's not that God was telling us what would happen to us. He was telling us how we would know who us is. You Whoever is a part of you, the group that makes up you, will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. And that's happened to the Gentiles. So they're now part of you. They're part of us They've received the same mark. Was I supposed to try to stop that? Was I supposed to get in the way of that? Don't you remember what happened to Caesarea Philippi when I tried to uh stop God's plan? Jesus yelled at me, he called me, he said, get behind me, Satan. I'm not going to make that mistake twice. I am not going to stand in the way of God. And that is the account that Peter gives to those believers in Jerusalem. That is the version that he retells to them. And he says, listen, Jesus, he is Lord of the Gentiles as well. The Jewish Messiah was now saving, is now saving non-Jews. The gospel is a gospel for all. And that's now clear to me. By the way, don't think for a moment that this didn't cost Peter greatly. You ever wonder why for the first part of Acts, up until this point in the book of Acts, who has been the leader among the apostles? Who has been the one at the forefront? Who has been the one who has taken the heat from the the opponent's leadership? Who has been the one that has rallied the troops? It has been Peter. But from this point on, we will no longer see Peter in leadership. And in fact, in Acts 15, when they have to come back and readdress these same issues, it won't be Peter who is the moderator of that Presbytery meeting. It'll be James, the half-brother of the Lord. Most scholars believe that it was this event right here in Acts 11 that cost Peter his leadership in the Jerusalem church. It cost him a great deal. To stand up for the truth, even in the church. It cost him a great deal. And in a moment we're going to see that they at least began to get on board with this idea, and it cost the church a great deal. Up until this point, we've read a look several times where the the church was received favorably by the Jewish Jews in Jerusalem. And then at the stoning of Stephen, we see that persecution breaks out against the church. But there's an interesting note there in the in in that persecution against the church. It says there that the most were scattered, but the apostles, the twelve, were able to stay in Jerusalem. They're still held in high regard. They're not under personal attack yet. But we're just one chapter away. You go to Acts chapter 12, verse 2, and we see for the first time we're one of the twelve. is executed. James, the son of Zebedee, the older brother of John, is put to death by Herod. Something changes in the water in Jerusalem. Something new is happening. All of a sudden now the twelve are under attack. Why? Because up until now, they may be talking about this weird Jesus of Nazareth, but they still look and feel a lot like us Now they're going to welcome Gentiles? They're going to proclaim that their message is for all, their Messiah from Nazareth is for everyone? It cost the church, it cost the twelve, it cost Peter to take that stand But Peter says clearly it is a gospel for all. I think the application to us is obvious. We have to proclaim the truth to everyone. Not everyone we like, or everyone who is like us, or even everyone who likes us, but to everyone. And we have to welcome everyone. And we have to figure out a way to overcome our personal objections so that the gospel can be for all. We get into verse 18. That's really kind of a summary of verses 1 through 17. We get into verse 18 and we see something interesting. It gets turned around. A gospel for all, and now all for the gospel. Now all can mean two different things. All can mean everyone or it can mean everything. And I actually want us to see in verse 18 that it means both. I want us to understand all for the gospel in both ways. First, everyone or everybody. Verse 18a, when they heard these things, they fell silent. This is not the silence of agreement. This is the silence of I will drop my argument for now. You've made a good point. I don't know what else to say right now, and I will shut up. But it's not the silence of agreement. How do we know that? Well, we're going to see that in the next several chapters the same issue is going to keep coming up. It's going to keep coming back. If they were all in agreement, it would be a done issue, it would be behind them. But it's not behind them. And in fact, they're finally going to have to call a special meeting, a called meeting of the Presbytery in Jerusalem in Acts 15, just to deal with these issues. But for now they say we can set this aside. Everybody gets on board and says, for the sake of the gospel going forward. I'm going to set aside my own interpretation of these things, my own application of these things. I do believe firmly that they ought to also hold this view and ought to behave that way and ought to do these things, but I will set that aside. In this moment, so that the gospel can stay the main thing. We had better be able to do that, brothers and sisters Any church that is proclaiming the gospel, we may differ with them on how much water to use at baptism. or whether or not we should speak in tongues, or whether or not there should be a congregational or a Presbyterian form of government. We can dispute and debate those things, but we had better not Ever let those things get in the way of us helping their gospel go forward so long as it is the gospel to which we have held. Do not, do not, do not undermine any other church in this community that is proclaiming the true gospel of Jesus Christ. Do not talk badly about them at work. Do not try to draw implications that they're somehow unholy. We must be able to fall silent on those issues so that the gospel can go forward effectively, whether it does so from this pulpit or some other pulpit, whether it does so in our classrooms or other classrooms. In our small groups or other small groups, so long as it is the gospel, all the other issues are secondary and must be kept secondary. And they fell silent on these other issues. By the way What were many of you thinking when I told the imaginary Hillary Clinton story? Well, I suppose, you know, yeah, somebody like that, she needs to hear the message we have to offer. And, you know, once she hears it, uh, eventually over time, she'll come to agree with me on everything. Right? I mean that's how it works, right? We assume as Christians, once they understand the gospel correctly, they'll agree with me on everything I think that's some of the view that's going on here. And that's why this issue keeps cropping up. It's why it comes up again in the second half of 11, why it comes up again in 13, why it comes up again in 15. Because there is assumption, well, once the okay, okay, we're gonna let the Gentiles in, but once the Gentiles understand it the way I understand it, they're gonna be completely on board. They're gonna see that I'm completely right. That is a dangerous position. Are there certain things we must hold fast to? Yes But we must hold fast to them when we can firmly, objectively root them in the scriptures. The moment they take a second or a third or a fourth degree of separation from the scriptures. They may be reasonable inferences, but they are no longer things that we must hold other people to. They are now our applications and understandings. It is a gospel for everybody, and everybody needs to be for the gospel. A gospel for all, and all need to be behind the gospel work. But then in the last part of 18, we see something interesting happen. And they glorify God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance that leads to life. This is really an interesting statement. Notice it doesn't say that God has granted to the Gentiles the Holy Spirit. It doesn't say that God has granted to the Gentiles the gift of tongues. It says repentance unto life. Now you go back and scour the three accounts of this story, all of chapter 10 and this first half of the this is the first time repentance is mentioned There's no mention of repentance up until this point. And yet what the believers in Jerusalem realize is that where there is gospel, there is repentance, and where there is repentance, there is gospel. That the two must necessarily go together. Now, throughout the book of Acts, we have seen many times, and we're going to see many times more that that is the boiled-down message that's presented in Acts. Repent and believe. Repent and believe. We have a tendency to focus on the second part of that, forgetting the importance of the first part. For if you do not repent, you do not believe For the Spirit of God was not going to enter into a heart of sin. God does not coexist with sin. He is holy. And it is the gift of God. Notice here, God has granted to the Gentiles. It is the gift of God. It comes from God, but it still must be a reality in your life. That there needs to be repentance. You need to turn away from sin Jesus, how does he say it in Luke 13? Were those eighteen more sinful than all the rest of the People in Jerusalem, why were they struck dead? And Jesus says, No, they weren't any more sinful than anyone else. But if you do not repent, such will happen to you. You will perish likewise. He mentions we don't is the story is a little great, we're not sure what happened, but somewhere Pi Pilate did something where he mingled the blood of some probably some executed Jewish Prisoners, he mingled their blood in with the pagan sacrifices, and so he desecrated these dead Jews. And he says, Do you think that they were worse sinners than everyone else in Galilee to whom that didn't happen? No. But if you don't repent, you too will perish in a likewise manner. Repentance is absolutely necessary, and it is not a one-time event. We have a tendency, we we we we kinda know, we kind of have a sense that you don't get to say one time, I believe To be a Christian is to be a believer in the present tense, not a believer in the past tense. You know, I I professed faith then. But I don't possess it now. But I'm good to go because I professed it then. No, you have to possess faith, not just profess faith. But the same is true of repentance. Repentance is not a one-time thing, it is an ongoing thing True repentance leads to being a repenter. Just as like true belief leads to being a believer, present tense. So we must be a repenter, present tense. And that's what we're seeing in this church in Jerusalem. They're struggling with it. They're not getting it perfect here. And we're not going to get it perfect. But they are repenting. I held to this view that they had to be circumcised before they could become a Christian. But Peter, you've convinced me they don't have to, and I'm going to turn away from that view. I'm repent These were already believers, but they're continuing to believe. They were already repenters, but they're continuing to repent. I am going to pull back from my wrong view. I'm not going to hold on to it any longer. I don't want to undermine faith. For where there is repentance, true repentance, there has to be true faith. You can't simply turn away from sin and turn to nothing. How does Jesus tell the story? Well, he talks about how the demons get driven out of a man's life, out of a home And they he the demon wanders around and can't find a new home, so he returns to the man from which he was driven, and he finds the house put in order and is dusted and swept, and all the furniture is needified, everything's straightened up, but no one's living there What does Jesus say? He goes and the demon goes and gets seven of his friends, and they all go in there and have a party, and the man is worse off than he was in the first place. Repentance can't be separated from faith any more than faith can be separated from repentance. When you turn away from a life of sin, you must fill your life with something. When you turn away from what you were pursuing before, it has to have something new. That's where faith comes in. Repent and believe. Believe and repent. They have to go together. You turn to Jesus and you say, Jesus, fill my life. Because if you don't, all these temptations are going to come roaring and rushing back in. Fill my life. Work in me a desire for righteousness. Don't merely put the furniture in order. Change everything about me. Repentance and faith. The gospel, Peter says, is for all. But then what Luke points out in verse 18 is that all, everybody, must be for the gospel. But all everything about us must be for the gospel. We must repent and turn away from all of those things. That is the repentance that leads to life. You're here this morning. You know that your life is filled with self and with sin and not with Jesus. And recognize why Christmas happened. So that Christ could come. So that he could die to pay the price for sin. so that we could be in him and him in us and our life filled with something new for the saving of our souls and bodies and lives. If you're here this morning and you have believed that for a long time, recognize the need for an ongoing life of repentance. Look very seriously into the mirror of God's Word and ask yourself, where am I sinning? If you come away going, I don't know where you haven't looked very well. Lord, where am I sinning? I want to I am a believer and I want to continue to be a repenter. So that the gospel can be for all. And all of us for the gospel, and everything in my life for the gospel. The praise of Christ's glorious name. Let's pray. Lord, work this in us. Work in us hearts of repentance, minds to believe. Wills given over to you and to your leadership. Fill us anew with the message of Jesus Christ. Work in us a new and fresh desire to obey. Work in us a desire to share the gospel with everyone, to let the gospel uh dominate everything about us. And let all of us be for the gospel, which is for all people. We pray this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.