I invite you to open your Bibles to Mark chapter 2. We'll be beginning at verse 13 as we continue in our sermon series from the Gospel of Mark. Mark's gospel is a call to confess Jesus as Christ and Lord, and we've seen how he is building his case from text to text for us to do just that. As we prepare to read this morning's sermon, I would invite you to think about how we tell stories. We frequently do not tell them chronologically. If I have a uh a wonderful four-hour conversation with you, that conversation will weave all over the place into different topics when I go home and tell my wife about that conversation. I'm not going to tell it in the chronological order that occurred. I probably won't even be able to remember the chronological order in which it occurred. But I'll talk about I'll talk about it thematically. We talked about this, did it, da da da da, da da da da da, and then we talked about this. And I think what we have in front of us here today is that Mark is offering that. I'm going to suggest that if we pay attention to the clues in the text, that it's actually not meant to be a chronological uh uh uh a presentation of things that happened, but rather a thematic presentation of the things that happened, that he is trying to make a point by bringing these four stories together in the sequence that he's put them that Mark is trying to teach us something about Jesus and the law. And so I invite us to hear the message that Mark has for us this morning. We'll begin reading in verse 13 of chapter 2 He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alpheus, sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, Follow me. And he rose and followed him. And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. And people came and said to him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in that day. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, and the new from the old, and a worse tear is made And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh skins. One Sabbath, he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the Pharisees were saying to him, Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? And he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and was hungry, and he and those who were with him? How he entered the house of God in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the presents, which is not lawful for any but for the But the priest to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him, and he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath, so the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath Again, he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand, and they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him And he said to the man with the withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or to kill? But they were silent, and he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart. And he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him. Let's pray. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word, that we might hear its message, and that we might know Jesus better, that we might understand you and your law better As a consequence of hearing you speak to us this morning, we pray this in Christ's name. Amen I'm going to guess that not many of you know the name Arthur Galston. Arthur Galston retired in the mid-70s as chairman of the botany department at Yale University. And he was the man who was really instrumental in getting President Nixon to stop the use of Agent Orange in the Vietnam War. The reason that's significant is because some thirty years earlier in 1943, that same Arthur Galston was a grad student at the University of Illinois and he was experimenting with 235 triidobenzoic acid. And he discovered that in sl small doses, it caused the soybean plants that were all over Illinois to grow much faster and to ripen better and to produce a better crop. And yet in large doses, 235 triiodobenzoic acid is aged orange. The material that Arthur Galson had developed to be a benefit, to be a blessing, To help soybean crops grow faster and more efficiently turned out to be used for great harm Back in the 1800s, there was a man named Joseph Wilbrand. Joseph Wilbrand began to experiment with something called trinitrotoluene Trinitrotoluene was a dye at the time, a yellow dye, but he discovered that it has powerful explosive force. And yet it was stable. Unlike nitroglycerine, you could drop trinitrotoluene and it didn't explode in the lab. It turned out to be a boon to construction workers and to mining engineers because now they had an explosive that was safe to handle. Try not to toluene is known to us as TNT. What was intended to save lives in the mining and construction industry became the number one explosive used by both sides in both world wars, killing millions. It is a common theme throughout human history that things that were intended for good get misused and abused and put to wrong purposes. God's law is no exception to that. And we see in the account of Mark before us today how God's law was misused and abused and misapplied. And yet we've heard from the book of Deuteronomy and our Old Testament reading that God's law was intended for our good That if we would follow it, we would live long in the land that He had given us. It would be a blessing to us. We saw in the Psalms how that it was meant to bring wisdom, that it was meant to be sweet in our lives. That which God intended for our good, we put to terrible purposes. And we continue to do so today. We're going to go through this text and look at these four accounts. We're going to see first that there is an example, that Jesus sets an example of how the law ought to be used. In the second account, we're going to see that Jesus warns about the dangers of the misuse of the law. In the third account, we're going to see that Mark brings in an example. of the uh an actual example of the misuse and misapplication of the law and how Jesus responds to that. And finally we're going to see a portrayal, a vivid, stark portrayal of the consequences Of the misuse of the law. We're going to look at how the law ought to be used, as Jesus handles it We're going to hear Jesus warning about the misuse of the law. We're going to take a look at examples of the misuse of the law and the consequences of the misuse of the law. And finally, we're going to ask the important question, so what? How does that apply to us? What difference does that make in our lives? Before we go further into the text, I want to make a quick comment. If you're been in the church for very long, if you're familiar with the New Testament, you probably are used to the Pharisees being the bad guys in all the stories in which Jesus is involved. And yet I do want to, and we're going to see frequently through the course of Mark, I'm going to make these comments, I want to remind us that the truth is when the Pharisees first came about during the inter-testamental period, they came about as biblical conservatives. They were those who were trying to to rightly handle God's law in that in the aftermath of the return from the Babylonian exile and in the all the aftermath of the Maccabean Wars and all of that They were biblical conservatives. They were men and women who cared about God's word. My guess is we would have liked the Pharisees had we known them personally. We are ourselves biblical conservatives. And so I want to be a little careful as we paint the Pharisees with a black hat, make them the bad guys. I want to be I want to remind us that they are exactly who we will become without the grace of Jesus at work in us. So starting in chapter 2, verse 13, we read of Jesus and his account of going to the house of Levi. Now in case you don't remember, this is not the guy who met in that home with a man named Strauss and all the others, and formed Lee by Strauss and Company. Rather, this is a man you better know as Matthew, the writer of the first book of the New Testament. And Matthew was a tax collector, and the tax collectors were the lowest of the low among the sinners of that time. And the reason was simple. They were almost always Jews who had sold out to the Roman overlords to enforce Roman law. And therefore they were reviled Jesus goes into Matthew's home and he but I I think it is worth noting he first calls Matthew And Matthew follows him. And now that Matthew is a follower, Jesus enters into his home and begins to teach and instruct. And I want to point out that the Pharisees, they object to this. These guys are sinners. And they go to the disciples and they say, if this rabbi of yours is so smart, if he is so gifted. How does he not know that these guys are sinners? What's he doing in their house? And Jesus says, you guys don't understand what the law is about. The law wasn't meant so that the Messiah would stay away from those who were sinners. The law was meant so that sinners would know they're sinners. It is a diagnostic tool. It is akin to what a doctor uses when you go and he tests something and he finds out that you've got some need for a cure. Now there are those people, many of them are males and have the last name Shaw, who think that if you never go to the doctor, then nothing will ever be wrong. If we just ignore it, if we just put our head in the sand and don't take any diagnostic tests, then nothing can be wrong with us. And Jesus said, no, the function of the law was to expose your need. And the Messiah comes for those in need. And they are sinners. He never disputes that or argues that with the Pharisees. He said, yes. The law has shown them to be sick. It has revealed their need. And the Messiah has come to meet that need, to save sinners. The next account is that of the fasting. The disciples of John, the disciples of the Pharisees, are fasting. And Jesus' disciples are not, and the Pharisees again confront him. Again, we've got a dispute over the law. Your disciples aren't fasting, why not? And Jesus says you don't understand the right use of the law. It wasn't meant to make you miserable. You don't fast. So that you can have hunger pains and then you can say to yourself, oh, I spent the day miserable, so I've accounted for my sin and I'm a better person now. That's not the point of the fasting. The point of the fasting was to be a physical reminder of a spiritual reality. You're spiritually starved. You're spiritually hungry. You're spiritually in need. And the physical fasting was to be a reminder of that. But when the Messiah comes, when he fills that need, You no longer have that spiritual reality, you no longer have that spiritual need, so there's no longer a need to fast. And he says, you guys aren't getting it. And then he warns them about what happens if you continue to try to take the new thing that's happening among you. The kingdom of God is now at hand. The Messiah has now come. Everything is now changing. And if you continue to take your old ways of thinking about it, It's going to make a mess. And he uses a couple of analogies. Now I am not a tailor or a seamstress. I don't do sewing. I sewed the one little pillow back in Homec in eighth grade I kept it in my bed for a number of years until I got ratty and my mom threw it out while I was in college, but I've forgiven her. But that's all the sewing I've done! But he points out something that even I can figure out. Clothes made out of natural fibers, whether it be cotton or wool, shrink when they're washed. They shrink to a point where they stop shrinking, and once they've shrunk all they're going to shrink. So you got this old pair of clothing and there's a hole in it and the whole clothing is shrunk down. If you now take a new piece of cloth and you s put it on there and you sew around it, well that new cloth is going to shrink when you launder it. The old clothing have already shrunk, they're not going to shrink anymore, and so what's going to happen is they're going to end up tearing away from the old cloth, and now the hole that you tried to patch is going to be even bigger. He uses the illustration of the wineskin, same idea. That if you keep trying to fit the new thing that's happening among you right now into your old way of thinking problems are going to result. Jesus gives a warning and says, you've got to understand what I'm telling you about the use of the law. It's always amazing to me when I teach how hard it is for us to let go of the wrong thing we're doing. Students will come to me and say, Mr. Shaw, I got problem number seven wrong. And then I would start to show them how to do problem number seven, and they would say, Yeah, but I think it should be done this way. And I'd put up with that for a little while, and usually at some point in the semester I would look at them and say, Really? You got it wrong? I got it right. I'm the teacher of this class, and you're going to argue with me about the way it ought to be done? Stop defending the wrong way you're doing it and start listening to what I'm telling you about how to do it. That's what Jesus is telling the Pharisees here. Stop defending your misuse of the law and listen to me. Something new is happening among you. And I'm trying to tell you how the law ought to be put to use. Jesus demonstrated the right use of the law when he went and met with Levi and his friends. saying, It identified those who are sick, and now I have come for those who are sick. Jesus warns about the misuse of the law, telling the Pharisees the law was never intended to make you miserable, but rather to point out your misery So that you would know your need of the Messiah now that He's come, that changes some things. Now in verse 23 through verse 28, we pick up an example of the misuse of the law. We see here a situation where the disciples are wandering and they're hungry. It's a Sunday, so it would have been a Saturday afternoon for them, a Sabbath. And they're wandering around and they're hungry and they come upon a gr a field of grain with some ripened fruit and they they pluck some of the uh the I say fruit, the fruit of the grain, the fruit of the fruit of the wheat, the wheat kernels, um they pluck some To eat it. Now if you're when you're reading this, I don't know what you think. I don't get this and go, really, the Sabbath violation is not my issue. They're stealing. This is somebody else's steel, and they're taking the grain that belongs to somebody else. Of course, according to Jewish law, you were always supposed to share with anybody in need. Any fellow Israelite who was hungry, you were to give them what you had. And so they were not violating the law of Israel at that by taking that grain. So they take the grain and the Pharisees come and they point out to Jesus that you can't do that on the Sabbath. Apparently arguing was not a violation of the Sabbath. Okay? So they come to argue with Jesus and say, You guys can't do that on the Sabbath. And Jesus says, Once again, you don't get the point of the law. It wasn't to be this burden weighing man down. The Sabbath is a day of rest. It was created for man that he might rest. Surely we rest better when our tummies are full. Than when they're empty. Yes, the way the Old Testament law is set up, a farmer should not go out and spend the day harvesting his fields on the Sabbath. But it's okay to to pluck some grains and to fill your stomach. He says, look at your own King David broke laws under certain circumstances when it was necessary to to under he understood that it was to be applied for the protection and and and well and well-being of his men And he uses that example. And Jesus said, guys, I said it before. Something new has come. You can't keep putting your old patches on the new patches on your old garments. Can't keep doing this, and now he says it more plainly. The Son of Man, which was always Jesus' preferred term for himself, it is what he used to speak of himself. He said, the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath. He says, you guys got to listen. I'm the one who made the law. I'm the one who knows how to interpret the law. And I'm the one who's trying to tell you how to receive the law. And you had better sit up and listen. Chapter 3 then opens with another account of another Sabbath day. This is why I would argue that Mark is not telling this in chronological order. These are four events that occurred during the ministry of Jesus. But they are four events that Mark brings together to show us a theme about the law. In the third in the fourth account, at the beginning of chapter three, uh Jesus enters into the synagogue And there is a man there whose hand is described as withered or shriveled. Something is wrong with it that it is curled up, it's not folded out, it hasn't got the flesh on it that we would expect to be on a hand, and it's presumably dysfunctional. And interestingly enough, the Pharisees, they know this Jesus of Nazareth likes to heal people. And they say to themselves, we got him. He won't be able to help himself. He's so kind, his kindness is going to be his own undoing. He's going to heal this guy on the Sabbath. And bam, we're going to have him. Glad he's listening. And Jesus turns to them and they they begin to realize among themselves that they're going to be able to get this Jesus. Something has happened. I don't know if you've noticed in the first few texts that we read in Mark. The leaders of the Jews, they were, they questioned some things Jesus did, they challenged some things Jesus did, but they really weren't yet out to get him. And now they're out to get him. Something has changed, and we're going to talk about that in just a few seconds So now they wait to see what Jesus is going to do. And it doesn't come up clearly in the translation I read, but in the Greek there really is the sense that Jesus didn't simply invite the man to come over to Jesus as if it was over in a corner somewhere. He actually tells the man to stand up in the middle of the room. Gather in the center where everybody can see you. Jesus is not taking this on subtly. He is not addressing this problem quietly. He is not going low-key in this confrontation over the law. He says, stand in the middle where everybody can see what I'm about to do. And then he turns to the Jewish leadership, to the Pharisees, and he says to them, You tell me. Is it okay on the Sabbath to heal? To do good To save a life? And that word life there is a word they use in some places that translated soul. Jesus has embedded this with a spiritual notion. He is now talking about more than just merely the physical healing of this man. Is it okay to heal? To make right, to undo the effects of the fall, to back us away from the curse? Is that okay on the Sabbath? Or is it okay to kill? And again, that Greek word kill has with it the notion of eternal death. It is a spiritual concept of killing here He said, by the way, the way you interpret the law, if I do nothing and let the man die, I'll have kept the Sabbath. But I've already told you the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. God's law is for your good, not for your harm. And if you're interpreting God's law in such a way that I'm to stand here and do nothing for this man, to not do undo any of the effects of the curse in his life, then you don't understand God's law. The use of the law is to make this man right with God, to undo the curse in his life, to bring him back from that edge and restore him. And he says to the man, reach out your hand. And the man reaches out his hand, and instead of stopping in the usual curled way, it extends fully. And in that moment the power of Jesus was again shown. His power over the effects of the curse. His ability to restore that which is broken. To make right that which has gone wrong. Humanity in that moment wanted to use the law to keep this man down. Wanted to use the law to keep him oppressed, wanted to use the law to keep him under the weight of sin. And the effects of the curse. And our God steps in and says, no, that is not how the law is used The law of the Lord is sweet. It refreshes. It restores. It makes right. That wording was a little bad there. Not in a justification sense. Those who have been made right by justification are then behave rightly because of the law. So what? So how do we apply this to our lives? What do we do to think about what Jesus has said about the law? And I want us to go back to the very first encounter. In uh chapter 2, um that uh uh verse uh 17, at the close of the meeting in in Matthew's house, Jesus frames up how we're supposed to think about the law. Did you catch it? He says to the Pharisees, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I came not to call the righteous but sinners. Let me quickly tell you what's going on here. The Pharisees had this thought process in their heads. They were saying to themselves, you know, it's possible uh uh sorry, sorry, I got ahead of myself. You know, it's we know for certain that when God's Messiah finally comes, he will come for the good people. I mean God will come for the good people. We're surely among the good people, so clearly the Messiah is going to come for us. And they went on to tell about a little further and they said, there is some possibility that this man, Jesus of Nazareth, could be that Messiah. We've seen the signs, we've seen the power, we've heard the authoritative preaching. He could be the Messiah, though we're not certain. And yet, in this moment he says That he came for the spiritually sick. He came for lawbreakers. And the Pharisees are confronted with, in their minds, two options. Either he is the Messiah and he didn't come for the good people like us, and that's unthinkable. Or in their mind, the only other option is this man, Jesus of Nazareth, is not the Messiah. And he needs to die for having pretended to be the Messiah. And clearly that is the option they choose. And from this point forward in the Gospel of Mark, we will see that they are consistently opposed to Jesus and his ministry. But I want to point out to us, to make sure that we do not miss that there actually is a third response to what gets set down here You see, they said to themselves, the Messiah comes for good people. And this guy is saying that he didn't come for good people, so he can't be the Messiah. Maybe they need to accept, maybe we need to accept That Jesus really did come for those who are spiritually sick. That he really did come for those who are in desperate need of a physician, who desperately need healing. And maybe the syllogism goes like this. The Messiah came for those who are sinners. And the law points out that I'm a sinner. The law shows me my sin. Therefore the Messiah came for me. That's what Mark is putting forward for us in these four accounts. We can respond like the Pharisees. And say, this man is not the Messiah. And that is how the self-righteous of this world respond. Oh, Jesus was just a good teacher. He was maybe a good man. But he no, clearly he wasn't God. Clearly he is not the salvation of the world. We know that recycling saves the world. We must not respond in that manner. We must never cling to any pretend pretense of goodness in ourselves. We must recognize that the law puts us among the spiritually sick, that it is at work as a diagnostic tool, and we must accept what Jesus says here, that He came for the sick. That means he came for me. That means he came for you And if the sick can be made well, then there is great hope. And Mark is going to go on and show us the hope that lies with this man Jesus of Nazareth. and how he made us right. Let's pray. Lord, work in our hard hearts that we would be softened to the reality that we are desperately sick. Sinners who on their own have no hope. But let us rejoice in the truth that our God has made us right, that you have made us right. Through Jesus who came to seek and to save the lost, to heal sinners, and to restore us to you. What a wonderful truth. Help us to live in the light of the great joy that provides. Help us to share that wonderful truth with each and every person who crosses our path So that your glory might go forward and be known throughout this entire region. We pray this in Christ's wonderful name. Amen.