I invite you to turn your Bibles this morning to Mark chapter 8, the Gospel of Mark, chapter 8. We'll be looking at verses 1 to 21. If you were with us last week, and if you're paying attention, you might say to yourself, wait a second, we didn't finish Mark 7 last week. There's a chunk of it that's been skipped over. It was a little hard, and I didn't feel like preaching it, so no No. Mark from the middle of Mark seven through the middle of Mark eight, Mark makes a long extended argument. for Jesus initiating the day of the Lord. And we're going to take a look at that next week a little more closely. So we're going to come back and pick up the second half of Mark 7 next week. But in the midst of that, I wanted us to look at some of the what's happening in the feeding of the 4,000 here in Mark 8. And so we're going to look at this more closely, and then next week consider how this fits into the broader text. Before we read the text, I want to uh uh uh share with you a story that I think will help us set the stage for the text that's in front of us this morning. When our oldest was a toddler, when he was learning to talk, as many children do, he he struggled with various uh parts of the language. He had some impediments now and then. And one morning my wife had baked some uh wonderful cookies, fresh cookies sitting on the counter, and uh Josh looked at me and said, Daddy, can I have a tookie? And I said, you want a tookie? And he said, no, no, no, no, a tookie. And I said, oh, a tookie. And he got a little frustrated. He's like, no, I want a tookie. And I said, I get it. You want the big furry creature from Star Wars that drives the Millennium Falcon. Now he's a little aggravated. Most fathers would have quit at this point, but I needed a sermon illustration, so I kept going. And I said, I don't understand what a tookie is. And he points to the plate and he says, A tookie, a tookie, a tookie Of course it was interesting that he could hear me saying it incorrectly, but he couldn't hear himself. We are so like that. We can see faults and flaws in others that we just never see in ourselves. I love Norman Rockwell's self-portrait, in which this decrepit old man looks in the mirror and paints this handsome young gorgeous hunk. That's who we are. And the text this morning does something really astounding. The Pharisees, again, are the guys who aren't getting it. But listen to how the text unfolds. And Jesus points to the 12 and says, you're just like them. And he says to us this morning, we are at risk of being just like these Pharisees. Let's hear the word of our God from Mark 8. In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered and they had nothing to eat, he called his disciples to him and said to them, I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way, and some of them have come from far away. And his disciples answered him, How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place And he asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven. And he di uh directed the crowd to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people. And they set them before the crowd. And they had a few small fish, and having blessed them, he said that these should also be set before them. And they ate and were satisfied And they took up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full. And there were about four thousand people. And he sent them away And immediately he got into the boat with his disciples and went to the district of Delman Delman Delmanutha. The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him And he sighed deeply in his spirit and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. And he left them, got into the boat again, and went to the other side. Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat. And he cautioned them, saying, Watch out Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they had begun discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you discussing the facts that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened? Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to him, Twelve. And the seven for the four thousand. How many baskets full of pieces did you take up? And they said to him, seven. And he said to them, Do you not understand? To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word, that we might know its meaning in our lives And that through the warning that Jesus issued to the twelve, we might be warned, that we would not become like the Pharisees, hardened in heart. But that we would repent and believe on the one whom you have sent. It is in his name we pray. Amen. Well, last week we gathered a number of our young people here at the church to do a little bit of a work project, and I appreciated their efforts. And one of the things that had to happen is we had to haul a bunch of heavy boxes to a new location in the church. Well rather than cart all of them one at a time and there were a lot of them and they were heavy, we decided to load them into the back of a vehicle and move them and then unload them in the new location. And so it was kind of fun. Here we are on private property. We got some opportunities. So I decided to let the young people take turns driving the vehicle to move these boxes. I wasn't that worried about it as my wife's car, so And our young people struggled, each and every one of them. They had fun and they did a great job, but it was very interesting that the first time they hit the brakes, what did they do? They just about launch me through the windshield We're only going five miles an hour. They hit those brakes, bam. We all know that. We all remember when we learned to drive. The first time we hit the brake, first time we finished the gas pedal, we just about, you know, shot or broke our necks going backwards First time we hit the breaks, we go through the windshield. Even tasks that in the end are relatively simple are initially difficult to master. I don't imagine that too many of us, the first time mom or dad let go of the back of our bike, we just rode off and were off to the, you know, ready for the Tour de France for the first time. Okay? These tasks take time to master. And certainly we see in the disciples, and we're a little sympathetic, that it takes some time to learn to trust God. We get that the very first time they were faced with a challenge that they might not think to themselves, oh, we should turn to God and He will provide a miraculous sign. But we're kind of at a point now in the Gospel of Mark where as readers we're probably getting a little frustrated with them, going, come on guys, do you really not know how the 4,000 are going to be fed? Have you not seen this already? Jesus just fed the 5,000 just a little short time ago And you don't think you can feed the 4,000? And then they get in the boat, and again they're baffled at how they're going to get fed. It's gone from, by the way, the 5,000, as you recall, was 5,000 men. With women and children, we're probably looking at closer to 15,000 people. So 15,000 people are fed, then it's 4,000 that get fed. Now there's just 12 and about 13 if you count Jesus. Just 13 of them in a boat, and they still can't figure out where the food's going to come from. They still can't master the tasks. When our young people hit the brakes for the first time, we're patient with the fact that they would launch us through the windshield. If three years from now they're still doing that, we're going to have some consternation and frustration with them that they haven't learned. Jesus begins to express some of that frustration and consternation with the twelve that they're not learning. Yes, we get that maybe the first time it was hard to believe that God would provide, but the next time you can't believe and the third time you can't believe it, and each time the number of People for whom he needs to provide goes down, and you still don't believe? And that is the essence of the challenge that is before the disciples this morning in this text And I want us to look closely and break down some of the text and kind of march through it. And the seating of the 4,000, pretty straightforward, almost an exact replica of what happens with the 5,000 and 5,000 men Jesus has compassion, same word that was used in the previous text. Jesus wants them to be provided for. He's concerned about their physical well-being. He turns to the disciples and says, what should we do? Now in the previous time he turned to the disciples and said, you feed them. And they were, we can't! How can we possibly do that? And this time he turns to the disciples and says, What shall we do? And he's I suspect that Jesus is sincerely hoping that one of them will say, Well, why don't we just pray and ask God to extend these few loaves we've got? But they don't. They express exactly the same disbelief and unbelief that they expressed earlier. Well, we're out here a long way from the nearest drive-thru. There's no way to get food for all these people. There's no way that Chick-fil-A catering can pull it together in time. I don't know what we're supposed to do. And Jesus, he doesn't really scold them at this point. He just simply takes over. He gathers the little bit of food that they have. He lifts it up to heaven. He asks the Lord to bless it. He asks the Lord to extend it. And there is yet another sign of the power of God among them. And the 4,000 are fed. And again, there is ample provision left over. More than enough. God's provision is more than enough. No sooner has that ended than something interesting happens. In verse 11, we pick up here, and it says, The Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him. The Greek word there for test, the word uh paraso, is exactly the same word we find in Mark 1. 13. Now, if you don't remember, Mark 1. 13 is Mark's brief, very brief, one-verse account of the temptation in the wilderness. Mark 1. 12, Jesus is baptized. In Mark 1. 13, the Spirit casts Jesus into the wilderness. And there Satan paraioz him. Tempts him. This is the same Greek word found in Galatians 1. 6. Those of you who are spiritual should restore those who aren't. But you should watch yourself that you don't fall into the same temptation. This is the same Greek word we find in James 1, 13 and 14. When anyone is paraizoed, when anyone is tempted, they should not say that God is the one paraizoing me, tempting me. And we have here this word tempt, the word test, the word tempt. And I want us to stop for a moment and consider on what front is Jesus being tempted? Where is the temptation in this account? I want to remind us that unlike Matthew and Luke, Mark does not tell us how the temptation in the wilderness played out. He simply tells us that Jesus was tempted. He never actually confirms for us that Jesus overcame the temptation. He never says the temptation was closed. He goes right from the temptation into the ministry of Jesus. And I think part of what Mark is doing is setting before us a picture that the temptation of Jesus Continued throughout his ministry. It was not a one-time event. He was not tempted one time. He was tempted over and over and over again. And so we're back to, so what is the nature of the temptation? Well, we know from Luke and Matthew's account of the wilderness temptation that the temptation given to Jesus there Was to acquire glory by a path other than what the Father had set. The path the Father has set, and here later in the second half of Mark 8, We're going to see for the first time that Jesus reveals to the disciples the path that is his. A path of suffering and pain and mocking and scorn and death. That's the path that's before him. And that's the path of glory. And the temptation of Satan was to say, forego all of that. Skip all of that. And achieve glory through another way. That's the temptation that we will see at Gethsemane. As Jesus wrestles in the garden, he will say to his father, if there is any other way. I don't want to go this path. But he will not give in to the temptation, and he will continue on the path. Spoiler alert, in the second half of Mark 8, you know the consternation we all have about Jesus being so harsh with Peter? Get behind me, Satan. Really? Going to call Peter Satan? Because Peter tempts Jesus in precisely the same way. To take a path to glory Other than the one the Father has set before him. That's the path that is being proposed to Jesus. That's the temptation right here. Show us a sign. Glorify yourself right now. We don't really believe you, but you can prove it. And Jesus in his divinity, the Son of God, had every right to call down and every ability to call down a sign that would have trivialized the Red Sea, the parting of the Red Sea. Would have made us totally forget about the walls of Jericho. Would have made Elijah's defeat of the prophets of Baal seem as nothing. He could have called down such a sign in that moment that it would have put an eternal end to all doubt and all scoffing and all mocking. That's the temptation that's before him. And in his divinity, it would not have been a sin. He has every right to claim that glory for himself. The Godhead is not here being tempted. It is the man, Jesus, who is in this place being tempted. And the temptation is this. You see, there had yet there has yet not been, at this point, not yet been a man who did all that God required of mankind. Adam had failed to do so in the garden. Noah had failed to do so on an earth scrub clean. Abraham had failed to do so when brought into a new land. Moses and the people failed to do so when they were returned to the land. David and Solomon failed to do so when they were given peace on every side. At every turn, humanity has failed to keep God's covenant of works. But here we see the one Who says, no, I'm not going to seek glory through an alternative route. I'm not going to shortcut the path that's set before me. There is before me a path set by my father, which I will endure the scoffing of the Pharisees, I will endure their unbelief, I will endure the mocking of the Sadducees, I will endure all that is set before me. So that there is at least one human being who does all that God requires of humanity. Hebrews reminds us why. For the sake of the joy that was set before him For the sake of you and me. That's the joy that was set before him. That's the reason he does not give a sign here. He does not call down such a sign as he put together put an end to all mocking and all doubt. Because by enduring all of those things, by continuing on the path that the Lord has, the Father had set for him, He doesn't just bring glory to himself. He opens up the way by which we all might be glorified one day. He stands in place of all mankind who are believers in him and offers his righteousness to all of us. This is what is often referred to by theologians as the passive obedience of the Christ. Not that he didn't take action, he takes action. It's that he suffers, because of his passion, because of his love, he suffers the consequences of sin. He is suffering here the consequences of the sin of unbelief. Even though he had no need in and of himself to suffer those things. He did not deserve to. His glory for himself as the Son of God was secure. But in this moment, he took a step towards securing glory one day for you and for me. That's the temptation that is offered here. That's what the Pharisees bring in this situation. And they will bring it again, over and over and over again. And each time, praise be to Jesus Christ, he says, No, I will stay the course set by the Father. Now, in addition to getting some insight into how Jesus loved us and how he resisted the temptation to glorify himself in this moment, we also get some insight into the Pharisees. We see that despite the fact that Jesus has taught with authority in Matthew 1, he has driven out unclean spirits and healed a leper. Also in Matthew 1, he's invigorated an invalid, restored a withered hand in Matthew 2 and 3. He stopped the flow of blood in the hemorrhagic woman. He restarted the flow of blood in Jairus' dead daughter. Despite all of those, despite feeding 5,000 men plus their the women and children from two five loaves and two fish. despite healing the sick in Gennessaret, despite he feeding another four thousand, despite all of the the uh miracles in private. G uh Peter's mother-in-law and some of the different people that got hired in in in in home. They got healed in homes and not out in public. Despite all of these signs, the Pharisees come and say, give us a sign. Why? What why do they do that? When I used to teach high school, I would, you know, I'd math the science, I would give an example of the sort of problem the students were going to have to do when they're coming homework. And I would get all done with the uh the sample problem and I would cut the students loose to begin working for themselves. And and almost without fail, one or more students would come up to my desk and say, how do I do this, Mr. Shaw? And I just would I just showed you how to do it. In fact, it's still on the board. Just do exactly what's up there. Most days I was a little nicer and politer and kinder about it. And most students, if I just simply nudged them to recognize the connection between that and this, they went, oh, and they went back to their desk and they started working it. There are a few students who need a little bit more, but they would get it. Every once in a while. Would get a student who felt embarrassed, was ashamed by the fact that they didn't see the connection. And in their pride, couldn't admit, they couldn't just say, oh, yeah, duh, sorry, I'll go work it. They dug in their heels. And they argue with me that that wasn't connected to the problem on the page And they would bring in to explain to me how I didn't understand. Never mind the fact that I actually had, you know, graduated from college with a chemistry major. They were going to explain to me why I didn't understand how that didn't really relate to this problem. And in their pride, and in their because of their sense of shame, they could not admit they were wrong. And the things would would devolve into such a situation where I swear they would have denied knowing 2 plus 2 Just so they could prove to me that it was my fault as a teacher and not their fault as the student. Now, surely I had lots of shortcomings as a teacher, but In these situations, it was this pride of the student. They could not bring themselves to humble themselves and go, yeah, I should have seen that. Sorry. That's an illustration of what the Pharisees are doing here. Yeah, yeah, there have been signs of plenty. Yeah, we should have seen them. Yeah, we don't need another one. Pharisees can't do it. In the hardness of their hearts, they cannot humble themselves, though the evidence before them is absolutely overwhelming. They say, Show us a sign And Jesus says, nope, forget about it. There are the back-to-back proverbs that always make me smile. There's the proverb that says, do not answer a fool according to his folly, and there's a proverb immediately following that says, answer a fool according to his folly. And of course the wisdom of the Proverbs is that there are times to answer and there are times not to. And at this point, Jesus goes, enough. We're done. No more signs. They, if you're wondering, by the way, earlier Mark, we looked at the unforgivable sin. If you're wondering what the unforgivable sin is, here it is, right here. The Spirit has made known his power through the Christ, and they have rejected it. They have said, nope, we're not interested. That is the unforgivable sin. That is blasphemy the Holy Spirit. Saying, no, we're not going to look at all the overwhelming power, all the overwhelming evidence, and all the signs. We're going to set the terms under which you speak to us. Show us another sign. And Jesus says no, and he walks away. So they get in the boat. Jesus and the twelve get in the boat and they head across the Sea of Galilee, and something interesting happens. It's kind of humorous because they had seven baskets of food left over from the feeding of the 4,000, and none of them says to themselves, hey, we should grab some of those leftovers, take them in the boat with us So they get in the boat and they are getting hungry and they start looking around and tucked away in one corner of the boat is somebody's lunch from two days earlier. And then there was just one little loaf. And so you understand, uh a loaf back then was not like our loaves of bread today. Okay? The loaf was pretty small, usually not even enough for one for one person. Remember the little boy who was at the feeding of the five thousand When his mom packed him a lunch, this is a little boy. When mom packed him a lunch for just one little boy, remember how many loaves she put in there? Five. Five loaves to feed one little boy for the day. One loaf is not going to feed thirteen adult men. Not even come close. It's not even enough for one of them. And so an argument breaks out, and we don't know what the argument's about. Are they arguing about whose fault it was that they're they didn't pick up the leftovers? Are they arguing about who gets the one loaf? I don't know. But something interesting happened. And Mark actually tells us, Mark does this a lot. He tells us one thing and then backs up and tells us why he told us. And we actually hear Jesus' response first in verse 15. And he cautioned them saying, Watch out, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And then in verse 16 He tells us, and and the the translation here doesn't capture the possibility that this actually is a past tense, and they had begun. So they had already been discussing this argument over bread had already been occurring. And Jesus, hearing an argument about bread, seizes the opportunity to bring in a baking metaphor. Leaven, if those of you who are not bakers, is yeast. That's the stuff you put in to cause the dough to rise, to make it light and fluffy. And Jesus seizes the argument about bread and uses a baking metaphor to say, guys, Watch out for the leaven. And of course, throughout the Old Testament, leaven is a symbol for sin. Watch out for the sin of the Pharisees and of the Herodians in yourself. You see, these guys could not see how the five thousand men, plus women and children, were going to be fed. They could not see how the 4,000 people were going to be fed, and now they cannot see how the 13 of them are going to be fed. The tasks keep getting easier, but still they do not trust the Lord on faith. Verse 17, what does Jesus say to them? And Jesus aware said to them, Why are you discussing the fact you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened? Now he quotes Jeremiah, having eye the our Old Testament text from earlier. Having eyes, do you not see, and having ears, do you not hear And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves of the five thousand, how many baskets full of bread pieces did you take up? And they said to him, twelve. And the seven for the 4,000? How many baskets full did you take up? And they said to him, seven. And Jesus says, guys, the risk before you is big. This is not a little thing. The evidence before you has become overwhelming. No, you are not vocally opposing me the way the Pharisees are, but your sin is the same. You aren't yet living by faith. You aren't yet believing that I can provide and that I will provide. And he says something incredibly harsh. You know, a lot of us who grew up in the church get very used to the Pharisees being the bad guys. The Pharisees are the ones wearing the black hats. We get used to ripping on the Pharisees, and Jesus points to the twelve and says, You are just like them. Your unfaith, unbelief, is just like that of the Pharisees. And I'm going to suggest that that should really bother every one of us here this morning. For I don't believe for a moment that any one of us thinks that we have more faith than Peter or James or John or, for that matter, even doubting Thomas These guys were at risk of hard hearts, of unbelief, because of the sin in their hearts. Are we not surely at the same risk? And we have to ask ourselves, Lord, where do I continue to go my own way despite your faithfulness? Where do I worry about the way forward when you have a demonstrated history of caring for your people? Why am I worrying? About things that you have proven over and over and over again that you will take care of. And even if you don't, then I have to recognize that's your plan for my life. Lord, where am I satisfying myself with the things of this world because I don't believe that there is coming a day of great and eternal and transcendent satisfaction? We, you, me, need to look at the Pharisees, to look at the enemies of Jesus, to look among those who walked in unbelief. And see ourselves. And recognize that among the enemies of Jesus is a Pharisee like me. And a Pharisee like you. And we need to repent. And we need to come back yet another time and say, Lord, help my unbelief. Free me from trusting in myself, myself. Give me the humility to admit Sin, not in the abstract. We're all good at admitting sin in the abstract. We're good, you know, we know doctrinally we're not perfect. Oh yeah, I sin. Of course I'm a sinner. We need to own specific, concrete, painful, embarrassing, shameful sin. And say, Lord, I don't want to dig in and be stubborn in these things. Help me. Show me the way to faith. Give me the wisdom to walk away, that I might not be like those Pharisees. So that in your eyes there is not any longer a Pharisee like me. Let's pray. Spirit of God, humble us. Work in us that we would recognize the hardness of our own hearts. Soften Our hardness And in our brokenness and in our humility and in our shame come to us Remind us of the wonderful hope of provision that is ours in Jesus Christ. Who will one day Meet every need and every desire and do so so that there are baskets overflowing. Teach us to look to that and not to this world. Teach us to hope in that and not our own way. So that we would never be like these who did not believe then. We lift up our souls to you, hoping in your grace and in your mercy to us. And we do so in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.