So I invite you now to hear the Word of God, starting in Mark five, verse twenty-one. And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him and he was beside the sea. Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him he fell at his feet and implored him earnestly, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live. And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment. For she said, If I touch even his garments, I will be made well. And immediately the flow of blood dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease. And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the crowd and said, Who touched my garments? And his disciple said to him, You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, Who touched me? And he looked around to see who had done it. But the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your disease. While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler's house some who said, Your daughter is dead Why trouble the teacher any further? But over hearing what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not fear, only believe. And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John, the brother of James. They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly. And when he had entered, he said to them, Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside, and took the child's father and mother, and those who were with him, and went in where the child was. Taking her by the hand, he said to her, Talifa Kumi, which means, little girl, I say to you, arise. And immediately the girl got up and began walking, for she was twelve years of age, and they were immediately overcome with amazement. And he strictly charged them that no one should know this and told them to give her something to eat. Let's pray. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word. Let my words be yours, let my message be your message, so that we would hear you today. And know more of this man Jesus and the power that you granted him. We pray this in his wonderful, exalted name. Amen. Some of you may have noticed, if you flip through the bulletin, that there was no place today for sermon notes And that was not a mistake, but rather that was done intentionally. You may have also noticed that I brought no sermon notes up here with me. Now there's nothing wrong with sermon notes, and if you're going to take notes, I can't stop you, nor will I even try You won't be brought up on charges before the elders. You're certainly welcome to take notes. But there are times and places Where sometimes we miss the story because of our interest in certain details. And I want us this morning to hear the story. to experience the account as the disciples experienced this account. After all, the story of Jesus is given to us as a narrative account of the things he did. It is to be a memorable set of stories, things that are to resonate in our hearts and minds as we reflect back on them. And so I want to tell you the story. Of what Jesus did on this day and in this place. Now, first of all, I want to remind us of the setting that is before us. He had, if you recall from last week, he had been across to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, to the side known as the land of the Garoshenes, a land of Gentiles And over there, he had, on the way there, you recall that he there had been a great storm, and he had calmed the storm. He had cried out to the storm, Peace be still, and it was immediately still. He demonstrated his power over the forces of nature. Then while he was in the land of the Garresenes, a demoniac, one possessed by demon, not just by a demon, by a legion of demons. came up to him, and Jesus was able to heal him. He spent some undisclosed time over there in the land of the Garoshines, and now he has returned back to the The side of the Sea of Galilee that belongs to the Jews, the Jewish side. He is now back in the area where he performed the vast majority of the early ministry that we have recorded here in the Gospel of Mark. And as he returns, again a crowd gathers around him. And as we've been going through Mark, we've seen that this is the normal way of things, that when Jesus goes out into public, great crowds throng to him. And he has already revealed to us the hearts of these crowds. They come for the healing that he offers. Later they're going to come for the food that he offers. As a general rule, they don't come for the preaching and teaching that he offers. There's a reason that every time we gather as a church we offer food. Jesus has got a great crowd around him, and when those crowds gather, he takes the opportunity to share with them, to preach to them, and he's doing that here. And in the midst of this preaching, a man named Jairus approaches him. And I want us to understand something about Jairus. Jairus is the leader of the local synagogue He calls him the ruler of the synagogue. Now let me explain a little bit about that position. The ruler of the synagogue was not a spiritual position per se. Rather, this was the one who was responsible for the oversight of the physical plant, of the maintenance of the building, of the provision of the supplies for the synagogue. He was in that sense akin to our perhaps the chairman of our deacon board or the chairman of a trustee board, one who oversees the physical plant. Very often in many synagogues In many towns, the ruler of the synagogue was a wealthy person, a wealthy man who probably donated the very land on which the synagogue sits and may have donated much of the cost of the building of that synagogue. And so the ruler of the synagogue is a position of some prestige in the community, of some power, of some influence, of some social position, of some status. This is why, of all the many people who flocked to Jesus throughout the Gospel of Mark, we don't know the names of most of them. But the disciples knew this man's name. As Peter is recounting this story years later in Rome, and as Mark is hearing it, Mark learns the name of Jairus because Jairus was a socially well-known person, and Peter remembers his name. Unlike many of the others. Now there's another reason I tell you all of that. Most synagogues in most towns. in the ancient world were controlled by a sect of the Jews known as the Pharisees. Now we've heard a little bit about them already in the Gospel of Mark. Now the Pharisees were the religious conservatives. Phariseeism actually arose during the Intertestamental period initially as a laudable attempt to rev to prevent the return to idolatry. to stay biblical. But somewhere along the way they lost their call to to biblical faithfulness and replaced it with their own brand of legalism and uh and conservativ conservativism for its own sake. So that they became a standard unto themselves by the law that they made up. And we saw in Mark III When Jesus confronts the Pharisees about the law, when they have this back and forth and this interchange over the law, the Pharisees are so angered by what Jesus has to say about the law That they leave and begin to plot to kill him. So that by the time we get to this point, the Pharisees are already scheming to figure out how they can take down this man, Jesus. And I share all of that to say this is an amazing account before us here. For Jairus, the leader of the local synagogue, is taking a public position In favor of Jesus. He runs to Jesus, the very one that the Pharisees are plotting to kill. He has laid on the line his entire social status, all of his power in the community, all of his prestige, all of his position. He has risks in this moment because he publicly goes to Jesus and says, Help me. And we need to understand why he does that. If we're going to properly understand this story before us, we have got to understand why this man does that. And it's not hard to figure out. He loves this daughter. He loves this little girl. This is his baby. And she's hurting. Interestingly enough, the text says when Jairus is speaking to Jesus, she's at the point of death. And while that's a pretty good English translation, the Greek does not have the word death in it. He can't bring himself to use that word in the context of his daughter. He simply says she is approaching the end. He can't use the word death with regard to this little girl He loves her so much. That's why he's willing to risk all that he has. That's why he's willing to lay it all on the line and to be publicly seen with the enemies of his friends, of his social circle. All of his friends up to this point have been the Pharisees. All of those whom he has known socially have been the Pharisees. And at this moment, he says enough. I don't care what the Pharisees have to say. I've got to go to this man Jesus. Because I love my little girl. It's also interesting the wording he uses of her He calls her, well, I I in this translation was that little daughter, I think is the term. I've lost sight of it there somewhere. My little daughter, verse 23, my little daughter is at the point of death As Mark is telling the story, at the end he he he says of the parenthetical phrase, Oh yeah, I need to tell you. She was twelve Why does Mark add that parenthetical phrase here at the end of the account? Because if we didn't have that, if we were listening to this account, we would think she is a really little girl, a wee little baby girl, because of the way the father has gone on about her But in that society, she is on the cusp of womanhood. You're familiar with the practice of bra mitzvah and ba mitzvah? That happens when you turn 13. You become an adult. You become recognized in the society as a member of the adults. She's on the cusp of womanhood. And he still speaks of her as his little daughter. I don't know what nicknames he had for her, but I kind of wish Mark had recorded it. Cause I kind of think he probably had one. He probably had some loving term. My little princess, my little pumpkin. I don't know what it would have been But he loves this little girl. He's talking about her in these terms that imply she's just this helpless little nothing. And in one sense, in his mind, she is. She's at the verge of death. He can't even bring himself to say that. She's approaching the end. He loves her that much that he's still talking about her in those terms. Another interesting thing that we see in this account, not only does Jairus love this daughter immensely, but closely related to that When he chooses to break with the Pharisees, when he chooses to break with the social circle in which he ran, and chooses to go to Jesus, he expresses not only his love for the little girl, but he expresses another fact He expresses how he feels about the daughter, but he also expresses what he thinks about Jesus. For when your child's life is on the line, you don't have time for snake oil salesmen. You don't have time for gimmicks. You don't have time for the latest craze going around the internet. You need the one who's going to get it done. And if that means driving 200 miles to get to the correct medical center, then you're going to drive 200 miles to get to that medical center. Jairus expresses what he truly believes about Jesus. That he truly believes that Jesus is his best hope. The one who actually might be able to heal his daughter. And for that, he is willing to risk everything else in his life. Giving up all his position, all his power, all his prestige, so that his daughter can be healed. And Jesus agrees to go along with him. And at that moment, Jairus has got to be, the halt has got to be welling up inside of him. We don't know that he knows what Jesus did on the sea. We don't know that he knows what Jesus did across in the land of Garrettes and driving out legion from the demon demoniac. But he certainly heard enough about Jesus to believe that this one can heal his little girl. And they set out for his house. And at this moment, Jairus has got to be walking ten feet off the pavement. So excited, so hopeful, so energized by what this Jesus is going to do for him and his family. And as they're walking along, the crowd continues to press up against Jesus and they're joistling him. You know how hard it is to get a whole mob of people heading the same direction, but somehow they get it done. Jesus says to the disciples, the disciples pass the word along and they get the whole mob moving. Clear out of the way, we've got to move. Jairus has servants with him, they're able to start clearing a path, and they get the crowd moving, and everybody's moving, but people are still jostling to get that near Jesus They're still bumping into him. There is a chaos in the midst of this commotion. In the midst of all of that, this woman comes up. And touches Jesus. I think we need to also meet this woman. We need to understand her. More than that, I think we need to understand the amazing contrast that the Holy Spirit puts between Jairus and this woman. We know Jairus' name, we don't know hers. He is a respected member of society, ruler of the synagogue. She has a bleeding disorder, a hemorrhaging. Just in case you've not read Leviticus in the last couple of days, let me remind you what that means for her and her life. A bleeding disorder made her unclean, so that she could not even enter the synagogue. Jairus is ruler of the synagogue, she's not even allowed into the synagogue. More than that, a bleeding disorder not only made her unclean, but it made everyone within whom she came with she came in contact with also unclean. So that if she touched anyone, or anyone touched her, they were made unclean by virtue of her hemorrhaging. So that she, if she ever had family, has not lived with them for the last twelve years. She is alone. Dirus has servants, he has people attending to him, he has helpers at his home. We find out later there's a huge crowd and commotion at his home. That commotion actually is a contextual clue about his wealth. In that society, you hired professional mourners for your funerals. If you were dirt poor, you hired at least one flute player for your family funerals. But if you were wealthy, you hired huge crowds of people. The crowds have already begun to gather to mourn professionally, to show off the importance of gyrus and his household in the community. This woman has none of that. She is completely and utterly alone. Jairus walks down the street and everyone says hello to him. Good morning, Jairus. How are you doing today? Good to see you, sir. This woman walks down the street. Nobody speaks to her. On the contrary, if she's in a public marketplace, she has to cry out, unclean! Unclean. I'm unclean. Don't accidentally bump into me because you'll be made unclean. I'm unclean. So that she is reviled by everyone. The two people could not be more different. And the message is as plain and as simple as you think it is: that this Jesus is the hope for everyone. For all of society, for all of us who are between the bookends of Jairus up here and this woman down here, and all of us in between on the social status, this Jesus Is the one where there is hope, where there is healing, the only place to go. No matter how low you are in that society, no matter how exalted you are in that society, you have to come to Him. And the woman comes up. And breaking the law, she works her way through the crowd, she elbows people out of the way. She's making every single one of them unclean along the way. They don't even know they're being made unclean. And she gets up to Jesus, and as soon as she touches the hem of his garment, as if perhaps she has gotten knocked down in the crowd. She's fallen in the crowd. And she reaches out and she grabs it. And she's immediately healed. And she knows she's healed. She can feel it. Her body is different. If something amazing happens, Jesus can feel it. He knows that he has just worked a miracle and that he has healed someone. Now, up until this moment, the crowd knows nothing of this. Jairus knows nothing of this. The disciples know nothing of this. And had they kept walking toward Jairus' house, everybody would have been perfectly happy. But Jesus stops the crowd and says, Who touched me? And the disciples pointing to the absurdity of that question, they're like, look around you! Everybody is touching you! It's the disciples who say it, but I think they're voicing Jairus' concern. What? Who touched you? My daughter is dying! And you're gonna stop and ask who touched you? I came to you, Jesus, because I thought you could help my daughter, and we're going to stop and worry about who touched you. Get to my house. And Jesus won't let it go And it brings up a point in the lives of all of us. Times when things aren't going the way we want them to. When our lives don't appear, we seem like we're headed down the right road, we're headed to the place of healing, and all of a sudden something happens, and we take a detour and we're like, what is going on, God? Why, Lord? Had we just stayed on this path, everything would have been okay. Why detour me? And what happens next is an amazing lesson for everyone that was there that day, and it is an amazing lesson for every one of us here this day. For he turns to the woman, he turns to the crowd, and continues to ask but me, she finally comes forward, and something interesting, something amazing, something wonderful happens here. This is the fourth time in Mark in this last two sermons that we've heard that somebody was afraid. This is the fourth time that Greek word phobus, fear. Has been used. The disciples were afraid of the storm on the sea. Then Jesus called the storm, and you remember they were mega afraid of Jesus. Very afraid of Jesus. Then he drives out the legion from the Demoniac, and the Garrisones are afraid of Jesus and say, get out of here, go away. And now this woman, we're told, is afraid and trembling. But in her fear, she responds rightly. In her terror, she turned in the correct direction. For the Garrison said, go away when they were afraid of Jesus. The disciples said, Who is this? She runs to Jesus There is a great irony in the gospel. Have you stopped to think about, we talk about being saved. Have you stopped to ask yourself what it is or who it is that we are saved from? To be saved is to be saved from something, to be saved from drowning, to be saved from a car accident, to be saved from a burning house. When we talk about salvation in the scriptures, what are we saved from? Well, there are actually a lot of correct answers to that question. We are saved from sin and the power of sin over us. We are saved from eternal death and damnation. We are saved from the wrath of God in hell. But that last one and all of them, they got to point to what is the underlying issue in our salvation. Ultimately, it all boils down to this. We are saved from God. Have you ever stopped to think about that? It is God who is the judge who decides who enters into eternal glory and who enters into eternal damnation. It is God who renders eternal judgment on our soul, and it is God's wrath that is poured out against our sinfulness. So when we are saved, we are saved from God. You know, in Matthew, we read where Jesus said, do not fear the one who can kill the body, but rather fear him who kills both body and soul in hell. And I think sometimes we read that and go, well, that's Satan. No, it's not. Satan has no power to send anyone to hell. Satan has no authority in hell. He is rather a prisoner of hell The one who has authority to kill both body and soul in hell is the one who gave life in the first place and who has the right to take it. He is the one who set the holy standards of which we are to live and has the right to judge us when we fail it. The one to fear is this one. And this woman fears him. The psalmists tell us, the Proverbs tell us that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. But we're reminded the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It is not the end-all and be-all of wisdom For rather, we are told what? That perfect love casts out fear. This woman in her fear turns to the only place where fear can be alleviated For if it is salvation from God that we need, then who is the only one that can save us? Only God can stand against God, only God can undo God's judgment, only God can reverse the path that we are on. No other has that power or authority. So in our fear, we must go to the one that we fear. We must go to Jesus. And this woman does exactly that. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. But the love of God is what brings it all back together. And he doesn't leave her in her fear. His perfect love casts out her fear. He says to her, daughter, Your faith has healed you. That sentence is an entire sermon in and of itself, and I cannot possibly do it justice, but there are some things we have to address in there. One The word daughter. That was not a I've noticed here on Maryland's Eastern Show, I've only been here a few months, but I get called hun a lot I was just at the drive through McDonald's yesterday and they said, Thanks, hun. Like, I don't even know your name. This is not that. This is not Jewish Hun. Okay This was not culturally appropriate. This was not regionally expected that he would refer to her in this manner. Rather, this is actually very shocking in that culture. He turns to her and he He says daughter. The one who has no family is now a part of his family. The one to whom no compassion has been shown, there is now a loving tone, and there is compassion. Daughter. We can't forget where this comes from. What did we see earlier in the Gospel of Mark just a few weeks ago? What did we see? The family, the biological family of Jesus comes to the house of the door and a messenger relates to Jesus, your family is waiting for you. He says, Who is my family? My family are those who do the work of God. And what is the work of God? To believe in the one whom He has sent. My family are those who believe. They are my mothers and brothers and sisters and daughters And he says to this woman, you have believed. Daughter, you're one of mine. You're part of my family. And then he uses that word, your faith has healed you. I wish this is no fault of the translation. In Greek, there's only one word here. In English, unfortunately, there are two words. Rather than your faith has healed you, I think we need to think your belief has healed you. And here's why. Because that word ties into the next sentence. For the word daughter now launches the next section. What's going on in this moment? The moment Jesus says, daughter, what is Jairus doing? Yes, daughter! That's why I came and got you. That's why we're on this road. That's why we walked past where this woman was standing. That's why she was able to grab your garment. My daughter is dying. Can we get back on the road? Do we get back on the path? Do we get back to where we were going? Jesus were daughter. Trigger in Jairus' mind the reminder of his daughter, and then what is the next sentence spoken? His servants walk up and say, What? Your daughter is dead. And what is Jesus? By the way, the Greek word for uh Jesus overhears, this Greek word is an interesting word because it could have the idea of uh Overhearing in the sense that we use that word eavesdropping, listening in on a conversation. You can also have this idea of overhearing as in just a ignore, basically hear over the top of. I'm going to ignore the commotion here and just listen back there I'm going to ignore. And that's exactly what Jesus turns to him and says, ignore them. Ignore it. Forget what they heard. What you heard Vim to say Only believe. And there's that word. He has said, Woman, your belief has saved you. And now he turns to Jairus and says, Yeah, you your daughter, right. That's that's the topic here. And what did you just hear save? Now just believe. Pistuo, woman, your pistuo has saved you. Jairus, just pistuo, just believe. Woman, your faith has healed you. Jairus, just faith eyes. Belief. And they resume the path and they head home. And this time he leaves the crowd behind. He makes everybody else stay. And he just takes the inner circle and they get to Jairus' home. And Mark has a way of doing this a lot where he uses the enemies of Jesus to confirm Jesus. You see how that played out there? It's so interesting. So Jesus walks up, he says, Why the commotion? You don't need professional mourners. It's just not dead. Now, had the enemies of Jesus known what he was about to do, what should they have said? You're right. She's not dead. She's just sleeping. For that would undermine the power of Jesus. That would undermine the value of the miracle he's about to work. Anybody can wake up a sleeping girl. I'm no miracle worker, I'm not even a doctor. I can wake up a sleeping child. Actually, when I have teenagers, I sometimes struggle with that. But most sleeping children I can wake up. They should have said, you're right, she's only sleeping. No! They make the mirror the clear the what the miracle that's happening here They see, listen, you carpenter from Nazareth, we're the professional funeral attenders. We know what a dead body looks like. Don't tell us who's dead and who's not dead, you moron, get out of here. And he turns to them and says exactly that. Get out of here! And he throws them all out of the house He goes to the child and he takes her hand and he says, little girl, get up. She wakes up. She kicks her feet out on the edge of the sofa and she stands up. And he says, listen, she's going to be hungry. Make sure she gets fed. That moment on the highway, when Jesus stopped to deal with that woman, that no account, no name, social outcast woman. When Jairus was losing his mind, when he was going, What are we doing here? That moment Became a moment of tragedy and a moment of victory. For in that moment his daughter died, but in that moment he knew something new about Jesus. Had they not stopped for that woman, had they gotten to Jairus' house before she died, then Jesus would have just healed one more sick child, one more sick person, one more withered hand, one more lame leg. But instead, Jesus now for the first time shows his power over death. That dark moment in Jairus' life on that road becomes for him the foundation of his faith. And Mark wants it to be the foundation of ours. Mark has been building a crescendo of a Jesus who healed some hands and then some legs. Who called the storm, who drove out some demons, who then drove out a whole legion of demons What did we learn about the Legion of Demons, that demoniac? That no one could tame him, no one could shackle him And then Jesus comes and does what no one else could do. It is complete and utter exhaustion. He does what no one else could do. A whole village could not tie this man down, and Jesus sets him free. Doesn't tie him down Now, what did we read about the woman here? Every doctor. She had spent lavishly. It's the same term used of the prodigal son, who blows his father's money without regard. She has burned through all of her wealth in order to get healed. That's how desperate she has been And again, in the midst of those those who could do nothing for her, along comes Jesus and does everything for her. Mark's contrast could not be clearer. Mark's point could not be starker. Mark's call to confess to Christ could not be clearer And this crescendo has built until now we see that this Jesus has power even over death. It's a question of faith. What do you believe Not just what do you say you believe, but in the dark and desperate times, where do you run? Do you turn away from the social conventions and run to Jesus as Jairus did? Do you turn away from all the foolishness you've been following and run to Jesus as this woman did? Do you recognize that it doesn't matter whether you're gyrus up here on the social status or you're down here with that unnamed woman on the social status ladder? You gotta go to Jesus. And when you're with him and you think everything is going great, and he takes a detour and your daughter dies, do you cling to that hope? Do you still say no this is the one? I don't understand why my life's doing going through what it's going through. I don't understand why he's making me walk through this dark time But in the midst of it, do you recognize the hope that Jairus was taught this day That the darkest of times only make the light shine brighter. The most difficult of trials only make the glory of the salvation of our God all the more amazing. Hear the story of Jairus and this unnamed woman. And the faith, wobbly as it was, shaky as it was, the faith they placed in Jesus And recognize the call on your life and on mine to believe in this one, who has power over the storms of our lives, over the demons of our lives, over the diseases of our lives, and even over death. And the path won't always be the direct one. The path will not always be the one that we wish it would be. But when we go with him, we end up in a place of life and of joy and of rejoicing. Let's pray. Lord teach us the importance of this account and of this story. Of these people and their faith and the hope they had in you. And through their faith, you worked, through you, through your power and because of their faith, you worked great miracles in their lives. Help us to realize that that is what awaits us Though the course of this world, our lives in it, might not go the way we want, what awaits us is perfect healing and power over death. So that we might rejoice with you for all of eternity. We pray this in Christ's name and for His sake. Amen.