I invite you to turn your Bibles to Mark chapter 8, the Gospel of Mark, the 8th chapter. We took a break from Mark for the month of December to take a look at some uh Christmas text. But we return now to our sermon series in Mark, a call to confess the Christ. And at this pivotal moment in the Gospel of Mark, we're going to see the first such confession of the Christ. And take a look at the importance of that and the importance of understanding it. As we prepare to read the text, A couple of things I'll say. One, our sermon is going to begin in verse 27, but for the sake of transition, I'm going to read starting back in verse 22 so that we will see some of the way that Mark ties these events together. And as we read, I also would remind you, as I do each week, that here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice That if you want to know who the Christ is and why he came, you have to know God's Word. So I invite you now to hear the Word of our God from the Gospel of Mark. Beginning in verse 22 of chapter 8. And they came to Beth Seda, and some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village. And when he had spit out his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see people, but they look like trees walking Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again, and he opened his eyes. His sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. And he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. And as Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi, and on the way he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? And they told him, John the Baptist. Others say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. But he asked them, Who do you say that I am Peter answered him, You are the Christ. And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? And what can a man give in return for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. And he said to them Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word. Let my words be yours. And if there be anything I say that is not in accord with what you have said, let it be quickly forgotten. So that we may plainly see the Christ. So that like the blind man, our vision will go from blurry to clear. That we might know the one whom you sent on our behalf. We pray this in his name. Amen. My sister-in-law tells an interesting, kind of a cute story about one of her children some years ago. She was working around the house, kind of puts in the kitchen, and The child was in the other room singing what was at the time a popular Christian song on some of the Christian radio stations. And the chorus of the song, I think it's also the title of the song, the chorus of the song said this. It said, Life is good, but eternal life is better. All in all, it's a pretty good premise. It's a pretty good line Life is good, but eternal life is better. But if my sister-in-law listened to her youngster, three, four years old at the time, she realized that that's not exactly what was being sung. So she went into the other room and she said, Honey, what are you saying? And the youngster with a great deal of joy and enthusiasm said, Mom, I'm singing the song Life is good, but a turtle's life is better. Having never been a turtle, I can't say if that's true or not. What I can say is that that illustrates extremely well the problem before us in the text A great deal of joy, a great deal of enthusiasm, a great deal of excitement to proclaim something wonderful, but a complete misunderstanding of the wonderful thing being proclaimed. In our text this morning, we have reached the first of two pivotal confessions toward which Mark has been building. We have subtitled this Gospel of Mark, A Call to Confess the Christ. And here we have that confession. Peter says plainly, clearly, boldly, you are the Christ. Hebrew, Messiah. anointed one, chosen one, the one set apart by God to save his people. And Peter has declared a wonderful, glorious truth that we must declare. A truth that we must know. And yet what we see in the text is that Peter misunderstands his own declaration. He is, in effect Joyously declaring something without but declaring the wrong thing in his own mind. His words are right, but his understanding of those words are wrong Peter is declaring the wonders of a turtle's life, rather than declaring the wonders of eternal life. So that we are not like Peter, so that we are not like that youngster, we must understand this text. And understand what begins to be taught here. For Jesus begins to a new teaching now, begins to redirect his disciples to understand him differently. You know, it's interesting if you look at Matthew's account and Luke's account, but but more Matthew's account of this same thing. There are these wonderful things that Jesus says after Peter's declaration. Peter says, You are the Christ! The Son of the Living God in Matthew. And Jesus responds, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, for this has not been, flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but rather my Father in heaven. He goes on to say wonderful things. You are Simon, but now you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And there are many wonderful truths that come out of this in Matthew's account. And then whenever I hear this preached, it's always Matthew's version I hear. In fact, I actually listened to one pastor preaching through the Gospel of Mark, and he still preached Matthew's version of this account. For Mark leaves out all of those wonderful things. So we have to ask ourselves why. Why is the focus of Mark so different? And I would remind you that the best available evidence suggests that Mark got his information from Peter. That Mark was the assistant pastor in Rome under Peter. That as Peter preached and taught in Rome. When he told the second generation of disciples in Rome about his experiences with the Christ, when he recounted these events. Peter didn't recount all of those other wonderful things that Jesus said. Matthew did for us, praise God. But Peter remembers how wrong he got it. He remembers that though I said the right words, I didn't have a right understanding of who the Christ was. Peter reflects on that and says, I was singing the joys of a turtle's life. It sounds good, lots of enthusiasm, lots of smiles. But it isn't a truth worth declaring. Let's take a look at the text more closely so that we might rightly understand this. I transitioned from the miracle of the blind man for a reason. We preached on that miracle a month and a half ago as we wrapped up the first half of Mark's gospel. But I want to show us how Mark uses that, places it where he places it to begin for us to foreshadow what's coming next. There are several things that are interesting about that miracle. One, Mark is the briefest of the gospel writers, and yet this is a miracle that Mark includes that nobody else does. He leaves out a great many things that Matthew and Luke and John include. But for some reason, Mark chose to include this and the others did not. There are only two events in Jesus' life that are exclusive to Mark, and this is one of them. It's also the only miracle that's followed by a question rather than a command. Jesus says, can you see? Or what do you see? He doesn't give the man a command. It's also the only miracle that does not occur instantaneously, but rather occurs in two steps. It's a unique miracle. And Mark puts it in a unique place, for he wants us to see what is happening. For the man who sees, who's blind, begins to see, but his sight is not clear. That is what's happening among the twelve. They're beginning to see. You are the Christ. You are the anointed one. You are the promised one, the Messiah. But their sight is still blurry, fuzzy. They're not seeing clearly. And more has to be done for them Jesus has to lay his hands on the man's eyes again so that he can see clearly. And Jesus is going to have to lay his teaching upon the disciples further so that they can begin to see clearly. So we have to ask ourselves, what is it then that Peter gets so wrong? For you may be sitting there listening and saying, Pastor, didn't he get it right? Isn't Jesus the Christ? And the answer is absolutely yes. He got that much right. He has understood all of the ministry up to this point, all of the miracles, all of the teachings, all of the chastisements. Just recall how many times Jesus has chastised the twelve, O ye of little faith, and such comments. Do you still not believe? And they have achieved a point of being able to declare an important truth, and it is a truth we must declare. I'm not discarding in any way the importance of saying Jesus is the Christ. We must be able to say that. We must be able to look at the account given so far of the Gospel of Mark and realize That God has validated through all the miracles, through all the demonstrations of power, through all of his control over the things of nature and over the things of man, and is able to undo the effects of the fall, we have to see in this carpenter from Nazareth. That he is the one sent by God. He is the Christ. So the question of who is the Christ, Peter gets right. It is you, Jesus. The one we've been following is you. You're the Christ. And Peter absolutely gets that correct But there is another nuance on that same question. Who is the Christ? That is to say, what's he all about? What does he do? What's the nature of the Christ? And this is where Peter goes horribly wrong. You know, we get this very, very wrong today. There are many, many churches. Many, many Christians who are proclaiming all sorts of things about the Christ that are not in accord with what is being proclaimed here. There are those who, like Peter, want the Christ to set us free from some earthly oppression. Do you see what Peter does here? Peter declares this truth. Jesus then begins, oh by the way. Isn't it interesting what Jesus says? So in Mark's account here, Peter answered, you are the Christ. And then verse 30, what does Jesus say? And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. I've been in the church for all of my fifty years. I have attended many, many, many missions conferences. And I've never heard this verse used as the grounds of a mission's talk. Not one time has any missionary said, let's turn to Mark 8, verse 30. And go forward and tell nobody about the Christ. And so we have to ask ourselves, since this is so out of accord, out of keeping with so much of what the rest of the scriptures say, why is it here? Did Jesus not understand the Holy Spirit's mission plan? I think there's an important warning here. That Jesus understands that the disciples don't understand. That if they go forth at this time and begin to declare that He is the Christ, they're going to declare a message that is all wrong. And it is an important warning for all of us who would teach and preach and shepherd the flock of God that we must get this right. That we must make the effort to rightly understand who the Christ is, why he came, what he has accomplished. Jesus knows that they don't understand it and he says, don't tell anybody. Don't tell anybody. Because you're going to get it horribly wrong. How does Peter get it wrong? Well, Jesus begins to teach him the correct thing. Verse 31, he began, Jesus, he began to teach them That the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he said this plainly. This is the first of three such teachings in the Gospel of Mark. We will see this same teaching two more times now. But this is the first time it's been taught. Up until now, Jesus has not revealed plainly these things to the twelve. Up until now, he's simply been trying to get them to buy in, to accept that he is the Messiah, to believe that he is the Messiah, to see in the miracles the stamp of approval from Almighty God, his Father. Now that they have signed off on that, now that they have confessed that truth, Jesus begins to teach them the details about the Christ. I don't know if you've caught the theme through our scripture readings from our reading in Psalm 22, from our reading in Isaiah 53, from our reading in Acts 2, a theme of the suffering of the Christ. And even in the Psalms and in Isaiah and the prophetic foreshadowing of the Christ, there was plenty for the people to recognize that the Messiah would be a suffering servant of the Lord. And yet that's not what they were looking for. For when Jesus begins to teach and preach that he is going to suffer and die, what does the text say? And Peter Took him aside. Praise God, Peter at least had the wisdom not to do it publicly. Peter took him aside And the next word is a remarkable thing. And began to rebuke him. Peter is rebuking Jesus. Hey, listen, buddy, I've been following you all this time. I gave up a profitable fishing business on the shores of Galilee to follow you. And if you're going to claim to be the Christ, then you better understand what the Christ is all about How can you get it so wrong, Jesus? The Christ doesn't die. He's the Savior of God's people. He comes to set us free. You can't throw off Rome if you're dead. There are no dead military generals who are successful. There are no dead political leaders who can lead a revolt. If you're going to be the Messiah, if you're going to claim the title of the Christ, you might as well understand the job description. And Peter begins to rebuke our Lord because Jesus doesn't understand what the Christ is supposed to do Jesus' response to Peter is a hard one for us to accept. For he calls Peter Satan. He calls Peter Satan. Yet when we recognize the seriousness of Peter's error We recognize why Jesus said this. For Satan is the father of all lies, the scriptures tell us, and this is the chief. Satan is the father of all liars, and this is the chief of all lies. For this is the most serious lie out there. To tell people the wrong thing about the Christ, to lead them in the wrong direction, to give them bad information about who the Messiah is, why he came, and what he did. And Jesus says to Peter, you're thinking like the world, you're thinking like the flesh, you're thinking like mankind. You're not thinking like my Father in heaven is thinking. Brothers and sisters, so many in the church today, many of us here in this room, struggle with this same error. For we have said that the Christ is come so that we might have an abundant life. For surely there is no verse in all of Scripture more important than the declaration that we should have life to the full. Yes. But not in this life. Not here and now For the one who wrote that verse that he came to give us life and give it to the full died in exile on the island of Patmos. The one who penned our favorite refrigerator magnet, we know that all things work together for the good of those who love him, was beheaded at the order of Nero. Jesus did not come that we might have our best life now. He did not come so that we might have a turtle's life. He came so that we might have eternal life, so that we would have a best life that lasts forever. And we have to understand that When we say the wrong thing about why Jesus came, we lie the lie of Satan. And we join Peter in this horrible mistake. The Christ did not come that we would open hospitals, build universities. All of which have been done in the name of Christ, all of which are good. But that's not why he came. If at any point you feel that that is the essential thing, the thing that we have to be about, Then you've misunderstood why he came. For he does not say that I came to alleviate the suffering of the poor. He says I came to die, to suffer myself. And to be raised again on the third day. Can we do those good things? Can we alleviate suffering in this life? Absolutely. But it must never be the principal thing that we are about. It must never be the non-negotiable, the thing we cannot let go of, the thing we must that we fight for tooth and nail. That must never be it. When the people of our community talk about Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, the first words out of their mouths had better not be, oh, they have a great soup kitchen We had better be known as a people who proclaim that the Christ came to suffer and to die and to be raised again on the third day That's what Jesus says was the reason for his coming. And when Peter doesn't understand that, Jesus says, get behind me, Satan. For you are not thinking like my Father in heaven. Jesus then turns to the crowds And he says to them, what it does take to follow him, what it does mean, what it does look like. He says, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel will save it. Quick comment there. There's an interesting little thing there, that word for whoever loses his life. The Greek word there has a uh uh uh uh uh an intent to it that we don't associate with the word lose. We don't usually think of the los the idea of losing as an active thing. This morning we just found a set of keys that had been missing in the Shaw household for about two weeks. Now, we did not purposely set out to lose those keys. We did not say to ourselves, hey, let's go hide those somewhere and then not tell ourselves where we put them. Losing in English doesn't have intent, but this word in the Greek has intent, purpose to it. It's not an accidental thing. The idea here is Jesus says you must be willing to destroy your life, to actively give it up. And that's certainly in accord with other passages of scripture where Paul writes that we should be willing to kill the old man, an active Verb. This is an active idea being proclaimed here, Jesus says. You must be willing to sacrifice your life. He tells us why. For my sake and the gospels. Brothers and sisters, let there be no other reason that we lay down our lives. Don't give up your free time. Don't give up this life. Don't sacrifice the things of this world for anything less than that right there. For the sake of Jesus and the gospel, honestly evaluate every other ministry we do. Does it point to Jesus? If not, why are we giving up our life for it? Does it proclaim the good news of the one who came to suffer and to die and to be raised on the third day? And if it does not, why are we giving up our life for it? The world is full of do-gooders. What it needs are people who proclaim this truth, who know who the Christ is, what he did, why he came. Jesus goes on, for what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul? Rhetorical questions. The answers are clear. And then he says this in verse 38 For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. What does that shame look like? You know, it's interesting how I think about this. There are times in my life where I'm ashamed of somebody else, something they said, their words, that Jesus says, You're ashamed of my words. And usually when I'm ashamed of them, you know, when I was a a teenager and and my my My parents, I don't want to name which parent, but it really was never mom When my parents would yell encouragement at one of my sporting events and do so with a little more enthusiasm than I was comfortable with in those awkward teen years. I'd want to pull away, create some distance. If uh somebody maybe told a joke that was a little questionable, and I go to retell it, I would reword it slightly, rework it so that I wasn't didn't have to be ashamed of their words. If one of my children forgot to maybe use the proper verbiage, when I retell what they've said, I'm ashamed of what they've said, so I reword it a little bit. Classic example, my grandmother came to visit some years ago, well some years ago, 40 years ago. Grandma came for a visit. And uh in my enthusiasm for grandma-grandpa's visit, I meant to say, how long are you able to stay? But what I actually said was, when are you leaving? And you can understand the difference between those two. And until the day she died, grandma gave me a hard time about that. I was ashamed, you know, so I was ashamed of what I said. I had to reword it Stop and consider what we say about Jesus and the degree to which we feel the need to reword what he said, because the truth is we're a little ashamed of him. Often we're not so ashamed of what he says, we're kind of bothered by what he doesn't say. And I'm not saying Jesus says you shouldn't care about the suffering of this world and this lifetime. But we are halfway through the Gospel of Mark, and not one time has Jesus told us to feed the poor Not one time. Not one time has he told us to solve all the social justice problems of this world. And it bothers us. The world chains us into rewarding the gospel. The world says, well that ought to matter. And we get we kind of, yeah, shucks, you're right. That probably ought to matter. I'm kinda bothered that Jesus didn't actually come up. Yeah, no, he said it. We you it's there somewhere. He said it And all of a sudden, we make the church all about these things that the world says the church should be all about. Because we're ashamed of this message. Again, is there a place to do those things? Yes. Are there times it's absolutely necessary to do those things? Yes. For sometimes we will not be able to declare the truth of this message if we haven't done those other things. We have the wonderful Bay Bridge that goes over the Chesapeake Bay. But the bridge would be worthless if there wasn't a road going to it. Sometimes these other ministries are the road that gets us there. But don't confuse that with the actual gospel itself. And sometimes we do the other things and we think, well, that's enough. We've done it. And it isn't. It really comes down to the fact that we're ashamed of this message. This isn't the message the world wants to hear. It's not the message that people are telling us we should be proclaiming, but it is the message of Jesus. And it's the only good news. You know, there's a great irony to this text because earlier Jesus said, Don't tell anybody, and now we're seeing him say, Don't be ashamed of my words. Tell people my words. Which is it, Jesus? Make up your mind. What do you want from me? The whole point is: tell people my words. Tell people who I really am. Don't tell them what you think I ought to be. Don't tell them that I am the Messiah who came to set you free from Rome. Don't tell them that I came to give you an abundant life. I came to give you your best life now. I came to solve all the social justice problems of the world. Tell them I came to suffer. To die and to be raised on the third day. He says, don't be ashamed of my words. Jesus wanted the twelve to get it right, to understand the message. So that they would proclaim it with clarity, with truth, with accuracy, with power, for it is the only words that can actually change anybody or anything. And as twenty eighteen begins, I encourage you, brothers and sisters, that we would be a people who declare this truth. Who are not ashamed of these words, who don't muddle them up in other things, who say this must be what we're about. This is what dying people need to hear. This is why he came. Friend, let me tell you. Jesus came and suffered. He was killed. How did Peter say it in Acts? According to the foreknowledge and definite plan of the Father But he was raised again, so that sinners might be made right with God, so that we might know him and be in relationship with him. You know, my sister-in-law's child that day was full of joy, was full of passion, was full of enthusiasm, declaring all the wrong things. A turtle's life is better. Let's not be a people who declare the glories of eternal's life, but who declare the glory of eternal life as found in the One. Who came to suffer, to die, and to be raised again. Let's pray. Lord, renew us in this wonderful truth, so that we might properly, rightly reflect you to a lost and dying world. That we might Declare the only good news that changes lives. Lord, when we take up other issues, when we pursue other ministries, let us do so always with the sole purpose. Of paving the way to the bridge of life. Let us always be willing to relinquish anything other. than this gospel truth. Let us always be willing to let go of anything else that we might be doing in our own strength Let us be willing to turn away from this life, to actively let go of it, to lose it in the pursuit of the one who offers eternal life We pray this in his name. Amen.