Mark is the second book of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Mark chapter one We begin this morning a new sermon series. Lord willing, we'll be looking at the Gospel of Mark now through with a couple of breaks, but now through Easter. And so I invite you to uh to be a part of that as faithfully as you can possibly be Mark is a wonderful account, as all of them are, but Mark is a wonderful account of the ministry of Jesus. So I look forward to going through this with you, and I think we will all be blessed in this study. As we prepare to read from the first thirteen verses of Mark's Gospel, I would remind you that here at the Shore Harvest Presbyter Presbyterian Church We believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice, that if you want to know what it is that we are to believe and how it is that we are to live, you must know God's Word. So please now hear the word of our God from Mark's Gospel. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan. confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair, and wore a leather belt around his waist, and ate locust and wild honey, and he preached, saying, After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. In those days Jesus came from Nazareth, Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open, and the spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness, and he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word, that we might know Christ better, and that in knowing him in your word we might confess that he is Lord. To the praise of His glorious grace. We pray this in His name and for His sake. Amen. I was uh uh Early teenager, 13, 14, 15, something like that. And we were sitting around the family uh kitchen table one night playing some games and the phone rang and this was back in the old days when you had to get up and leave the table and walk over to the phone. Explain to your children what that was like. The phone rang and we answered the phone. My mom got up and answered the phone. And we were hearing only half the conversation and she kind of got you could tell she was a little disgusted and frustrated and she hung up and came back and What was that all about, Mom? She said, Oh, some prank call, some kid pranking us. A couple moments later the phone rang again. Mom got up again, answered the phone again. We heard the same half of the conversation again. Mom was discussed it again. She hung up again And again it was this crank call. Let me cut to the end of the story. It turns out that some poor little girl some weeks earlier had stood with a sad face on my mom's front porch. and tried to sell mom a ticket for a fundraiser for the local PTA and my mom had finally given in and bought a ticket and thrown it in the junk drawer in the kitchen and forgotten about it. Well, it was my mom's ticket who had was going to win the the grand prize that night, a microwave oven as I recall. Okay, she was winning the grand prize, and since the little girl had sold the ticket, she got to make the call to the prize winner So my mom is hanging up on a little girl who was so excited to say, My ticket won, and my mom didn't believe the good news. Good news had come to us, and my mom didn't believe it. Now, obviously, some point along the way we believed it because I'm able to tell you the end of that story, but we'll take a look at that as we go through. Mark writes his gospel for that same reason. There are people who do not believe the good news, and he needs to convince them. So here's the situation into which Mark writes. Mark writes it around 65 A. D. Now, if you remember your history, you'll know that in 64 A. D. , Rome burned, bulk of the city burned to the ground. Some historians believe that Emperor Nero actually set the fire himself in order to be able to reclaim some land for some building projects he wanted to do. But whatever the case. Nero had a political problem on his hands. There were a lot of people very upset about the burning of Rome, and he needed a scapegoat, and Nero began to blame the Christians in Rome for that destruction of the city. And Nero began to persecute the Christians in Rome. He did horrible things. He threw many of them to the lions in the Colosseum. Some were crucified as Jesus had been crucified. Peter was crucified according to church tradition upside down. Peter was preaching in Rome at the time. In fact, Peter was the pastor of Mark's church. Some of those Christians were being burned. Many were being beaten. Their things, property was taken from them. It was a terrible time. And with the death of his mentor Peter, Mark the associate pastor of that church has now taken over as the head pastor of that church. But what keeps Mark up at night are not his friends, his loved ones. The people in the church to whom he's ministered for years. People in that church with whom, you know, Peter, side by side with Peter, to whom he he uh he shared the gospel and he brought them to faith. What's keeping Mark up at night is not those who are dying, but those who aren't. For you see many Christians were recanting their faith. Taking back their claim of faith in Christ. Not wanting to die for the gospel, not wanting to die at all. They released and relinquished the claim of the good news, and they no longer believed it. That's what's got Mark worried. That's what's mark got Mark upset, and that's why he writes. For those who aren't dying, because they don't believe the good news. And so Mark writes with a hurried pace, and we're going to see this frequently in his gospel. Mark focuses on the actions rather than the words of Christ. He doesn't include many of the long teachings that the other gospel writers include. He focuses on a man of action because the people in his congregation need to know that this Jesus did something for them. That he came and died for them. And he is writing in a way that is trying to urge on those in his church to believe in Jesus. It's a message we need today. It's a message we need to hear. To be challenged to believe that this Jesus of Nazareth is both the Messiah, the Christ, and the Son of God. That's how Mark opens in the very first verse. He's got a very short introduction to his gospel, just one verse, just a few words. He says, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. A couple of comments to be made on that introductory statement. One, Mark tells us that what he's going to give us, he's telling us the beginning of it. It's amazing over the centuries how Christians have argued about the whether or not we should celebrate Christmas. Do you have to have Christmas? Do you not have to have a how much a big deal do you have to make out of it? If you make too big a deal out of it, you're you're you're caving into the commercialism. If you don't make enough of a deal out of it, you're not a real Christian. And Mark says it is actually possible to talk about Jesus and skip the whole issue of Christmas. He says, here we go. Here's the beginning of it. Let me tell you about now the other gospel writers, all three of the other gospel writers deal with the incarnation in a direct way. So ma obviously it matters. Okay? But it actually is probably not something we need to be arguing about and fighting about. It really is possible to think about the gospel and let it begin right here with this ministry. It also clues us in that this is not a biography. What Mark writes is not a biography of Jesus. And the reason I point that out is to say this, that what we're about to study is not the life of Jesus. We're going to study the gospel of Mark. You say, well, Pastor, what's the distinction? What's the difference? We're going to listen to what Mark has to say about Jesus. We're not going to do a harmony of the gospels. We're not going to bring Luke and Matthew and John into the account and flesh it out more fully. Because Mark's account was inspired by the Spirit, and it is enough. And so we want to hear how the Spirit spoke through the writer Mark. And hear the message that Mark has for his readers. This is not a study of the life of Jesus. It is a study of the gospel of Mark. I just want to comment on that word gospel. The word gospel comes from the Greek word uangelias, uengelian, I think is actually the form of the word here. And it means good news, and it's appropriate that it be treated translated gospel, but gospel can have some other nuances. For example, we refer to the gospel of Mark, capital G. It's a genre of writing. And I do want us to understand that when Mark writes, Mark is the first of the gospel writers to write, first of the canonical gospels to be written. And I want us to understand that when he writes, he's writing in a genre that didn't exist. When he says right here the beginning of the gospel of Jesus, he doesn't mean my book about Jesus, my literature about Jesus. He doesn't mean that form of the word gospel. Because that form of the word gospel didn't exist until after Mark wrote. But rather what Mark is writing here is the good news about Jesus. To those who are dying, he says, your hope is well founded. I've got good news for you. And to those who are not willing to die for the Christ, he says, let me encourage you and tell you why you need to cling to God. to him. And then finally, that first verse, we said, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And that summary right there, in those few words, Mark tells us a great deal. He says, this man from Nazareth was the Christ. That's the Greek word for Messiah, the promised one, the anointed one. This was it. We've been looking for him for so long, and I'm telling you who it was. And I also want to tell you that he wasn't just merely an anointed man. David was anointed to be king. He was a messiah. Solomon was anointed to be king. He was a sort of messiah. This is the Messiah. Not just merely an anointed one, but he is the Son of God. And Mark also outlines the two halves of his gospel there for us. And we're going to see as we go through this that Mark really does fall into two halves. In the first half, he's going to build the case for us believing that Jesus was the Messiah, the Christ, the promised one. And that's going to conclude in Mark 8. 39 with Peter's famous declaration that you are the Christ. From that point forward, we're going to see that Mark changes direction. It begins to explain who the Christ is. and what his ministry is, and why he came and what he's going to do. And the second half of Mark's Gospel is going to conclude with the Roman centurion at the foot of the cross saying, surely this man was the Son of God. And so here in Mark chapter 1, verse 1, we see Mark's summary of his own gospel. I'm going to prove to you that he was the Christ, and I'm going to prove to you he was the Son of God. So that you will come to him in faith. Now, having taken a look at that introduction to Mark, Let's look at the rest of these first 13 verses. I've titled this sermon A Validated Ministry. In these first three sermons, we're going to look at how Mark summarizes various ways that God worked things out in such a way that there would be a stamp of approval on the ministry of Jesus. And here we have some validators. You know, it's interesting. Um had there been some validity to that phone call, my mom probably wouldn't have hung up those first two times. Had there been some way for her to know, to know that it wasn't a prank, know that this really was true. And a lot of us, when we hear things that seem too good to be true, We want that validation. We want an objective voice to come alongside and say, no, this is the real thing And that's what we have now in the next 12 verses of the Gospel of Mark. We have Mark recording four different things that validate the ministry of Jesus. We're going to see that the prophets of old validate the ministry of Jesus. That the new prophet, John the Baptist, validates the ministry of Jesus. That God Himself speaks from heaven and validates the ministry of Jesus And finally, Jesus' own sinlessness before the temptation of Satan validates the ministry of Jesus. Validated by the prophets of old, validated by the new prophet John, validated by God, and validated by his own righteousness. before the temptation. Each of those could and maybe in some cases should be its own sermon. But because Mark writes with a hurried style, we're going to follow his lead and try to hurry our way. Six months doesn't seem like we're hurrying, I know. But we're going to hurry our way for the Gospel of Mark to hear his message to us. The first validation, that of the prophets of old. You know, my mom didn't believe that phone call because she had no reason to think it was legitimate. But imagine for a moment that things had played out a little differently. Imagine that that little sad-faced girl standing on our front porch trying to sell this ticket Had said to my mom, hey listen, I can guarantee you that this is the winning ticket. Because I've been picked to draw the tickets out, and I'm going to fold the corner of yours I'm going to thrummage through there and I'm going to feel that. I'm going to pull it out. Now my mom might not have believed that little girl at that moment on the porch, but when the phone call came, it probably would have registered in her head. Oh that's right. I remember that was a strange conversation. And I can that jumps back into my memory right now. When surprising things are foretold, they're less surprising. And we're more likely to believe them. The prophets functioned in that regard for the ministry of Jesus. The prophets told that these things would be coming. And therefore when they came, they should have been somewhat less surprising. So Mark starts out by pointing to the prophets of old and says, if you're having a hard time believing that Jesus is the Christ, let me remind you That this is not something that came upon us suddenly and surprised us. This has been foretold for centuries. It's interesting. Mark references Isaiah by name But most scholars are agree that he's actually blending three different verses from the Old Testament. He has combined parts of Exodus 2320. Isaiah 40, verse 3, Exodus 20, 3. 20, Isaiah 40, verse 3, and Malachi 3. 1, which we read as our Old Testament reading. He blends those three texts together when he quotes here. Why does he do that? Well, think about the the chronological spread of those three prophets. Exodus 23, 20 would have been written by which prophet? Moses, writing it around 1400 B. C. Isaiah was written by Isaiah. I get that. Writing somewhere around 700 B. C. , and Malachi was written by Malachi writing around 450 B. And so what sorry what Mark does here is he says he takes snippets from three different distinct periods of Israel's Old Testament history and says, look at across the whole spectrum of our history This has been foretold. This is a valid ministry. Everybody talked about this. Moses foresaw this day. Isaiah foresaw this day. And the very last writing prophet of the Old Testament foresaw this day. Now, what he writes there, behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight And someone might argue, well, technically, Pastor, that actually validates John, not Jesus. That talks about John coming, but it reminds you of how this works. You see, John was a forerunner. He was the forerunner of the Christ. Now a forerunner in the ancient world, when you were moving a large uh body, whether it be a royal household with m going to visit a city or even an entire army, large groups of people cannot travel in a hurry, cannot move quickly. Just ask anybody who's trying to escape these hurricanes. You can't move large quantities of people quickly. Okay? And so what would happen is there'd usually be one or two young men, usually a fleet afoot, they would run out ahead of the body and tell the next village, hey, they're coming. Hey, the king and his household are coming. That was a forerunner. They ran out before and announced the coming Now, if you're in that village and a young man comes running in and says, The king is on his way. He's just a few miles behind me on the road. He'll be here in about 30 minutes. You gotta get ready. You might scoff at that young man. Whatever. The king never comes to visit a village like ours. But if somebody in town says, actually I heard he was coming, I knew the Forerunner was coming. In fact, I recognize that Forerunner. I know him, and I know he works in the household of the king. All of a sudden the message of the Forerunner becomes more authentic, becomes a validated message, and now you believe the one who comes after Because he's been told by the forerunner. That's what we have going on here. The prophet spoke of John, and Mark says, the fact that John's ministry is validated validates Jesus' ministry. Because we should have known there was a forerunner coming. And he came. And then who did he point to? To himself? No. He pointed to the one who came after him. So when Moses and Isaiah and Malachi, when they spoke of John, through him they validated Jesus. That's why Mark quotes this here. That's why Mark includes this here. The validation of the forerunner is validation of the one who comes after. So Mark, concerned about those who do not believe that Jesus is the Christ? says one reason to believe is because he was foretold by the prophets. You shouldn't be surprised by this. It doesn't come out of the blue. We knew he was coming. The second thing that John does, or sorry, I keep saying John. The second thing that Mark does is point to the ministry of John, and John is a validator of Jesus. John says. You know, this is the one who was to come. Now I told you, you know the end of the story. At some point we figured out what was going on in those phone calls, so the question becomes, how? Scott, what happened next? If your mom hung up twice, how did you ever get the microwave and know the rest of the story? Well, the third time the phone rang, it was no longer the little girl on the phone, it was now the head of the PTA. And she introduced herself and gave her name and call tried to get my mom to listen and finally was able to explain to mom and mom went, Oh, I do remember that happening. I did buy let me go a little through that rummage through that drawer. Oh I did find the old ticket Somebody else got on the phone and pointed to this little girl as valid. Mom didn't believe the good news from the little girl, but when the adult got on the phone and said, No, this girl speaks the truth, it validated what she had to say. John does that for Jesus. John was revered by the people. Even those who didn't necessarily like his message of repentance, they recognize that he came from God. We'll see that later in the Gospel of Mark. And so now John turns and points to Jesus. John now speaks of one who is stronger than he. Verse 7. I can't find verse. Oh. And John, he preached. And John preached, saying, After me comes one who is mightier than I. John then makes himself smaller and Jesus greater, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. John validates Jesus by showing the superiority of Jesus' ministry. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. John points to Jesus and says, he is mightier, he is greater, and his ministry is vastly superior And through this, John validates to the original audience in Mark's day and to us today, John is a validator of the ministry of Jesus. You know, it's amazing how many of us struggle to believe the things we haven't seen, or at least these sorts of things. We we tend to be doubters of a text like this and doubters of Jesus. And yet we don't doubt things that are amazing in other places. I've never seen the Grand Canyon. I don't doubt its existence because there are people, I believe, who have testified to it. Who have validated its existence to me and told me how wonderful it is. And you would scoff at me and mock me if I doubted the existence of the Grand Canyon. And yet we anybody who doubts the ministry of Jesus, well, no, that's that's the right uh you know, that's the more uh learned viewpoint is to doubt that ministry. Well who can believe that? Who can believe the Grand Canyon? Unless you've seen it yourself. Because we believe it because somebody tells us about it. John tells us about the ministry of Jesus and all the ways that it is superior to his ministry. And he is a validator of Jesus. One quick comment before we move on. It's a little interesting that Jesus is baptized, and in that sense, John validates Jesus also by baptizing him. Now some of us might ask, we read here in the text that John was uh his ministry was a ministry of repentance, a baptism of repentance, to turn away from sin. And we might ask ourselves, then why would Jesus be baptized? He did not sin. Why is there any need for baptism? Well, two things. One, Jesus comes to be the perfect human. The one who fulfills all the obligations of humanity to God, the first and only human who has ever done that on his own. And one of the obligations to God was to be obedient to God's prophets, and the prophet John stands in the wilderness and says, Come be baptized. But more than that, bigger than that, beyond that, we have to look forward to Jesus' death and say, well, he died and he didn't deserve to die. Death is a consequence of sin, so why did he die? And by that r r by the logic we use for the baptism, it's the same logic applies to his death He didn't sin, so why is he getting a baptism of repentance? But he didn't sin, so why is he dying? And we're reminded that his death was a substitutionary atonement. For those who would come to him by faith. And now we see the analog here. This is a substitutionary repentance. For those who would come to him by faith. That he did on our behalf repent of our sin. The one who knew no sin, but who came to be sin for us, repents of our sins. on our behalf. The prophets validated the ministry of John and through him validated the ministry of Jesus. John himself now points to Jesus and talks about it being a valid ministry, one that is superior in every way. Now we read on and we see that God intervenes. When the head of the PTA called my mom, the whole conversation changed. Here was one with authority and with knowledge and with a position to speak to this issue with power. And that's what happens here in the text. As Jesus comes up out of the Jordan River as he leaves the water, the heavens are rent, and God speaks. The Father speaks from heaven, the Spirit descends upon the Son, and there is a declaration of the validity of this man. He is my son He is my beloved son, and with him I am well pleased. To be the son of royalty is to be royalty To be the son of deity is to be deity. This was a statement from heaven itself that this man was no ordinary mere man. But he was God. We have the validity of Jesus testified to by the prophets. It's the validity of Jesus testified to by John himself. And now the validity of Jesus is being testified to by God the Father and the Spirit as they both come and give their approval upon this one. Finally, in verses 12 and 13, we see Jesus validated as the true man who keeps the covenant. We have here in 12 and 13 some interesting things going on. One is the statement, verse 12, the spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. His drove out is exactly the same word that's used later for casting out demons. This is the sense of casting out a demon. Jesus was cast out into the wilderness. There's almost a roughness to it, a harshness to it. You have been validated by the prophets, you have been validated by John, you have been validated by God, and now it is time to prove. That you are the one. And just as Adam stood not in the wilderness, but in a lovely garden, and faced down the serpent and the law. So now the second and last Adam, the true man, stands not in a garden, but in a wilderness by himself, not with Eve there to help him. and faces the same serpent. And we don't, from Mark, know exactly the content of the temptation But something interesting happens in Mark's account. He also doesn't tell us the outcome of this showdown. Based on Mark's account, we don't know whether or not Jesus sinned. And I'm going to propose to you that what we're going to see is that the temptation of Jesus occurs repeatedly through the Gospel of Mark. For we know not yet from Mark, but looking at the other Gospels, looking ahead, if we were to look ahead at Mark, we would know that the temptation of Jesus was one of seeking glory by a path other than the cross. And that is going to be the constant temptation of Jesus throughout the Gospel of Mark. Peter is going to say to Jesus, No, you will never die. Peter's going to declare, you are the Christ, and in the next verses, very next verses, Peter's going to say, no, you're not going to die. And what does Jesus say to him? Get behind me, Satan. Why does he call Peter Satan? He's now Mark's way of revealing to us the temptation that occurred right here. The temptation to find the glory through a path other than the cross. What is the temptation with which Jesus is going to wrestle in Gethsemane on the night before his crucifixion? He is going to say, Father, if there's any other way. If there's any other way. And in Mark's account, Mark wants us to see that this was a lifelong Temptation for Jesus. It didn't conclude here in this wilderness. Because Mark writes to a people who are tempted to do the same thing. To say no to the path that God had prescribed and to find another way. And Mark says, listen, Jesus wrestled for years with this temptation on your behalf. Believe him. Cling to him. Hope in him. Don't give up. Don't let it go. go. Mark's message to us is exactly the same. Jesus' ministry is a validated ministry. It's one to whom many have testified and many have given a credible account. And Jesus himself proves himself worthy For he has been cast out of the comfort of the Father and the Spirit into the wilderness to now live out a ministry on our behalf To resist the temptation to grab glory in any other way, but to see it through to the cross. How does the gospel or how does the writer of Hebrews say it? For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. You and I were that joyful. Those who would know him by faith are the joy that was set before him. And so now the rest of the Gospel of Mark is an account of how Jesus stayed the course. And proved himself to be valid Lamb of God, given for sinners in our place. Mark is a call to confess Christ. And he begins by powerfully showing us all those who have testified to the validity of this Christ. Let us be a people who constantly cry out, help my unbelief. This I want to cling to. This I want to know. This man. I want to hold to in faith. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for sending your son. And for validating his ministry on this earth, so that we might know beyond a reasonable doubt that he is the one you sent. You have testified to him through your prophets, thousands of years before he came. You testified to him through John and all the wonders of his ministry. You testified to and validated him by your own voice. From heaven. And you validated him. He validated himself through his sinless work, staying the course, never giving in to the temptation. To turn away. For our sake and on our behalf, he went to the cross. Help us to believe this, help us to be renewed in this, help us to be refreshed in these wonderful truths. That we might be a people who proclaim this with joy and enthusiasm to everyone else we know. For the sake of his glory, and in his name we pray. Amen.