One of the things, so this is a little different. I've never done this before. I've never seen it done anywhere before, where we're gonna be running Sunday school over the same uh uh in some ways some of the same material that we're gonna be running in the sermon. Um And we're we're gonna we're gonna be taking a different look at things though. So in other words like today we're not gonna be going over talking about that same stuff, but rather today we're gonna do a lot of introductory things, the history of the book of Acts and when it was written and how do we know that and who wrote it and what why do you write it and those sorts of issues. Because there are aspects that make acts an a an interesting and challenging study that are hard to take in the sermon, but are easier to handle in a discussion setting like this. Which also brings up another point. I do want this to be a very discussion-oriented class. Ask your questions. Hey, I'm not sure I'm getting that, Pastor. Go back. Can you explain that a different way? Can you try it again I also want you to feel free to bring questions out of the sermons. So as we move forward through the sermons, If something strikes you you're going, I'm not sure what that you didn't flesh that out in a way that made sense to me. Can we talk a little bit more about that? And the answer is going to be yes Now, there are going to be weeks that we're going to have more in our notes than we can possibly cover in the time we have. It's okay. If you are interested in it, you can take it home. Continue to study it. Read it on your own Um we're going to cover what we can here in Sunday school, but we are also going to be fairly committed to getting out on time, okay? Um So so that's a little bit of a description of what we're gonna be doing in here. Uh uh There will uh there will be weeks that we will do things in Uh-uh uh small actually this notes even refer to small groups and I decided to cancel that, but we're gonna do this as a big group today. Like next week we're actually gonna gather at the tables, I'm gonna put you in different groups, and we're gonna tackle some things that need to be wrestled with in the book of Acts So it's going to be it's not going to be a lecture every week, okay? It it's going to be uh uh very interactive and it should be a uh a a lot of fun. Um To the teams that are with us, you guys haven't been in the adult class in a while, please feel free to ask questions, okay? Um I don't want you lost. I'm going to gear this class mostly uh toward our adults. And at the same time I'm going to try to make sure you guys can stay with us and follow along and I think you can learn a lot from what we're going to be doing. So with that said, I'm going to uh and by the way, I won't stop and beg for questions. You're gonna have to interrupt me if you have a question, okay? But I won't be offended. You know shoot up the hand, say hey whoa Pastor, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, back up. And and that's the way we'll go. So uh uh So let's uh uh let's pray and get into our study of the background of Acts. Uh Lord, we ask that you guide us that we would understand um this book better that as we think about who wrote it and when it was written, that we would realize how those things build our confidence in uh in this book and in your word. We ask for that this would be a blessed time together. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Alrighty. So uh uh if you've been with uh with me in Sunday school before You know that one of the things I tend to do is I have something written out. We're gonna kinda read through it together, then I'll stop, make comments on it, can talk about it, we'll go back, read some more stuff, make comments on it, and be kind of a back and forth thing. There will be some places for you to take notes and if you have need of a writing utensil, uh here, we'll just pass the box around and you can take one and pass it along. Where's your number? We ran out? Okay. So we do need some more notebooks then. Okay, I need to know that. So pass this around and put your name. If you didn't get a notebook, put your name on here and I will get one made up for you this week. Alright. Um so here we go. Uh page one. Um All right, two scholars. Okay, so the the the the title of the lesson is uh Introduction, the Writer, Writing, and Reasons of Acts We're going to tackle the writer. Who is the author of Acts? I've answered the question, but now we're going to look at how we know this. Few scholars doubt that the author of Acts is the same as that of the third canonical gospel. So cemented is this opinion that the two volumes are generally considered together as Luke Acts. You'll hear me use that term Luke Acts. What we're just talking about is the gospel and the book of Acts as one whole work. The most obvious point in favor of this view is the overlap of the book's prologues. Luke 1, 1-4 and Acts 1-1-3 both address the same recipient, Theopolis. And the latter, as we read this morning, explicitly references a first book which dealt with all that Jesus began to do and to teach, a fitting description of a gospel. This conclusion is supported by many other considerations. Some of those other considerations. Nowadays with computer analysis it's easier to do statistical evaluations of things. So they look at the vocabulary that's used in the two books. They look at the grammatical structure of the Greek sentences. They look at uh uh uh uh the the author's preference to say it this way versus that way. And what they find is that there is an extremely high overlap between Luke and Acts. So those are examples of the sorts of considerations that support this idea. And what's interesting is even among very liberal scholars who frequently want to do everything they can to undermine anything the Bible says Even they are forced to the conclusion that Luke and Acts are written by the same person. Um I I have not come across anyone. I I I said very few, but I honestly don't know of anybody who questions that Luke and Acts were written by the same person. Um you may not believe this, but we uh we met the operus. Uh seriously. I'm never around when these people come up Yeah I heard he was pretty handsome. So Most excellent. Most excellent? Yeah. So good leg, yeah. Yeah. Anyway. You gotta have some fun. Okay, so there's agreement that these two oh by the way, a little bit of trivia. This is an interesting little thing. One of the authors I've been reading Uh there's a lot of debate over whether or not Paul actually wrote the pastoral epistles, Timothy, first and second Timothy and Titus. And there's a lot of good reasons for that question, one of them being that the vocabulary and sentence structure in the pastoral epistles doesn't match the rest of the Pauline letters. Well, these analysis, these vocabulary and and grammatical analyses There are now an increasing number of scholars that wonder if Luke didn't actually write the pastoral epistles at the behest of Paul. In other words, Paul is in prison at that time. He can't himself actually send the letters He knows his end is coming, and he gives to Luke, I want you to communicate the following things. Well, we know Paul used secretaries in other letters. We know that he didn't actually physically write a lot of the other letters It appears that what happened here, other than him dictating these pastoral epistles, he communicated to Luke and said, Go write the We don't know that for certain, but there's one hypothesis out there, kind of an interesting one. That one's a w that's been a long discussion and debate. I actually was we get deeper to the book of Acts, I'm going to propose an alternative, but yeah, that one's certainly out there. Yep. No question. And it's hard to know. Alright, so continuing. So we agree that Luke and Acts were written by the same person, but who is that author? Most who hold that Luke and Acts were written by the same person also hold that the gospel reveals his name. Whoa, hey, I gotta what is that? I don't want no one it is. Go away. Get away. I think it's an aunt, but I don't care. I don't know why. Um uh Luke actually written by the same man, a man named Luke. Perhaps Lucius in Latin. The evidences for this are many. We will consider first the internal evidence, that which we find written within Luke and Acts. And the external evidence that found in other documents. I do this, I'm going to spend some time on this, not because I believe you guys doubt that Luke wrote it, but rather because I want to help you see how these things, how we wrestle with these things And how we arrive at very very uh legitimate, valid, defensible arguments for these things. And knowing that helps you it it builds confidence. So let's look at some of the internal evidence that Luke wrote Acts. First, the preface to Luke's gospel indicates that the author was not an eyewitness to the earthly ministry of Jesus. But he was in close contact with many who were. Luke fits that description. But so do many others. So right now we've we've narrowed the field to a few hundred possible authors Certainly that by itself doesn't prove it's Luke, but Luke is within that group. Second, the literary quality of the Greek text of Luke Acts is excellent. In fact, it's the best in the New Testament. This points to one who is both a native Greek speaker and an educated person. Facts which point away from most early Christians Which are consistent with Luke, a doctor. So now we've narrowed the field of possible writers considerably. Alright? Luke and Acts are the best quality literature found in the New Testament. That's almost universally agreed upon. We find other places like the Book of Revelation. I one time read a comment on the Book of Revelation and said it was the worst example of ancient litigation to ever been preserved. Well, we think about what happened with the book of Revelation. John, we know from the book of Acts that John is an uneducated man. And now he's uh i uh uh uh isolated on an island, so perhaps the gospel of John and the epistle of John, John wrote through a secretary, a common practice back then, illiterate peoples would hire literate people to compose documents for them. If they had to write a legal document or a letter or anything like that. So maybe John, when he was living on the mainland, had access to somebody who could write his gospel and his epistles reasonably well. But now he's on the island of Patmos, and he's stuck writing it by himself, and Revelation is an example of terrible, terrible grammar, terrible Greek. Luke, on the other hand, is an educated man. He's a doctor. That he can write well shouldn't surprise us. So we're a lot of early Christians were relatively uneducated people. It's unlikely that any of them wrote this. But Luke still is an eligible candidate. Third, though the evangelist relies on Mark's gospel as he writes his own, he does not adopt any of the Hebrew or Aramaic words and phrases which Mark frequently included. Nor does he give attention to the Jesus versus Pharisees theme prevalent in other evangelist works. He does, however, show knowledge of Asia Minor and Athens. All of this points to one who did not live in Palestine. Again, this is consistent with Luke, but not many other early Christians. Fifth, the author, like Luke, is a sometimes companion of Paul. We get further in the book of Acts, we'll see that. Sixth, the author reveals a thorough knowledge of the Septuagint, which argues against a recent convert out of paganism In other words, this is not somebody who's come to Christianity uh out of a pagan background. They didn't they weren't a Zeus worshiper and then became a Jesus worshiper. A Zeus worshiper wouldn't know this if two would This person knows the Satujit, so they come out of a of a Jewish influence background. It suggests instead either a diaspora Jew or God-fearing synagogue adherent Gentile. Nothing known about Luke is inconsistent with that evidence. Seventh, the author of Luke Acts demonstrates first-hand knowledge of all social classes. If he were poor or elite, he would have very little interaction with those in the other class. But a doctor, part of the artisan class, could mingle with the strata, with all strata of society. We're going to go into this in more detail later in one of the later lessons. But As much as there is class stratification in our society, and there certainly is, you know, uh I don't rub elbows with a lot of billionaires. It's just the reality of my situation. Okay? And the flip side, nor do I tend to rub elbows with the homeless. Again, it's the reality of my situation To the degree that's true nowadays, it was infinitely more true in that culture. You did not cross class lines. Um you had your place, your there's a uh a big uh uh honor, um honor shame that pre uh uh pervades the early uh the ancient Mediterranean world And you didn't cross class boundaries unless you had good reason to do so. So these unemployed fishermen who became, you know, Peter and James again, these guys would have no way to interact with most excellent theopolists. But a doctor, he would help the poor, and he would be invited into the homes of the wealthy, and would interact with both strata. So the the fact that acts reflects a knowledge of all strata of society argues in favor of a guy like Luke being the author. Finally, the time and cost to research and write two volumes such as Luke Acts is not inconsiderable. Very few in the ancient world could have done so, but a physician might. Now you think, wait a second, how could it be that except we you just said you know John was a poor fisherman and yet he wrote letters. Right. He wrote letters He didn't research. He didn't have to go to libraries and look things up. He didn't have to travel and go talk to people and interview them and ask questions. Luke tells us in the introduction to his gospel that he sought out information. He put together an orderly account. He didn't write a letter out of his own mind. Rather, he gathered data. Well that was hard to do in the ancient world and it was an expensive proposition. Okay? So all of those together support the idea that Luke wrote it. External evidence is that Luke wrote acts The oldest extant copy of the third gospel, papyrus number 75, a little picture of it there, written around A. D. 200, closes with the note, the Gospel according to Luke. Okay? Now that's not an inspired statement, but it goes way back, and there's a testimony to the fact that he wrote it. The Moratorian Canon, published around 180, it's a sectarian list. Actually, more probably probably a heretical list of Bible books. Okay? But it attributes the third gospel to Luke the physician and companion of Paul. So here are heretics saying Luke wrote the third gospel. A prologue to the third canonical gospel written near the end of the second century says it was written by Luke and describes him as a doctor from Syrian Antioch, a disciple of the apostles, and a companion of Paul. Several extant second century writings of the church fathers attribute Luke and Acts to Luke. In short, all extant witnesses from the earliest days of the church unanimously attribute the third gospel and Acts to to Luke. Now most of the evidence is for the third gospel. What we've already said, the author of the two is the same. Therefore we can be confident it is Luke. For all these reasons, few biblical scholars doubt that Luke wrote Acts. Among those who dissent, their reasons are generally rooted in assumptions about the nature of the work, that is to say, Those who doubt that Luke wrote Acts do so because of their beliefs about the literary genre to which Axe belongs. We will now consider that more closely. So there's a summary of the evidence that Luke wrote this book. It's a pretty tight case And even those who generally don't like to to believe the Bible, who don't like to be uh to to want to support the Bible, there are very few, even among the most liberal scholars, who question Luke's authorship of the Bible. So there's a quick summary. Any questions about that? Any input to add to that? All right. So Let's now look at the writing. To what literary genre does Axe belong? Once upon a time When you and I hear that praise, once upon a time, what do we know comes next? Yeah. What what is the genre of literature that follows? What class? What type of literature is it? It's a fairy tale. What comes next is a fairy tale. We know that because we are culturally uh uh uh uh uh uh uh programmed culturally uh uh uh Thank you. Yeah. Trained to to know that once upon a time kicks off a fairy tale. So that what comes next is imaginary. It's fiction It's not real. Now imagine for a moment that you don't have a background in European literature. As most of us do. Imagine for a moment that you've never heard of fairy tales. And you hear the phrase once upon a time. What sort of literature do you expect will come next? Yes, it's history. Once upon a time. Oh, so in time these things happened. So what follows is historical. You see the problem? If you can't recognize genre markers, you're going to badly mishandle the text in front of you. If you don't know that Once Upon a Time triggers a fairy tale, and you think what comes next is history, you've got a problem. And you're going to be off in the deep water and not know what's going on. So we need to wrestle with the genre of acts. What sort of literature is it? To what does it belong? Um Alright. Yeah, the the small group discussion, I said I'm going to skip the small groups this week. But you know, we just answered that question. Number two, what sort of problems might uh result from misunderstanding of the genre implications of once upon a time? Well you might you might think that there actually lived a giant who plant you know beans planted beans and he climbed a bean stalk and he w you know Yeah, Jack went up and met a giant. What that really happened? No, it didn't really happen. It's a fairy tale. So we've got to understand genre. Top of page three Identifying genre is important. A reader who fails to rightly appreciate genre will fail to grasp the message. So the question before us, and by the way, we know this in everyday lives, right? When you miss sarcasm It's one of the reasons I hate written communication like emails and text because you know I I go to uh sarcastic and I realize later, oh the person didn't take it that way. Oh no, ah it backfired. If you miss what's how it's being said The message isn't received. Okay? Um so a reader who fails to rightly appreciate genre will fail to grasp the message. So the question before us as we begin our study is what sort of literature is axe? As he wrote, how did Luke imagine his work being understood and interpreted? Most modern readers follow implicitly or explicitly one of four views about Axe's genre. My guess is when you have read the book of Acts, you have read it with an assumption about it, maybe the incomplete one But nevertheless, you had some assumption about what it entails. So let's look at these possibilities and discuss each of them briefly. Genre possibility one Acts as a sort of multifocal biographical work. Multifocal, what does that mean? Say again please. Yeah, multiple focuses. It focuses on multiple different things. Biographical, it's written about somebody. So it's focused on many different people. It's a biographical work that focuses on many different people. Namely who? The two most prominent guys in the book of Acts are Peter and Paul. Okay? Some would argue that it's a bifocal work, Peter and Paul, some would argue it's multifocal because of the other players in there. Just as Luke's gospel revolved around one life, so his second volume naturally revolves around many lives. Okay, now that's an argument of the people who hold this view. And I'm not saying that's true. In fact, I would disagree. I actually would argue Luke's gospel isn't focused on the life of Jews. His gospel is an account of the things that happened. He says that right at the beginning, an orderly account of the things which have taken place. Even his gospel is focused on what has happened. more so than even the the person of the Christ. Alright, so for us to discuss real quickly here. Though many begin their study of Acts in the manner described Scholars and careful readers generally abandon it. In other words, we give up this idea that it's biographical. Why? What in Acts Or perhaps not in Acts, argues against seeing it as biographical. Huh? What about that? Okay. You won't see anybody's birth, anybody's death, anybody's marriage. Yeah. There's a whole lot if it's biographical, there's a whole lot of personal information not there I alluded briefly this morning to two of the most glaring things that are not in the book of Acts. If it's a bifocal biographical work focused on Peter and Paul, then what is glaringly missing? What happened to Peter? He just vanishes from the book of Acts. He just disappears And what happens to Paul? We don't know. Wouldn't we love to know what happened to Peter and Paul? But Luke doesn't write that. Many of us when we start reading Acts and we see Peter over and over again and when we see Paul over and again, we think, oh, it's the story of these two guys. But when we really stop and think about it, we go, yeah, it really isn't. For the reasons just discussed, so much is missing about them. And Luke doesn't even care to tell us what happened to them. If it were biographical, those things would be there. We are not serious students of ancient literature. Who's got time for that? But our case against the biographical view is strengthened when we turn to those who are. So let me share this out of uh out of one of the commentaries that I read. The focus of ancient biography was on character and characterization of a particular person, usually for some didactic purpose. Events and speeches were related insofar as they serve to reveal the person's character. Furthermore, most ancient biographies indicate initially in their prefaces that they are accounts of the life of someone. In other words, standard procedure for an ancient biographer was to open up by saying, this is the account of the life of so-and-so. Now it's interesting, Mark opens his gospel saying that about Jesus. Luke doesn't. Doesn't open his gospel that way, and for sure he doesn't open the book of Acts that way. Okay? Moreover, what we see is that uh the people are portrayed as examples, either to be followed or to be or to be avoided. But they're portrayed as personal examples. That's what ancient biographers did. And Luke clearly does not do that. Acts does not focus on a particular person, but frequently jumps from one person to another. Events and speeches are brought forward in Acts, even if they serve no characterization purpose. Finally, Luke's prologue indicates an account of events, not of a life. Axe is even more pronounced in this regard. Conclusion, Axe is not a biographical work, even by historical standards. Don't read Acts' biography. Don't read it to learn about Peter. Don't read it to learn about Paul. You are misusing it. Now, can we glean some facts about them? Yes. But don't read it with that goal, with that intent. Top of page four. Genre possibility possibility number two. Axe is a stylized work intended to convey to Theophilus certain theological truths. It is based only loosely on historical facts, which Luke routinely sets aside or invents to achieve his pedagogical aims, his teaching purposes. In this view, acts as closer to a novel than to historiography. So let me start with so you see what it basically it's it's Maybe there's some it touches on some historical facts here and there, but mostly Luke just invented and used what he needed to make his point to Theopolis. That's what this is arguing So question 4a. What internal evidence speaks against this view? What is there in Luke or Acts that argues against it? Yeah. Um and titles that uh uh that they held based on the check. Luke offers a lot of information that can be cross-checked with non-biblical history A lot of it. Clearly he his purpose was not to fabricate things or he wouldn't have constantly done that in such a way that he could be cross-checked. What else speaks against this view of seeing axe as a novel? Yeah. Go back and look at the prologue of Luke. I left my Bible up there. Anyway, the prologue of Luke, we read as our New Testament read uh reading this morning. He says very explicitly, I have followed closely all of the things which took place. I'm presenting to you an orderly account. Of all the things that have happened. Luke's pronoun comes right out and says, I'm not making this up. I've researched it. Here's what happened Loss of internal evidence to speak against this view. What external evidence would speak against this view if we had access to it? Basically, uh Pastor Tom's already alluded to it Corroboration of what he says by non-biblical accounts? If we had, you know, and we do have some, that we can cross-check what Luke says We can identify he speaks of a famine at a certain time. We can go to Roman history and find, oh, there was a famine in that time, that period. Now we know what China's talking about. We can cross-check Luke. That speaks against this idea that he's just inventing these things The fact that we can cross-check it. As a rule, Luke reveals himself to be a careful historian. There is little evidence. He either ignored unhelpful facts or invented desired facts. In those few places where the account of Acts is difficult to synchronize with other ancient sources, there is evidence that Luke has interrupted the chronology to insert an entire block of data obtained from one of his sources. When he says that he had undertaken to write an I'll come back to that, write an orderly account, it is incumbent upon us to allow that for that order to be according to the source as well as the calendar What I'm saying there. So in uh you're reading through uh uh Luke and you get to uh uh Sorry, reading through Acts, and you get to Acts chapter 4, and all of a sudden in Acts chapter 4, there's this account of Philip and his ministry. And then he tells us all these things that happened following the ministry of Philip. And he concludes with the account of Philip's ministry to the Ethiopian eunuch who becomes a believer. And then Acts 9 opens up with the conversion of Saul to become Paul, to become a Christian. If we're careless, we might assume that that's a chronological sequence, that the eunuch came to Christianity before Paul did. But nothing in the text says that. Rather, Luke seems to have stopped his account of what was happening in and around Jerusalem to insert in his research he came across some information about Philip. He inserts it where it begins chronologically, but then he tells us all he knows about Philip. Doesn't mean that all of that happened before the next thing he takes up in the book of Acts Does that make some sense? That he's keeping this together because it's Philip-centric information from one source that he researched. And that the conversion of Paul may have actually occurred before the conversion of the Ethiopian eunuch. There's really nothing in the text to clue us in. He does this in several places. That's the easiest one to think about. But he does this in several places where so sometimes when our chronology is tough it's really because we're misreading the book of Acts, not because it's that hard Conclusion, acts as not stylized history, reworked for some pedagogical purpose, but a faithful record of events. Now real quickly, despite much evidence that Luke faithfully retells history Many, especially academic academicians, academic types, uh still see creative license in acts. Why? Why does the world of academic research look at the book of Acts and go, well, he took license? This is it can't possibly be history Somebody other than Pastor Town. I know you went somewhere. That's right. We don't like seminary graduates around here. Why does the world of academic research discount the Book of Acts as historically reliable? You can't even think of the answer because you accept what they reject. What is it about Acts that makes it unbelievable? Miracles Academics has a presupposed bias against the possibility of miracles. They approach the literature with the preset idea that miracles cannot happen I've never seen a miracle happen. Therefore it cannot happen. Therefore, they can't actually be true. Therefore, the book of Acts is made up. And when they approach it with that presupposition against miracles, they have to conclude that Luke invented the things in here, because there are miracles. You know, this is akin to the some of those crazy internet conspiracies that go on like, you know, we didn't really land on the moon. Well, okay, you didn't witness it. That doesn't mean it didn't happen. That doesn't mean it can't happen. That's crazy. That's crazy thinking to think that way. I've never seen the Grand Canyon, so it doesn't mean it doesn't exist Okay? I've never seen your bedroom. So does that mean it doesn't exist? Just because I've not observed something Doesn't invalidate the reality of that something. Okay? Um so Uh-uh we we academics tend to discount uh uh uh the book of Acts as history because of its miracles We've got to be open to the possibility that Luke tells us what really did happen and that miracles really occurred. More about miracles in two weeks, I think, or free, I can't remember. We'll come back. Uh genre of possibility number three acts as historiography uh uh written in the Roman tradition, like the works of Tacitus, Livy, or Pliny the Elder. In this tradition, the facts, where known, are not contradicted. But if unknown, little effort is made to learn them. Roman historians were notoriously lazy. They sat down, they wrote. They wrote what they knew. If they knew it, they reflected it honestly. But if they didn't know it, ah, it ain't worth going and looking it up. Okay, had they had the internet, maybe they'd have gone and looked it up on Wikipedia, but they weren't gonna leave their armchair to go find out. Okay? Um The point is and here's why. The point is not an accurate account of what happened, but the use of what facts are known to elevate and glorify a central figure and or the empire Roman historians almost always write to glorify someone or Rome. Okay? In which case they go, I know enough of what happened to glorify somebody. I don't need to go look up the rest of it because that's not my point anyway. I'm not trying to write a historical account, I'm trying to glorify so-and-so. And that I can do from my armchair In this view, Luke's purpose would be an elevation and glorification of Christianity in the church, not a recitation of events. Top of page five. What about acts would cause someone to take this view? And some have held this view. Why would they read acts and go, well, this is what he was doing? You're right about the purpose. Pardon me? You're right about the purpose. In what way? The elevation, glorification of Christianity in the church. Yeah. We can't argue with the fact that there is a degree to which the book of Acts does glorify the church. And it does glorify Paul. And Peter. And in fact, it it paints a picture of Paul that is really out of accord with the epistles of Paul. Luke is far nicer to Paul than Paul is about himself. Okay? So the book of Acts does glorify some people, and it does glorify the institution of the church. And so some people go, this is what this is how he's writing Is there a skepticism about miracles or the enlightenment? Uh uh Not being a great student of history, I'm having a hard time thinking about when the light enlightenment occurred. What I will say is that skepticism about miracles certainly came around about, well, if if you make me pick a date, I'm going to say 1610 And the Enlightenment what? Yeah, the the Enlightenment I think is more the eighteenth century, isn't it? Seventeen hundreds? And what you really got going i is sixteen ten There are a few dates in history that are worth knowing, and this is the one I think is worth knowing. What happens in 1610 that kind of changed the course of history? Oh you're c oh yeah, but no that's not what I was thinking of. Yeah. You got the right year, or right time period, 1609 I think for that one. But 1610, Galileo took his telescope and pointed at the sky and went, Oh, Copernicus is right The solar system does not revolve around the Earth, it goes around the Sun. And at that point you have the birth of a modern scientific movement. So when we begin to assume now, most of the early scientists did not believe that science discounted miracles. But what eventually began to happen was this presupposition that you have to be able to test anything for it to be true. And if you can't put it in the laboratory and test it, then it must not be true. And that's so miracle the the the the doubting of miracles really rose out of the scientific method. No, there no. Yeah. Generally before before the modern scientific movement and even in overlapping the early parts of the modern scientific movement, there was this willingness to accept miracles Um and and Galileo and the other early scientists, I don't uh what I've a little bit I've read of them, I don't think they intended to to to say that everything had to be testable. They said we can test certain things, so let's test them. We don't have to speculate whether the earth goes around the sun or the sun goes around the earth. We can point a telescope in the sky and see what it does happens So why speculate about it? But that's been taken too far. It's been carried to an extreme that says you can't put it in the laboratory. It can't be true Unless it's my theory of atheistic evolution, then I can't put that in the laboratory, but it's still true. So, no question, the glorification of the church and of Peter and of Paul and of others caused some to see this as Roman-esque type history. Uh what speaks against this view? Well we've talked about it many times. The prologue. He says, I researched, I went and gathered, I talked to those who talk saw it. I the the very prologue of Luke discounts this. And the light of no before we Yeah. Yep. So conclusion, Acts is historiography, but not in the Roman tradition. So this brings us to genre possibility four. Acts is historiography written in the Greek tradition. Like the works of Herodotus, I can't pronounce his name, and Polybus. According to this pattern, the author should be an eyewitness of at least some of what he retells And we're going to find that in Acts 16 and 22 and 28, Luke talks in the first person. We went and did this. We saw it there. We had a shipwreck here. On the Greek tradition, you were expected to have been a first-hand witness of at least something of what you're retelling. He should investigate carefully that which he did not witness. Luke says he did He should not admit into this work anything false, and he should strive to tell the tale as it happened Given Luke's prologue to his gospel, his knowledge of places outside his home region, and the sense communicated in his delivery, this is the best, most defensible view of Acts. Axe is historiography written in Greek tradition. Now, I don't have time to go into this and develop it fully. This also means that we cannot hold axe to a modern standard of history writing. It's not written the way history is written today. We must accept that. Greek historians were expected to be completely truthful and completely honest. But they were not expected to be unbiased. In effect, just the opposite. The expectation was That they wrote in favor of a particular position, that they were biased toward what they wrote. And in fact, the Greek expectation of history was that if you didn't have a bias, you weren't invested enough to actually care about what you were writing. So we are not going to hold Luke to a modern view of history Which, by the way, is not ever as unbiased as they as any would like to think. None of us can be unbiased. We can't do it. Okay But we are going to accept that it is history. I make a footnote there. If you want to read more about this, for uh uh for a thorough defense of this position, see Witherington, I can lend you the book or make photocopies of the pages. He goes into a really wonderful uh detail uh defending this position, he comes to a very powerful conclusion that no, we need to read Luke, uh Luke's account in the book of Acts, as a historical account of what actually happened Um and he and he defends it pretty well. So the where that's valuable to us is now as we get into this, we're gonna look and go, here's really what happened. This is real history It's modeled after the historians of the ancient world. It's written the way they wrote. And it's written with a purpose to communicate to his readers. So it's valuable information. Alright. Um the reasons why Acts was written. And again, we're not doing the small group thing, so together. Acts 1A is a key verse, perhaps the key verse in Luke's second volume. That's the one that says uh uh uh uh you will be my witnesses in and and you know you will uh uh you will uh have power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be my witnesses in Ju uh Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and the end of the earth. Um But does it explain the reason Acts was written? In other words, is Acts principally evangelistic defend your answer Is Acts an evangelistic work? Based on Acts 1 8, you will be my witnesses in Judea and Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth, based on that Is Acts an evangelistic work? Is that why it was written? Fred? Yes. Uh because the It comes to events that uh no specific ego to some sort of acts and with a with a uh, okay. Now be careful there, you uh you are correct in what you said, that it records frequently an evangelistic result. But does Luke retell those things for evangelistic purposes? I would say no. Yes, to encourage people to do that. But the purpose of the book seems to be to encourage somebody to do it over here in the mind. Why do you why do you give me something Okay. Okay. What else do you think? You to be here next week going back to Colorado. Colorado, aren't you? You gotta come back for next Sunday. It's worth it. Even the flight from Colorado, totally worth it. Uh That question right there, couldn't it be a how-to, is going to be the heart and soul of everything we talk about next week at Sunday school How do can Acts be a how-to? Is it a manual for how the church should function? That's really going to be the the crux. And I and therefore I don't want to address that quite your I don't want to answer your question too directly just yet. Okay? Because I want us to wrestle with that issue next week. It says that the reason has Acts ends with Paul and Rome waiting in trial. Because the major reason for the writing of Acts was to show that as the church developed and they faced legal challenges, they were always acquitted. And um to have that as evidence that uh all would uh um have available then uh So Yeah, you know, no pastor likes to read that passage. 3,000 people converted. Okay. Yeah, there's an issue with power, no question. No question. All of this comes into play as we think about the purpose of acts Why was it written? What did Luke want to accomplish when he wrote it? So let's turn the page and look at the top of page 6, and we are nearly done here. If Luke Acts is one work in two volumes, which we've argued that it is, then the prologue to the former also guides our understanding of the latter. It then follows that Acts was written principally to give certainty to Theopolos, a trainee in the Christian faith. Understanding this helps us address so many of the questions which hang over Axe. In other words, I'm arguing that there's a huge amount of evangelism in Acts And there are going to be times where there is some how-to guidance, and there are going to be some places where we're going to want to steer clear of reading it as a how-to. We'll talk more about that next week But that that's all included for the purpose of bolstering faith that already exists. That Luke writes acts principally to encourage believers. Not to convert unbelievers, but to encourage believers. So that the frequent references to evangelistic exploits ought to be an encouragement to us. That fact that Peter can preach and 3,000 are converted ought to be an encouragement to us. But it's not necessarily meant to be a converter of the unbeliever. Understanding this helps us address so many of the questions which hangover acts. Why is the text-to-time ratio so inconsistent? What I mean by that. The first Eight chapters of Acts address a period of about three years. The next chapter The next chapter and a half seems to cover about fourteen years. Three chapters to eight years and a chapter and a half to fourteen years is totally out of whack. Okay? If his purpose was to write history for history's sake, he wouldn't have done it that way. That's not his purpose. Understanding his purpose helps us to understand. He could accomplish the encouragement of the believers in what he did. He didn't need to do more. Why is there no record of the eastern and southern expansion of the church? We know from history that there were believers early in Egypt. No mention of that in the book of Acts. We know from history there were believers early in the nation of India, about what today called India. No record of that in the book of Acts. Why not? Because he wasn't writing church history. He was writing encouragement. And he didn't need to go look at what happened in India and Egypt to encourage Theopolis. And in fact, if Theopolis is, as we speculate, a Roman official, then talking about how it affected the Roman Empire would have more impact on Theopolis. His purpose was not a comprehensive church history. Why does Peter vanish from Acts without explanation when he's so prominent in the first half of the book? Well, because he wasn't writing a b biography. We've already said that. The answer to all of these becomes simply this. This missing information, though it may have been of interest to us, was unnecessary to Luke's purpose of bolstering Theophilus' fame. What is given about Peter was enough to give certainty to Luke's target audience. Said another way, Luke wrote history not for history's sake, but to accomplish his pedagogical aim, his teaching purpose. So we've kind of answered question number nine already. We said that Luke used history to accomplish a pedagogical aim. What was that aim? Well it was to bolster faith particularly in Theophilus. How would history serve that aim? Just answer that question. How would history bolster fate? So I'm the new coach of your team, and I come into the locker room and I say, we're going to do it totally differently. I know you've been doing it this way, you've been running that offense, you've been playing the net this way in volleyball, you've been running this de we're gonna do it totally differently. What's one thing you'd kind of like to know about the new offense and defense I'm gonna install on our team? Has it ever worked? Is there any history of that scheme ever working? And if I say, well as a matter of fact, I took the last two high school volleyball teams I coached to the state championship game, you're gonna go, oh, maybe we should listen. That's how history bolsters faith. Has it ever worked? Pastor, you're saying we should just proclaim the gospel in that simple method? How's that possibly going to work? Look at the book of Acts. How can we, little tiny Shore Harvest Church, possibly change the Eastern Shore of Maryland? Well, 120 no accounts changed the entire Roman Empire. Has it ever worked? History bolsters faith because it gives an account Of what has actually happened. I would argue this is why the Bible is got so much narrative history in it, and so little in the form of doctrinal or theological trees. Just saying a bunch of theological facts doesn't offer the assurance that they actually have any weight behind them. You can say what you can say anything you want to about your God and what he's done But David said, look what my God's actually done in history. Luke says, look what my God has actually done in history. I'm not making this stuff up. It actually happened. Number 10. If history, the record of what happened, bolsters faith, as we have argued, what implication does that have for how we share our faith with others? If history can bolster faith, how what how does that affect the way we think about sharing our faith? In what way? Okay. So so that motivates me to actually do it. Does the Book of Acts, does this historical record give me any guidelines, back to the question, does it give me any guidelines about how to do it? That's the why to do it. Does it give me any guidelines on how to do it? Let's go back to Acts 1. 8. What is the title? Jesus says to the to the 120 that are standing there with him, you will be my Witnesses. What does a witness do? It's a legal term. What does a witness do? They tell what happened. I was standing on the corner And I saw the utility truck run the red light and T-bone the sedan. And I'm here in front of this court to say what I saw happen If Luke writes an entire book of history to bolster the faith of Theophilus, maybe it does offer some input in how we ought to think about how we share our faith. Dear neighbor, let me just tell you what's happened. Let me just tell you what happened. It can be what happened in your own life. It can be what's happened in in the life and death and resurrection of Jesus. But it's an account of what happened. as historical record of what our God does. I'm going to suggest that the simple answer to the question is that the overall thrust of the book of Acts is certainly a guide. To how we can behave as Christians. Individual accounts within the book of Acts, we're going to talk more about that next week. Somebody over here have a handout The way uh understanding is the mythology as a year and Christianity view it as a Yeah? Key difference. An important difference. Alright, we got just two minutes or three minutes left here. Real quickly that blue box is up to 87 I won't read it, I'll go through it. It deals with you can read this in more detail on your own. It deals with the the dating. And these are always interesting things to think about. And this is where I think there's value in knowing how scholars achieved their conclusions. So how do we know when the book of Acts was written? Well, first of all, we can set some parameters. Acts opens up by saying there's a former book. So, the earliest that Acts could have been written would have been the day after what was finished The book of Luke. Okay? So whatever we deduce about Luke gives us the earliest that Acts could be written. You see how we're thinking here? Okay? Now, Luke uses the Gospel of Mark. There's almost nobody who did outside this anymore. Okay? That Mark was the first gospel written And that Luke and Matthew both actually sit down and when they write their Gospels, they have Mark's account in front of them. Okay? So what's the earliest that the Gospel of Luke could have been written? The day after the Gospel of Mark was finished. Church history tells us that Mark and and and we did a series on Mark before and I I offered some handouts on this. I can get them back to you if you're interested in it. I it's just a matter of pushing print on my computer. Mark, history, church history tells us that Mark wrote shortly after Peter died. Peter died during the Nero persecution that began in A. D. 64 and went through around A. D. 68. So Peter died somewhere. Given Peter's leadership role in the Roman Church, most scholars believe he probably was one of the first targets of Nero. He would have died early. So he died probably toward that 64. So then Mark writes his gospel right after that, say 65-ish. So Luke can't write his gospel before 66-ish. Okay? At the po earliest possibility. The earliest Acts could be written is around 67. There's reasons why most scholars think it was probably a little bit later than that, but that's the earliest Acts can be written. What's the latest that Acts could be written? Yeah, good question. The day before Luke died. Assuming he didn't write it in a day, okay Um so if if Acts covers a time period that runs through 52 AD and we see the Wii passages where Luke is present toward the end of the book of Acts. So let's grant that Luke was a a young man. Let's say that he didn't become a doctor until later. But he's a young man when he's traveling with Paul. Now, nobody really believes this. We think he was probably already a doctor. Well let's grant the possibility that he's 20 years old traveling with Paul around 55 to 60 AD. And he lives out to be a good old age back then, 80 years. So he lives another 60 years after 60 A. D. , the latest that Luke could be written would be 120. Nobody thinks it was written that late. Here's why. But as the latest it could hypothetically be written. Okay? Here's what's going on. Luke, and I've already hinted this, and we'll talk more about this in a future science school class. Luke, when he writes Acts, shows no knowledge of the letters of Paul. The book of Acts does not seem to know that Paul's letters existed. Interesting thing, isn't it? There's a lot that we see in Acts, and you go, why did Luke say it that way? Well we know over here in in Corinthians, Paul said this. We know over here in Luke seems to be oblivious to the letters of Paul. And church history strongly argues that they were gathered together and circulating in a cohesive whole by about 8080. Well, if they were already gathered and circulating by A. D. 80, and Luke is oblivious to them, and yet he says that he researched things, pretty good argument that it was written before the year 80. Okay? So Luke was probably written between 57 and 80. Most scholars, for reasons that I didn't cover, get into and say, uh Acts was written sometime around 75, 80, 75. Okay. So there's a when you wonder about how we make these determinations, there's an example there's an e an illustration of how we arrive at the dates of these books. It's actually pretty sound when you really look at it. So questions for me? Next week when we gather, we will gather at those four tables. I will have actually uh uh a little seating cards that will kind of that we're gonna stir the pot a little bit, we're gonna mix some teens at different tables, we're gonna mix some of the adults at different tables, we're gonna Kind of gives it. And we're gonna do, we're gonna delve into this question of is Acts a model? Is it a guide for how the church should be won? Does the book of Acts tell us what we should be doing today? And I'll give you some hints as to the problems already. Where does Paul go every time he gets into a new town? Where is he headed? With one exception. Hence to the synagogue. So should I be going to the synagogues on Saturday and preaching there? Well, that's the model of Acts You see the problem we're going to have next week. We're going to wrestle with this and we're going to debate it in small groups and we're going to work through it together and we're going to come up with some principles for handling the examples that are in the Book of Acts. Should be interesting. Let me close in prayer. Lord, bless our study of Acts. Let it be fruitful in our lives. Let it encourage us to believe that the work does continue. that you are still doing these things through your people by the power of your spirit and through the acts of Jesus. Let us be a people of that work. Let us Carry forth the acts of the gospel here on the eastern shore. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen