I want to uh open us up with a word of prayer and then a couple of comments and announcements and we'll get into the lesson. Uh Lord, we do thank you for this opportunity to gather, to study your word more closely, more carefully. We ask that you guide our studies so that it is So that we arrive at truth and we do not mislead any. And we pray this for Christ's glory and in his name. Amen. So, first comment is this. This week's lesson is a little shorter than many of the lessons. I don't think it'll take us anywhere close to an hour F by design for two reasons. One, um I went a little long last week and told you I'd pay you back some of that time, so here it is. But number two, I'd also said that one of the things I wanted to do was occasionally throw it open for follow-up questions from the sermon. So we have three weeks of sermons now on the book of Acts And I guess I want to take a few minutes here and say, is there anything somebody would like to ask about or have me comment more on? Or and and it's also possible you could ask a question that I can't answer today, but I'll look into it and be back to you next week, sort of thing, okay? So is there any anything from the sermons or even from the first weeks of Sunday school that anybody wants to bring back up and go back to over Yeah. We're gonna that's actually part of today's live So I'll leave it. It's a good question. It's a fair question, but uh but it's a big chunk of the lesson. So we'll leave that for the lesson. If at the end you've still got questions, feel free to ask them Any other questions about the uh about the first three weeks of the question. Maybe the lead of the modern college is there must have been real sanity of issues on the year. Yeah, and in fact in in in Mark's account, uh the the brothers of Jesus and even Mark's account kinda implicates Mary that she was teetering that the the brothers basically say he's insane, that Jesus has lost his mind. In other words, they didn't really believe that he was the Messiah, they thought he was a kook. Okay. Uh um and uh and now it we don't have details as far as did they Did they believe their mother's account that Joseph wasn't his dad and that the spirit you know and you know came upon her? We don't know we have what whether they were doubting Mary also, we don't know all of that But they called Jesus uh insane. They thought he lost his mind in Mark's version of it. So yeah, there was some real family dynamic issues there. And it's also very interesting, uh Joseph who is so prominent uh um for the early years in in Luke's account and uh and Matthew's account we see him when Jesus is twelve in the temple and then Joseph vanishes from the record. So most scholars think Joseph probably died uh fairly early. It was not uncommon for for I mean, widows were incredibly common back then. Women outlived men and it was so so Joseph dies early. So who's supposed to take over set of the household? Well the oldest son And he's off running around the countryside healing people and feeding people and teaching everything and he's not so there's probably some resentment also from the younger brothers That that wait a second, we gotta pick up the slack for dad and for our big brother. Um so yeah, you got some family dynamics going on there Don't you think that the same today is in our physical nature or human nature in families that one one uh brother or sister cells or some other jealousy Well, I don't think it's a coincidence that the the first account of the consequences of sin is a sibling rivalry. Jonas 4, boom, there it is Uh and then the whole book of Genesis is loaded with sibling rivalry. I mean, uh page after page after page with sibling rivalry, um family issues, the Well we've got to come around sometime in Sunday school and do a study on on Genesis and particularly Abraham and Sarah and the dynamics in their marriage. Oh my goodness There's a reason Sarah is exalted and scriptive as she is. She was quite the woman. Yeah. Yep, absolutely. Absolutely I I'm well it and it's the classic I'm home taking care of mom while you're off being a a superstar, you're off there being a celebrity, and I'm home taking care of mom. Yeah So but now we see we we we do see them show up routinely though among the followers of Jesus after his resurrection. So so something I mean in their brains, whatever it was, the Spirit worked in them and it clicked once the resurrection occurred. And they went, oh, maybe mom wasn't making that up about him, you know mom didn't have an affair before our dad, and you know, oh okay, it's all starting to click. Okay Other is a good question. Other questions? Feel free anytime if it because I by the way I occasionally go back and listen to my old sermons and once in a while I'll realize that I didn't I didn't bring that around because I I left that hanging. So whatever, you know, feel free to make notes or whatever and come back and we can wrap things up in a way that maybe I forget to do sometimes I guess while we're in that region at the top of the still, I think we've got a point when uh Jesus called John Brothers. Yeah, oh good point. Good point. Yeah. That's a really good point, Mark. I'd forgotten about that. So that uh that well on the cross Jesus does not rely on his younger brothers to look after Mary. Good answer. Any other questions or to follow up in discussion? There's some interesting things to think about. And it's interesting too, when you think about uh the replacement of of Judas, James becomes so prominent in the early church. He's gonna we get to the Jerusalem Council, James is gonna be a leading figure. When you get to the book of Galatians, Paul points back to James. James is clearly this leading figure in the early church, the the half-brother of Jesus And yet he's not one of the candidates put up to replace Matthias. It's really an interesting dynamic. So And Matthias, you know, we I I always thought it interesting that Luke Having written the book and knowing that he's writing Acts, knowing that he's going to address these things, when he writes Luke, he doesn't ever stop to point out Matthias at any point along the way You think, I mean, Luke talks a lot about people. He names a lot of the women that the other disciples, the other evangelists don't name. He never once says, and Matthias was also there when that happened I was just you well oh well. I once uh heard it uh suggested that that was the uh first century method of equipment resources to propagate. Oh so if you were to say amplified He got information from Matthias. Uh okay. Which makes a lot of sense actually because Luke there's a lot of reasons to think that Luke's sources he relied heavily on uh the accounts of the women. And again, they live longer, so when he's writing these things there's more of them still alive. Right. You know. Okay, interesting. That would also if that's if you're right about that. Then that would Mark makes a re Mark there are only two things that are unique to the Gospel of Mark. And one of them is that he names the the uh Rufus, uh the guy the uh the son of the one who carried the cross. So Simon Cyrene carried the cross, and you know, and Rufus is one of his sons with him. And Rufus later shows up in the book of Romans, apparently a Christian in Rome, and if Mark ends up in Rome, as we think, then he may have gotten part of that story from Rufus. Okay. Alright, now jumping into lesson three. So all right, so review and introduction, page 21 of your notebooks. Frankly, applying acts is deceptively difficult. And that's part of what last week and last week's lesson was all about is to let you see some of the difficulties of applying acts. At first glance, it seems straightforward. We want to know what the church should be like. Acts is all about the church. What could be simpler than applying a book about the church to the church? I say there it says, if Luke wrote church for dummies. Are you familiar with this whole series of books? There's like a hundred of them. Yeah, you can get anything for dummies. Um and it's like Luke wrote Church for Dummies. And by the way, a lot of people approach the book of Acts in that kind of casual, careless way Okay? Um that well clearly this is how you're supposed to do church, so just do it and you know, there you are. Um and I think we saw last week it's not that simple But as lesson two, as we demonstrated, the application of Acts to the Church today is anything but straightforward. A recurring effective ministry, preaching in the synagogue is not regarded as normative, while the description of worship given just one time generally is. One command of the apostles is considered binding for all time, repent While another abstained from strangled animals is not. Yeah, that's a summary of the difficulties we saw last week. The challenges in Acts do not end with application. Rightly understanding what Luke wrote also takes some effort. All in all, Acts is one of the most difficult Bible books to properly understand and apply. My personal take on it, I think the hardest is Song of Solomon. I don't know what to do with Song of Solomon. I read that book and go, what are we supposed to do with that And then I took at Revelation going, yikes. And I think Axe, in my personal opinion, Axe is the third on that list of it's not easy to rightly decide how to apply it, how to handle it, how to take it forward. Much of the rest even the the weird stuff in Ezekiel I think is easier to deal with in a lot of ways Once you understand it, it's easier to apply. Acts is a tough one. This lesson will look at two specific issues in Acts. The first will improve our application skills. The second will inform how we understand what Luke wrote. Okay? So we're looking at two, just two problems today. And hopefully we move, we move, we push the ball a little further down the field in how we understand and apply the book of Acts. So this first one, and this was Lagary's question a few moments ago, the selection of Matthias by Locke. How is why is what's going on there? Let's take a look at that. Matthias's selection to replace Judas is a great place to begin sorting out the prescriptive versus descriptive problem. introduced in lesson two. Remember those words from last week? Everything in Acts is descriptive. This is what happened. It describes what happened. But some things in Acts are prescriptive. They prescribe what ought to happen. And our challenge is, how do we sort those up? Luke says they cast lots to choose Matthias. Uh in a nutshell So the the historian Josephus has written some things about casting lots and it helps us understand nothing in the Bible makes it clear what that means to cast lots. We don't know But the historian Josephus makes comments about it and then some work at the uh the ancient fortress of Mosada, archaeology there has uncovered some things and when When scholars take what they found in archaeology of Mason and they put it with what Josephus says about casting lots, here's what they think is going on. They think you take a bowl Okay, we're gonna pick one of the six of you to do whatever. So you write your name on this piece of wood and you write your name on this piece of wood and da da da. Put them all in the bowl. I'm gonna shake the bowl and whichever one pops out first that's the chosen one That's what casting locks appears to be. Okay? Something like that. But it's the idea is that it is a random act. It's not one, you know, it's not one that has control. Okay We would probably throw dice or flip a coin. As Presbyterians, we I'm in the middle of that paragraph. As Presbyterians, we readily affirm that God determines the outcome of everything But we do not choose church leaders this way. But even we do not church chief leaders church blah blah blah. Choose church leaders this way. Why not? What guides our application of this example from the early church. Uh just a quick comment here, my brother uh has got uh uh uh degrees in mathematics and um statistical analysis. And uh he one time wrote a paper on uh randomness and the sovereignty of God And try you know, how do you you know it's just basically this idea that that we can't ever do anything that's truly random. Even our random number generators on our computer aren't truly random Mathematical functions that appear random to us, but they aren't. Um we can't truly be random, uh uh uh and yet uh um God can be and and but it was an interesting idea my brother was wrestling with this going, you know, God is suddenly in control of everything, even down to the foot of that coin But he is he is so beyond us that he can give a coin flip the appearance of complete randomness and yet have it come out exactly the way he wants it on every occasion What? My brother's smarter than I am. He's doing recording around that. Oh, taking that off the recording. I'm not gonna say that on the recording. My brother comes for a visit, he's not smarter than I am, okay? Keep it keep it between us. Alright. So uh uh so how do we take this out of uh this casting block? Page twenty two, time for page twenty-two. I got some discussion, some things for us to think about We're not going to look at every single one of these verses. Somebody, actually just the last one. Proverbs 1633. Would somebody read Proverbs 1633, please? Proverbs 1633, can I get somebody to read that? You do you want to, I saw that. Alright, well she's looking that up. All of these, you can go in your own, all of these passages I've recorded here for you are all accounts of of locks being used in the Old Testament to make decisions Okay? So you've got lots of examples of them here, but I do want us to hear Proverbs 16. 33 and have that read into our consciousness here Thanks a lot. The law is cast into the laugh, but its every decision is from the Lord. The law is cast into the laugh, but its every decision is from the Lord. That's what Proverbs 1633 says. So now with that, with that knowledge that there's all these places where lots are used, and with that Proverb talking about the fact that God controls how the lot falls I asked this question, why were these 120 believers in Acts 1 comfortable choosing Matthias by casting lots? And by the way, those of you who are teachers know this. Whenever you ask an easy question, nobody answers it. I'm gonna tell you right now this is an easy question. So don't there's no trick here, just go ahead and why were they so comfortable doing this Because it's what they were used to. They were used to it. This was routine. They had seen this in their scriptures over and over and over again. They knew this from the scriptures. They probably knew this from their everyday. They had probably experienced it at some point or another. You know? My mom had a system, so it's it kind of cut down on the amount of siblings squabbling in our household. We each had a month, so she would take the calendar and assign your name, put your name in the top. So whatever extra there was that month fell to the person whose month it was. You know? If uh you know dad's not with us and somebody wants to ride the front seat with mom, well whose month is it? You know, who gets to sit next to Um in the Pew Church? Whose month is it? Who gets the extra piece of pie at dinner? Whose month is it? Well, I'm gonna guess they made decisions. A lot of those decisions were probably made by casting lots. It was kind of what they were used to. That's kind of the decision-making mechanism that was a part of their lives. So number two, does Luke portray the selection of Judas's replacement as completely random? We should probably read it. Well we actually read it in the service there, but maybe we can read it again real quickly here. So real quickly. So, one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John till the day when he was taken up from us, one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection. And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justice, and Matthias. And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias. So does Luke portray a truly, completely random process? He really doesn't, does he? Okay That what's random is the very last step. They follow some guidelines. They winnow the crowd down. They take it from uh you know let's say there okay there's 120, let's call it a 60-60, probably not a 50-50 split, 50 men, 50 women, but let's say there were. Among those 60 men, 11 of them are already apostles, that leaves 49 Okay? And they don't just throw all 49 names into the hat. They get it down to two. And then can't decide from there So B, number two, B, does winnowing the pool of candidates prior to casting lots reveal a lack of faith in God's sovereign control of the lot? Debbie, you're shaking your head no and I agree with you. Matt's shaking his head no. Why don't you tell me why you're shaking your head no And um it's still You see my argument though, if we truly trust God that's controlled a lot, why don't we just throw all 16 names of all the men here, all 49 names of the men here, in the hat and pick them out? I agree with you, okay? But I'm gonna play I'm gonna I'll I'm gonna play your ad your your your uh your adversary for just a moment. No, I'm sure they did not, okay Uh uh, so then but but but couldn't God sort out and find the lot for the people who did? Why do we have to win it? Couldn't God pick out the lot Just because I trust God to make sure I don't starve doesn't mean that I just try to spend all my body and don't go back to trusting God does not mean that we're going to play. Faith in the sovereignty of God is never justification for fatalism. It is never a justification for fatalism. Okay? At no point the does the Bible ever, ever imply that the sovereignty of God means that you have no responsibility. So they still had a responsibility to do what was right. And if you look actually in the Old Testament, these many verses of the casting laws, many of them will give an emul reveal the fact that it was kind of a final decision that went to the lock. Okay? It's never okay to allow the lock to control the wrong thing. You can't put up an unqualified man And say, well, the lot fell to him. Yeah, we should be led by that. No. What they're saying is we have, we know what God wants. We're going to obey God as far as we can on our own, and now we've reached a point where we don't know how to move forward from these two. And now we turn it over to God's selection. And there were times including every place, including the church, but the real way too qualified mention the ifancy become other things like um such as popularity and while cats by people voting occurs it can split. Yeah. People get angry. Yeah, and it can get ugly. Yeah. Both never qualify for somebody who gets what they want. Absolutely. Uh so we're under 2B at the moment. Uh uh if you sit at home this afternoon and looking for something to do Uh at the end, the question number one, further consideration, page 26, question number one I think is an interesting follow-up to 2B. So I just take a look at that later. Alright, so number three, I'm still on page 22. Okay, at this point in history, the point we are in Acts 1. I'm sorry, after. After this point in history, are there any other examples of the church making decisions by random devices? So from this moment in Acts 1. So Peter gets up, says we gotta choose two. We went they win on the group down based on the criterion given by the law of God. Again Law is not a reason to break God's law. We follow God's law as far as we can, then we turn it over to the random device. Okay? But from this point forward, do we ever see them do that again? I I could not uncover anything. I did quite a bit of looking and the commentary's all said the same thing. No, it's it never does happen again It's always hard when you wanna I ask you that kind of question. Does it ever happen again? You're like, I don't think it does, but I don't know if there's I don't have the New Testament memorized. You know? No, it there is no there is never again a point where the church makes any decision in this manner. That would be true. Yes. That it that Luke did not judge it to be worth recording. Right. I think and and that would tie in yeah, I think that's a fair way to say it. Yep. So so three B Okay, so we don't see the church making decisions like this again. What are at least three reasons which could explain this change? What are some things that, moving forward from Acts 1, might explain why they don't do this again? Mark? Okay. Okay. So the I hadn't thought of it. This idea that because of the coming scattering of the church, they wouldn't be able to have to arrive at such unified decisions and have to turn over? Yeah, I think there could be something to that. Uh that so there are maybe at least four. I can think of at least three others in addition to that good idea. What are some other things that that caused them to move away from this decision making process? Second please? What about it? I think the coming of the Holy Spirit may explain something here. Okay? That the Holy Spirit is going to the next thing we're going to see in the life of the church is the coming of the Holy Spirit. Okay? And when the com when the Holy Spirit comes, what did Jesus what was one of the promises back in John that Jesus had said? He will lead you into all truth. So now we see a situation where they can begin to arrive at decisions in a in a in a way empowered that the the people are empowered by the Holy Spirit to arrive at these decisions without necessarily having to turn to something like a lock. I think the coming of the Holy Spirit is one of the reasons we don't see this again. What are some others? The other eleven process will tell us about these. Okay, keep going. So um the spirit may work and they won't make sure. Okay. Yeah, he's this is an interesting thing. Think about what so let me pull my Bible back up here. Let me p look at the prayer. Verse 24, and they prayed and said, You, Lord, who know the hearts of all. Now, when we use the term Lord in one of our prayers, we're frequently ambiguous, nonspecific. We tend to use Lord interchangeably with God. In the New Testament, Lord almost always means who? Say it again? Almost always means Jesus. In the New Testament, Lord usually, I mean almost always, is referring to God the Son. Not God generically. They are in all likelihood here specifically praying to Jesus Why? What did Gary point out to us? That the the twelve, or at this point the eleven, they're a little different than all of the other disciples. Now we've got to back up. We don't know enough about ancient disciples to maybe have a full understanding of this. But in the ancient world, especially in the Hellenized world, a disciple, a student would generally approach a teacher, in the Jewish context, a rabbi. Okay? Very often the father, the head of the household, would go to the rabbi, will you please take on my child, usually a son? Will you please take on my son? Nice got to go to school back then. Huh? Nice. Not as good as it sounds. Um uh uh Will you please take on my son as a student? This rabbi, Jesus of Nazareth, he does it all backwards. The students don't approach him and say, can we become your students? What happens? He goes to them He says, come follow me. Put your nets down, come follow me, and I will make you fishes of men. He has chosen the twelve. Now, among the 120, there are many others who have decided to follow Jesus. But to be part of the 12, that's got to be decided by Jesus himself. And Gary's right on here. I think one of the reasons we don't see this again is because never again do we have to replace one of the twelve. This is a unique event This is a unique event. We don't see it again because it doesn't happen again. That they turned over the choice of one of the twelve to the one who had chosen the eleven. And they say, Lord, show us the one. Show us your choice. Show us your man to fill in this spot. Okay. So the Holy Spirit comes, that changes everything. This is a unique event. So that changed, you know that He's the last one that has to be picked directly by Jesus, um, so we don't have to see that again. I think there's at least uh uh one other reason that we don't see this done again. So we just we close the period of nominations in our chair. By the way, the nominations are not closed up until was it, I can't remember, one of the elders remind me. It's mid-November. We can still take a nomination for somebody who's already held in office It's just the nominations closed for somebody who would be new to the office every time you train them. Okay. So we can still take nominations. So for a few weeks in August and early September we ran the the the bulletin uh an announcement about you know putting somebody up for nomination and we referenced we told you uh you know what to think about it as you think about who's qualified for office in the church and we pointed you to 1 Timothy 3 He said, go look at that. I think one of the reasons we don't see lots cast again is because it was the church moves forward, specific instruction given about how to pick leaders. They don't need to turn to lots again because now they have been given guidelines. Here's how to pick your leaders. Here's what to look for. Here are the criteria. And and and and by the way, uh uh uh um Rick, you brought up that point about the the the the division that can occur when you've got two qualified men and one gets turned out. One of the things and and I appreciate the here in our church, we don't have a set number of elders or a set number of deacons. Because what we're looking any man who is I've I've been at churches where where unqualified men got put into office because there was a vacancy that they had to be filled. And I've seen the reverse, what you're talking about, two qualified men One is hurt because there wasn't enough room. If they're qualified, they should be an elder. They should be deacon, period. It's not a number of the office. It's not like we have to have a certain number of elders. We simpl we have to have qualified And it would be better for us to have three elders in a church of five hundred if those are the only three men who are qualified. Okay? Um And so we don't need this casting of lots because we we are given instruction on how to pick church leaders. So there's some things to think about. So one of the some conclusion here There are at least two guidelines we might distill from this discussion which can help us properly interpret and apply other passages in Acts. So application guideline number one. Descriptions of situations unique, unique, that first blank, descriptions of situations unique to the early church are probably not normative. Never again are we going to have to replace one of the twelve. So looking at this passage and going drawing conclusions about the church is kind of silly This is a one-time event. It isn't normative in church life because it never happens again. Descriptions of situations unique to the early church are probably not normative. By the way, where am I headed with this? Well yeah, some of that stuff, yeah. I'm gonna come back around to that in a moment actually. Uh uh that's some of it. But also even if we think about You know, what we start getting into there's gonna be a whole lot of firsts in the book of Acts. We've got to be prepared to go That was done that way, but it was the first time. We're not doing it for the first time. So does that necessarily apply to us? The Holy Spirit is not entering the church for the first time anymore. Should we automatically assume that it should be accompanied by tongues and flames? I don't know that we should. Things unique to the early church are probably not normative. Okay? Uh quick hits, and this is where Gary's talking about right there. So uh uh and uh I may I mean for these to be real quick things, how do we know the appointment of Matthias to replace Judas was unique? Well, I've already hinted at it. James, Acts chapter 12, verse 2. James, the brother of John, okay, one of the twelve, is beheaded and never replaced. He didn't need to be replaced because he continues to be one of the twelve. He didn't leave his office. He simply took up his office and heaven. Okay? He doesn't need to be replaced. What does this say about, uh, number five down the bottom of the page, what does this say about apostolic succession in the church? Well it really undercuts that doctrine. This idea that the apostles, there's this continuous line of apostles that pass from one to the other. There's really no evidence of that in the New Testament. In fact, just the opposite When the apostles vanish, they appear to just do that. They disappear from this earth and this work. And it is not an ongoing thing. There is there's no evidence in the New Testament of apostolic succession. If you're not familiar with this term, it is the the phrase that uh the Catholic Church uses to give uh uh absolute authority to the Pope in regards to the matter of the church is because of apostolic succession You know, Peter passed his office on to Pope so-and-so, who passed his office on to Pope so-and-so, who passed his office on to Pope So-and-so. And we've got this n That unbroken chain all the way back to Peter and therefore the authority goes all the way back to Peter Which is why you have the doctrine of papal infallibility. That the Pope, when matters of the church, the Pope cannot error. Well, if we if Uh I I don't see any evidence for that. In fact just the opposite. I see the apostles dying off in the New Testament church and not being replaced And if we're going to talk about apostolic success succession, then it has to be 12, not 1. So there's real problems there. Okay, application guideline number two. Directives, directives are more likely to be normative than examples. Directives are more likely to be normative than examples. What am I getting at? We have an example of how Matthias was chosen, but we have directives in Timothy and Titus how we should choose our leaders. We should be looking at the directives, not at the example. Okay? Imperatives are prescriptive, generally. Examples are not. Deregatives are more likely to be normative than examples. Blue box at top of page 23 gives you a little information about what is out there about the end of Matthias' life. If you want to follow up on him, you can read that blue box. I want to pick up issue number 22, uh issue number two in the middle of page 23. Okay, uh I won't read that paragraph, I'll just tell you the story. So my anatomy physiology professor in college was about this tall, weighed about 90 pounds, and was a whirlwind of energy. She was the most waah Dr. Lee would come into class and she'd start, you know, college there's no bell or anything. She'd just kind of start whenever she got there It'd be like five minutes before class is supposed to begin. She walked in, bam, she was off to the races. And she could talk so fast. Well how do I say it in the paragraph there? Uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh Politicians and and uh uh um auctioneers were jealous of her. Um she could talk fast. And Dr. Lee would go. And it we weren't I mean, by the second day of class in anamophysiology, we realized there was no way of course, the vast majority of people in anamophysiology are what majors? They're all pre-med majors You've never been around pre-med major. They are the most uptight group of people. Oh my goodness. So they want to take down exactly what she's- because they're going to remember exactly what was said because they're going to put it back on the test exactly the way it was said And she's going too fast and they're back down taking the very first thing she said and she's you know, she's already gotten down to the thigh bone and they're still back on the armbone, you know And we would we we we learned to get together to get ready for the next exam. I was not a pre-med major, I was a biology minor, which is why I was in that class. So um We'd get together for the exam and we'd sit down and open our notes and start talking about writing for the exam. And we quickly realized we didn't have the same thing in our notes. So that actually one of my classmates was named Emily, one of the pre-med majors. So Emily would have in her notebook certain things, and I would have in my notebook Almost nothing because I didn't take good notes. And then this thing over here would have things in there and they wouldn't be the same thing. So was one of the notebooks wrong Was one of the notebooks incorrect? Inaccurate? False? The reality is no, it wasn't. It's that this student Maybe already knew fact A and went, oh, I didn't know that and wrote that down. And this student over here didn't know fact A, but already knew B, C, and D So they made sure to note down A. And this other student over here went, ooh, that's interesting to me. My mom had that disease, and I want to know more about that, and wrote that down. The notebooks reflected what each note taker judged to be worth taking down. Not. They did not necessarily contradict each other. They didn't necessarily, but they didn't necessarily align with each other either. Which again was real consternation for the pre-med majors who were trying to make it all aligned perfectly. They all got better grades than I did, so maybe I'll type things off. I don't know. Anyway, so my discussion question at the bottom of page 23. Imagine that I found my AMP notes from college and that I wanted to tell you about that class. Which of the following would be more appropriate and why? So notice what I've got there in A and B. The what what is the only distinction, what is the only difference between line A and line B? The punctuation? The quotation marks? The words are exactly the same, aren't they? Which is more appropriate and why I'm gonna say B because like you said, people will use electively what they have and thus quote the beta. Yeah. Here's the problem. And it bec and what it comes down to is how do you interpret the punctuation? And it tends to be that in our culture, when you put something in quotes, we have this almost newspaper-like, reporter-like expectation that means if you put in quotes, that is exactly what they said. That is, word for word, verbatim, they said those exact words. And I've just told you how that class went. I don't believe for a moment that I could take down exactly what Dr. Lee said. But did she say that the thigh bone was connected to the knee bone? Yeah, she said that, but she didn't say it exactly that way So I would lean toward B because of what quotes imply, that there's a verbatim, there's a precision. Okay? So with that in the back of our head, now again you can make a case. There's not a right or wrong answer to that. You can make a case either way. Okay? But even if you use the quotation mark, I think you've got to have the wisdom to realize that you're setting it apart for structural reasons, but you're not trying to imply precision of the knowledge. So let's go to the top next page. Like my anatomy and physiology class notes, speeches recorded in Acts should be regarded as Luke's summation of the speaker's message. At least four factors support this assertion. Hear what I'm saying. I am saying that when we read the speeches in the book of Acts, and we're about to get into a whole bunch of those They are not verbatim what was said. They are not verbatim what was said Let me tell you why we think that, why we're pretty sure of that. Number one, most speeches and acts take only one to two minutes to read aloud Come on, Pastor. Peter got 3,000 conversions with a five-minute sermon. You go on for 45 minutes, you don't get any conversions. What's up with that? Well, first of all, I ain't Peter. Secondly We don't for one minute think that that's actually how long that sermon lasted. Okay? Most speeches and acts take only one to two minutes to read aloud. Do we imagine that such brevity was commonplace? In a Greco-Roman world which exalted rhetoric, they loved rhetoric in that time and that that era. They love speeches. This was their entertainment. They didn't have YouTube. They went down to hear the local speech of fire. There's no way in that culture these speeches lasted one or two minutes, but that's all the time it takes to read them now. Okay. By the way, anybody happen to remember this uh anybody happen to remember what's going on in Acts twenty and seven through twelve, the story of what goes on there? Anybody remember? False preaching. Young man sitting in the window still, sitting by there, it's open and cool. Get the cool breeze coming in from outside. It's getting late in the evening. He's having a tough time staying awake. What happens to him? Remember He falls asleep, falls out of the window, doesn't he? Falls undead. Now do we really think that happened because it was a two minute speech? And in fact, the indication there in Acts 20 is that Paul preached deep into the night. Okay? So these are summaries. Number two At least once, Luke plainly tells us that the actual speech was much longer than what he recorded. Acts 2. 40 says, and with many other words. Peter and John extolled and and exhorted, exhorted them. Okay? Exhorted them. With many other words. We're told very plainly that the speech was actually much longer. Okay? Number three, uh other than people's collective memory, there was no practical means of recording speeches in the ancient world And I'm not just talking about electronic recording devices. I'm not trying to be smart aleck here. But even today, what are the sorts of things that can go into court? You know, what is there's been a lot of controversy in the last few years about the diaries of people who were present in the Oval Office when certain things were said? Because while it was fresh in their memory, they went home and they wrote it down But people couldn't afford diaries back then. Writing materials were way too expensive. People didn't journal. They didn't have diaries. So nobody even wrote it down while it was fresh in their head Okay? It's not just that they couldn't electronically record these things. They couldn't record them, period. Alright? Um so you might have a situation where a particular phrase is used You know, I'm gonna guess that everybody who walked away from the Gettysburg Address, you know, Lincoln, whether they had the transcript or not, they all walked away going, four score and seven years ago, why not? Oh, eighty-seven years. But the way he said it, the way he backed into eighty-seven years kind of made everybody listen up. It's really not how they talked back then. Okay? It's what Lincoln said to to to it was rhetoric. It was stuck in people's memory. Okay? Um so maybe some memorable things would stick, but as a general rule, there was no way to record. Okay? Most of the speeches in Acts, this is number four, most of the speeches in Acts are Lucan in their content, syntax, vocabulary, etc. This is exactly as expected if what we are reading is not the speech per se, but Luke's summary. When I go home at the end of the day, and I tell my wife about what happened at work. All you all sound the same to her. Because you sound like me. Right? Because I'm giving my summary of what was said So I met so-and-so for lunch and we talked about this. But what I tell her ends up in my vocabulary and my sentence structure. Because I'm the one summarizing what we talked about at lunch. I go and tell my wife about how mean the front row in Sunday school was to me. You know, it sounds like see yeah, yeah. Sounds like me She knows you she knows how many people are, so okay uh uh the the the when when when uh linguists study the speeches and acts, the vast majority of them same vocabulary, same sentence structure in Greek, same uh uh uh word order blah blah blah blah blah blah blah it's all very Lucan with three notable exceptions Stephen's speech in Acts 7 does not come across as lutev. It's very different than the other speeches. And we're not linguists here, we're not going to get into all the whys and wherefores. I'm just giving you this fact. Paul's Militus speech in Acts 20, and then Paul's court speeches in Acts is Acts 25 and 26. Those are three examples of places in Acts where the speeches don't read like Luke, where they sound like other people. Real quickly, why? Discussion. Why might these three speeches listed above be less Lucan than many others found in Acts? How is this to be explained? Can we offer any ideas? I think actually the the the the C is the easiest one to address first. Why might the court speeches sound less lucid? Okay. At the point where R Luke writes acts, he's now or sorry, at the point where these features are given, he's now traveling with Paul. It's not a he doesn't have to necessarily hear from other people what Paul said. He Paul gets put is under house arrest, but he can take visitors so Luke can go and sit down with Paul and Paul can say, well here's what I said in court today. And Luke can write it down and it can sound a lot more like Paul. One other reason, actually that that's part of it. There's actually two reasons why we think that the court speeches And in fact, some scholars think there are portions of the court speeches that might be verbatim. Why? Yeah. That there's evidence that the Roman court system As difficult as it was to transcribe things back then, they still did it. They had developed a shorthand method of even then being able to transcribe what's happening in court And then put those back into normal language. Luke says he researched things. He may have access court records. So C is fairly easy. He has direct access to the guy who said those words And he may have been able to go look up court records. So we can explain why the court speeches don't feel as lucid This is the Malaya speech is where Paul uh he knows he's about to get arrested, the Holy Spirit revealed to him He's traveling back over territory he's already been to. He comes into this town known as Militus. He sends for the Ephesian elders to come meet him in Melitas. And then he gives him that the he gives them that very uh wonderful speech about being shepherds of the church there in Acts 20, about protecting the church from wolves and and the things that the the elders have to do, the shepherds And what you guys don't have, since we haven't studied this, I'll just give it to you. That whole passage, the pronoun is we. We went to Malays. We sat down in this church. Luke was present. That speech sounds more like Paul because Luke heard it firsthand. He didn't have to recreate it She heard it. Okay. The top one, A, Stephen speaks, that was a tough one. Scholars are really divided over. There are different go ahead, you got a hypothesis? Let's hear it. Oh yeah. It could be the pole I yeah. Yeah, the pole he he's he's getting it Second hand and not fifth hand. Okay. Yeah, that could be. Uh others have speculated that that uh uh that the the the Jewish court in which Stephen was giving the speech may have had its own records Okay. Um some have speculated that uh as the first martyr that speech resonated in people's memories in a way. You guys know how that certain traumatic events in your life memories stick much better. And and and there were enough witnesses to Stephen's martyrdom and they that that speech stuck in a way. So there's a lot of hypotheses about why Stephen's speech feels less Lucan, but there it is. Um so Uh uh uh So number eight. So the fact that we have three speeches that are a little different, what does this imply about Luke inventing or creating the speeches in Acts? as some have accused him of doing. Well if Luke were inventing the speeches, wouldn't they all be Lucan? If he were just making it up, wouldn't they all be like him? Or if he was such a gifted writer that he could get in the minds of different characters, then wouldn't they all be distinct? The very fact that many of them feel Lucan, but some of them are not, strongly suggests that Lucan's not inventing these things. He's not making this up. He is summarizing. He is condensing. He's not inventing. We're nearly done. Half of page 25. To the argument above, it is uh oh, it is important to add. That's a bad sentence. I don't know what I was thinking when I wrote that yesterday afternoon. Anyway, uh uh The standards of uh of hist uh historiography, uh historiography, what does that word mean? What are the two parts of the word, history and Graph. What does graph mean? Writing. This is history writing. Okay, historiography, the writing of history. The standards of historiography in ancient Greek tradition did not allow for the invention of historical content. In other words, if Luke is a reputable historian, and most scholars think he is, then it is highly unlikely that he fabricated either speeches or their content. Luke may write summaries, but they are faithful, accurate summaries. Okay? The Greek tradition, now Roman, the Roman tradition of historiography, you could kind of make things up, fill in the gaps, you know, make up what was said in such and such a place. The Greek tradition did not do that, and all the evidence says that Luke was following the Greek tradition. They did not invent historical things Alright. Uh discussion question number nine is more of something to think about. Considering this discussion, should English versions of the Bible use quotation marks to set apart speech? Why or why not? I think you can make an argument on either side of that. Part of it is we we we read like modern English, you know, modern reader. We expect a certain amount of punctuation when it is not there it's confusing On the flip side, when it is there, it implies a precision of the words that we don't really have, and that's a little misleading. By the way, a lot of these debates over You know, Matthew and Mark, you know, in Matthew's account, Jesus said it this way, but in Mark's account, Jesus said it that way. Oh, they can't even agree with each other. The problem the reality is that probably neither of those represent exactly what Jesus said They are both a summary of what Jesus said. They are both a recapitulation of what he said. Neither of them are the exact words of Jesus. If this is leaving you a little bothered, I would point to the blue box. Um I'll summarize it here, but you can read it more carefully if I want to get done. Um although if you guys have questions we can keep going. Uh uh The blue box basically says this. We have to properly apply the doctrine of inspiration, and it does not apply to the speech that Peter gave. The doctrine of inspiration applies to the scriptures that were written down. In other words, Luke's account of the speech It inspired not to speak itself. Luke's account is kept to be inerrant. Not the speech itself. Matthew and Mark's accounts may differ about what Jesus said, but each account is inspired by the Holy Spirit. They weren't trying. They don't portray themselves as a verbatim retelling of the Sermon on the Mount or this or that or the other thing. When we apply that and say, well, Jesus said exactly these words, we step beyond the doctrine of inspiration. And that blue box goes in more detail there. I don't always point out the uh the further consideration questions, but I think these are a little are interesting to think about. So if you have time this week, take a look at them. Page 26. Questions? Well, I didn't give you back as much time as I was hoping, but oh well. Still better than running late. Let me close with prayer. Well, we do thank you for your servant Luke and for his account of these things that happened in the early church and for the way that uh uh i it inspires and encourages and strengthens our faith. We ask Lord that you would guide us into a better understanding of it. That we would uh handle it rightly, let us see the the risks when we take the book of Acts and and uh over are overzealous with its application or careless with its application let us Be wary of that and handle it rightly. We want to do this for the sake of our own spiritual health and for the glory of your name. We pray this for Jesus said. Amen.