I'd invite you to open your Bibles, if you would, please, to two places. I don't do that very often. I'm going to ask you to open your Bibles to Romans 8 and Genesis 48. Romans, the 8th chapter, Genesis, the 48th chapter. Mark them both somehow with a finger, stick your bulletin in there, grab a bookmark or a piece of paper. Have your Bible open to both of those places, please. Let's pray Spirit, we need your help this morning so that we will understand with a new richness and a new depth. And with profound insight, the glory, the beauty, the The profundity of what is put before us this morning. And as it shines into our hearts in a new way Let your word be for us tremendous comfort and hope and help. We pray this in Christ's name. An employee of mine some years ago now, a Christian woman and her believing husband, and they adopted two teenage sisters. I think one was 12, one was 13, so that kind of age. I can't tell you the reasons for the adoption. I don't have the ability to judge people's hearts and their motives. I can tell you the the reasons that were given pity, compassion, love But I rule those out because of the outcome of the situation. For if compassion and love had truly been the motivation, the story would have a very different ending. You see, the couple adopted these sisters, and within a few short months, things got ugly. And they got sad. The sisters, they were orphaned, as I recall, in Eastern Europe somewhere. It's so long ago I don't remember the specific country, and it's not important to them. were doing here. They were orphaned there in Eastern Europe. They were in the United States because there was an adoption into another family underway. And that first adoption fell apart, and I don't remember why, and then my employee and her husband stepped up to adopt these two sisters. Now some of you might be thinking to yourself, as I once thought, well that's kind of foolish. You know, if there was already a family trying to adopt them, and if that already went south, and if that already went badly, then clearly there's something wrong here. Clearly these girls are trouble. And why on earth? Would you go through with the adoption? You see, we don't really understand adoption. I'm not suggesting the girls were innocent in all of this. I knew them well enough to know that is not true Yet it's not we we we should not imagine that somehow this adoption went badly Because of something wrong with those girls. You know, we don't know their parents, we don't know their background, we don't know what happened in that country in East Eastern Europe. And it clearly it messed these girls up. And so it fouled up this family. But it's an interesting thing when a 13-year-old girl who comes out of your own body When she screams, I hate you, and slams the door, we shrug and we say, well, that's part of raising children. But somehow with these girls, well, that's different. They should have just appreciated the fact that we were giving them a family. They should never have treated us like that. And so things began to fall apart. We don't understand adoption because we don't understand humanity Do any of us live in this world and uh think to ourselves that only adopted children are a problem? That the children who arise from my own body, the children that arise from my wife's body, they couldn't possibly cause us any pain If you're here today and you never caused pain to your biological parents, please raise your hand If you're here today and you have biological children and they have never caused you pain, please raise your hand. The problem was not the parents from which these girls came. The problem was the fact that everyone involved is descended from Adam and are broken and are sinners You see, in the history of the world, only Jesus' parents might have been justified to think to themselves I don't know about that adoption. It could really bring some trouble because we've had no problems with the child who came from us. That's the one time a biological mother had no trouble with her biological children. Parenting brings problems, unless, of course, your child is God the Son Now, some might argue that the pain and the heartache of that particular situation was uh exacerbated, it was made more severe by the fact that those girls were not trained up in the system of that family. Yes, every family has its problem. But when you grow up in that family, when you spend your whole life in that family, you learn to work through those things And you learn, yes, the system may be flawed, but at least it's a system Why would we not cut them any slack, though, to get to that point? Why is it that when we have a bad day, we expect everybody to be patient with us? But when these two teenage girls have had a pretty bad life, there's no willingness to be patient with them And more to the point, if God placed overly dramatic teenagers in our home through biology Would we not do everything in our power to teach them how to handle it? To teach them how to deal with life's difficulties, to teach them, to equip them, to enable them To work through those situations You see the girls that come through adoption and the way they were treated, and by the way, I'm not faulting this couple I am, but I am not, in the sense that I I get it, I think this way, I thought this way In the back of our minds, we're sitting there thinking, yeah, but they're not really our children. Why should we put up with this? And it's because we do not understand adoption. We might excuse those adoptive parents for walking away from what was a difficult situation. Because whatever difficulty they may have had with their biological children, at least they were raised to function within that broken system. And yet is that not exactly part of the problem? The training? The teaching? You see, those girls were shown, and don't miss this, those girls were shown love, I was told. Don't miss the air quotes. They're there for a reason. Those girls were shown love because somehow it was decided that's what they needed And I was close enough to see this happening. Kindness was lavished on them because somehow that alone was going to smooth out all the difficulties But where was the necessary justice? Where was the appropriate discipline? That employee expressed to me how she and her husband simply could not bring themselves to discipline the girls because of all that they had been through. I wish I could go back in time. I regret my youth. I regret that I said nothing in that moment. For what does the Bible say about the parent who will not discipline? He hates his child. How is that love? That there would be no discipline because of the difficulties they'd been through, and then you're surprised that they don't know how to function in your family. Only a fool leaves her biological child undisciplined Why does the professional athlete so often give a shout out to mom Because it's his mother's discipline which put him in the NFL. He's successful not because mama let him do everything he wanted to do, not because mama just loved him. But because his mother spanked him. When she grabbed the wooden spoon, he knew he was in trouble. But her discipline made him better, and he loves her for it One who will not discipline their child hates their child. And yet that employee of mine could not bring herself to punish these I wish I had said that you act that way toward your older children. You know, I spent a long time in the field of education, and research in the field of education shows that while students may like the soft, easy-going teacher They do better with a more demanding teacher. Not because of the respect they have for that teacher, it's not about the teacher. When nothing is expected, it communicates eventually, they don't think I'm capable of anything. They don't really believe that I can accomplish anything. The teacher who has high standards, the parent who has high expectations of discipline is suddenly communicating to the child, I believe you can do this. I believe you can become this. I believe you can be this. So why does the adopt it or not do that, at least in this situation? I think deep inside. There is that belief that they're somehow of an inferior stock. They're not of my DNA. They don't have the same DNA as my real children. How could they be expected to live up to my high standards? Is it surprised Surprising that these girls quickly realized they weren't really children. How many of us, and I've done this, sad to say, how many of us have thought or maybe even said We've looked at a family that we had reason to think or we had heard rumors that maybe there was an adoption in there, that it was a mixed family of biological and adopted children, and how many of us have said or thought I wonder which are the real children. I'm using this former employee merely as an illustration. But I do think we tend to think this way. Somehow we've got this messed up idea that adopted children aren't real children. I know on the outward, on the outside, we say they are, we acknowledge that they are. But when push comes to shove, when we watch our own behavior long enough, sooner or later. We reveal an underpinning thought shows we don't really see them It's as if these families with adopted children have two classes of child, two categories of child, two different USDA grades of child There is the grade A biological child and the other child. Genesis forty-eight, beginning in verse one. After this Joseph was told, Behold, your father is ill. So he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And it was told to Jacob, Your son Joseph has come to you. Then Israel, that is Jacob. Jacob's new name. Then Israel summoned his strength and sat up in bed, and Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty of appeared to me at laws in the land of Canaan and blessed me and said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make you make of you a company of peoples, and will give this land to your offspring after you for an everlasting possession. Why has he rehearsed these things? Because it is the explanation of what's about to come. These things have been restated. Not because Joseph doesn't know them. But because they are the foundation of what's about to happen. God blessed me. God made a promise to me. And so now I say this. Listen closely Now your two sons who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, they are mine. Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are mine. We are all familiar with that with the priority of the firstborn in that culture. That the firstborn would inherit, if not everything, a double portion. That the firstborn had rights and privileges and a pride of position merely by being the firstborn. But Jacob is adopting the two oldest sons of Joseph, and he compares them to his two oldest sons. Jacob doesn't merely say, listen, they're going to be like one of my boys. They're going to just fit into the clan. No, Jacob specifies Manasseh and Ephraim, your first two sons, are going to be like Reuben and Simeon, my first two sons. He puts them on a par with the pride of place of the firstborn They are not going to be second-class children once this adoption goes through. Had anyone dared to ask Israel in this moment, which are your real children? He would have been outraged. Do you not understand the point I'm trying to make? Those boys are mine fully, completely, with all the rights and privileges With all that goes along with it. And why did Jacob do this? Did he do this because he didn't have boys of his own? He had twelve boys of his own. He wasn't trying to fill some need in his own family. Was it out of some sense of personal satisfaction? No. We're told he's dying, and if we were to read on, we'd find out he dies almost immediately after this happens. He wasn't going to spend time enjoying these boys' company Was it out of love for the boys? Had they just won his heart? Were they so cute and adorable that he just had to feel this way about them? Read verse 8 with me. When Israel saw Joseph's sons, he said, Who are these? He didn't even recognize them. He didn't even know for sure who they were. This had nothing to do with something adorable about these boys. It was not because of who they were. They had done nothing to earn Grandpa's favor. So why? Why does he do this? Look at verse 11. And Israel said to Joseph, I never expected to see your face. He loves that son, Joseph. We all know the story of how Jacob gave him the coat of many colors. How Jacob favored him above all the other brothers. How Jacob uh was heartbroken when he got news that the boy had died. Or thought he had done. It is because of the love of the Father for the Son That those who belong to the Son are adopted. That's a sentence we've got to understand. It is because of the love of Father for the Son that those who belong to the Son are adopted. Which are your real children? We don't understand adoption. I can't discipline them like I would my own children or expect them to behave to the standard of our family. We just don't understand adoption. An employee of mine, she and her husband, eventually annulled the adoption because the girls were simply too much trouble. They had called, at least for a short time, they had called these children their own. But they did not treat them like their own. And walked away from them when things got wrong. Being a human being is rough. It comes with its problems. We're all sinners, we're all messed up. We're all broken. It's not a function of adoption that caused these problems. It's a function of sin, as we already said. This was not because of the biological family from which these girls came. I know it's not a perfect parallel, but we have to ask ourselves what might have happened if they had seen it through, if they'd stayed with it, if they had continued as a family unit? If they had understood that adoption was created a family, it was a thing that was an a reality now in their lives, that they really are your children It's not a perfect parallel, I get it. But every once in a while I will quip to Becky, I liked you better back when. And she smiles and she says, yeah, I'm too much of a shaw now, aren't I? Because my parents treated her like their daughter. Because my siblings treat her like their sister. Because we made her a part of the family, because we assumed it was true, and we acted as though it was true. And she was around the family and she came to family get togethers and she participated Do you know why you have to go to church on a regular basis? There's a thousand correct answers, by the way. But one of them is to be around the family of which you're becoming a part To absorb it, to become part of it And I don't know what you want to call it, the je ne sais quoi? Becky absorbed in essence the spirit of shorness I know some adopted brothers who are the opposite of the story of the two girls I just told you. Who are so alike you would swear they came from the same biological parents But the parents understood adoption and treated both boys as theirs. And the two brothers are so similar in mannerism. In behavior, in decorum, in even in their looks, surprisingly, they are absolutely brothers Why is there that striking family resemblance? Because they were of one family. There were no real children or adopted children. There was not an us and a them. The spirit of that family, the je ne sais quoi of that family, it inhabited all of them. Because they were of one family. That's what adoption is supposed to look like. And if we don't understand that, we don't understand adoption. But we must. We must grasp the amazing richness of adoption. We must understand That to all who believed on his name, he gave the power to become children of God. Romans 8, picking up in verse 9. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the spirit The Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is alive because of righteousness. You see, these two brothers of which I made reference earlier, they had two different biological fathers, two different biological mothers. And yet they were undeniably brothers because of the spirit which inhabited both of them. You see, if we keep thinking of adoption as having two classes of children in the family If we keep thinking that the natural one is somehow superior to the adopted one If adoption does not supplant nature, do you understand that we're damned If adoption does not supplant nature, you and I stand condemned. We are by nature, Paul says, of the flesh, born under Adam. Born into the family of sin and decay and death, it is the nature which controls our future. If it is the nature which controls our future, then we might as well pack it in and go home But what does verse 9 promise? We are not in the flesh any longer, but in the spirit. Our nature is being overrun by our adoption. We have not just the je nezé quoi of the family of God. We have the person of the Spirit of God in us. And so we are taking on the very nature of God as if our spiritual DNA has been replaced. And we take on new qualities and character. Verse 11. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. Through his Spirit, who dwells in you. Why do I long for the things of Jesus in a way I didn't used to? Because the very Spirit of Jesus is in me. Did I do this on my own? Of course not. Not anymore that I chose to be born. Not anymore that a child chooses to be adopted. But why do I long for righteousness today in a way I did not yesterday? Because I've been around Jesus' family for so long. That's begun to rub off on me. It's begun to make a difference in me. I begin to take on the character of the spirit of the family of God We why must we be in church for that reason So then, brothers, verse 12, so then, brothers, if we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. I'm sorry, not there's no if in that sense. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you I've used this illustration before, but here we have the apostle The authoritative, Jesus-ordained voice speaking on behalf not only of Christ, but of his bride, the church, saying to us. In this family, we don't act like that. In this family, that's not how we behave. How do you become a real child when your adoptive parents treat you Like a real child, when they discipline you, when they correct you Why would we run from that? How sad it is today that when church discipline comes up Almost without exception, I can think of one exception in the thirty-five years I've been connected to churches closely. Almost without exception, the disciplined person just picks up and goes to the next church. But to be part of a family is to be under discipline. It's to be under oversight. It's to be under authority. It's to be under the care of people looking out for us Paul says, if you live according to the flesh, you will die. In this family, that's not how we do it. That's not how we behave in the family of God. When your adoptive parents simply treat you like their child, you become a real child. Paul, that's what he's telling us. We've put on the family name of Christ. We are called Christians. And ironically, in so doing, we become increasingly confident of our place in the family. Why? Verse 14. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. And let me stop and make this comment very quickly here Take no offense, ladies, at that term sons of God, for in that culture only sons could inherit legally. Daughters had no legal standing. Paul is not excluding women. He's including them. As much as this offends today, this would have been a source of great awe back then. What? All of us Remember who's likely reading this letter out? It was Phoebe who brought this letter on behalf of Paul. And there's a reasonable chance it's Phoebe reading this out the first time to the church in Rome. And she says, we are made sons of God. Legal inheritors, legal standing, a right to claim 13. 15. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. We have no debt to repay. Our place in the family of God is not a blood pact. God did not save us, and therefore we owe him. This is not a lifelong episode of I Dream of Genie. He rubbed our bottle, set us free, and so we're indebted to him for the rest of our lives. That's not how the Christian life works. That's not what we are about. We are not merely saved from hell. Yes, I'm familiar with the sad, uh uh uh terrible stories of families back in the day, some of them calling themselves Christian families. Who would adopt a son to work on the farm and then make him live in the barn? That's not what's going on here. We are not merely plucked off the road to hell. We are plucked off the road to hell and put down in the parlor of God. Sat down among his family, taught the things that his family knows to do, become friends with his other children. We are brought into the fellowship, into the joy, into the struggle and pain sometimes. Being part of this family. Verse 14, for because all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. I love it. I love that Jill calls me dad. Not Mr. Shaw. Not Scott. Dad. I'm not her biological parent, but she desires a relationship with me that transcends biology. Though she is not descended from my body, she is a sister in Christ. If any of my own children are not walking with the Lord, guess who I'm going to spend eternity with? Would I ever suggest that she's not my real daughter? And so we have a lifetime to grow together, to become more like one another, to take on the image of each other and the spirit of this family that is growing together. Already. She reflects patterns of thought from our family. Already we reflect things that she has brought into our midst And so the spirit of shawless appears in her life. And it confirms Her. It reassures her that she is truly one of us So it is with the only of God. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. If we don't understand adoption, it's going to be pretty hard to grasp this chapter. Is adoption a cumbersome process to undertake? Is there a mountain of red tape? How does that compare to the red blood of Christ necessary to adopt us? Do we think that somehow adopted children simply aren't enough like the biological family? How much are you like Christ, the Son begotten of the Father? Just imagine if God dared to compare us to our siblings. How we come off compared to Jesus. And will Satan, every so often, right in front of us, right while we're listening, look at God and say, are those your real children? And every doubt will be raised, and we will wonder if we really do belong. Is it true that adoption makes me a real child? How can that be? We've got to understand adoption. We've got to cling to the doctrine in the scriptures. Manasseh and Ephraim became like Reuben and Simeon And so it is with us. Look at verse 17. For if we are children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. The rest of this chapter is going to say some profound things about being a Christian. It's going to talk profoundly about how we got to this point, how we became Christians, how it is that we were brought into the family. It's going to say some profound things about what that means for our present existence, and it's going to say some literally otherworldly things about what it means for our future. But everything Paul is about to say in Romans 8 is rooted in this truth right here We're adopted. Real children of God Brought into his family. Not because we were adorable, not because we were cute, not because we looked that much like Jesus and he thought we'd fit in. But because the Father loves the Son. And all those who belong to the Son are its.