Hear the word of the Lord through the prophet Isaiah, Isaiah chapter nine, verse six. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace This is the Word of God. It is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. And it is the great hope of all Christians. If we would know what this season is about, if we would understand Christmas rightly, then we must know this book. Let's pray now and ask God's help in doing just that. Lord, you paved the way for the Savior hundreds and even thousands of years before he came, your prophets foresaw it and promised it and then it was realized among us. We ask now this morning That it would be realized among us in a new and fresh way. That as we consider the names which Isaiah gave to the Messiah, That we would take great comfort in them, find hope in them, that we would be renewed in the joy of Christmas. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. We have here the prophet Isaiah speaking some 700 years before Jesus' birth. He assigns to the Messiah four epithets. We call them names, but in a sense they're not names in the proper sense that Jesus would have answered to them or identified by them. I don't imagine that Jesus ever s introduced himself, hi, I'm wonderful counselor. Nice to meet you. That's really not the sense of this. Rather, that these are characteristics of the Messiah. They are names in the sense that they identify qualities of him. Things that were true about him. And Isaiah gives them to us 700 years before the Christ, so that we would hope in him. So that the suffering people of Israel and of Judah would look at the promise and realize that one day there would be the one who would fulfill all that was promised. Through the prophet Isaiah. He gives four familiar terms, epithets, names For Jesus. The first of these is wonderful counselor. It is the one we are going to look at this morning. It is the one we are going to consider more closely right now. And if we consider it, we we look first of all at this idea of a counselor. What does it mean to be a counselor? Well, we have financial advisors that are a counselor to us. What do they do? They suggest things to us, they tell us how to plan. for the future, how to prepare a child's college fund or to plan for your retirement. In court, the judge refers to your lawyer as your counselor. They tell you what to say or usually what not to say. They give you advice. There are marriage counselors, there are guidance counselors, there are career counselors, and what do they all have in common? They suggest things. They analyze things. They give us direction and instruction. A counselor is a giver of wisdom in one sense. I spent two summers as a camp counselor. It was my job to impart to those third graders how not to get lost in the woods. How to start a fire, how not to burn down the forest with that fire, etc. , etc. I was a giver of advice that summer A bestower of wisdom. Jesus is said to be the wonderful counselor. Now, what is going to make a counselor wonderful? We're going to come back around to that. I think first of all, let's just kind of lay the groundwork and consider what would make a counselor really good. What is it necessary for if we consider someone to be a really good counselor, let alaside wonderful for the moment What would be true of that person? Well, a counselor, a good counselor, anybody that we would actually go to for advice, I think it starts first and foremost with personal credibility. That's probably the single most important criterion, right? You know, I don't get gurus. Not in the classical Eastern mystic sort of sense Why would you go to a mountaintop, to some ashram somewhere, to get advice from somebody who doesn't actually live the life you're living? Sure, it's easy to have this perfect view of everything up there on the mountaintop. We need advice from people who actually live our lives. If your marriage is struggling, The counselor who kept her own marriage together in the midst of an affair would have more credibility, would they not? The person who has actually built wealth is the one who ought to advise us on building wealth By the way, advertisers know this, right? It's always amazing on the deodorant commercial, the antipers commercial. That guy is working out, but somehow is never sweating. Right? Because we aren't going to buy deodorant from a sweaty guy, a smelly guy. We don't take counsel, we don't take advice from people who can't live out what they're telling us. Personal credibility. Matters. And I think this is an area where many of us have a mistaken understanding of Jesus That he is some theorist who just sits in the heavens and gives advice to us who have to actually live down here in this world. And we tend to take exception to him I know, Jesus, you want me to forgive, but you don't understand how terrible my husband really is. But Jesus is not a good counselor, a wonderful counselor, by virtue of the fact that he sits in the heavens with theory. He actually lived this life. And he didn't live it in some kind of special way. He didn't live it in some kind of un you know extraordinary floated through this world and nothing ever went wrong. What is the scripture? The same prophet Isaiah? What does he say about the Messiah? He had no beauty or majesty that we should look at him. Who listens to the pretty girl, right? What does she know about the difficult life? You know, city girls just seem to find out early how to open doors with just their eyes. Do not play that as the post-service music, John. Okay, I know. I appreciate that he ties the music into the service, but not that one. We have this idea that somehow if you're you live this pretty life that you just you go through life, you float in this cloud, you have it special and you don't really understand. By the way, that's not actually true, but it's our view of things. And the prophet says to us, that's not who Jesus was. He had no special beauty. He wasn't particularly attractive. He didn't go through life in some special way. He was just an ordinary guy in many ways. And in fact, the prophet goes on to say this about him, that he was a man of sorrows, and that he was acquainted with grief. You see, when we're looking for advice about this life, when we need counsel, Jesus has a degree of personal credibility. He lived this life. That was the auth the the point of the author of Hebrews, our New Testament reading, our sermon series a few years back We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. When I was preparing for that sermon in our Hebrew series a couple of years ago, I was just floored by the practical implications. Of what I came across in my studies. And I continue to be impacted by that sermon. Certain sermons resonate with you guys, certain sermons resonate with preachers also, and this is one of them. We know, we say, at least in the abstract, that Jesus lived this life. Okay, I get it. I'd encourage you not to leave that in the abstract. Pull that down into your life and make it concrete. One of the great mistakes of Christmas time is the way we depict the earthly family of Jesus. Right now, in your mind, strip every halo off of Mary and Joseph. They were sinners. Now, do you imagine That the Jesus who stood between you and the righteous wrath of the Heavenly Father That he never stood between his younger brothers and the unjust anger of a drunk Joseph Do you not think that at some point those younger brothers sold him out and Mary screamed at him for things that were not his fault? We know that in his earthly ministry, his brothers did not only not only did they not believe in him, they thought he had lost his mind. They said publicly he was insane. When we think of Jesus suffering, it's not an abstract suffering. It's a real suffering like what you go through. But take it a step further. What's the worst thing in your life? The worst thing that has ever happened to you? And I want to cross a line for a moment. The line I think needs to be crossed. There are terrible, horrible Unspeakable things that happen to children. Things that should never happen to anyone, let alone the weakest among us. They are gross Why do we imagine they never happened to Jesus? However, terrible this world is in its treatment of children I promise you the ancient world was infinitely worse. Just read the accounts of the way children were treated back then. I do not think for a moment that Jesus somehow walked through this life and escaped all of that agony. Whatever it is that you bear in your life, whether it is your own sin, which we'll talk more about in a moment, or just something that somebody else's sin that has happened to you Jesus has credibility as a counselor. He has suffered He is a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, a high priest who is able to sympathize with our weaknesses, yet he is without sin. If Jesus has never been your counselor, is it because you have never had any sense of his personal credibility? That needs to change right now You know, if our spouse cheated on us, we would long for the marriage counselor who went through what we are going through and kept their marriage together. That's Jesus. He suffered all that we have suffered, and yet he did not respond sinfully. There is no advisor, no life counselor, no wisdom giver, no bestower of advice with more personal credibility than Jesus. He's not sitting on a mountaintop as some inapproachable guru. He lived this life with perfection. You know, the other problem with gurus, in that classical Eastern, mystic sense, is their accessibility or lack thereof. I mean, who wants to climb a mountain to go get advice? It's almost as if you have to earn it. As if you have to do something to get there. But one of Jesus' great traits was his accessibility. He made himself available to everyone. Anybody who would repent and turn to him was welcome. In fact, that's what got Jesus in trouble. The first time that the Mark records the hatred of the Jewish leadership This is what they said about Jesus. He eats with tax collectors and sinners He was too accessible in their view, too ready to talk to all these dirty, fallen, broken down people. When we consider the wisdom of Solomon, we always miss the main point. You know the story, right? Remember the story? Uh the two prostitutes um uh living in a brothel, they both have infants, one of the infants dies, the mother of the dead infant gets up in the middle of the night, switches the Lie baby and the dead baby and give her dead baby to another prostitute and she takes the live one and the dispute breaks out and it ends up before Solomon And we always look at the wisdom and go, oh, in this day before DNA testing, how was he supposed to figure out whose child it really was? And what he does is brilliant and is incredibly insightful and it is incredibly wise But we miss the wisdom that the king, with all of his glory, with all of his majesty, with all of his uh cleanliness, the baths he could take and the perfumes he had, he's holding court with two prostitutes He cared about justice. He cared about their lives and being doing right by them. And what does Jesus say of himself? One who is greater than Solomon is here before you Jesus was accessible. He wasn't off limits to the dirty and the downtrodden. You didn't get your life fixed and then go talk to him. He's a wonderful counselor because in the midst of the worst things going on inside of your mind, the most perverse sin that you are so you yourself are grossed out by. You can go to Jesus. He cares. He wants what's best for you. He eats with tax collectors. And sinners. He has personal credibility because he lived this life and suffered in this life. He is accessible. And he's a good listener. It's not enough that he lived the suffering life if he's not willing to hear us. And yet, part and parcel with his accessibility is his listening There are countless stories in the Gospels of Jesus, the counselor who listens. Our personal financial advisor has that personal credibility. His own net worth is approaching $200 million. But that's not why we went with him. When we first met with this man, we were broke. I was a first-year teacher. You know how little first-year teachers make. I was up to my eyeballs in student loans. We had three little children. And though my wife worked very hard caring for those children, nobody was paying her for it. And it would have been easy for that financial advisor. To say to us, you know this 10% you're giving to your church? Just think down the road how much more you could give to your church if we invested that right now. But he never did. He listened to us. He saw that that was important to us. And he left it alone. Jesus is a superior listener even to that. He truly hears. John 4 with the woman at the well, Jesus listens to her. Luke 24, on the road to Emmaus, you hear, you see Jesus listening to those men and what they are going through. Jesus listened to the blind calling out for sight. He listened to the lame begging for mobility. To be a good counselor, you must be a good listener. And Jesus listened. There's more to say about this, but we'll circle back around to it in a few moments. Not only do we need to be listeners in this life, but we also A good counselor also provides insight. They listen, but they listen at a deeper level. Jesus was always superior at this, and still is to this day. Jesus always took what was said outwardly and could immediately get at the real. problem, the underlying issue. You know, he understood, I mentioned the woman at the well. He understood the implications of her being at the well that time of day. That's not when people went to the well. That's not when the women of town got their water. That she's there then means she's an outcast, even in her own hometown. And he understood that. He had the insight to read between the lines. Don't we all wish for that friend, that that counselor, that person too close to us, who don't make us say it, just kind of see it. Jesus has that sort of insight. By the way, sometimes that's not comfortable, right? Remember the account of the rich young ruler who came to Jesus, who says to Jesus, I have kept all the law. And Jesus immediately knew where to address him. Wonderful, very good. Glad to hear it. Now go sell everything you have and give it to the poor. And the man went away sad. The account in the scriptures tells us, because he had a lot of nice things. I don't want to sell everything. They're pretty nice. But Jesus knew where the real issue was, the insight. We must be prepared. If we go to Jesus as our counselor, we are going to be told things we don't want to hear. But we need to hear. A good counselor will be accessible. He will listen with insight. He will have a degree of personal credibility. But he's also going to give good advice, right? Godly advice. You know, the marriage counselor who suggests that you have an affair because your spouse had an affair, that's not good advice. That's not a good counselor. The financial advisor who steered you toward Bernie Madoff. Not a good counselor. Not a wonderful counselor. I think it is self-evident that a good counselor gives good advice, and I think it's equally evident that no one is ever going to give you more godly advice than Jesus. He is God. He is God with flesh. He is God with a body. He is God incarnate. That's one of the things we celebrate at Christmas. You are never going to get better advice than from Jesus Himself. Apart from any credentials or listening or insight or anything else, what comes out of his mouth Is top-notch instruction. You know, I haven't read the sermon text for this, and I'm really not going to. But I do want to reference it. I do want to remind you of the story there in 1 Kings chapter 5. It's the story of Naaman, the Syrian general. He's actually the commander of all of the Syrian army. And he comes down with a disease, and one of his slaves in his household is a captured Israelite girl, and she goes to him and says, You know, sir, there is a prophet in Israel who can heal you. And Naaman seeks out this prophet and goes to Elisha. Now, this is rather stunning. This pagan general going to a prophet of the God of Israel. And what unfolds is interesting. Elisha doesn't even take an audience with him. While Naaman is on his way to see Elisha, Elisha sends a servant out with a message. that says, go wash in the Jordan River seven times and your disease will be healed. Do you recall what happened? Naaman was disgusted Aren't the rivers in Syria every bit as good? Couldn't I have just stayed home and washed in one of those? And he's about to storm off and ignore the counsel he'd been given. And one of the aides that's with him says, Sir, if he had asked you, if he had told you to do something awesome, something difficult, a Herculean task. Would you not have done it and done it gladly to be healed? So why won't you follow the simple advice, the simple counsel of washing in the Jordan River? And Naaman washes, and he is healed, and he gives glory to the God of Israel. When it comes to the counsel of Jesus, when it comes to the wonderful counselor who gives godly advice, I don't think I need to convince you of the quality of his advice. I think I need to convince all of us. Of the wisdom of following it. It's amazing how often we can be like this general Naaman and want to turn away from simple advice. We find sometimes what Jesus counsels is foolishness in our eyes. What We should wait to get married before having sex? Come on. We didn't buy Becky's truck without test driving at first. How much more important is it to make sure the marriage is going to be compatible? And we see it as foolishness. When in fact it's very simple advice. And we will not follow it. Forgive? Are you serious, Jesus? Do you know what they've done to me? Forgive it not seven times, but seventy times seven? You've got to be kidding, Jesus That's not going to help us move forward in our relationship. The only way we're going to move forward is when they apologize to me. And the simplest of advice is advice that we set aside. And like Naaman, we think, that is never going to work. Instead of taking Jesus' counsel and looking forward to the wondrous, miraculous fulfillment. We try to explain to him why he doesn't know what he's talking about. I was preaching at a conference. I was at a preaching conference a few years ago. And the keynote speaker made a point that got a pretty good laugh out of the whole room. I don't know, there were three or four hundred pastors from different denominations altogether there that day. And a keynote speaker said it was his observation over the years that those men who were generally good preachers were terrible counselors. And those who were good pastoral counselors tended to be weak preachers. And he said the reason is simple Because a good preacher tends to be blunt and frank and forthright and lay clearly before the congregation what is being said, and nobody wants a blunt counselor Nobody wants a counselor to just tell them what to do. Having said that, I understand you are never going to come knock on my door and ask for counsel, so here it is. Just do what Jesus is telling you. Whatever it is, whatever the aspect of your life is, how does the Word of God apply, and how should you follow it? Heed the counsel of Jesus. Follow his ways. Forgive what he says to forgive. Love the way he says to love. Be the husband you're supposed to be, the wife you're supposed to be, the parent you're supposed to be, and yes, the child you're supposed to be. Heed the counsel of God. Not for nothing. Have you ever stopped to ask yourself why is it that our adherence to God's Word, our faithfulness, our obedience is the measuring stick by which faith is evaluated. John says that if we claim to know Jesus but do not walk as Jesus walked, we are a liar and the truth is not in us. James says that faith without good works is dead and cannot save us. Jesus himself said, if you love me, you will obey my commands. Why are all of those, we don't preach or teach that we are saved by those things, but those things are the affirmation of saving faith. Why is that? Well it's simple. If you cannot trust Jesus with this life, do you really think you're trusting him with all eternity? Are you really going to say, I'm going to keep control of 70 years, because that's the important stuff, but I'll let you, Jesus, take care of my eternity, because that's nothing. It's the other way around in value, right? Eternity is everything, and these 70 years are nothing If we cannot trust Jesus with this life, it is a sign that we are struggling to trust Him with the next one. Obedience in this life is an affirmation of saving faith because it is evidence that you truly follow his advice. A good counselor will be accessible. He will listen. He will listen with insight. He will be personally credible. And he will give good, godly advice. But none of those things rise to the level of wonderful Full of wonder, absolutely in awe, dumbfounded What makes Jesus the wonderful comfort? Let me ask the question this way. What's a key, perhaps the key, distinction? Between a wonderful counselor and a wonderful friend Your best friend is probably a good listener. They probably have insight into who you are, your thoughts and your feelings. They have a personal degree of credibility to you because you've gone through so many things together And yet, we know deep inside there is a distinction between a friend and a counselor. What is it? I'm amazed at the number of people who over my decades now have revealed to me, have told me things about themselves. That they had never ever told anyone else that they were raped, that they were themselves sexually perverse. Difficult, intimate details they shared with me. And you know what's interesting? Not a one of them would have counted me among their close friends Why? Because we need that close friend. And deep inside, we are a little worried that if I told them this, they might walk away. They might cease to be my friend. In part we worry because we know ourselves. If my good friend ever revealed to me That he was doing that. I don't know if I could keep being friends with him And there's something about that counselor. In part, we're not overly worried about the relationship. If they stop counseling me and walk away, I'm not that hurt. I'll tell them something that I won't tell that friend. But then we also look at it and go, I'm also paying them to kind of be my friend, professionally speaking And so we kind of expect that they're going to stay engaged with us no matter what we tell them. So there are things we will tell a counselor that we would never, ever tell our friend. What makes Jesus the counselor that is full of wonder, the wonderful counselor? Because we stand in awe. That he knows us fully. He is the omniscient God. Yet he still loved us enough to die for us. We can and we should lay everything before Him, confessing all of our sins to Him. But we can do that with ease because he already knows them. You see, Jesus sought us out, loved us, died for us. In spite of all that we are. And in fact, if you've been tracking with us in our men's and women's Bible study, you will understand: because of all that we are Jesus doesn't love us in spite of our sin. Jesus loves us because of our sin. Because we're that broken, because we're that messed up, because we are that perverse and sick in our inner beings, He died for us. He didn't want us to suffer the consequences for being so gross. He closed the relationship, closed the gap. He came to us. Think about it another way. It's not that we're paying a counselor to be our professional friend He paid to be our counselor. He gave his life to have a relationship with us. And if he's invested that much already, do we really think he will abandon us? Is that not exactly Paul's point in Romans 8? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? And of course the rhetorical answer is he will. He will give us all things. We can go to this wonderful counselor with the worst that we are, because there's no chance he's going to walk away. He's too heavily invested in us. He loves us too much. Whatever fear we might have of an earthly friend abandoning us. There's no chance Jesus would do that. He is simply the most accessible Counselor that has ever lived, never turning anyone away. He ain't with tax collectors and sinners He listens with insight, seeing into who we really are. He lived through this difficult life and was acquainted with suffering. And no one will ever give us better, more godly advice. But over the top of all of that, he is the counselor. Who paid to heal us? To help us, to make us whole and right and restored. He will never leave you, no matter how ugly your sin is. Rather, he will draw closer to you because of it. Wonderful counselor, this table is an awe-inspiring gesture of fellowship and closeness. That because you know us fully, you draw us closer to yourself. You do not push us away, but bring us in. You are the friend who sticks closer than a brother. You are the counselor that we long for. You are the one. To whom we can pour out everything wretched about us. And you say, come, let's have a meal together We are the tax collectors and sinners. And we come joyfully now to you. Thank you. Thank you for being the one who paid the price to heal us To advise us, to instruct us, to be our wonderful counselor. Amen.