Open your Bibles, please, to Romans eleven. Romans chapter eleven. We'll begin in verse thirty-three. Romans eleven thirty-three. Romans eleven thirty three beginning in verse I'm sorry, Romans eleven beginning in verse thirty-three O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and how unscrutable his ways! For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. These four verses are doxology. They are an expression of the glory of God. Paul is in awe of God's judgments and his ways. The choices God makes. Choices based on his wisdom and knowledge, Paul says These are unsearchable. They are inscrutable. In other words, there is no woman who could wrap her mind around them, no man who could have foreseen them. God's plans are unsearchable. And that, Paul says, is because no one has ever known the mind of the Lord. It's not just that no one could plumb the depths of God's plans. No. They are so glorious. That no one could advise him, give him counsel. It's not as if God came up with the bulk of the plan and then the apostles chipped in to make it better. No one could do that. No one could counsel the Lord. Why not? When I counsel, if I'm to give any advice that's worth anything at all, I must know the situation. And we cannot know God's situation. We cannot imagine who He is and what He has done. Nor has anyone ever done God a favor, rendered him a kindness, that God might repay him or owe him anything. God has never needed anyone's help. And why could no one assist God in any way? Paul says it is because from him are all things. Had we imagined ourselves giving God assistance or counsel Whatever that might have looked like, it would have come from God in the first place anyway. And through him are all things. So, whatever we might have offered to God not only would have come from him, but it would have made it manifest in us because of him, through him He is not only the source of all things, he is the actor of all things. He is the one who brings all things about. It's not as if it began with God and then we did our part to bring it about. From him and through him are all things. Now at a room full of Presbyterians, the question I'm about to ask, I have to tell you, don't answer it out loud. Okay? What is the chief end of man? Stick that answer in your head. And let me tweak the question a hair. What is the chief end of God? It is to glorify God forevermore. To him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen, Paul says. Romans 9, 10, and 11 have been looking at the question of Jewish salvation, what we might call the gospel's Jewish problem. Why aren't more Jews saved? And he does this in the letter that is written to a church in Rome which is predominantly Gentile. And yet he takes three chapters to talk about Jewish salvation. So why is that relevant to them and to us? Because the question is a simple one. Why would we trust God if He has cast off Jews? They were His people before we were. Ponder that for a moment. Ponder that even as we come to the Lord's table today This symbolic covenant renewal. Each week we hear God's promises, and by dining with him, we express our participation in these things and his participation with us. Now, I doubt that you've ever conscientiously thought about Jews as you were coming to the Lord's table, but this morning maybe we should. What do you think of the state of Jews? So, first of all, do you despise them in any way? Do you harbor any animosity toward them? Do you think of them as Jesus killers? And thus do you imagine that for that reason they have been cast off by God? But set aside any question of racism or xenophobia or bigotry, whatever that might be, and consider the question with regard only to your personal faith. If you believe that you are despised or rejected by God, you are undercutting your own Christian faith. Let me illustrate the point pretty simply. Why is it That the second wife of a man, not just any second wife, but the second wife of a man, if she was first his mistress, Why is it that she lives with no confidence in her relationship? No assurance Because she knows the nature of the man to whom she is married. If he was once unfaithful with her, then she is afraid that he will be unfaithful toward her. And that is how some of us imagine God. He once made promises to Israel, but look at the Jews today. He's rejected them. He can't be trusted. God is fundamentally untrustworthy Because of the way the Jews are being treated. That is the issue being addressed in Romans 9, 10, and 11. You'll recall back in chapter 8, Paul made this spectacular promise. That neither height nor depth nor principalities nor powers nor anything in this world in the world to come could ever separate you from the love of God. But somebody had to be thinking to themselves, unless of course you're Jewish And that is the issue before us. Let me illustrate the issue a little differently. Grandpa Shaw, my grandfather. was a good and godly man, a man of wonderful faith. He was the first believer in our line. He is the root of any faith found today among the Shah's But he was no Abraham. So do you see the fear that I might have if God will reject the offspring of Abraham? Well, couldn't he easily castify the Shaws? For two and a half chapters, Paul has been addressing this issue. And here at the close of this section of the third chapter, he is obviously fired up. Clearly excited about something. Praise is pouring out of him. Four verses of profound doxology. So how is it that he gets here? How is it that Paul can be so excited? So uh overflowing with praise for a God who might cast people off Let's move back up now to verse 11. Let's get a running head start, as it were, into this doxology. What is the basis? for the excitement Paul has about the glory of God. Back up in verse 11. Romans 11, 11. So I ask, did they, that is ethnic Israel, did they stumble in order that they might fall? Was God's covenant with Israel just some kind of elaborate cosmic gag? Was Israel the comic relief in the drama of salvation, tripping and faith planting right at the finish line? By no means. So then why, Paul, is he not saving more than a mere remnant? Because through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous Paul's pointing out that for most of redemptive history, salvation had been largely a Jewish thing But Paul himself had witnessed firsthand how it was the Gentile proselytides in every synagogue who believed and they evangelized their friends and families and neighbor, co-workers, and neighbors Gentiles were flocking in, vastly outnumbering Jews. And Paul saw that this was God's plan. God had not hardened the majority of Jews simply because he hated them, but because he was opening up a doorway for Gentiles to become saved. So first of all, if we imagine Jews to be reviled or rejected by God, we have to understand that whatever their current state is, it was done for our sake. Most of us are Gentiles. Verse 12. Now if there Jewish trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean? And this is the first of several notes Paul will make indicating optimism about the future of Israel. Now I am speaking to you, Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order that somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? In this largely eschatological passage in Romans, I think life from the dead needs to be taken very literally. He is looking at the final resurrection. He's looking at a day when his fellow Jews will be raised from the dead to everlasting life. What is the basis for this hope that he has? Verse 16. If the dough offered as first fruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is holy, so are the trenches. Paul has spoken of the remnant earlier in chapter 11, and he sees himself and his fellow remnant believers as the root, as the starter-doe of something amazing. And so he continues with this horticultural illustration. But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among the others And now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant toward the branches. We live in a culture that is not as familiar as metaphor. Some years ago my wife got a rose bush. It came fall. I knew I was supposed to cut it back. I cut it back and it came back next spring. Ugly. Hideous. Couldn't believe it Turns out it was a grafted rose bush. I had cut it too low below the graft. And the root roses came up really ugly. This idea of one plant connected to another is a bit foreign to us, but it would have been familiar to them. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, dear Gentile believer, as if you're somehow superior, but the root supports you. Then you will say branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in. That's true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand fast through faith, so do not become proud, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. Note then the kindness and the severity of God. Severity toward those who have fallen. But God's kindness to you, provided you continue in His kindness. Otherwise, you too will be cut off. And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in. For God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back in? to their own olive tree. Many times in this passage, Paul has warned against what today we might call anti-Semitism, a disdain Or a negative attitude toward Jews. He says to be dismissive of Jews is to ignore a people for whom God has grand plans. To despise Jews is to despise the root of the church, the source of salvation, biologically speaking. Christians ought not be anti-Semitic. But this is worthy of an additional comment. Neither is this a call to Zionism. Israel as a geopolitical entity did not exist when Paul wrote this. They were all Romans. He is not talking about the geopolitical entity of the government of Israel. He is talking about the ethnicity of Israel. So we are not called to get behind everything that Israel, the country, does If Israel, the country, mistreats her neighbors, if she oppresses Palestinians because they are Palestinian, we Christians should call that out. Our obligation is to truth and to the Word of God and to His standard of righteousness. At no time has Paul overlooked Jewish sin simply because it was Jewish. He said plainly back in chapter 3, there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. So, despite what some politically connected preachers have said over the last few decades, There is no biblical mandate to be pro-Israel as a geopolitical entity. Yet it is also antithetical to this passage to be anti-Semitic We live in a political climate which calls any opposition to Israel anti-Semitism. Antisemitism does not fit here. But whitewashing every decision of Israel's government is antithetical to the glory of God. Paul's warning to us as Gentiles continues in verse 25, lest you be wise in your own sight. I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Partial hardening needs to be understood. Those who are hardened are not partially hardened. You're either hardened or you're not. Okay? It's that a part a part of the whole, a part of Israel, has been hardened Verse twenty six And in this way all Israel will be saved. As it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob. And from this will be my covenant with this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. So as regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. There's an entire sermon right there. For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, But now have received mercy because of their disobedience. So they too have now been disobedient in order that that by the mercy shown to you they also may now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience, that he may have mercy on all God, grant us an understanding this morning of this passage. Open our minds and our hearts to the mystery that is revealed here, and in so doing, drive us to doxology. Let us join with the apostle in glorious praise of your wondrous mercy. Help us to come to grips with the depths of this truth. That from you and through you and to you are all things, and that all glory belongs to you forever. Amen. I've opened this sermon at the end of Romans 11, asking why Paul was so overflowing with praise for God. And verse 26 really is the key. We're going to spend the bulk of our time looking at verse 26. And particularly this phrase within verse 26. All Israel will be saved. Easily the most contested phrase within the book of Romans, and it's probably in the top ten in all of Scripture. Many of you might be aware of the debate surrounding Romans 9, but that largely divides Calvinists from Arminians. Romans 11, 26 divides Calvinists from John Calvin himself. It divides most Luthalers from Martin Luther. It divides Baptist against Baptist, Methodist against Methodists, and on down the line. It is an incredibly challenging phrase. And yet I think it can be understood, and I think we must try. So, what does it mean that all Israel will be saved? All means all, and that's all it ever means. That's a common enough expression, and I don't know where I heard it the first time, but Most recently, one of my seminary professors would say that. All means all, and that's all it ever means, okay? Okay. Fair enough, but Matthew 2, 3. When Herod the king heard about the prophecies regarding Jesus, he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him. Now we know Anna and Simeon were living in Jerusalem, and they were awaiting the Christ's child, and they received him warmly. Are we to imagine that those two were deeply troubled about the prophecies regarding the baby Jesus? Hmm. Mark 1. 5. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to John and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. So Herodias, the woman who hated John so much she had him beheaded. She wanted to set out a silver platter. Herodias was living in Jerusalem. All Jerusalem went out to be baptized. Are we to imagine that Herodias went out and repented of her sins and was baptized by John? How about those Pharisees who despised both Jesus and John? You think they were baptized? When your teenager comes home from a party or a concert and she rushes in the house and she says, everyone was there! You understand what she means. The turnout was amazing. It was beyond her wildest expectations. All in the Bible routinely expresses extensiveness without expressing totality. You see, if all means all and that's all it ever means, then we are going to have all manner of interpretive difficulties, irony intended. All Israel will be saved does not mean that every ethnic Jew will be saved. It cannot mean that Aside from the interpretive issue I just illustrated, Paul has already, back in Romans 9, pointed to Esau, the grandson of Abraham and Sarah And said God hated him. In our sermon series before Easter, Eight Days That Changed Everything, we saw Jesus say it would have been better for Judas not to have been born. It's hard to after that statement, it's hard to picture Judas being saved. All Israel does not mean that every Jew is going to be saved just by virtue of being a Jew Not every person is a part of all. But neither is this a remnant. This cannot point to the saving of just a smattering of Jews, a few here and a few there. First of all, that would violate the very sense of the word all. While it needn't mean every, it surely means more than just a few It conveys extensiveness. Secondly, Paul has said he is revealing a mystery. But the idea of a remnant has been established for millennia. The ancient Old Testament prophets talked about the remnant. Paul has already talked about the remnant. There's no mystery in remnant theology. So I hope by now you're getting a sense of the word all and what it means. A huge portion. a profound and shocking percentage, exceeding all expectations. There is coming a day in the future when a profound number of ethnic Jews will convert to Christianity. The Jews for Jesus ministry will be bursting at the scenes. Synagogues will be packed on Saturday morning with Jews who acknowledge the Messiah. And Seder meals everywhere will finally be recognized for the signposts that they are Pointing to Jesus of Nazareth. All Israel will be saved means that God will have mercy on a stunning number within Israel. So what does Israel mean? And this is why part ways with guys like Luther and Calvin, and that's always a risky proposition. But you've heard me say it before, and I'll say it again, I have no loyalty to the Reformed Party nor to Calvinists. My allegiance is to the Word of God, and when our Reformed brothers and sisters are wrong Jesus himself said anyone who did not hate his family could not be his disciple. Surely I must prioritize his word over my reformed brethren. It is to God and not to John Calvin that I will one day give an account for what I said in this pulpit. So the position of many within the Reformed tradition has been that Israel means spiritual Israel. The church. Now, to be sure, the New Testament writers have generally conflicted Israel and the Church. Each is the other in every important aspect. Paul himself speaks of Israel that way in Philippians 2, in Galatians 3, arguably back in Romans 2 and Romans 4. There is a lot in the New Testament that says Israel and the church are one and the same. But not here. If we had been roaming through the New Testament randomly and then just parachuted into Romans 11, we might interpret it that way. But there's a problem with that view. How did Paul open this whole section back in chapter 9 I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. For I could wish I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ. For the sake of my brothers, maybe spiritual brothers. My kinsmen may be spiritual kinsmen, according to the flesh. Paul couldn't have been clearer. He's talking about biological Israel, biological Jews. How about chapter 10? Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God is for them. Who's them? You go down in chapter 10, it is ethnic Israel. Last week at the opening of chapter 11, we saw uh how Paul opens. I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means, for I myself Now, what do you mean by that, Paul? A descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. All the evidence in Romans 9, 10, and 11 point to Israel being an ethnic biological entity. There is not a shred of evidence to turn us away from that conclusion. Furthermore, Paul's whole point in this subsection is to demonstrate that the lack of Jewish believers is not a reason to doubt the promises of God. And that would be a meaningless argument if spiritual Israel were in view. So what does this all mean? It means that there's going to be a great ingathering of ethnic Israel at the end of the age. We said all meant a stunningly large percentage, and now we see that it's a large percentage of ethnic biological Jews which Paul has in mind. At some point in the future, Jewish brothers, spiritual brothers like Felix Mendelssohn Benjamin Disraeli, Niels Bohr, and our own David Pearl will be joined by countless millions of their kinsmen, their brothers in the flesh. All Israel will be saved. What does it mean to be saved? More exactly, what is the mechanism of that salvation? Old school, Ryrie, Schofield dispensationalism, that form of Christianity that dominated American Christianity for most of the 20th century, it argued that there were two different methods of salvation, two different plans of salvation. That Gentiles were saved in Christ, that Jews were saved by virtue of being Jews so long as they upheld the covenant. Praise God, most dispensationalists today have abandoned that viewpoint. And yet it lingers, though it's worthy of a brief comment. What was at the heart of this three-chapter parenthetical sidebar? Take your eye, go back up into chapter 10, go back up to verse 9 of chapter 10. Pretty much smack dab in the middle of these three chapters Chapter 9, verse 10, jump in with me there. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the Scripture says everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame But Paul's writing to the Gentile believers in Rome, correct? Verse 12. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. There is no distinction between Jew and Greek. There is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. There are not two ways of salvation. God does not save Gentiles through Jesus and then save Jews through some other covenant, some other path of keeping the law. That flies in the face of the whole of the book of Romans. And by the way, it's also a great insult to Jesus. Yes, he is the Savior of all the world, but he was the Jewish Messiah. He said he came to save Israel. He came from Jews for Jews. To suggest that Jews are saved by their Jewishness and apart from the Christ is to do tremendous dishonor to Jesus. I won't go back over the last previous sermons, but if you imagine yourself to be okay with God in any way other than Jesus, You are missing the heart of the good news of Christianity. So the day is coming when great numbers of Jews will turn to Jesus in faith and be saved by faith in his righteousness. There is simply no other way of salvation. There is no other path to God. There are not many ways, there is but one way. Even the children of Abraham will not get in by virtue of being his children. All who call upon the name of the Lord and only those will be saved. So now let's look at we spent a lot of time in that one little phrase in verse 26 to make sure we rightly understand it. But let's now look at the wider scope of verses 26 and 27. And in this way. All Israel will be saved. What way? How will it happen? How will Israel, that great quantity of ethnic Jews, be saved? First, we note the passive voice Israel will be saved. Israel is the object of salvation, but there is no subject. Who is the actor of this salvation? Now, I know your eighth grade English teacher told you not to use the passive voice But the New Testament uses it a lot. So much so that scholars of the New Testament have named this the divine passive. Most often in the New Testament, when there is the passive voice, the unnamed, assumed actor is God. We are to assume he is at work. But now Paul goes further. He doesn't leave us to have to assume that he affirms that it's God. Keep reading. The deliverer will come from Zion, and he will banish ungodliness from Jacob. You see, back in chapter 9, it was the sovereignty of God to harden some and save others. That key role of the sovereignty of God is affirmed again here. God is The sovereign authority and he will send the deliverer to banish ungodliness And this will be my covenant with them. It is not Israel's covenant with God. It is God's covenant with Israel. God takes the initiative. God reaches out. And it happens when I take away their sins. You've heard me say this many times. Our God does not sweep sin under the rug. If you look closely at other religions, So long as you are 51% good, Allah will accept you and just kind of wink and not pay attention to all that sin in your life. Buddha just accepts the sin. It's just a part of life. Our God says no, sin has to be dealt with. It has to be obliterated. His righteousness, his holiness, demands that it be removed and replaced with a perfect righteousness. And that is only available in Jesus Christ. He alone is the sacrifice of sufficient worth to pay the price for sin, and he alone lived a perfect life to provide the righteousness that we need. You see, our God has dealt with sin at the cross. And so when Paul says on behalf of God, I will take away their sins, that is the sovereign work of God accomplished in Christ at the cross. Salvation belongs to our God. I know you're Presbyterians, but come on. Salvation belongs to our God. Thank you. So what does Paul now go on to say? As regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. Hardened right now for a time, but still very much at the forefront of God's mind and plans. Why? For the gifts and calling of God are irr- uh irrevocable. What a wonderful word. They cannot be revoked. They cannot be taken back. God's calling is permanent with regard to Israel. I love some years ago when Outlook made it possible to retract an email, because boy, I should have sent a lot of emails that weren't what they should have been. That ain't the case with God. He doesn't send out promises and then call them back. They're irrevocable. A couple summers ago, we did a sermon series on the things that God cannot do. Apparently, Outlook can get a message back God can't. But it's to his glory, not his shame. So why does that matter to Gentiles? Verse 30. For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but now have received mercy because of their disobedience. So they too have been disobedient, in order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience that he may have mercy on all. How many times in the book of Romans has Paul said, for the Jew and also for the Greek? For the Jew and also for the Greek, for the Jew and also for the Greek. And now here he reverses it. He says, for the Greek. And one day for the Jew. You Gentiles, you who never even pretended to know the real God, you couldn't even name his name. You were all sons of Pharaoh. Remember the encounter with Moses and Pharaoh? Pharaoh says, Who is the Lord? I do not know him, neither will I let your people go. Moses? I know Ra! I've heard of Osiris. I've worshipped the temples of Horus and Amon and Basset and Anubis, but I have no idea who this Yahweh is you're talking about. What did God say there? How did God respond to Pharaoh? I have raised you up for this very purpose, that my glory might be displayed in you, and that all the earth might know my name. We Gentiles are a testimony to the mercy of God that though we come out of a root that was oblivious to his existence, nevertheless he has saved us. Not because we're of European descent. Not because we have Scottish ancestors who were good Presbyterians. Because if you go far enough back, we were pagans, God haters. Self-sufficient, imagining ourselves to be good enough if there was a God at all that we had to even answer to. And He saved us So why has Paul rehearsed all of this for us? Why has he gone back and specified the great future that the Jews have in Jesus, that we've been consigned, that they were consigned for a time to disobedience so that we can be saved, and then if we are consigned to a time of disobedience, they can be saved. Why all of that? Because the mistress-turned wife lives in constant doubt. Her husband's past famous robs her of assurance and peace. So to the Gentile believer, Paul says Are you afraid to trust God because of the way you think he's treated Israel? And Paul says your perception is all wrong. He has not abandoned them. He will not abandon you. He has not forgotten them. Nor will he forget you. He has an amazing plan for their salvation and also for yours. He will in the end bring to himself every Jew who holds to Christ in faith. And so your confidence in Christ is well placed. O the depth of your riches and wisdom and knowledge, O God, how unsearchable are your judgments and how inscrutable your ways. For who has known your mind, who has been your counselor, or who has given to you that he might be repaid? From you, O Lord, and through you and to you are all things. O God, to you be glory forever. Amen.