Turn your Bibles, please, to Zechariah chapter 6, Zechariah 6. If you've been with us for the last this year in 2019 to our sermon series, you know that we've been going through the prophecies of Zechariah and for the last Many weeks we've been looking at a series of visions, visions that he had all in one night, all in the month of February in the year 519 BC, 2500 years ago this month. He had these visions. And there were eight of them, and we've considered the first seven, and this morning we're going to take a look at the eighth and final of these visions. So I invite you now to follow along as I read From Zechariah 6, we'll be looking at verses 1 through 8. I remind you that this is the authoritative, inerrant, infallible word of Almighty God. Hear now what God has to say. Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze. The first chariot had red horses, the second black horses, the third white horses, and the fourth chariot dappled horses, all of them strong. Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my Lord? And the angel answered and said to me, These are going out to the four winds of heaven, after presenting themselves before the Lord of all the earth. The chariot with the black horses goes toward the north country. The white one goes after them. And the dappled ones go toward the south country. When the strong horses came out, they were impatient to go and patrol the earth. And he said, Go patrol the earth. So they patrolled the earth Then he cried to me, Behold, those who go toward the north country have set my spirit at rest in the north country. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Spirit, as we consider this eighth and final vision that you gave to your servant Zechariah. We ask that you give us the same vision, the same view of who you are, the same understanding of your might and your sovereign control over all things. Let us hear this morning your word to and through your servant Zachariah. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. In 1928, Herbert Hoover was running for the presidency of the United States of America, and he actually won that election, and he won it largely uh writing a relatively f uh well-known campaign slogan. You've probably heard of it, though only a few of you were alive back then. You've probably okay You've probably heard his campaign slogan, and it went like this A chicken in every pot and a car in every garage. A chicken in every pot and a car in every garage. Now why is that particular campaign slogan so remembered? Well, because it was 1928. And in 1929 the stock market crashed and the Great Depression began. And it wasn't the there was no discussion about a car in every garage, and in fact most people couldn't put a chicken in their pot Most people couldn't share a chicken between them and three of their neighbors. His slogan has become famous precisely because of the degree to which it failed so horribly. In 1940, Franklin Delano Roosevelt was running for re-election, and he said the following many times. He said, I have said it before and I will say it again and again and again. Your boys will never fight in a foreign war. That was 1940. By December of 41, we were in that war, and by uh shortly January of 42 we had boys overseas. Political candidates are rarely able to keep their promises. In the more modern era, we're familiar with some of these. Some of these are pretty notable. 1988, George Bush I. Said, read my lips, no new taxes. And two years later he signed a tax bill It wasn't all that long ago, just nine years ago, that Barack Obama was running for president. He said, within the first year of my presidency, I will close Guantanamo Bay, the detention center there. It is still open And I don't know if you've noticed, but it looks improbable that Mexico is going to pay for any enhanced border security. Politicians do not deliver on their promises. Ever They cannot deliver. And you ask the question, why not? Why are they unable to deliver on their promises? Let's take the the 2008 promise of of President Obama. to close that he's the commander-in-chief. It's a military detention facility. Why can't he just issue the order? And in fact on day two of his presidency he did exactly that. He signed an executive order to close the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center. And yet here we are, ten years later, and it's still open. Why? Because having the desire to do something isn't the same as having the ability to actually carry it out Even having the authority to do something doesn't necessarily give you the authority and the power to make all of the little somethings along the way also happen. Because it turns out while it's easy to sign an executive order saying close that prison, it's a little harder to find out to decide what you're going to do with all the people in the prison If you just set them all free, well that's a political uh nightmare. And nobody wants prisoners moved into their backyard. It just isn't easy to do. Political promises are almost always uh uh uh Almost always falls short, precisely because those who make the promises do not have the power to enforce them. They do not have the ability to carry them out. They do not have what it takes to get done, all the things that have got to get done, to make it a reality. No more than Herbert Hoover could control the world's economy. No more than uh FDR could control the the decision of the Japanese to attack Pearl Harbor Our modern politicians do not have that power either. They cannot execute their will. They are ultimately players in the ebb and flow of history. Yes, they have more power than you and I have, but they do not have the ability to execute their will. Have you thought about the promises that have been made in these last seven visions? Have you thought about all that God has said that He will do? The first vision in many ways mirrors this eighth one that we've just read. Are colored horses involved in each of these There's a question of peace involved in each of these, and a question of the uh a report to the commander of these uh over these horses. In the first vision, There was uh uh four horsemen or actually sorry, four different colored horses, there were many horsemen, who report back to the angel of the Lord that they have been uh uh uh uh scouting out the the world. They have gone to and fro throughout the earth And they report back a status of the situation. They report that there's peace on the earth. And you may recall that the angel of the Lord, in hearing that there was peace on the earth, he cried out, How long, O Lord? And this peace was an undesirable thing because it was a godless peace. It was peace on the earth precisely because the people of God Were so subdued and so small and so irrelevant that the world didn't have to contend with them The world didn't have to give any attention to the claims of truth. It didn't have to answer to the gospel. It didn't have to answer to the Word of God because the people of God were ineffective and marginalized. But that peace was not a desirable peace. Peace at all costs is not a good, healthy, strong peace. And so the angel of the Lord says, how long, O Lord? But what we saw in that vision was that our God knows that situation. His reconnaissance unit, his cavalry, his his horsemen have ridden out and they know what's going on And so vision one was the comfort of God's knowledge. Our God is not blind to what is happening. He is not out of touch. He is not unaware. of world events and of the events of your life and of mine. Our God knows, and because he knows there is some comfort in his knowing. We then saw in Visions 2 and 3 a picture of God doing something about the situation. In Vision 2, there were these craftsmen that were sent out to to destroy, to to grind down, to to uh dim uh dismantle these horns There were four horns, and there were four craftsmen, and the four craftsmen destroyed the horns. And we saw that the horns were a symbol of power, particularly of earthly powers. Especially earthly powers that oppose the people of God. And there was comfort in knowing that God was going to destroy the powers that oppose his people. Those things that oppose you and oppose me. God is going to destroy. In the third vision, we saw that God not only is attacking and destroying enemies, but he's also defending his own people. And there was a vision of a young man with a with a measuring line, and he's going to go measure Jerusalem. And it's a it's a symbol of Jerusalem being rebuilt. You recall that at this time Jerusalem is decimated She has not recovered from the attack some eighty years earlier in which she was flattened. The walls lay in ruins, the gates are charred rubble. And there is no protection for the people, and there is no security. And in that vision, a vision of Jerusalem being rebuilt. The angel of the Lord stops the young man and says, no, don't go, for it's not going to be rebuilt like that. It's not going to be built the way you think it should be built But rather my people will be surrounded by me. I will be a wall of fire around them, and I will be the glory in their midst, and they shall come and go like a village. There will be no wall to impede them New type of security, but the best possible security. The Lord, as the one who hemms us in, as our wall, as our protection. In the fourth vision, the high priest is standing before uh the the the Lord, before the angel of the Lord. And these and Satan is there, the accuser, and the accuser is accusing, that's what accusers do. He's accusing Joshua Now, the high priest is the representative of all the people of God, and he accuses the people of God of being unclean. And the angel of the Lord takes Satan to task and says, What are you doing? You have no right to accuse him. This is a brand plucked from the fire. I pulled him out. I saved him. I can do that if I choose to do that, and you can't question it. And then Zechariah, after that discussion, Zachariah then reveals to us. But Joshua is in fact filthy. He is in fact worthy of accusation. He's earned every claim Satan's made against him. He's covered in filth. He's covered in excrement. He is completely unfit to be in the presence of Almighty God. And yet God says, I've saved him. And I'm going to make him able to stand in my presence. And we see the robes of Joshua taken away and destroyed, and the robes of the angel of the Lord, the righteousness of Jesus, put on his people. And they are made clean. In the fifth vision one, two, three, four, four. Yes, the fifth vision We see uh uh uh the not Zeshua the high priest, but now we see the other earthly ruler of the people of God. We see Zerubbabel, the governor. Who stands in the line of King David. He's a descendant of David. He is the ruler over God's people. We see that he is told that he will be able to complete the temple, the building of the temple. By his own hand will the capped stone be put in place. So that there's hope given to the people that it's actually going to happen. They're going to see the city rebuilt, they're going to see it rebuilt in their lifetimes, under this man's irrubbable. But in the midst of that, the rebel was told he doesn't have to summon the energy, he doesn't have to dig deeper, he doesn't have to find a new reservoir of ability, but rather that it is not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit. declares the Lord of hosts. And we see in that vision these two olive trees that continually supply the oil needed to light the lamp of God's people. Because people don't have to figure out how to be bright on their own. They simply need to feast off from the oil provided. They need to feast off the one who is the light of this world. In the sixth vision and the seventh vision, the two that we considered last week, in the sixth vision we see the scroll flying over the land, over the people of God. It comes to rest in the homes of those who are sinners Those who who practice dishonesty in the marketplace, those who for their own economic gain are lying and cheating and stealing. And the scroll of the word of the law of God destroys their economic wealth. It destroys their homes. It burns into the ground, both timber and stone, we're told. And just at the moment that we're frightened to death going, wait a second, if that's what's going on, if that's what the law of God does, and it simply destroys those who don't keep it, then I know I can't keep it and I know I'm in trouble And yet the very next vision assumes that there are still people in the land. And for those people their wickedness is taken away. And we see this grotesque picture of a of a woman in a basket and her name is wickedness. And we said she was a a Basically a reincarnation of the old temple prostitutes, the sin of the people, and she is pushed down in the basket. God is restraining our wickedness He caps it and he encloses it and he covers it. And then these two beautiful creatures, they're not actually called angels, but they seem somewhat angelic. They have wings like storks, and they pick up the basket and they whisk it away to Shinar, and there it is left. So that evil is taken, wickedness is taken away from the people of God. These are the promises of God. These are His campaign promises. These are the things he has said that he will do. I will destroy your enemies. There is hope. I will be for you a ring, a wall of fire around you in the glory in your midst. There is hope. I will strip away your filthiness and replace it with righteousness. There is hope. I will build you up not by your power or by your might, but by my spirit. And so there is hope. I will search out the evil that is within you, but I will also whisk away your wickedness, so that it never besets you again. There is. And so the question before us, the question that this vision answers, is a simple question. Can he do it? Can he actually pull it off? He's made all these promises, but does he have the ability to actually execute them? Sure, these politicians make promises, but they don't really have the authority to do what they claim they're going to do. Can God do it? That's the question before us today. By the way, that's the question before us every day. Every minute of every day. Is God going to judge sin the way He claims? When we make decisions about our own sin, when we make decisions about warning our friends and our loved ones and our neighbors We really believe that he will one day execute judgment. Can he do it? Will he do it? When we decide whether to do it God's way or to go our own way, are we going to trust in the Lord and do what is right, or are we going to trust in what seems best to us? It really comes down to a question of will he do it. Do we believe him? And so Zachariah's long night closes with this incredible vision. So that he gets up the next morning when he goes to tell his friends about what he saw, what is left in his mind is a picture of the power of God. For these four teams of chariots ride out from between two bronze mountains. Now, those of us here this morning may not recall the significance of these two bronze colosses next to each other. But if you'll remember Solomon's temple At the entrance to Solomon's temple, outside the main entrance of the building itself, not the courtyard, but the building itself, were two giant bronze pillars. Bronze was of a great deal more value back then than it is today. It's not quite as regarded as highly today, but back then it was a very valuable, very uh pr uh prestigious medal. And he had two giant bronze pillars And they were really a symbol of the glory of God. If you were going to enter into his presence, you pass between these two amazing columns. And now what we see here is a glimpse not of the earthly temple of God, but of the eternal and permanent temple of God. Heaven itself, the throne room of the Almighty, is opening up. And from his gates are riding forth his chariots. And these are not bronze bronze columns. They were as impressive as they were, as big a deal as they were. These are bronze mountains. These are entire mountains made out of this precious metal. Gleaming in the sun, blinding to anyone who would look at them, reflecting the glory from within as the gate opened up And as Zachariah looks at them, and as he is blinded by them, as he can't really see, out of that brilliance rides forth fourteens of horses, each pulling a mighty chariot. We are less familiar with the significance of chariots, but they were essentially the tank of the ancient world. They were the M1 Abram A3 tank that could roll over anything, that could dominate its opponents Our third child, Caleb, many of you are aware he's in the army. He's actually in a tank unit. He's actually a gunner on an Abrams tank. And the stories he tells about what that thing is able to do, that mech that machinery, it's it's unbelievable. And in fact, in the history of the Abrams tank, we have yet to lose one to enemy fire. Did you know that? We've never lost an Abrams tank to enemy fire. We've lost a few to friendly fire, but never to enemy fire. That's the picture here. of a a mechanism of war, the machinery of war that is so powerful that it can run over anything I'm sorry, when you are a foot soldier, when you're in the Assyrian army or the you know you're the Persian patrol or whatever and a and a chariot comes riding at you, there is no you've not been trained for that. There is no battle plan. There is no response except run away. Run away. That's the only thing you can do. For on the front of this thing is a huge arm piece of armor. Your arrow is not going to pierce it, your spear is not going to slow it down Your sword's not even going to reach it. There's nothing you can do. And the giant wheels are rumbling along, and if you get caught in them, you are dead. And the horses, these are, what is it? These are strong horses. And they are eager. These are not timid horses. They are ready for the fight. They will just run right over you. These chariots riding from these brilliant bronze mountains are a picture of the might of God. His power, his ability, he has been called repeatedly in the book of Zechariah the Lord of hosts, the Lord of armies And here is a picture of the might of his armies. And they come forth and they ride out on the ruach of heaven. Translated here wind, unappropriate translation, but also could be understood as spirit or breath And I think at this point, Hebrew, God designed Hebrew to be intentionally vague. That these things are riding out, what is the picture that they're being carried along with the wind, they're riding that swiftly But what is the source of that wind? We open the heavenly temple and these bronze mountains stand there. What comes out of there? Well it is the Spirit of God. It is the Word of God. It is the breath of God that carries these things along into the earth. And by the power of his word they ride forth. And nothing can stop them. And the angel of the Lord sends them. He sends two teams to the north. Those that are pulled by the black horses go to the north. Those who are pulled by the white horses follow after them. Two teams ride off to the north. Why? Because that's where they're needed. It's strategic deployment It's not a poetic some translations will mess with this and talk about one going north, one going west, one going south. But but I think th this is a a better capturing of the actual Hebrew. I think those translations are looking for poetic symmetry I think this translation is pointing out the strategic deployment. And I think it better reflects the Hebrew. That God is saying, This is where my power is needed right now. Now if you're not familiar with the geography of the ancient world, of ancient Palestine, you may be thinking to yourself, wait a second, because the Mediterranean uh Sea is here and Israel is here and the b uh Babylon is over here, that's really to the east Why why do they ride north? Well you remember the Fert Fertile Crescent? You were taught in the world history class, you know, was that eighth grade, ninth grade, something like that? The Fertile Crescent, the armies couldn't go across that desert, they couldn't sustain food, they would die So what they did is they followed the Fertile Crescent so they could eat all along the way, and then they came into Israel from the north. So even though Babylon is to the east of Israel, nevertheless they came into Israel from the north. And so this is riding out against those that have oppressed them. The Babylonians have fallen to the Persians, but the headquarters is still the same. And so God now sends his chariots against those who have attacked from the north. Historically, in the terms of the people of God, that's where their enemies had come from, from Assyria, Babylon, both from the north. And what was the other main enemy of the people of God throughout history? Egypt. And they would come in from the south. Where do we see the other chariot deployed? To the south. So that God is riding out against the enemies of his people. Once that a cherry says held back in reserve, it isn't even needed. God doesn't even need to deploy the full strength of his might to uh squash his enemies and ours. And that is the picture before us of the power of God, the the uh riding on his breath, on his word, on his wind, on his spirit, the ruach of God, carrying these chariots into all the earth. And the question before you is, do you believe it? Do you really believe that he has the power pictured here? Zachariah saw this. He believed and he preached on behalf of God and he convinced the people to do the work they were called to do and to be emboldened and empowered. The question before us is, do we believe this 2,500 years later? Is God still the Almighty? Is he the one whose chariots run roughshod over his enemies? Is he the one who lives behind those bronze mountains, where glory streams forth in this brilliantly blinding? And if so, are we going to trust him? Are we going to hope in him? Are we going to look forward to him accomplishing his purposes? In our own personal lives, are we going to do things his way, knowing that he has the power? The chariots of this world will not stand against these heavenly chariots. Will we be like Elisha or like his servant? No, this is not the first time we've seen the chariots of heaven, is it? We've seen them at least twice before. Elisha saw them twice. Once when his uh his boss, his uh mentor Elijah was taken away. A whirlwind came to take Elijah away, and the chariot from heaven came between and separated Elisha from Elijah, protecting Elisha so that he wasn't swept up in that whirlwind. Some years later, Elisha is prophesying against the king of Syria. And the king of Syria finds out about it. through the uh through back channels that that Elisha is the one betraying where his armies are. Elisha would get up in the morning and go to the uh king in in uh uh uh in uh uh Israel. Samaria, king of s in Samaria, and and say to him, Hey, the Syrian armies are here or there or there, they're sneaking up over there. And Israel would go and defeat them. And the king kings in Syria were scratching their head going, What's going on? They finally found out that Elisha was doing it. And what happened? The king of Syria sent his chariots against one man, against Elisha. You remember the story Eliza Seven gets up in the morning and he's yawning and he walks outside to scoop a little water to make some breakfast and he looks up and goes, oh, not good. Not good. And he runs back in, he drops the bucket of water, and he runs back into Elisha and he says, Man, we have problems. If you got a backdoor to this place, we need to use it right now. Let's go. Remember what Elisha says? Those who are with us are more than those who are against us. And he prays and the eyes of the servant are opened up and the servant goes back out. And I'm going to guess he doesn't just walk out back on the front porch. He's speaking through the door. What does he see? The chariots of heaven. Between him and the chariots of Syria The assurance that God's plan will not be thwarted. That his man Elisha will do what he's been called to do. That he will be able to carry out the work that's been given to him. Does that mean Elisha lived forever? No. Does that mean Elisha never had problems? No. Does it mean there was never any difficulty in Elisha's life? No. But what it does mean is that there was no way the plan of God was going to be forwarded in Elisha's life. He was going to be able to do that which he'd been called to do because God's chariots were defending him That's the picture here. To a beleaguered people in a in a downtrodden city, no walls to defend them, no temple in which to worship, no king over them, they have nothing but But from a worldly perspective, they have every reason to doubt and every reason to despair, and this picture comes and says, but our God's chariots are riding out into the world. Execute his plan. He knows what's going on. He's made a promise to destroy our enemies, to be a wall of fire around us. Give us clean cleanliness, to take away our filth and to provide cleanliness for us, to be able to to provide uh governance and security that we would build up through his power, we would build up his church He said that his law will ferret out our sin and that he will one day whisk it away from us completely. And now the vision is that he has the power to make all of that happen. Do we believe them? Let's give assent to our mouths, let's give assent to our actions. Let's share the gospel as though we believe his chariots are riding forward. Let's teach with power and authority the clear word of God, as if we believe his ruach is carrying his chariots into the world. Let's proclaim to our friends and our loved ones and our neighbors the truth of the Word of God. Because they cannot stand before the chariot. Let's give to this church of our time and of our money and of our efforts so that we support its work, because we know that because of the power of the chariots of God. Its work will be accomplished. Let's be people who see this vision every day. Who know the truth of God's power. Maybe not experientially Maybe you're sitting there going, well, I've never experienced it. But that's the call here to believe it because it's been told to us. And now go forward and experience it. Now go forward and see it in our lives. Next week we will take a turn and we will see the rest of Zechariah's ministry. But these visions come first for a reason. For the rest of his ministry is rooted in the hope he had because of these visions. Vision of the power of our God, to carry out his will in all the earth. Let's pray. Lord, let us not be feeble-minded. Take away our spirit of timidity. Take away our our our shame. and our fear and our misgivings. And help us to cheer as your cheeries race by. And help us to get in line behind them that we might be the team that you use to mop up and to clean up after your word has gone forth. That we'd be there to follow up. We'd be there to to take possession of the land as you conquer it And give us boldness to believe that you are the Almighty, that you are capable of executing your will on the earth. That you are the Lord of hosts, the God of angel armies, the God of this world, the God of us. And when you do great things among us, when you answer our prayers, when you hear our requests, when you work on our behalf, let us always return all thanks and all praise. To you. In Christ's name, we ask this. Amen.