We are in Romans chapter 11 this morning. Romans 11, it's on page 1125 of that Red Pew Bible. And I will remind you, as I occasionally do. that the best kept secret in the church is that your Bible has a table of contents. If you cannot find the book of Romans, it will help you do so. Romans chapter 11 This is the third chapter in Paul's long discourse on what we might call the Gospel's Jewish problem. Why is it that so few Jews believed? The golden chain that Paul presented in chapter 8 It created an unbreakable uh series of connections, unbreakable links, from those whom God foreknew That is, we saw those whom he for loved, he would eventually glorify. So on that basis Paul joyously proclaimed, I am certain that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus, our Lord. But there's an obvious objection, one so obvious that Paul knew we had to address it And it's this. If that's true, Paul, then why aren't there more Jews who believe? Were they not loved by God? Were they not his chosen? Were they not known by him? And yet they do not hold to the Christ? If God can cast them off, if he has rejected them, then perhaps this assurance you're offering us as Christians cannot be believed. Paul has answered this first initially by saying, by pointing out that among even the biological descendants of Abraham, there were those chosen by God and those who were not. Ishmael was not part of the elect, even though he was a descendant of Abraham. Isaac was. Esau was not, Jacob was. And so Paul went to lengths to show us that even among the wider elect, those chosen by God, the descendants of Abraham, there has always been a narrower set of the elect, those chosen by God, for eternal life. There is an elect people of God, and there are elect persons of God. There is a chosen nation and there are chosen citizens. How did Jesus address this topic? He said in the Sermon on the Mount, many are called, but few are chosen. Israel are the chosen, someone might object. Yet they've somehow lost their place But the very fact that Jesus and Paul use called and chosen in differing ways, almost practically the opposite ways, reveals the issue. That there is a complexity here, that there are layers to this. To be among the chosen people does not make one a chosen person. In the last half of chapter 9 in the beginning of 10, Paul said that the problem of Jewish unbelief was, of course, a human problem also. That it lied at the feet of the Jews. Lied, it laid, it was at, it belonged to the Jews, they had to own it. That there was a sinfulness in their approach to salvation. That they imagine they can attain righteousness on their own rather than accepting that which was found in Christ. They have rejected the Christ to which the law pointed in pursuit of their own good deeds. That God has not counted each among the elect. That God has not counted each among the elect as his own, and that they have also rejected him goes hand in hand. The divine prerogative and the human will are always side by side in the Scripture. Now here in chapter 11, Paul returns, in a manner of speaking, to the idea that there might be a people within the people. A called minority, even among the called minority, that not all who are called the people of God are the people of God And he revisits this topic. That he is doing so is clear right there in the opening line. Join me now in reading the first portion of Romans chapter 11. I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means. For I myself is religious a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah? How he appeals to God against Israel? Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So too, at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear, down to this very day. And David says, let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see and bend their backs forever. This is the Word of God, and it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. We must believe this, understand this, obey this, live this, apply this. if we are to be found right with God. Let's pray and ask for His help. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word. Open our ears, soften our hearts, let us hear the message. And as we hear the message of this passage, let us be attentive to the warning it contains. And let us also be aware of the grace that it expounds. That we would Seek to be right with you in the way that you want us to do so. And that we would be thankful for that opportunity. In Christ Jesus we pray. Amen. Sometimes the simplest words can be the most confounding. Define the word run. R-U-N. What does it mean? Well, obviously it means you put one foot in front of the other in relatively rapid succession. Unless, of course, you're talking about the fact that your phone runs and Or perhaps you're talking about the fact that your car runs on gasoline or a candidate runs for office. You get the idea? And in fact, by some estimates, the word run may have as many as 600 unique uses, definitions. SET, S E T, has somewhere north of 400 definitions in the Oxford English Dictionary. Go, G-O has just under 400. These simple English words that we take for granted have profound depths in the way they are used and applied. There is a complexity to even the simplest of words Because there is a complexity to the lives out of which those words arise. Our language reflects us. Our language is an express our expression of our lives That there is a complexity in our language is because there is a complexity in real life. For no in the Bible has at least two levels of meaning. It is, on the one hand, virtually synonymous, biblically speaking, with the idea of election or choosing. Back in chapter 8 of Romans, those whom God foreknew, he predestined. He called, he justified, and he glorified. And yet if we were to look at Amos chapter 3, if we were to turn to Amos chapter 3, verse 2, we would see the problem of understanding this word. If you had the King James in front of you, a celebrated literal translation, you would read, You only, Amos speaking on behalf of God to the nation of Israel You only have I known among all the nations, all the families of the earth. But if you had the New American Standard Bible, Arguably even more literal than the King James, it reads this way: You only have I chosen among all the families of the earth. If you have the NIV in your lap, it says chosen. If you have the ESV in your lap or on your app, it says known. All of them are valid translations, which expresses the problem we have. That these words have a layer, a set of layers of meaning, and there's a complexity to this. And yet, either way you divide it, either way you think about it, it's hard to put that in the context of Venus if we're not careful. To speak of God knowing that biblical concept of intimacy and love, of knowing Israel, of God having chosen Israel that they would be his elect people. At the time of Amos is amazing. For Amos lived at a time when Israel was at perhaps its spiritual low point. Baal worship, Asherah worship was everywhere, even in the Temple of Solomon. There was sexual immorality throughout the people of God There was greed. There was a lack of care for justice. There was a lack of concern for the poor. And it is to this people, to this people who are undoubtedly not among the saved, not among the elect, not among those known by God, that Amos says You only have I known have I chosen. You see the issue There are those who are called by God, chosen by God, among the people of God, but they are not persons of God. And this is the challenge we have here in the book of Romans. The foreknowledge of which Paul spoke in chapter 8 is not the same foreknowledge he speaks of here. There is a broad sense of God's election and a narrow sense of it. This is why Peter would tell his flock to make your calling and election sure. It is possible to be among God's people, yet not be one of his persons. Paul sees himself as proof that that is possible. He is a Jew. He is descended, he says, from Abraham. He is of the tribe of Benjamin. He is one of the people of God in that wider sense. And Paul is also part of the smaller, narrower people of God. He is a believer in Jesus. If Paul imagined that there was only one sense of the people of God, that there was only one sense of election, that there was only one sense of God knowing somebody, he would not make that distinction. Rather, he would just say, Well, I'm a Jew, therefore I'm part of the people of God. But he doesn't. He says it's both and I am a Jew, part of the people of God, and I'm a believer in Jesus, part of the people of God. There are two senses of this. It is actually a standing principle across all the pages of Scripture. that this is true. And Paul appeals to one of the best known Bible stories to make his point. He says, have you not considered what happened in the day of Elijah? I appealed a moment ago to Amos. He appeals to the better-known Elijah. He says, listen, there was a time when Elijah, when the prophet of God, imagined himself to be the only one left. Who was faithful among the people of God. Elijah did not look around at Israel and go, Well, they have the temple They have the covenant. They have all the prophets. They have the law of Moses. They have the Psalms of David. Clearly they are the people of God. No! Elijah looked at the mess of that nation and said, somehow they are no longer the people of God, though they are the people of God. And I alone enlist among them. But you see, Paul takes that story. And immediately flips it around to make his point here in Romans chapter 11. Has God abandoned his people? Is he unfaithful? Is he unfair? Not at all, Paul says, for what does he say to Elijah? It's not as bad as you think. You imagine yourself to be the only true believer in all of Israel, but I am telling you that there are 7,000 who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Given a number like 7,000, 1,000 being the Hebraic way of saying a bunch, and 7 being the number of perfection Whether or not that's a literal number is probably debatable. The point is there are a whole bunch of people, precisely the right number of people, whom God has preserved as a remnant. Of the true people of God within Israel. Has God abandoned Israel? No, Paul says. He did not abandon Israel in its darkest days in the time of Elijah. He kept among them a faithful remnant. And Paul's argument, though he does not make it explicitly, his implicit argument is this. There is no greater blessing God could ever bestow on anyone. than to call from among them, to be at work in them, and call out for himself a people. That that's the greatest mercy and the greatest blessing of God You see, though Israel in Paul's day had largely turned its back on Jesus, they had not completely turned their back on Jesus. There were believers. There was a remnant among Jews in that day who were saved by God's grace. And down to this day, there are to this very day brothers and sisters in our Lord Jesus Christ. Who are among the Jews, among the descendants of Abraham, biologically speaking. That is a wonderful reminder of the faithfulness of God, and we will come back to that in just a moment. Verse 6, as Paul so often does, verse 6 reduces the complexity of the situation to a simple dichotomous choice. It's this or it's that. Israel, according to verse 7, chose wrongly. It's either by works or it's by grace, they chose work. Salvation is by grace, Paul says, through faith in Jesus Christ. Sologratia, solofide, solus Christus. Yet Israel, en masse, has opted to save itself, as if that were even possible, by the works of their own doing. Verse 7 then makes the point, uh. . the the the, further makes our point that among the chosen people of God are a subset of chosen people. Among the family which God knows, there are those known by him. Look at the second half of verse 7, how it's put there. The elect Now he's talking about Israel. He's talking about the chosen people. He's talking about those whom God elected. And he says, yet within them the elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened. Clearly, Paul sees two different ways that these things play out. Two different meanings of the word, two different applications of it. Paul closes this section with two quotes from the Old Testament. These are texts even Jesus himself uses to make the very same point. And they illustrate That Israel's hardening is God's judgment on her. And again we see the divine right of election and the matter of human free will Sitting side by side as if both are fully responsible for all that happens You know, for people who believe that Jesus is 100% God and 100% man, we probably should be willing to accept that causation is 100% divine and 100% human. And that certainly is the way the Bible seems to present these things. And so the question before us, as we've said, is the question before Paul, has God rejected Israel? And he gives a resounding no. his own belief being proof that he had not done so. Now why is Paul spending so much time on this Jewish question and a letter written largely to a Gentile church. Recall, way back in the first Sunday of this series, we looked at the content of the Roman church from Romans chapter 16, and we saw that it was overwhelmingly Gentile. So why does he spend so much time on a Jewish matter? Because it's not a Jew-Gentile issue. It is a church issue One of the things we must never lose sight of is that the history of Israel is the history of the church. The patterns of Israel are the patterns of the church. The worship of Israel foreshadowed the worship of the church. The people of God of the Old Testament are the forerunners of the people of God of the New Testament And the only place that we are ever going to find a true and accurate picture of who we are is to look back at who she was. And the issues in Israel continue to be issues for the church today. Galatians is written to a church. But it's written as if they did not believe the true gospel. Why? Because they did not believe the true gospel. Not all those who are elect outwardly are part of the elect inwardly. Not all those who are descended from Abraham are of Abraham. The seven churches of Revelation, how many of them come off as healthy and vibrant and doing spectacularly? They do not. The majority fail to impress. Throughout the scriptures, even into the New Testament, there is this remnant principle. that within the larger body is a subset, a smaller body that are the true people of God. And if that was true in the New Testament era, when there was persecution, when there was this outward pressure to purify the church, It's even more so after 312 A. D. , when Constantine legalized Christianity, when persecution began to subside. is unarguable from a historic perspective that the ch the pollution of the church, the impurity of the church, the mixed nature of the church exploded. in the aftermath of that. You know, there are only 2. 6 billion people today who claim Christianity This past week we've been reminded repeatedly that 1. 4 billion of those call themselves Catholics, Roman Catholics. Now is there anyone, anyone who imagines that all of those one point four billion Catholics believe the gospel truly, inwardly, who own it, who are desiring to follow Christ But let's not imagine that that's only a Catholic problem. Would we as Protestants dare to argue that our churches are pure? That we are 100% believers. Does the true gospel belief mark all of our ranks? Are our churches filled with lives that have been transformed by obedience to Jesus Christ? Before we answer that, we have to ask some tough questions. Why do the rates of spousal abuse Child abuse, sexual exploitation, and practically every other sin run nearly the same in the church as outside of it. It is a scathing blemish on the glory of Christ's bride that many, perhaps most of those who call themselves Christians. Do not appear any different from those who do not There is a profound lack of love for our fellow man within the church. That's a great danger to stand in the pulpit and to call for love, to preach love, for that is the path used by biblical liberalism. A path that leads ultimately away from the work of Christ. And yet is an even greater danger to stand in the pulpit and not demand love. For it is the final judgment, the final evaluative tool by which we might judge ourselves in our standing before God. Many who are doctrinally well informed Are no different in their lives and lifestyles. Many who are Christians in name only, nominal Christians, come in two varieties as a general rule. There are those, as I just mentioned, who are the liberals who who make no claim of of uh of faith in Christ as as uh their atoning sacrifice Their teachings do not resemble Christ's own teachings. What they have to say about Christ doesn't match what he said about himself These people argue that Christ came not to save the lost, which is why he said he came, not to give his life as a ransom for many, which is why he said he came. They would argue that he came mostly to feed the poor and be a moral example. They would claim that the main reason Jesus came was to bring peace when he said, In fact, do not imagine that I came to bring peace. But a sword. They are contrary to Jesus Himself, yet call themselves Christians. These people are unmoored from all historical context, from any canon, from any sense of obligation to a truth outside of themselves. In that sense, our denomination is a remnant church. We're not like that. We actually seek to obey the scriptures. We actually hold ourselves accountable to something outside of ourselves. We actually say there is authority in the Word of God, and that it is to be believed and trusted even in its historical content and definitely in its spiritual content as well. We hold fast to the miracles, the divinity of Jesus, to his virgin birth. We uphold all manner of so-called naive positions as it would be perceived by those outside. Yet even among our ranks there are those, though they love to debate theology, though they enjoy a robust assessment of the latest flawed Bible translation, though they have every theory of how things ought to work, still they are dead weights clinging to the neck of the true bride of Christ. Dragging her down. Slowing her down. Bringing no glory to the name of Christ, but ignominy at best They do not with their lives adorn the gospel in such a way that others might say, what's different about you and how do I get some of that? Even within our own remnant church, there is but another remnant of true believers. And this is not new. It has always been that way, at least since the days of Elijah. So why did any of this matter? So what? Paul is teaching a doctrine of the remnant. Paul is saying that even in the church of the New Testament, there were those who believed, a subset of the people of God who held to the true faith. So why does that matter? Well let me suggest quickly three reasons. First, we must resist the urge to follow the crowd when it comes to determining truth Truth is not democratic. It is not by vote. It is not by counting noses. We don't recognize truth as being the position held by most people. It's discouraging to me how many Christians uphold this idea. They uphold unfounded views simply because it's what they see among their friends on their social media. The echo chamber of TikTok and Facebook and all the others that I certainly don't keep track of. That echo chamber assesses what they believe, finds more of the same, kicks it back to them so that they'll feel good about themselves, so that they'll stay engaged on the platform and they can sell more media, more advertising. It's not about truth, it's about dollars. But then we perceive that there's all these people out there who think like we do, who believe what we believe, who have the political views we have, who have the doctrinal views we have, who have the lifestyle views we have, and we decide that it can't possibly be wrong if all those people think that way. But that's to forget that we are an inherently prideful people. We are full of ourselves. Just take a look at some of the surveys that have been done out there. The number of people who think they are better looking than average, I think it runs like 73%. In case you're not really good at math, it can't be that high. The number of people. One survey of high school seniors. Ask them, where do you fall on a leadership scale? Eighty percent of them put themselves in the top one percent. Of leadership. None of them said they were below average in their leadership skills. These were uh college-bound high schoolers, so that may st We imagine ourselves to be smarter than we are, to be wiser than we are. to be more righteous than we are. And if that is the case, why do we imagine that truth will be found in a democratic vote? We must have the humility. We must have the wisdom to regularly admit that we are probably wrong about things. And then try to find truth in a more reliable place. There's a reason that the scriptures tell us to put elders over ourselves who are men of good character, of good reputation. whose wives respect and honor them, whose children love them, who in the community and whom the community has high regard for them. Why? Because these are those who have said, I don't want to debate the finer points of doctrine. I want to try to live it. I want to try to apply it. I want to try to submit to it. I want to try to change my life so that it's more like that. And in them we find not perfection, but a body of believers. In whom we might actually have some hope that they could evaluate the truth. They have changed their own lives in submission to the Word of God. Which means they're willing to admit when they're wrong, which means they have a way their judgment of the truth is not inherently colored by pride, though it still is And we find there the best hope of taking the Word of God, the absolute truth, and judging it properly and applying it to lives. By the way, it's the reason that your elders are required to take a vow you're not required to take. And that is that we will subject ourselves to our brethren, that we will purposely and intentionally put ourselves under the judgment of each other. So that we do not become prideful in that regard. One of the great warnings of the remnant doctrine is that if the majority, Paul says, are majority among the people of God are not really the people of God, if they are deluded, if they have fooled themselves, if they're not on the narrow way, but are in fact on the wide way then we should not imagine that truth will be found among the majority of people. Do not, do not, do not follow the crowd, even of those who claim to be Christian. But instead look to the guidance, the counsel, the judgment That God has placed in our lives, the elders of our churches. Secondly, there is a warning in the doctrine of the remnant. Does not the teaching of the remnant cause us to sit up and ask a simple question? Remember what happened on the night when he was betrayed? Jesus at the supper said, Hey, one of you with me is going to betray me. One of you here is a traitor. And what did the twelve do? Is it I? Is it me, Lord? When we hear the doctrine of the remnant, when we are told that there are among the wider people of God, among those whom He calls His own, there are many who are not actually His people. Many will cry, Lord, Lord, Jesus said. And I will say, away from me, I never knew you. That warning ought to smack us upside the head. It ought to be a motivation to constantly look at ourselves, evaluate ourselves. Am I Actually, a believer. This is why Paul would tell the Philippians to work out your salvation in fear and trembling. It's why Peter would say to his flock that you must make your calling and election sure. How? By obeying, by doing the things required of you. The warning of the remnant. The doctrine of the remnant is a warning in our lives. And over the centuries, many Christians have transitioned from being a member of only the visible church to becoming members of the invisible church. Because of that constant warning, because of that constant assessment of themselves Now it's not my goal to sow doubt. There's no benefit to be gained by all of us wringing our hands and just sitting there going, well I must not I must not really be saved. I must not really That's not going to get us, that's not going to help us, it's not going to move us forward. But there is wisdom to a measured amount of introspection of looking at ourselves. And by the way, every one of us who does that, those of us who have been in the Lord Jesus Christ for many, many decades now, those of us who have than perhaps in places of ministry for years and years and years and years. When we do that, we will always come to the conclusion That we don't measure up. That we are not nearly as good as we really need to be First of all, that's the right conclusion. If you don't come to that conclusion, or if it's a vague thing at best, well yeah, I know I'm not perfect. Then you are probably relying on your good enough status. When you are driven to that place of going, wow, I am a desperate sinner. That's precisely what needs to happen to us. Remember what we saw. That's the purpose of the law, to drive us to Christ. And in that time of introspection, we are reminded that we desperately need him every single day Jesus was not who we needed and what we needed on the day of our conversion. It was not that Jesus was enough at that campfire meeting or when you walked down the aisle at the crusade or when you raised your hand at Vacation Bible School. That's not what Jesus was for. He's for every day of your life. And the hope of the next. And ironically, those who will Spend some time now and then questioning their place among the remnant of the Church of God will find themselves constantly reassured that they are among the remnant of the Church of God This is too serious of an issue to just assume. Well, I must be okay because I'm a member of a conservative Presbyterian Reformed Church. That's silly to think that way. Do not find your assurance in anything other than your desperate need of Jesus. The remnant reminds us to go looking at that. Finally, the Bible's teaching of the remnant is a reminder of God's faithfulness, is it not? Despite all the ways we humans pervert, even the true religion, Judaism was the true religion of its day. Despite that, they they polluted it with idol worship. They polluted it then eventually with legalism. It was constantly being corrupted and polluted, and yet God still worked among them. He still saves some of them. The church has continued to pollute the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For 2,000 years, we have done everything in our power to muddy the waters. With regard to true religion. And even many of us in the Reformed churches find ourselves clouding things. Despite that, God saves sinners. Paul's salvation is an encouragement to you and me. That God, when we do that time of introspection, when we look at ourselves, when we look at ourselves and look at our church and look at how we sit in, we do all that. We might be tempted to be discouraged. We might be tempted to throw up our hands and say, we're a mess. God's got to be sick of us. But the doctrine of the remnant says the opposite. You're a mess, and God saves you anyway. That he loves you despite that. That in the doctrine of the remnant we find hope. That there really are those who are truly saved. And that we can be a part of that. God is faithful. He will uphold his covenant. He will keep his word. He has promised to always have for himself a people who are his. witnesses to his grace and to his goodness, testifying to his glory. And in the doctrine of the Gremnett we find that affirmed. Sure harvest, you give every indication of being part of that remnant. You show your desire to know God through His Word, not through our own invention. You uphold a longing to know God as He truly is and not as you wish He were. You show a willingness to submit. When the elders go a new direction, you follow them. When the elders think we ought to change or modify this, that, or the other thing, you listen. There is reason to think we are part of the remnant. But it's not a reason to be complacent. It's not a reason to to sit on our laurels It is a reason to hope in Christ, to be thankful for him that despite all the ways we and our forefathers have messed up the true religion. He still preserves us. And in him we persevere. The doctrine of the remnant is the good news that it saves. Even those who have done their level best to ruin that salvation. Let's pray. Lord, we find this doctrine to be an amazing thing. That when we consider how your people for millennia now have perverted your ways, have have run from you, have been unfaithful to you, we find every reason for you to abandon us and to jettison us all and to send us all to hell. And yet you continue to work within your people, to save for yourself in every generation the 7,000. The perfect multitude of those who are truly yours, the remnant which has not bowed its knee to the bales of this day and age. but who hold fast to Jesus Christ. Let us glory in that. Let us thank you constantly for the privilege of being in such a church And let us never grow weary of doing good, but always seek to keep refining ourselves, to to keep renewing ourselves, to keep reforming ourselves. so that we would be fitted even more closely to the image of Jesus Christ, the firstborn of all creation. That we would be more like him with each passing day, individually and collectively, as persons and as a people. We praise you for this assurance of the remnant of the doctrine that you are faithful even in the midst of our faithlessness. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.