I invite you to open your Bibles to Mark, Mark chapter 1. We continue our sermon series from Mark. I want to remind you that the thesis with regard to Mark is that it is a call for us to confess that Jesus is Christ and Lord. And we looked last week at how Mark spoke to the validations that were granted to the ministry of Jesus How the prophets validated Jesus' ministry, how John the Baptist validated that ministry, how God had validated that ministry, and how Jesus' own righteousness in the face of temptation validated his ministry. We continue now in Mark going through his account of Jesus' ministry. We have a long reading this morning, so I invite you to Follow along in your Bibles and stay with me as we cover quite a bit of text, and yet I think we'll see that it holds together as one cohesive unit. Beginning in verse 14 of Mark 1. Now, after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel Passing along the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on a little farther, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. As they went into Capernaum, sorry, and they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching. For he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him And the unclean spirit, convulsing him, and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him. And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching with authority. He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her And he came, and took her by the hand, and lifted her up, and the fever left her, and she began to serve them. That evening, at sundown, they brought to him all who were sick, or oppressed by demons. And the whole city was gathered together at the door, and he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons, and he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. And he said to them, Let us go to the next towns that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons And the leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling, said to him, If you will, you can make me clean. Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I will be clean. And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean And Jesus certainly charged him and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded for a proof to them But he went out and began to talk freely about it, and to spread the news, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but went out in desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter. And when he returned to Capernaum, after some days, it was reported that he was at home. And many were gathered together, so that there was no room, not even at the doorway. And he was preaching the word to them, and they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him And when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like that? He is blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier? To say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed, and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word this morning, that we might hear its message, that we might recognize the authority of Jesus. And that by recognizing his authority, we might come under the care of the one with all the power. Humble us before your word this morning, that we might receive it. And believe in it. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Mark, as he did in verse 1 of chapter 1, back in verse 1 of chapter 1, you remember last week, he gave us an overview of all that he was going to tell us about Jesus. In that one verse, he told us, I'm going to set before you the case that he is the Christ. And I'm going to set before you the case that he is the Son of God. And he begins to do that, and we saw last week he began to do that by validating this ministry of Jesus by pointing to others that were received and expect accepted and as uh uh uh authorities who might speak to the ministry of Jesus. And having Closed that out last week with the temptation of Jesus in the wilderness. So that we were reminded that not only did others validate Jesus' ministry, but Jesus on obedience validated his ministry. And that's where we left things off. And now this week Mark picks up again with a summary. If we look at verses 14 and 15 of chapter 1, we see there that Mark now is going to summarize all that is to come. He says, now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee. And he tells us now what he came into Galilee doing. Proclaiming, and by the way, that word proclaiming right there is the same word that later in verse, I believe it's verse 38 is translated preaching. Same word. So we can translate this as preaching. Preaching the good news of God. Preaching the good news of God. Remember, we saw last week the gospel means good news Jesus came preaching the good news of God. Now Mark sometimes gets short shrift when it comes to the gospel writers. He tends to be kind of ignored and and and shoved to the side as he's got this shorter version and somehow it doesn't hold up to the literary beauty of some of the other texts. And yet I want to suggest to you that Mark is actually a pretty good writer Maybe he's not one of the all-time greats. Maybe in the history of ancient literature he isn't quite one of the best writers, but he's pretty good. We saw last week how Mark left us hanging with regard to the temptation in the wilderness. He doesn't tell us how it played out. He tells us that Jesus was cast out into the wilderness alone. That's a pretty frightening situation. He tells us that Jesus was out there being tempted by Satan. But he doesn't tell us whether or not Jesus overcame that temptation. And he leaves us hanging. And something happens here, interestingly, here. He does the same thing with us. He says that Jesus came preaching the good news of God, and we are going, okay, now what was that good news? And he doesn't tell us Notice that Mark leaves it hanging. He gives us some hints at it, but he doesn't really flesh out for us what the good news is. Rather, he invites us to continue to read his account So that we might discover for ourselves the good news of Jesus. So let's look at how he begins to tease that out First he tells us, so he said, you know, Jesus came preaching the good news of God and saying, okay, now we're going to get to hear what the good news is. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Well, that's good news. Picture yourself as a first century Jew, a first-century Israelite, under the authority of Rome, not under the authority of the Davidic dynasty There's not a son of David on the throne, but rather a son of Caesar is on the throne. And we want Rome thrown off, and we want to be set free from those overlords. After all, that's what the great king did. That's what David did. He threw off the Philistines and he threw off the other enemies of God's people so that we could be free and have our this the kingdom of God is at hand That is good news. We're about to restore the kingdom. The son of David is going to return to the throne. And in fact, we're going to see that the twelve themselves thought that's what Jesus meant when he preached this way For they will ask him several times as we go through the ministry of Jesus. On several occasions, they're going to ask him, is now the time? Is the kingdom now going to be restored? They're waiting for this to happen. It's good news. So a part of the listeners at the time were going, oh yes, good news. The kingdom is at hand. That's exciting. We're ready for that. But what comes next is really interesting. The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of, by the way, the time is fulfilled. That is an entire sermon series all on its own. Okay? The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Rejoice. That's not what it says, is it? The next word is not such good news. The next word is the command to repent. It means to turn away from You were headed in one direction, do 180-degree about face and go in the other direction. Think about the implication of that. You know, in my life I have had a couple of opportunities to be in various leadership positions, and one of the things I've learned the hard way is to be very careful about making change. Sometimes you want to make change because you think, I guess this is how I'm comfortable doing it. I just want to make change. But when you change things, what's the assumption about what was being done before? Must be something wrong with it. There must be something bad about it. There must be some reason that you're changing it. And certainly that's not always the case. Sometimes we change just for the sake of change. But in this situation, that's exactly what Jesus is saying. You need to change precisely because what you're doing is wrong. You're headed down a wrong path. You're going the wrong direction. Something's wrong. And as Mark's readers, we're sitting here, we're going, okay, so tell us what's wrong. Tell us what we need to do. And the next statement is an interesting one, for Mark does not flesh out for us. All that needs to change. But he simply repeats the call to believe the good news of God We're left hanging. Okay. We're supposed to believe. We're supposed to turn away from the direction we're going. We're supposed to go in a new direction. We're supposed to believe the good news, but you haven't told us what the good news is. And then leaving us hanging there, just like you're leaving us hanging in the wilderness, Mark invites us to keep reading, to begin to discover this, to begin to recognize how the good news plays out. That's what we're going to begin to do. So as we move forward here, what do we see next? Jesus, the next account Mark gives us is that Jesus is in Galilee and he walks by the Sea of Galilee and he sees some fishermen Now, it is completely possible, and I think it's actually the case, that the very first of those fishermen upon whom he came was Simon. But I'll tell you what, it's no accident that that's the first character we see revealed in Mark's gospel. For reminded that Mark was the assistant pastor under Simeter. Simon here is the disciple better known by the name Peter. And Mark was the assistant pastor under Peter in Rome. And it was Peter's execution at the hands of Nero's men. and the execution of other Christians because of the madness of Nero that has inspired Mark to write his gospel to encourage all in the faith, that they would confess the Christ. In other words, he's not actually writing so that they'll escape persecution, but so that they'll escape uh unbelief and be willing to face the persecution if that's what's called for. So he told us that the sum of Jesus' ministry was a call to repent, to turn and go in a new direction, and immediately he sets before us this is the ultimate in celebrity advertising. You know, I grew up in northern Illinois back in the era when Michael Jordan was coming into the NBA and establishing himself as, in my opinion, undoubtedly the greatest player to ever play that game. And you know when Michael Jordan advertised something, that was enough for me. I was a young man in Northern Illinois watching him win championships, going, Phew, if that's what he's gonna wear, that's what I'm gonna wear. It's worth at least checking it out It's worth at least looking into it. I should at least try the the the cologne that he recommends. I should at least try the the shoes that he's endorsing. And that's really what Mark is doing here All of you believers in Rome, you all know Peter. You know him. You've seen his faith. You've seen his love for the church. You've seen his ministry among you. Now see how it all began. And if you're wondering whether or not it's worth giving up your life for this one name, Jesus, please remember that Peter did that. Peter turned away from the life he had here. He left the nets. He left his life as a fisherman, and he followed Jesus. Peter once left the things of this life, and now in our very recent past, Peter has been willing to leave this life for Jesus. The call to repent, to turn away from the things that you're doing into Jesus, is now illustrated by the call of Simon, Andrew, James, and John. And their turning from their lives and turning to Jesus is illustrated here. It is an interesting thing how this plays out There's almost a sense of this immediacy. Not almost, I mean the word immediately is in there like three times, but it's a sense of unavoidable response. Jesus said, follow me, and they followed. And the sense of the text is almost that of the creation. And God said, and it was so Notice how this plays. And Jesus said, follow me, and it was so. They dropped their nets and they went. They left their dad in the boat by himself and they went. Um no doubt their bosses are standing on the shore going, if you keep going, you're fired. You're gonna lose your job here. Turn around right now. I did not give you leave, I did not give you permission to go, and they have no choice They go. There is here this sense of a call with power. We're going to see why here in the very next section. So as we keep reading, we see that the first thing that happens as these four are following Jesus is they enter Capernaum and they go in on the Sabbath to the synagogue. And we're going to see frequently through the Gospel of Mark that that is a common pattern of Jesus. He goes into the synagogues and he teaches. By the way, preaching is mentioned three times in this passage. On all three occasions, preaching is mentioned in the context of unbelievers. When you go into the synagogue, he doesn't preach, he teaches. That pattern is picked up in the book of Acts also. Preaching is in the context of the unsaved. Teaching is in the context of the saved. There's a reason we refer to pastors in our denomination as teaching elders, not preaching elders. I also point this out though to say this. The church today is terrified of preaching. We're embarrassed by it. We hide it. We talk it down. We we we we we speak poorly of it. We we are convinced that there is That is the worst possible way to reach a lost and dying world. The last thing you want to do to unbelievers is preach at them. The consistent example of Jesus and the apostles is that's exactly how they reached the unsaved. They preached Three times in the text, Jesus is going to go preach to the unsaved, to those who don't know the truth. And I'm going to encourage us. to not be ashamed of the preaching of the Word of God, to invite our unsaved loved ones and friends and neighbors to hear the word preached. To look, to seek out. As the Lord calls you in life, there's a really good chance that ten years from now the faces here will be very different. Life has a way of moving us along. And when life moves you along, when you have to find a new church, when you the time comes that the Lord calls you to someplace other than Short Harvest, seek out the church where the Word of God is preached Not the one that's got the cool pasture, not the one that's got the best music, not the one that's got the coolest building, or the best air conditioning, or the most padded seats, but where the word of God is preached That's what Jesus did. And that's what we need to be about. Jesus goes and he's teaching now in the synagogue. And they were astonished at his teaching. And it tells us why. It gives us an interesting word here. For he taught them as one who had authority. And not as the scribes. This word authority is an interesting word. We understand that it carries with it a context of some sense of power Some sense of right to make decisions. I actually want to talk briefly for a moment. The Greek word behind it is the word exusius Exuthia. Exuthia. And it's a two-part word. Ex is the prefix for out or from. Okay? We know we're familiar with ex. Okay? Out or from. Usia is the Greek participle for to be. Now, participles, you sit and go, wait a second, Scott, you know, my eighth grade English was a long time ago. I don't remember what a participle is. In a sense, in essence, it is a it is a uh a verb that gets used as a noun. A verb that gets used as a noun. We do it all the time. We are standing in a building, but building is a verb. What is he doing? He's building a house. It's a verb. Okay? But it's a verb that gets used as a noun. It is a participle that actually I think it's become a noun in English. But it's that idea of a verb that's used as a noun. This idea that being Usia. It's the verb to be, to exist. If you use it in this noun sense, those who exist are beings. They have an existence. And this word authority says, it means it's something, his teaching came with authority. It came out of his very being. It came out of who he was. It wasn't a derived or uh sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, I didn't want to say that. It wasn't a a made up or a a forced thing, but it naturally flowed out of who he was. I want to stop and think about that word authority and how it can be connected to who we are. Authority really comes in one of two ways. There is authority that we have by virtue of being the author of something, and this is where I like our English word authority. There is an authority that is granted as a function of being the author of something So when we had four kids living at home, our refrigerator was often filled with uh artwork. of various types and various qualities. And the artwork would occasionally become overwhelming on the fridge and there were times I wanted to be able to see my refrigerator. Not just the artwork that was there. And the ability to uh, shall we say, retire some of that artwork was a question of authority. So one of the places that authority could lie would be with the author. So you'd pull a particular child in and say, can we get rid of this one now? Has it been up there long enough? Can we make room for your next masterpiece? And the author would have authority to say, yes, we can throw that away. We read in Colossians this morning that Jesus is the one through whom all things were made. Our New Testament reading pointed to him as being the one through whom everything that is, is. He is the author of all things, and therefore he has authority over all things. Jesus' teaching in the synagogue that day was a teaching with authority because it flowed out of his very being. And in fact, they heard the teaching, they looked back and went, this is somebody different. His teaching is not like the scribes. It doesn't come in a second-hand way. The scribes would teach in this sort of way. They would say, well, you know, I've heard that Rabbi so-and-so says this, and therefore I think that must be true. Jesus said, This is the Word of God. And out of his very being flowed the very truth of God. Authority comes by virtue of being the author. Now there is another way in which authority can come to us. There are derived authorities, authorities that come in a secondhand sort of way. So imagine, go back to the artwork on the refrigerator example. There were times that the artwork on the top said, too dad. And at the bottom said, love, child, so-and-so. Well, it had been granted to me. And by being virtue of its being granted to me, I had the right to dispose of that artwork as I saw fit. Now I wasn't a complete moron. That usually means you take it to your office till such time passes as it is forgotten about. But I had the right to take the artwork down from the fridge, take it to my office By virtue of the fact that it was granted to me. Or can be purchased. And when you purchase it, with that comes the right to dispose of that artwork as you see fit because you bought it. One of the things we're reminded of in our Old Testament reading Was that the Lord who determines all things granted to his king the right to rule? The authority of Jesus is an inherent authority by virtue of the fact that he is author of all things, but it is also a derived authority by virtue of the fact that it was granted to him by the Father. He has authority. So now we begin to look back and see how this text holds together. We see how he has used that authority to call everyone to repentance. He has a right. He has the authority to say your life is going the wrong direction, you need to turn around. And then that authority, the way it played out with Peter, James, John, Andrew. Come follow me. We see the application of his authority to do these things. Immediately after he is teaching in the synagogue. But to him comes one who is demon-possessed, possessed of an unclean spirit. And Jesus speaks to that spirit and drives it out of the man. What's beginning to happen here? Well, we're seeing that Mark is portraying for us a picture of one who not only spoke with authority. but actually had the power and the presence and the being, authority, exusia, out of his being, was able to actually execute that authority. Our daughter used to be in the 4-H club years ago when she was it's hard to say with reference to Jackie when she was little, because she's still kind of vertically challenged. When she was young Jackie was in a four-age club and she showed many horses. And she was one of the youngest in the club, and it was always interesting we get to these shows. Everybody would enjoy it when Jackie's turn came up to show her horse because we kind of all knew, including the horse, who was actually in charge. And she would speak with authority, but she didn't have the presence of her being to actually execute that authority. She was very young, and the horse knew she was very young. And they always gave we didn't own own a horse, we borrowed a horse, and they always gave her a very easy-going, gentle, gracious horse that allowed her to be in charge And it was fun to watch. This is not the picture we have here. This is not a question of Jackie giving orders to the horse, and the horse may or may not obey them. This is Jesus speaking with the authority of his being, of his very person, who he is. When he says to the horse, walk, the horse walks. When he says to the unclean spirit, come out, it comes out. Isn't it interesting that the two beings we've had so far that have responded to Jesus This one here, when we think of unclean spirits, we how do we define them? We say, well, these are the the fallen angels. And we say, what do you mean by fallen? You say, well, these are the ones who sinned, rebelled against God. What does that mean they rebel? Well they disobey God. Yes, correct. Think about that for a moment. The very ones who disobeyed God obeyed him perfectly here. It brings up this issue. There are different types of the will of a person that is prescribed and different wills of God that are expressed in the scripture. We actually see two of them at play here. There is something called a decretive will. It is a function of a decree. Okay? God's decree of will was on display in Genesis 1. And God said, let there be light, and there was light. He made the decree and it happened. Then there is something called the perceptive will. That which is expressed in precepts. We don't use that word precept a lot. We talk about laws. Okay? But that's the same idea. It's expressed in precepts. You know, you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not lie, you shall not steal. Those are precepts and express the preceptive will of God. And we have something interesting here. We have a picture of one who is defiant with regard to the perceptive will of God This is a demon, this is an unclean spirit, this is one in rebellion. And he is powerless against the decree of will of God. When Jesus says, come out, this demon comes out. For he has spoken with the authority of his being. And it ought to be a warning to us that those who are the very uh uh uh model of rebellion against God, those who are the very picture of what it means to defy his precepts cannot defy his decrees. And as Mark unfolds for us the ministry of Jesus, we're going to be challenged and called to recognize. That the day is coming when those who defy his precepts will not be able to escape his decrees. And it is an invitation and an encouragement to submit to his precepts now. So with regard to this, Jesus displays his authority, displays his power. They're all amazed. And now we see something interesting happen. He leaves there, he heads to the house of Simon and Peter, or Simon and Andrew, and he uh Heals Simon's mother in law. Insert joke here. You know, it's one thing for that demon to come out. We could excuse that away. We could say, well, you know, maybe the demon wanted to come out anyway, and it just happened to happen at the same time that Jesus said to come out. I had a buddy in college used to do this all the time. We'd be driving along the the the the roads back roads of Indiana, we'd have the windows down on a nice fall afternoon, we'd be headed to a soccer match somewhere or something And Steve would lean out the window of the car, and if he saw somebody out there doing something, he'd yell at them and tell them to do what they were already doing. So a child riding their bike, Steve would hang out the window and say, Hey you! You over there, ride your bike! You sit on your porch! He would tell people to do that which they were already doing, and people would look at him estranged and he would laugh and go, Look at all my power. Everybody does exactly what I tell them Steve with a knit Steve with a preacher's kid too, I don't know. Interesting thing That is not what's going on here. It is not a case that that demon was going to do that anyway, and Jesus just happened to seize the moment to make it look like he had power. And to demonstrate that, Mark goes right into the next account of him healing the illness of Peter's mother-in-law. For it's one thing for a demon to leave at that moment. Demons have volition. They can make choices. Illnesses do not have that volition. When Jesus speaks to this illness and heals it, he has demonstrated his authority in the physical realm. He demonstrated his authority in the non-physical realm. Now he demonstrates his authority in the physical realm. Word gets out, and Jesus begins to heal a great many people, and something interesting happens. A leper comes to him. And the leper comes to him and says, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus says, I will be clean. He demonstrates again his healing power, his ability to undo the effects of the curse in the physical realm. To reverse the effects of the fall so that they no longer have their impact. But now the wording has changed. He's not just healing. Peter's mother-in-law, he's making clean one who is leprous. And some will say, well yeah, but Scott, that was just the the wording they use for diseases. Diseases make you ceremonia unclean. That's all they're doing is referring to him being Sick. And I'm going to say to you, you're missing the whole point of ceremonial cleanliness. The whole point of that was to say that in order to enter the ceremony, and what was the ceremony all about? It was about meeting God, about worshiping Him, about coming into His presence and Him coming into the presence of the people and speaking to them at the temple or the Tabernacle. The ceremony was all about going to God. And the point of ceremonial cleanliness was to say you can't go to God because the effects of the fall are on display in your life. You are ceremonially unclean. And Jesus begins to use some interesting wording. He says, I can make you clean. Be clean. Now go show yourself to the priest and confirm that you are in fact clean. You are now, in fact, able to meet God. You've been made ceremonially clean. That is subtle but important change in the way that Mark is unveiling this story. He calls all people to repentance. He calls the disciples and they follow. He has authority in his teaching. He has authority over the unclean spirits. He has authority over the illness of Peter's mother-in-law, and now he has the authority to declare one clean before God. And now we come to the famous story of the man lowered through the roof And I realize that there are most pastors, this would be one sermon all by itself. And yet I think it brings us full circle back to where this text began. For what happens in this account? Jesus is preaching in this home, and the people can't get in, they're packed in there like sardines, they cannot get through the door, there is no room left open of the windows, and these men are they want their friend healed And they climb up on the roof and they tear off the roof and they drop the body down. And Jesus sees what? Their face. Why is that important? One of the shames of English is that we have two different words for the noun and the verb. We have believe for the verb, we have faith for the noun. It's a shame that we have two different words for it. Because in the Greek, there's just the one word. This is exactly the word that ties us back to chapter 1, verse 15. What did Jesus preach? The kingdom of God is at hand. The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. The good news. And now Jesus turns to this man and says, I see your believing. I see your faith. It's the same word in the Greek. You're doing the very thing I've been preaching. You're hoping in me. You recognize that I'm the one who can undo the effects of the fall in your life. I'm the one who has authority to fix your body because I created it in the first place. And I can recreate it for you now. The call to repent and believe is now brought back around here when we see that Jesus says, because of your faith. And what happens? Jesus says, Yes, I grant what your faith is requesting. Your sins are forgiven. And what the teachers of the law missed when he pronounced the leper clean, they don't miss this time. And they say, wait a minute, there is only one with the authority to forgive sins. And that ties the passage again together with that word authority. There is only one who has that right and that power. And to forgive sins is to claim to be that one. You're blasphemy. You're claiming to be God. And Jesus backpedals and says, well, no, no, I didn't mean to claim to be God. That's not really what I had out. No, yes, that is exactly what I'm claiming. I cannot believe the number of liberal Bible scholars who will say things like this, you know, Jesus never actually said he was God. Yes, he did. Right here He says, you're right. There is only one who can forgive sins. And I am he. And he says to the crowd, to all the doubters out there, by the way, notice how he said it to you? They didn't say it out loud. They were questioning it in their hearts. They should have been shocked by the fact that he knew what was in their hearts. And he says to them, What's easier? Which is easier? I can say to this man, your sins are forgiven, but you can't verify that they're actually forgiven. You can't look at God's record of righteousness and see that his sins have been erased. You have no way to verify that I've forgiven sins. But let me show you something you can verify. My power over the effects of the fall. So which is easier? To say your sins are forgiven or to tell him to pick up his mat and walk and Jesus turns? And by the way, the Greek totally trails off and leaves it hanging. Dot, dot, dot. And he turns and he says to the man, get up and walk. We all know what happens. He gets up and he walks. And it is a verification that the one who claimed to be able to forgive sins actually does have that kind of power. He really can undo. The effects of the fall. He really can bring to restore that which has been damaged by sin If he can do it in the physical realm, certainly we're meant to understand that he can do it in the non-physical realm, the spiritual realm. And a passage that began with Jesus calling all people to repent now ends by saying he's also the one that will grant forgiveness to those who repent. It's not just this idea that you need to air out your sins and then just be aware of how terrible you are, but that He will give you forgiveness for those sins. It's not just belief in some vague concept of good news, but the good news begins to be revealed that there is a hope for forgiveness. There is one who can grant that your sins be taken away. There is one who can grant the restoration for which you seek. And Mark has wonderfully laid out for us the beginning of the good news. that this one has authority over the unseen world of unclean spirits. This one has authority over the physical world of And this one has authority over the spiritual realm of sin and rebellion against God. This one Has authority. I want to close with this. When Jesus said to his doubters, which is easier? To say to him, your sins are forgiven, or to say to him, take up your mat and walk. We all respond to that by saying, well, saying your sins are forgiven is a lot easier. That would be easier for us. Which was easier for Jesus Does it exhaust him to restore, to create, to bring back a body? Does it wear him down to undo the physical effects of the fall? Is it a hard work for Jesus by the word of his power and the power of his word to say, get up and walk? It does not. It costs him nothing. He's not some elfish creature in a in a in a in a fairy tale novel who is drained by the use of his magic It's nothing. It's nothing for God to say, get up and walk. What did it cost him to say your sins are forgiven? It costs them everything. Which is easier for Jesus? It was easier to say, get up your mat, take up your mat and walk. It's much, much harder to say your sins are forgiven. And yet that is what he says to this young man. Mark lays forth a ministry of authority. Authority, one of power, out of his very being that flows out of who he is. He has the right to confront the effects of the fall in this world. He has a right to call us to repentance. He has a right and the power to drive out evil spirits. He has the right and the power to heal the body, but he has the right and the power to forgive sin. Jesus didn't call us to repentance just to make us feel bad. He called us to repentance because he forgives. And he can make clean, as we've seen in Mark's text. Let's pray. Spirit of God, work in our doubting hearts. Sure us up that we will know the truth that is proclaimed here. That Jesus has all authority. That he is the one out of his very being has every right to heal us. And one day he is going to heal us fully and finally forever. That by virtue of what you have granted to him, he has the right to judge, and one day he will do So. And by virtue of the price he paid at the cross, he has authority to dispatch sins. And remove them from us. Let us rejoice in that good news. Let us know the truth of that. Help us to believe and cling to that. So that we might understand that the authority of Jesus was not an authority to run roughshod over us or to boss us around or to make us miserable. But an authority that came to make us right with you, so that we would be made clean, so that we may enter your presence. Teach us to live in the joyous truth of the authoritative ministry of Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen.