I invite you to turn your Bibles to the book of Zechariah, Zechariah 1, verses 7 to 17. I'm going to guess that many of our Bibles, the binding is not broken to the book of Zechariah, and so if you're having a tough time finding it. Find Matthew, go back two books, and that's where Zechariah is located. Our first two hymns this morning, our psalm this morning, our Old Testament reading this morning, all had military imagery, all had war metaphors and spoke of armor and weapons and these sorts of things and we're going to see that that's a common uh uh uh uh way of Zachariah presenting the strength That military is going to play a big role in the prophecies of Zachariah, and we're going to see that even in this morning's text. So as you listen, watch for those military images, and we will speak more about them as we Enter our sermon. Here now the word of our God from the prophet Zechariah, chapter one, beginning in verse seven. On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh, which is the month of Shabbat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Zachariah, the son of Berkiah, son of Ido, saying I saw in the night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse. He was standing among the myrtle trees in the glen, and behind him were red, sorrel, and white horses Then I said, What are these, my lord? The angel who talked with me said to me, I will show you what they are. But the man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, These are they whom the Lord has sent to patrol the earth. And they answered the angel of the Lord who was standing among the myrtle trees and said, We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth remains at rest. Then the angel of the Lord said, O Lord of hosts, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem? and the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry these seventy years. And the Lord answered gracious and comforting words to the angel who talked with So the angel who talked with me said to me, Cry out, thus says the Lord of hosts, I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion, and I am exceedingly angry with the nations that are at ease. For while I was angry but a little, they furthered the disaster. Therefore, says the Lord I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it, declares the Lord of hosts, and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem. Cry out again, Thus says the Lord of hosts, my cities shall again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort Zion, and again choose Jerusalem. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word. Help us to understand It's mystery. Help us to see what you showed Zachariah through this vision and renew us in the hope that it offers. And we pray this in the name of our Savior. Amen. Dreams can be very, very real. They are startling in their in their the the the reality of them, the way which we perceive them. You know that dream where you're falling and you suddenly jerk awake? It's so real. I've had dreams that though they happened thirty-five plus years ago, I could recount to you right now all of the vivid detail. They were that real to me. In fact, something interesting happens in our household. Dreams are so real that if I, in my wife's dream, if I am rude to her. Or do something she doesn't like, I get in trouble the next morning. Her dreams are that real to her that I get in trouble for what I do in her dreams. Dreams are shockingly real. But this is not a dream. Zachariah did not have a dream. Yes, it occurred in the night, and yes, it seems like something a little outlandish, but it's not a dream. In fact, the text, the language of the next five chapters of Zechariah are going to make clear that this is not a dream. From the midst of chapter 1 through the middle of chapter 6, Zechariah is going to recount Eight visions, which were all given to him in one night. But these visions are not dreams. Just because something happens at night doesn't make it a dream Now we didn't read on to verse 18, but we see in verse 18, he says, and I lifted up my eyes and saw. Well when we're recounting a dream, we don't think about moving our eyes around to see things because it's happening behind our eyes. We don't need to move our eyes to see it. This is really happening outside of Zechariah. And he has to move his eyes to see it. God has chosen in this setting to reveal his will and his word to Zachariah, not through words. But through vision, through his eyes. Zachariah saw something that communicated God's word to him, and through him to God's people. Now it happens at night. And the things that can happen at night can be terrifying. Real things that happen at night can be even more terrifying than dreams My brother tells the story of he was hiking with some friends. They were backpacking, they were going through the woods, evening was coming, dark was setting, they had their headlamps on, they're looking for their campsite in the dark, and they come upon what they expected to be an empty campsite. And when their headlights shone through the darkened forest, their sitting in the campsite was a man. No fire, no light, no gear. Just out in the forest sitting there, when their lights illuminated the campsite and shone on him, he said nothing to them and got up and walked into the woods and vanished. Let me tell you, they didn't sleep that night. It was a little terrifying to think that there's somebody out there wandering around the woods in the dark like that. What they visualized, what they saw was real, it wasn't a dream, it was at night, and it was terrifying. There is something about darkness in night that provides a setting for fear. But not all that we see at night is scary. Another account of other backpackers True story, this happened some 30 plus years ago. A family is out hiking and canoeing in uh remote Ontario, Canada And in the midst of the night, they are attacked by a wolf. One of the children is badly wounded and in desperate need. need of medical help. And so in the dark, they jump into their canoes and begin to paddle across this darkened lake, hoping to find something. And they have a vision. They see something. Out across the water, they see lights they didn't expect to see. And they paddle toward them and they discover what they didn't even know was there. It's a large Boy Scout encampment. And there are medical supplies and there are radios and there was hope and there was salvation Night can be a terrifying time. But not all that we see in the night has to be frightening. And Zechariah sees eight visions that do not bring fear, but they bring hope. They bring salvation. They bring good news. So why is it said at night? Nothing about this vision needs to be said at night. In fact, horsemen don't ordinarily operate at night. That's not usually when they're out and about. So why is this set at night? Because the people of God, the Jews living in Palestine, those Jews who have returned to Jerusalem, are in the dark night of their own collective souls. They have been back now eighteen years. Last week we heard that it was seventeen, but it has now another year has gone forward in the text of Zechariah. They have now been back in the prophet For eighteen years, a lifetime of many of their young'uns. I'm willing to bet there was a bit of a baby boom when they all got back to Jerusalem and there was a lot of celebration and Excitement. And now there's a whole generation of the youngins who have grown up in Jerusalem, who have been told about all the messianic hopes. This is why we came back. And nothing has been fulfilled, and they are in despair. They are collectively in darkness. That's why it's set at night. The setting is one of darkness because the people are in darkness. The setting is uh uh One in which there is no wall to protect them, there is no temple to show the presence of their God, there is every reason to think that God has abandoned them. And every reason to believe that he is not keeping his promises. And into that, these visions So let's take a look at the actual content of the vision. What is really there? What's really happening? If the setting is this nighttime vision What's in the vision? Well, we see that that Zachariah, the first thing he sees here are horses and riders. Now, initially he only mentions one rider. But later if you caught in the text that it says they plural report to that one rider he saw. So clearly there are many riders there, even though he only draws attention to the one. Okay. These riders are sitting in a glen, a low area of myrtle trees. These are not like our crepe myrtle that we have around here. These are an evergreen common to the Middle East. And so we've got this forced setting in the glen at night, and there are horses. Now very often this is portrayed as four horses because he mentions the horse with the rider and then he describes three other colors of horses. But there's really nothing about this to suggest that there are merely four horses. And in fact, given the title that he uses for God here I'm going to suggest that really what he sees are a lot of horses. For he uses over and over and over again throughout the book of Zechariah, we hear God referred to as Yahweh Saba'ot, Lord of hosts. Lord of armies, there's a popular Christian song a few years back that spoke of God of angel armies. That's a really good translation of this name of God. Yahweh Saba, Lord of hosts, Lord of armies. And that implies a large number. And it is to the Lord of hosts that they cry out here amongst the hosts of God. What we see here is God's cavalry unit. It's God's mounted patrol, that portion of the army which goes about on horseback. Now you Civil War buffs will know that the main function of cavalry is one of two things. Either to attack infantry and to instill fear in the infantry. Spoiler alert, that's coming later in the book of Zechariah. The other main function of cavalry is to perform reconnaissance. To function with speed behind enemy lines to detect what's there. Where are their supply lines? How many m uh men do they have? Where are their camps located? How many cannon do they have? This is one of the reasons the Confederate Army was able to survive as long as it did because General Lee made great use of Jeb Stewart and the Confederate cavalry. This is the function of cavalry back then also. This is God's force recon. This is God's mountain patrol that have gone behind enemy lines. They've come into this world and they have patrolled the earth, and they're reporting back as to what they have seen. That's what's going on here. They have, with the speed of their steeds, roamed the earth and come back to report. You know, we might ask ourselves, what then is the function of this? Why does God need Calvary? Why couldn't isn't God omniscient? Doesn't He just know everything? Why would he need a forced recon to go explore? And I'm going to suggest he doesn't. But we need him to have this. This is not for God's sake. He knows everything. But imagine this scenario. You are Zachariah. You've had a long and beleaguered night in which you've had eight visions given to you. And you wake up the next morning all bleary-eyed and you can't wait for the coffee to get made, and you can't and What's happened in those visions? Well you've been told things. You know, words, statements of fact. God is omniscient. Okay. Yawn Zachariah wakes up the next morning going, you're not gonna believe what I saw last night! And this vision of the omniscience of God, this vision of God's cavalry, this vision of God's horsemen, has an impact on Zachariah. It portrays to him in a vivid, realistic way. God's ability to know what's going on in the world. And these men report back, and they and Zechariah gets to witness this report. And the message to Zechariah, and the message to you and to me. is God knows what's going on. He's seen it. He's aware of it. He's been behind enemy lines. He knows their strength. He knows their position. He knows when they're going to attack. God knows what's going on. On and here's the report to prove it. The cavalry have arrived, quite literally. That's what everybody wants, right? If you're stuck in a battle, you're caught, you're and you're you're hunkered down and you can't figure out how to win, you want to hear that the cavalry have arrived They're gonna set you free, they're gonna help, they're gonna be the difference maker in this battle. And the Lord's cavalry have arrived. And they say to Zechariah, and they say to you and to me, God is aware. He knows what's going on. He knows how the enemy is attacking you. He knows where you are beset with sin. He knows where you are downcast and frustrated. He knows where your boss is oppressing you, where your spouse is not loving you, where people are not uh uh rightly regarding you. He knows where your own sin is dragging you down. He knows. Now it's interesting, the one to whom the uh report is given You notice that Zachariah turns, he's got a he's got a an angel guide that's with him in the midst of these visions. So he's taken up out of his bed in the night, he's taken out to see some things, and he there's an angel that's taken. And he sees this rider, this hor these horsemen, and the one key rider in the center of it all, and he turns to the angel and says, What are these? And the angel says to him, Well, let me tell you. But did you guess what happened? Before the angel can say anything. He's interrupted. The man that Zachariah saw, the one in the glen, among the myrtle trees, who has apparently gotten off from his feed and is now standing there. He says, he answers Zachariah's question. He explains what's going on. Well, who on earth would dare interrupt an angel? And the answer is no. Let's meet this character who said The text calls him the Angel of the Lord. I've offered a a handout, please don't read it now. But if you'd like to know more about the angel of the Lord in your bulletin, there's some information. Some text you can go read later and learn more about this figure called the angel of the Lord. But let's see what we can learn from him here. First of all, let me tell you a little bit about his name. Angel, Hebrew, Moloch. Moloch means messenger. That's all it means It doesn't really mean uh uh uh uh a heavenly being. It doesn't mean a winged creature, it doesn't mean uh someone with flaming swords, it just means messenger, which is why the very next book of the Bible is Mulak Kai. My messenger. Malachi is not an angel, he's a messenger. This is a messenger from Yahweh, a messenger of the Lord. But as we see throughout the Old Testament, this is no mere messenger. For we see that in when he meets with Hagar in the book of Genesis, that she refers to him as God, and he does not correct her. The angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord is the one that we're told is in the burning bush with Moses and uh decries that this is a holy place and that Moses has to take his shoes off. Angels don't make places holy. Moses worships, and the angel doesn't stop him. This is the angel of the Lord who meets with Joshua, and Joshua worships, and the angel does not stop him. Throughout, when the angel of the Lord appears, people speak of him as God. They address him as God. He behaves as God and he accepts worship as God. Now, can you imagine for a moment if any some mere angel were to come to this earth, allow us to worship him, and then try to return to heaven? How would that work out for that angel? For our God is the one who says to the prophet Isaiah, I am God, and there is no other. I am God, and I will not share my glory. To whom else is worship due? The answer is none. None. This is why in Revelation, when John begins to worship the angel guide What does that angel guide tell him in Romans, uh Revelation 19? Get up! Don't worship me. I'm just a fellow servant of the Most High God. You don't worship an angel. But the angel of the Lord receives worship. The angel of the Lord interrupts another angel. The angel of the Lord receives the report from God's force recon. Now imagine for a moment that you're in a cavalry unit and you ride out on your horse, the general says, Hey, I need you guys to go out and find out what's happening. Go scout out behind enemy lines over there, tell me what they've got over there, and then come back and report to me Now who are you going to give your report to? You're going to give it to anybody other than the general who sent you? The answer is no. That report, that information goes only to the general who sent you. Who do the horsemen report to? They report to the angel of the Lord. They give the report to the angel of the Lord. Malach Yahweh. Messenger from the Lord. Messenger from Yahweh. Who is the Word of God to man? Who is the one who is himself God, but brings God to us? This is Jesus. This is the pre-incarnate Christ. This is a Christophany, a vision of the Christ. This is the The Savior. God has sent not only his cavalry to Zachariah and the beleaguered people in the despondency of their collective night, but he has also sent his son. He has sent Jesus. He has sent them to the people back then. And the message to Zechariah and the message to you and to me. Is that God cares? He cares enough to know what's going on, but he cares enough to send someone to do something about it. This is Jesus. Now it appears from the text that Zachariah misses that fact. Zachariah does not fall down and worship the angel of the Lord. Zachariah does not address him as God. Zachariah seems not to be aware that this is who this is. We cannot afford to miss This truth. We must know that the one who brought salvation to the people long ago is the one who brings hope and salvation to us today. This is Jesus. Lord of hosts, the one to who the armies of God answer. The one who had the ability to call down ten thousand angels to prevent his crucifixion and Decided not to, that he might die for us. The angel of the Lord is an important figure in this text. He is God himself. He is Jesus. You know, very often we're wowed by the host of the Lord. We're fascinated by angels. Angels get a lot of attention even in our secular society. We love to talk about angels. Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters. The the hosts of the Lord, pale in comparison to the Lord of hosts. It is not about the angel. It's about the one who is God over the angels. It is not about the armies, but the one who is the commander of those armies. See the angel of the Lord. See him here, caring about his people. Coming to them in the night the night of their despair, in the darkness of their situation. We see the angel of the Lord. We see the Calvary of the Lord. We see the angel of the Lord. And now we see him cry out to the Lord. I want to confess something to you that the first couple times I read Zechariah, first several times I read Zechariah, I was bewildered by the angel's response. So now what do the horsemen respond? The cavalry come in They report back to the angel of the Lord. We've scouted the whole earth. We've ridden to and fro. We've gone to all the four corners of the earth, and the whole earth is at rest. There is peace on earth. Well isn't that what everybody wants? Didn't we just come out of the Christmas time? We all sent Christmas cards to each other. Peace on earth. Yay! I've never been a beauty contestant, though I've won second prize in Monopoly a few times. I've never been a beauty contestant, but I know that the answer to every question is world peace Miss Maryland, what would you want most of all? Well, I really want to win this stupid contest and get that gorgeous tierra, but I'm not allowed to say that out loud. I want world peace. Above all other things, oh I don't care about this contest. I just want world peace. And here's what comes in world peace. And the angel of the Lord is upset. The angel of the Lord is despondent. And I I scratch my head going, what is going on there? I don't get this. Isn't that good news? Isn't that something exciting? What does it take to accomplish peace? What does it take to accomplish peace? There really are only a couple of ways that peace can be achieved. One is through some sort of compromise, the other is through defeat. Either the two sides that are warring, whether they be two individuals, you and your sibling, you and your spouse, you and your boss, who's ever you notice you are the common thread in all that I don't know. Either you have to come to some agreement, some compromise, or one has to defeat the other. Two nations that are at war, how is peace achieved? And what we realize, what we come to understand as we wrestle with this text a bit more, is that there really is such a thing as an unholy peace. A bad Peace. Peace that's achieved in all the wrong ways. If you are at peace with the world, what did we read from 1 John? If you are at peace with the world Then you are in enmity with God. You cannot be a lover of the world and a lover of God. If you have achieved peace with this world, then it's because you are at odds with God. The world was at peace because the people of God were irrelevant. They were so downtrodden and so marginalized and so ineffective and so so they they had so much given up on their hope of of a return to their status That they had no impact, no influence in their world. And the world was at peace. That is not a peace that we should tolerate It is not a peace that we should desire. It is not a peace that we should seek. Our goal is not peace with the world. Our goal is peace with God. That's what's offered through Jesus Christ. the mediator, the one who speaks on behalf of the people of God, the one who goes for us to make peace on our behalf with God. It's not so that we can be at peace with the world. In fact, this same angel of the Lord, when he comes later, what does he say to his disciples? He says, I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. You cannot be among the people of God and be at peace with the world. And that's what's wrong with this scene. And that's where I got it wrong. I'm ashamed to say that when I read this, I was focused on the world. The angel of the Lord is focused on the people of God. And he cries out, he plays the role of mediator on behalf of the people of God. And he cries out to the Lord, how long, O Lord, will you let this go? He offers up the prayer of your heart and of mine. How long, O Lord? How long will it be like this? How long will I feel marginalized and be down and irrelevant. How long will I live under these circumstances? How long will I feel as though I have no hope? And the angel of the Lord cries out on our behalf and asks God how long. You see the people, Haggai had promised that there would be a shaking of the nations, that things would be upended. It would not be left the way they are. And the people are now saying to themselves, Well, the prophecies of Haggai haven't come true. And the promises to David. David was told that he would have a royal son who would sit on the throne forever and there would be peace on every side And that hasn't come true. The people cry out, How long, O Lord? And the angel of the Lord cries out on their behalf, how long, O Lord. And we cry out in the night of our despondency, how long, O Lord? And to that cry, God has sent his cavalry, he has sent a vision of his knowledge, of his omniscience, that he is aware of what's going on in this world. He has sent his son to say, I care about what's going on in this world. That son speaks on our behalf. Now the Father speaks. You see the end of the text here? Verses thirteen through seventeen. And the Lord answered gracious and comforting words. Praise God for that sentence. Without that sentence, what comes next may have been terrifying. For next he speaks of the jealousy of God. In the prophet Zephaniah, some 85 years before Zechariah, the jealousy of God was a reason for fear. God was jealous because the people were worshiping other gods. And they might read this and go, oh no, he's jealous again. That brought destruction before. Are we in for destruction again? But no, he prefaces it by saying, no, no, these are gracious and comforting words. So what's God jealous about? What is the jealousy that's here? And the text tells us that he's jealous for his people. He's jealous about how they're being treated. You know, we don't think of jealousy as a good thing in our world because we mishandle the emotions that come out of jealousy. You see, when when when Becky speaks to another guy and I get jealous if I if I react wrongly to that, if I overreact, oh she there must be something going on, she's leaving me, oh my goodness, and I respond in jealousy I respond sinfully. That's not how the Lord responds in his jealousy. You know, the other way to be jealous for Becky is when somebody else is Coming after her, attacking her, going toward her. I get jealous and go, no, no, no, no. defend and I step in and I intervene and I say, No. You don't get to do that. You don't get to talk that way to my wife. You don't get to behave that way to my wife. And it's a jealous That's concerned about her good. That's what the Lord is doing here. He says, I am jealous for my people, and I'm going to intervene. I am not going to allow this to go on forever. This is not the end all and be all of all things. For I did promise to David that there'd be peace on every side. We've said that peace cannot be achieved unless there is defeat. What is the defeat that's coming? It's the defeat of the enemies of God. There's coming a day when there will be peace because the enemies of God will be completely defeated and oppressed. When we all live in the new Jerusalem, When we all live in that city which is guarded by his angels and everything evil is kept out, there will be peace. There'll be no more conflict because there will be no more opposing positions Because God will have won out. He closes by saying the Lord will again choose Jerusalem. I don't know why we fight the doctrine of election. I don't know why we are opposed to this idea that God chooses. I spent my whole childhood standing on the playground at recess hoping somebody would choose me for the kickball team. I sat in science and math class with my arm going, come on, pick me! Wanted the teacher to call on me to choose me to give the answer. Not so much in English class. I didn't know those answers Among Becky's many suitors, I was hoping she would choose me I've wanted to be chosen my whole life. And then we were told we're chosen, we freak out and go, Oh no, God didn't chase me. Oh no, it didn't happen. I will again choose Jerusalem. Unless you think it's just a city, let me remind you of how Jerusalem is portrayed in the Scriptures. For when John sees the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven, he sees it coming down what? As a bride prepared for her husband. And in fact, if you read about the New Jerusalem, the metaphors are all mixed up. It's not clear at all that this is actually a city that he's talking about. Though I think it is But the metaphors make clear. And then what are the names of the gates? Well the names of the gates of that city are the twelve tribes of Israel. Oh, that's the Old Testament people of God. Okay, it's about them, it's not about us. Well, what are the names of the foundation of that new Jerusalem? Jerusalem. They are the apostles. They are the New Covenant people, the New Testament people, you and me. God is choosing Jerusalem. He is choosing all of his people. He is making that decision for them. To be his, I will again choose Jerusalem. What does he say? I will build my house among them. My presence will be known among them. When we gather in worship, we are living this out. God is speaking to us. His presence is here among us And this is fulfilled. Not in the complete way that it will be in the new Jerusalem, in the new heavens, and the new earth, but it is fulfilled. People of God were in darkness and in despair. And in that he sent a vision, a vision of horsemen. I know what's going on. A vision of his son. I care enough to send the one who's gonna fix it. And a response of comfort and grace. I will again choose my people. This is the message to us today. A message of hope. A message of a Savior who has not forgotten us. And who is fulfilling all the importance. Let's pray. Lord, renew us in faith. Give us the hope of the book of Zechariah, that we will see that we need not be impatient with you. We need not to be afraid that you have lost touch. You are aware of what's going on. You are roaming to and fro in the earth, and you know everything. And not you not you don't just know, but you care, you've sent your son to do something about it. And he intervenes, the angel of the Lord intervenes on our behalf to this day. He's taken the first decisive step to defeat your enemies and ours. So Lord, we look forward to the day when you again reside among your people, when you again choose Jerusalem and make your habitation there. When you will, as the uh as John Saw in Revelation when you will be our God and live among us. And in this we hope For this we cling. For this we long. And we ask, Lord, that you would give us all assurance of it. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.