Turn with me in your Bibles, if you would, to Matthew 26. We're going to shorten the reading. It's not going to be all that's printed in the bulletin. We're going to look just at verses 52 and 53. Matthew 26, verses 52 and 53. We're going to be looking at a lot of scripture this morning, and I will remind you that it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. And so if we want to properly find comfort in the ministry of angels, then we must do so according to the Word of God. And we must see His servants. as he depicts them. And so we are going to study that topic this morning from the Bible. Jesus is praying with the twelve in the Garden of Gethsemane when Judas shows up out of the dark with a mob and some soldiers, we're told. Peter pulls out his sword And the scene is very militaristic. You've got a sword, you've got soldiers. Peter pulls out his sword, he cuts off a man's ear, and then Jesus, after healing the man, turns to Peter and to all those who are listening. And says this. Then Jesus said to him, put your sword back into its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? Let's pray. Spirit of God, we ask for your help in understanding these beings, these angels. We are, as a culture, we are fascinated by them. But we misunderstand them and we misunderstand you as a result. And so we ask for your clarity this morning. That we would see these fellow creatures properly, and that in doing so we would understand who you are and worship you properly. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So in each of the last two weeks, we have said that the beings under consideration, Satan and demons respectively, That they were by nature angels who had fallen. Well now we are here this week finally going to consider angels properly. looking at not the angels who fell, but angels in general in and of themselves. This sermon is going to cover an extraordinary number of texts And so I have provided an outline. It's in the bulletin on pages 14 and 15. If you want to look there, even if you don't take notes, it might be helpful just to keep track of where I am and which passages are being referenced. Pages 1415 of that bulletus. Our first main point is the nature of angels themselves. Who or what are they? Psalm 14. 4 in our English Standard Version says this. I'm sorry, it speaks of God's messengers as wind. It says the messengers of God are wind. Ah, the difficulties of translation. You see, the problem here is we have two very vague words in Hebrew. The word for messenger is Moloch. From where we get Malachi, my messenger. The word for messenger is Moloch, and that is usually the word we translate as angel. And the word for a wind is ruark, which is often translated as spirit. Hence the King James rendering of this. God makes his angels spirits. That is the sense here. That the angels of God are spirit beings. Hebrews 1. 14 asks rhetorically, are not all angels ministering spirits? But of course they are. So we have both in the Old and New Testament a sense that angels are spirit beings. Now Jesus says something about the nature of spirit beings. On the road to Emmaus, following his resurrection, he is walking with the two disciples, and they are having a hard time grasping what has happened. And he says to them, Jesus says to them, Touch me! A spirit does not have flesh and bones as you can see that I have. Now, Jesus is not explicitly talking about angels right there, but he does tell us something about the nature of spirit beings. They don't have bodies. And the scriptures are clear that angels are spirit beings. They lack the physicality that you and I have. Now, the implications of this, the importance of this, might not at first be obvious, but it undermines much of the prevailing sense of angels. You see, they are neither the fearsome warriors, physically speaking, neither the fearsome warriors that we often depict. Nor are they the ultra-feminine beauties used in advertising and Christmas cards. Jesus reinforces this understanding elsewhere when he notes that angels do not marry. You see, they don't have bodies as spirits. They are likely genderless. It is interesting, God is a spirit, and both male and female bear the image of God, the Imado Jay. If angels are bodiless spirit beings like God, it follows that they too are genderless. Now, they do from time to time have need to manifest themselves in the physical realm so that they might carry out God's will among us. And so they do appear to be empowered to take to themselves human form on occasion. And it does seem that in all such temporary incarnations they present in this realm in a masculine way. And yet I don't think it's fair to think of them as men or women, male or female. It's almost certainly worth commenting at this point that one of the physical traits that is universally associated with angels is that of wings. Now, if they don't have bodies, how is it that they seem to always have wings? I don't want to spoil the Ezekiel sermon series that's going to begin in two weeks. But that prophet, perhaps more than any other Bible writer, goes to great lengths to communicate that he can't tell us what he's seeing. He uses words like, it was like, it was as if. He has not the verbiage to explain what he has seen. And I think he makes an important point. So he, as we're going to see in a few minutes, describes angels as having wings. But he even says there, it's as if I think perhaps the sense is this, and I am not about to start a new denomination over this, but I think this is what's going on. That we who are bound in the physical realm are amazed at the ephemeral nature of the spirit beings, that they can be here or there in seemingly in a moment. That they move around with such ease, and they are depicted as having wings for that reason. That they have that it represents the sense that they can get around more easily than we can. I don't know for sure. That's my speculation. What is clear is that they don't actually have physical bodies and therefore probably do not actually possess weights, at least not in a literal sense They are pure spirit, genderless. Yet they are persons. We saw this with both Satan and his demons, that they had the characteristics of personhood, and we're not going to imagine that they gained that after sinning. But rather that is an inherent aspect of angels. Angels have volition. They are self-aware. They communicate through speech. Angels are persons. This, by the way, may not be obvious initially, but this has implications for how we think about ourselves. Personhood and its associated characteristics is often a major part of any theologian's discussion of the image of God. When we think, what does it mean to be a human being and to be image bearers? Very often the discussion is about this issue of personhood. That we have volition, like God has volition, that we are self-aware like God is self-aware, that we have speech, like God has speech. But I would put to you that that can't be the essence of what it means to be the image bearer. For the angels have personhood And they are not described as image bearers of our God. And this has more import than you might realize. You may not be aware of this, but over the last 10 to 15 years, there has been a great deal of debate in our society, even some court cases, over this question of personhood. And it plays out in two very interesting realms. There are those who are pushing to abolish the personhood of unborn humans. And there are those who are pushing to establish the personhood of apes and dolphins and other such creatures. We must have the wisdom to separate personhood from humanity. We are the image-bearers of God, and I'm not going to get into how that plays out, but it appears not to be related to our personhood. So whatever the courts might decide, whatever the philosophers might conclude, we still retain an inherent human dignity. Not because we are persons, but because we are the image bearers of God. Now back to our study of angels. These are personal spirit beings. They lack physicality in the things that come along with it, like gender and economy. I think bring this to our next point, it kind of ushers in this idea of what is our relationship to angels Are humans and angels related? It's really kind of interesting. The Bible doesn't directly address this very much, and yet it has become so embedded in our culture that I feel like I need to address it So one of the first things that we'll say right out of the gate is that there is this idea that we are somehow inferior to angels, that we are a little lower than angels. And I want to kind of abolish that right out of the gate. Part of this Is that when we look at creation's grand scheme, we see angels with this power and capability that we don't have And for sure in American culture, we associate power with rank, with importance. I don't think we should, but we do. And we therefore imagine that if they have powers we don't have, they must outrank us in the grand scheme of God's economy. Moreover, we tend to have a grasses-greener mindset. And we think to ourselves, well, we're stuck in this broken physical world, and they're not. They don't have to inhabit this fallen world, and therefore God must like them more than he likes us. Finally, there is the matter of the Psalm with which we open. Psalm 8 says, What is man that you are mindful of him, the Son of Man that you should care for him? You have made him a little lower. than the angels in some translations. We read this morning a little lower than the heavenly beings. But we imagine what the heavenly beings, what must they be, except angels But here's the problem. We already saw that the Hebrew word for angel is Moloch, and that's not in Psalm 8. In fact, many of you are familiar with the word that's there. It's the word Elohim. Elohim. If you've been around the church for very long at all, you probably know how Elohim is usually translated. It is God. Elohim is the title of the Almighty God And so a more literal translation of Psalm 8 would be that you have made man a little lower than God. Now that I have no argument with. We are definitely lower than God. But then we understand the psalm doesn't actually directly address our relationship to angels. And so we we see that we don't actually know where we fall, at least so far, in comparison to them. And I would encourage us not to denigrate the inherent value of humanity. The moment we start dragging mankind down We are low in the sense of our sinfulness. We are not low in the sense of our inherent place in God's creation. When we drag ourselves down, it opens up the door to all manner of problems. Now, at this point, I'm making the argument that we are not lower than angels. But the case might feel a tad weak. Oh, Pastor, you've speculated on this and you've re-translated and reinterpreted that. But then I would have directed your attention to 1 Corinthians 6, 3. In 1 Corinthians 6. 3, Paul stepping into the middle of a dispute going on in the Corinthian church, he basically wants them to cowboy up and deal with the problems in the church. And he says this statement to them, a rhetorical statement. Do you not know that we are to judge angels? It is obviously inconsistent, especially in that honor-based culture which Paul wrote, to imagine that somehow humans are lower than angels when in fact we are the judge Judges of angels. Don't know how that's going to play out. Don't know what that's going to look like on the judgment day. But Paul says we are the judges of angels. Do not exalt angels above humanity. The biblical picture appears to be the other way around. By the way, we saw this, I came over from last week or two weeks ago. Christ died for humanity. He did not die for angels And we must also say this: humans do not become angels at death. We do not become angels at death. Jesus Christ did not die to populate the streets of heaven with angels. The streets of heaven are already populated with angels. He died to put us there. We do not become angels upon our death. And in fact, Hebrews 12 and Revelation 4, Revelation 4, 5, and 7 all paint pictures of scenes of heaven wherein humans and angels Coexist side by side, distinct from one another, worshiping God for all of eternity. We do not become angels at death Now, I don't want to police your interactions with your grandchildren. You want to talk about that little baby as angelic? Oh, what a little cute little angel. I don't think there's a problem there But you must also have the wisdom to be make clear that they're not actually angels and never going to become angels, not subordinate to angels in any way. But they bear the image of God. And finally, we're going to say in our relationship to angels, they must never be worshipped It's tempting. It's easy to do. It's easy to see why we could fall into it. Angels frequently in the scriptures, they come with a voice of authority. They come with a command. They come with power. And they direct us. They have God's authority behind them. And when they come with that kind of command and they give us that kind of direction and they have that power and we're in awe of them, it is easy to worship angels But Paul says to the Colossians in chapter 2 that to do so is to disqualify yourself from the race of faith. Do not worship angels. John, when he was in awe of the angel tour guide that he had in the book of Revelation, he fell at the angel's feet, and the angel scolded him immediately. Get up! I am a fellow servant with you, worship God Allah. And you say, Pastor, I don't worship angels. Why are you bothering to Why do you think this is something they need to say to me? And I will tell you that we definitely exalt angels. In the month of December Even our pagan streets, our heathen streets of our godless cities will have angels on the light posts and on the courthouse lawn, but there will be no Jesus. Our postcards and Christmas cards will have plenty of angels on them. And there's a place for angels in the celebration of Christmas. We just sang three angel-oriented psalms. There's a place for angels. But they cannot become the centerpiece of what we're thinking about. They were heralds. I just gave away a future point of affirming. They were heralds Who told us about the Christ? And if we can't look past the angels and see God in the baby Jesus Christ, we are at risk of exalting angels And blocking out the true God. We must never worship angels. So angels are by nature personal spiritual beings. They are not more exalted in creation than we are, neither do we become angels of death. Rather, at the judgment we are going to be placed over them. We are certainly not to exalt them in any kind of worship. That brings us to the third and fourth main points of that outline. And in hindsight, I probably should have blended these together. I will jump back and forth between them. Sorry about that. So we look now at the types of angels. The types of angels. The Old Testament uses two words to describe angelic beings beyond that generic messenger Malach angel. The most common by far is the word cherub or cherubim. Quick Hebrew lesson. Cherub is singular, cherubim is plural. We'll see in a moment. Seraph is singular. Seraphime is plural. There is uh uh uh sorry, lost my place there. Uh um interestingly When you do a search on the word cherub, cherubim or cherub, it shows up a lot in the Old Testament. When you do a search on it, so far as I could see, only two places Reference actual living beings. All the rest reference artwork. The majority of the cherubim mentioned in the Old Testament are art, and we will come back around to that in a moment. So, in light, where are the living cherubs in Scripture? Genesis 3. Recall the account? Adam and Eve sinned. They are banished from the presence of God. They are banished from reaching out and taking hold of the tree of life. The tree of life in the garden. I think that's important. They are banished from taking the tree of life And they are kept from re-entering the garden by cherubim at the entrance to the garden. Genesis 3. You'll notice there that I've included Revelation 21. 12 and I put a question mark after it. Revelation 21. 12 speaks of angels being at the gate, at the 12 gates of the New Jerusalem. Now it uses the word angels, and that's why I put a question mark. It doesn't use the word cherubim. But given that the New Jerusalem is the home of the Tree of Life Given that the book of Revelation makes clear that there will be those who are kept out of the New Jerusalem And that given that these angels guard the entrance, it seems to me very symmetrical and mirrors the beginning. So that Revelation 21 goes back to Genesis 3. I suspect these are cherubim that are guarding the gates of the New Jerusalem Now, the other place that you find cherubim being used of actual living beings is in Ezekiel chapter 10. Isn't that interesting? All the times that word shows up, only two places does it point to a living creature. In Ezekiel chapter 10, the prophet speaks of the cherubim of his earlier vision. He goes back and points back to the vision he had in chapter 1. And in chapter 1, Ezekiel sees these awesome and terrifying beings. And he tries, again, we already said he can't he can't find the words to explain them exactly. And he tries to tell us the best he can what they're kind of like He says they have four faces, one on each side of their heads. That they each have two pairs of wings. Not two pairs, one pair, two wings. And that they have the general form of a human male, but they have the feet of a goat. And that they have eyes all over them. Strange beings indeed. In Ezekiel's vision, they are in close proximity to the throne of God. And there are four of them in his vision. And in fact, it even appears to him that they're carrying God's throne around. Fast forward to Revelation 4, 5, and 6. In Revelation 4, 5 and 6, the Revelator speaks of the four living creatures who were before the throne of God, who never ceased to call out his praises. And he briefly describes those four living creatures, and it is almost universally accepted that what he's describing, though it doesn't match exactly, is awfully close to what Ezekiel saw. And generally agree that Ezekiel saw these same four living creatures. Ezekiel calls them cherubim. So that this class of angels is described in some detail there in the book of Ezekiel. And that we are told in Revelation that they are permanent attendants of the throne of God. Okay, so strictly speaking Cherubim is applied to living creatures only twice as the guardians of the garden in Genesis 3 and of the throne bearers in Ezekiel's vision in Ezekiel 1 and 10 And it's almost universally accepted that even though Revelation doesn't use the word cherubim, the four living creatures it sees are the same as Easy. So there we have it, and I speculated that the gates of the New Jerusalem are guarded by cherubim. It is ironic, then, that this picture of cherubim is actually brought to life through art. So the real sense of what cherubim are is found in the artwork. I'll go through this very quickly. In Exodus 25 and 26, we have God's detailed instructions for the building of the Ark of the Covenant. And the most prominent feature of the by the way, Ark just means box. Noah's box, the box of the covenant. Okay? The most prominent feature of the Ark of the Covenant Are the two gold cherubim that are perched on the edges of the lid, and their wings extend out over the lid and meet in the center of the lid? The lid of the Ark of the Covenant was known as the mercy seat. It was the place where God manifests his presence. It's where Moses went to meet with God. It's where the high priest went to meet with God on Yom Kippur. This was the place of God's residing beneath the cherubim on the Ark of the Covenant. Most of the references to cherubim in the scriptures are to those two golden angels, not actual living beings, but to images of angels. The psalmist seek of God as the one who is enthroned on the cherubim, who sits there. In Exodus 36 and 38, we have a description of the curtains and the veils that are supposed to enclose the tabernacle. And the outer curtain, and then the inner curtain, and all of these have cherub beams sewn into them. And then there is the veil which separates the holy place from the most holy place, a holy place from the holy of holies. And that has two prominent cherubim stitched into it, the veil. And then in 1 Kings 6, 7, and 8, Solomon builds the permanent house of God's presence, the temple, and there are cherubim all over it. But most notably, the door, the doors between the holy place and the holy of holies, the outer sanctum and the inner sanctum, those doors. have carved into wood and then hammered in gold over the top of it to prominent cherubim Jump down now with me to Roman numeral four, part A, the role of the cherubim. So what do we have here? Genesis 3, they keep Adam and Eve from entering God's presence, re-entering. In Ezekiel, they are carrying the throne of God. In Revelation, they stand near to the throne of God. In And in all of the biblical artwork, they stand between man and God. Think about that. The cherubim are sown into the curtain of the most holy place just as they stood at the Garden of Eden. You may not enter. You cannot walk in here on your own. The cherubim are consistently portrayed as the guardians of God's glory, the protectors of his holiness, the enforcers of access to his presence. That the one who would try to go to God on their own account Are going to be struck down by these cherubim, these guardians We jump back now to Roman numeral 3, part B, where we speak of the seraphim. They're mentioned just once in all of the Bible, Isaiah chapter 6, beautiful passage. Isaiah is, and by the way, it's interesting, they're also associated with the temple. Isaiah enters the temple and he sees these spirit persons, and they're hovering there in the temple. And Isaiah says when he walks in, that they're calling to one another. There's one over here, holy, and one back there, holy, and one over here, holy. And together they say, holy, holy, holy is Yahweh of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. And Isaiah says their voice is stunning, that it shook the very foundations of Solomon's temple. I asked John if we could get a special effect in the sound system so that I could shake the whole sanctuary. He said no. Apparently it's not in the budget. But their voices overwhelmed Isaiah. With a proclamation of the holiness of God. If cherubim Are the guardians of God's holiness. Seraphim appear to be the proclaimers, the heralds of God's holiness. It's why I have listed there Luke chapter 2 with a question mark. Oh, by the way, we don't know what the word seraphim means. It's a transliteration, not a translation of the Hebrew word, but the prevailing speculation is that it means burning ones. Burning ones Which is why I've listed Luke 2 as a with a question mark here. I suspect that when those shepherds were in the field watching over their flocks by night, that when they Saw this angel appear to them. What does the angel do? He proclaims, Glory to God in the highest! And the glory of God shone all around them. It was brilliantly lit up. They're burning ones. I suspect these are Seraphim that have appeared to the shepherds in the fields. Again, not starting a new denomination over that one. But there we have it. So Cherubim are the guardians of God's glory, Seraphim, the heralds of God's holiness. And they cry out with thunderous voices, holy, holy, holy is Yahweh of hosts. We're back up now to 3B. Oh, I already said that. Sorry, moving on. 3C. Something interesting happens in the Church of Thessalonica, the Thessalonian Christians, Paul gets a report, he's down at court, he gets a report that the Thessalonian Christians are starting to get a little nervous Paul, when you preached among us, you told us Jesus was coming back. It's been a few weeks. And by the way, literally for that, that's what it has been. It's been a month or two and he hasn't come back. Did we miss it? And Paul writes back to them in the 1 Thessalonians. He writes to them, no, no, you didn't miss it. Because it cannot be missed. Nobody will miss it. Nobody will wonder if the Lord has come back. Everybody will know. For by the shout of the by the shout of command and the voice of an archangel and the trumpet of God. Will the return of Christ be accompanied? Paul said. You can't miss it. Now it tells us nothing about who archangels are, but it does tell us they exist. It sets them in parallel to these very militaristic things. Okay, the shout of command and the trumpet of God. Trumpets have long been military signal instruments. And so we have this introduction to archangels, and they are profound in some way. Their voice cannot be missed And they are associated with these militaristic things. Then in Jude chapter 1, verse 9, Jude specifically names Michael as an archangel. Now, Jesus doesn't say much more about Michael, but in Daniel, Michael is described as the overseer of God's people, the caretaker of Israel, the one tending to the people of God. And in Revelation 12, Michael is the one who dispatches Satan and his angels. So we have this picture of archangels being of some importance. The word ark would part, the prefix literally in Greek means first or foremost or chief. Archaeology, the study of the first or human beings or early human beings. The archetype of something is the foremost example of it. Archangels are chief angels, and that's certainly the sense that we're given there of Michael and his command over the angels of heaven. By the way, Gabriel's prominence has led many to speculate that he is an archangel. The Bible doesn't call him that. But it's not an outrageous or unreasonable speculation. And you might also hear the name Raphael used with conjunction to archangels. That one comes from the Apocrypha, from the book of Tobit, and that one's a little more suspect. But Michael is for sure an archangel, and the archangels, and I've kind of already skipped down to their role down below in 4C, archangels seem to have some kind of command. They're in charge. And that begs the question, is there rank within the angels? So besides having these cherubim and seraphime, we have this category or rank called archangel. Do all the angels have this rank? And how do these all interplay? Are serapheme always archangels, or vice versa, or how do they relate? We don't know for sure. We really don't. There is some rank. There is some hierarchy. We see that even with the uh the fallen angels. Did we not see in the last couple of weeks how Satan was described as having his angels? They belong to him. They're clearly under him And we see that with the scriptures as well. I also put in here as a category of angels, and I realize this might be a tautology of sorts, My apologies, but I didn't I kind of wanted to make the point. We have talked about cherubim and seraphim and archangels, but I want to just drive home the reality that the vast majority of the time when scriptures talk about angels, it just says angels It doesn't give us anything more specific. It doesn't give us anything else. But this bleeds into their roles. Now getting near the bottom of that outline. I already said that the Hebrew word for angel is malak, messenger. Well it turns out that the New Testament word is Angeloth, which also means messenger. And so what we have here, when we talk about the categories of angels, one of the things we is there are just these angels that are set out to be messengers. And that turns out to be a number one rule of angels. When we get down into 4D number one, I see I've listed angel as a role of function. They are messengers. Joshua 5. The commander of the Lord's army appears to Joshua, communicating to him that the battle against Jericho on the following day What's going to be a spiritual battle, one in which God Himself was engaged? Get a message for Joshua. In Matthew 1. The angel Gabriel have a message for Joseph. Mary's not, but I'm faithful to you. That child belongs to God. In Luke 1, Mary herself gets a visit from the angel with a message from God. You're going to conceive and bear a child. In Acts 8, Philip, the deacon, is told to go find the Ethiopian eunuch by an angel. An angel tells him to go looking for that man who needs to hear the gospel. In Acts 27, Paul says that he was given a message by an angel. The majority of the time that we see angels in this generic term, they serve as God's messengers. So the categories of angels are the cherubim, the seraphim, the archangels, and then just plain angels, which, you know, maybe is not the right way to put that all together. Now we're going to spend the rest of our time looking at the roles of angels and the very last part of that outline for E. Closely related to their role as messengers, they serve as interpreters and explainers. Daniel in chapter 8 sees this vision. He sees this two-horned ram and this one-horned goat. I think he saw a unicorn and just mistook it for a one-horned goat. And the horn of the goat falls off, it breaks off, and four new horns pop up in its place. And Daniel was a little bewildered, I think we would have been also. And an angel, Gabriel by name, an angel comes and explains to him what he saw. Zachariah has the same confusion in his vision, and an angel comes to him and explains the vision and what he saw. John has that experience in the book of Revelation. I don't know what this means. And an angel comes to him and explains what he saw. So not only do they bring messages, they interpret and explain messages. They are explainers of visions. Stephen, in his summation of revelatory history in Acts 7, he says that angels brought the law to Moses. Paul says the same thing in Galatians, as does the book of Hebrews in chapter 2. This is consistent with their role as messengers. But it is interesting that the specificity here, that Moses was given God's law through the intermediary work of angels. And of course, most famously they are heralds. They proclaim things, which is how we know about them with relation to Christmas, how most of us know about them. So angels seem to have these roles, they seem to have duties, they seem to fall into categories. They are guardians of God's glory, they are proclaimers of his holiness, they are his servants and his messengers, those who go out and do these things. And we're going to talk about a few other roles they have. But I want to stop and say this right now. We struggle as human beings sometimes to accept that we have roles. We are not happy with the fact that God says, this is your lane, stay in it We don't like the fact that there are gender roles, whatever they might be. We don't like the fact That there are certain aspects of ministry that are walled off, that there are roles we have in ministry. We have a hard time with that. Because we think we should have free reign of everything. And I point out that angels have roles. This is just a normal part of creation. This is how God made the universe. That we fit in in some place, in some way, that we belong to a certain uh uh job or role. By the way, does not the Trinity itself appear to have roles and functions I don't think we I I think we need to learn from the angels and accept the roles that we are given. So 4D at the nearby end of that outline, number two there, angels also function as armies Now we'll develop this a little bit. God was known to Abraham primarily as Elohim, Almighty. He revealed himself to Moses and Israel as Yahweh, I am. But in the time of the kings of Israel, a new name for God appears. Yahweh Sabaoth. Yahweh of hosts. Lord of hosts in most English translations. Now hosts means armies, at least in the ancient world. Now, I think in many of those places the hosts in view, the armies in view, are earthly armies. Our God is sovereign over the armies of this world. He has control of the Babylonians, he has control of the Russian army, and yes, he is sovereign over the army of the United States of America. Our God is Lord of earthly hosts. But there is a real sense of the Bible that when it refers to him as the Lord of hosts, it means something else. That there are armies that are not a part of this planet. And when you look at passages like 1 Kings 22 or 2 Kings chapter 2, that becomes more clear. 2 Kings 2, remember this story? 2 Kings 2, the prophet Elisha, he is a wanted man, the king of Syria, hates Elisha and sends an army south into Israel to capture him. An entire army to capture one man. And one morning Elisha gets up and he's sitting out on his balcony and he's, you know, I don't know, he's reading his newspaper Remember, this is the ancient world. He wouldn't have had a Facebook news feed. So he's reading his newspaper, enjoying his stone. And his servant brings out a cup of coffee, and the servant looks up and drops the coffee and goes, Oh my goodness, you not see what's going on! There are all the armies of Syria surrounding you, and you're sitting here reading the paper? Fast forward cut to the end. Elisha prays, and the Lord opens the servant's eyes. And Elisha points to them and says, Do you see all the chariots of God? Those who are with us outnumber those who are against us. And there we have a clear picture of these spirit armies, these beings of another realm that are the embodiment of the power and authority of our God. Well we the song with which Becky brought us into worship this morning, uh God of Angel Armies, that really is a spectacular translation of Yahoo's Saba off, Lord of Hosts. That he is the God of angel armies. And we ought to find great comfort in that. That whatever the powers of this world appear to be, God's armies exceed them. There is that scene, and I won't get it right, I didn't take time to look it up, so I won't get it right, which one of the editions of the Lord of the Rings. There's a scene where the the armies of men are about to collapse under the attack of the army of of of Mordor. They're about to fall victim to it, and then the elves come riding in and save the day. That's kind of the picture here That the armies of God are more powerful than any human armies. We also see militaristic language in Zechariah's reference to angels. In Zechariah 1, he sees four angels riding four different colored horses, and they are, by their own accord, they have returned from reconnoitering the earth. They are out there as the classic cavalry scout, riding along, riding out there seeing what's going on, seeing what the enemy is doing. That is their function. And in Zechariah 6, and I think I forgot to put that one in the bulletin, in Zechariah 6, he sees angel chariots. The battle tank of the ancient world. So they are God's eyes and ears in the spiritual battle that's going on, but they are also God's, the expression of God's power in the spiritual battle which is going on. But now I want to bring us back around to the text with which we opened this sermon. Jesus is being betrayed. He is about to be given over to wicked men to be killed. And he does not say to Peter and to the others listening, don't you understand? I could slip out of here if I needed to. He does not imply that he could be saved by the skin of his teeth. He does not suggest that somehow the battle hangs by a wire. And is full of suspense. He says, Do you not understand? I could call twelve legions of angels Now, in that setting, in a world dominated by Rome, in a world dominated by the legions of Italy. That would have been profoundly militaristic language. That would have struck a chord. And by the way, don't try to read anything into this. He's not saying, oh, there are 72,000 angels in heaven. 6,000 men to a legion, 12 legions, 72,000. No! 12 is a symbolic nature to his Jewish audience, symbolic meaning to his Jewish audience. And he is saying that the armies of God are complete. They're enough. They're all that. And he says, with them we can overpower anything around us. Which brings us in uh uh Real quickly, uh God's angels act as executioners. Genesis 19, the story of Sodom and Gomorrah, the angels are the executioners of God's judgment. I want to bring us to the number four there. The angels act as guardians or attendants. That's the role Jesus had in mind in the garden. That my father's angels would protect me. That they would fight on my behalf. That's the whole sense of Michael in the book of Daniel, that he is the one who protects Israel, who is the guardian of Israel, who is looking out for God's people. It is the whole sense of the angel that meets Hagar in the desert and takes care of her and provides for her. The angel that oversees Israel's Exodus. According to Exodus 23. Elijah is in the wilderness, and it is an angel who tends to him. And Peter, locked in prison, is rescued by an angel. This is a key function of angels. It is explicitly what the author of Hebrews puts forth in chapter 1, that angels are ministering spirits and that they are to care for humanity, particularly for those who will be saved. And what did we see in our Old Testament reading? Jacob is fleeing for his life. All the promises of God appear to be collapsing around him. And he sees angels coming down a staircase from heaven. That God's eyes and ears are on the earth. And he sees angels ascending the staircase, that God's messengers are reporting back to him, that his God is not absent from what is happening to him. And of course, God adds to that the reiteration of the promise. I will tell you, my friends, the Bible does not speak of anything quite so specific as a guardian angel for each and every one of us. That doctrine isn't in the Bible. If by guardian angel you mean that you have a particular spirit being assigned to walk around and fly around everywhere you go and keep an eye over you, I'm not sure that's a biblical doctrine. But what you mean is that there is a sense that God's powerful spirit beings attend to his people If they are the ones who act in this world so that you do not befall a harm that would keep you from the salvation, well the Bible never promises that no harm will befall you. It just promises that final, ultimate harm will not befall you. And if you want to see angels as executing God's promise in that regard, well, there's a lot of biblical support for that That really is a principal role of angels. Ministering spirits set out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation. That is great comfort, is it not? The final role that we should find for the angels It's portrayed in Revelation 4. It's portrayed with the four living creatures who are around the throne. On each side of the throne we are told, and the four living creatures are full of eyes in front and behind. The first and describes them, and I'm going to skip down that description of them. And day and night they never cease to say Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever, the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, O Lord and God, who receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. Angels will for all eternity, they are now and will for all eternity be choir leaders. They will be worship leaders. They will be co-worshipers with us. They will join in and put their voices to our voices. And we will together proclaim the goodness of God. Angels are powerful beings. Powerful personal beings that inhabit the spirit realm. They do so as messengers of God, as servants of God, as the armies of God, and as the attendants and guardians of God's people. And they do so to the glory of God for all of eternity. Let's pray. Lord, help us to take great comfort In the fact that you are sovereign over the spirit realm, that you have your servants working there, that they are attending to us and watching over us. Help us not to be skeptical of this reality, but to embrace it and to find great hope in it. We pray this for the sake of Christ's glory and for our well-being. Amen.