That song is actually taken out of our sermon text this morning, Zechariah chapter 3. Ask you to open your Bibles to Zechariah chapter 3. And also open your bulletins to page 13. This morning you're going to need both of those documents on your lap in front of you. Zechariah chapter 3 and page 13 of your bulletin. Today is the final sermon in our series, Angels and Demons. And in a sense, it's a continuation of last week Sermon since we talked about angels last week, and this week we are talking about a particular angel. And yet, as you will see, the angel of the Lord, this messenger from God, is remarkably different from all of the other angels we met last week. In order to get a good sense of this being, we were going to consider, I don't know, it's about 15 or so texts. Hence the need for bulletin page 13 so that we can look at all of those together. Zechariah 3 is the last recorded appearance of the angel of the Lord, last both chronologically and canonically. It's the last time in the Bible and the last time in history that we have a record of the angel of the Lord appearing. And so in a sense, we're kind of beginning at the end, and yet I think there is something profound in this particular appearance of the angel of the Lord, and it sets the tone for our consideration of him. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what you must know, And how you must live, and what you must believe about the beings of the spirit world. Then we must know this book. So hear now the word of the Almighty God from Zechariah chapter 3. Then he, that is the angel who has been Zachariah's tour guide through this long night of visions that Zechariah has been having, then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. and the accuser standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, that is the adversary, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? That is to say, have I not pulled this ember out so that it wouldn't be burned up? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel, that is, the angel of the Lord. Said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And he said, And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you And I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments, and the angel of the Lord was standing by, that is, he was overseeing. All that he had commanded. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, Thus says the Lord of hosts, if you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, Then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest. You and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are assigned to hold. I will bring my servant, the branch For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts. And I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's ask His help standing this morning. Spirit of God, we ask that you would guide our insight as we study this Enigmatic figure, the angel of the Lord, as we consider who he is and what he did, we ask that you would help us to understand what it And that we would come to better appreciate the salvation that you have for Pete. In his name we pray. Amen. Among the many biblical references to angels, this particular angel should probably not be lumped in with all the rest of them. He is notable for the way in which he is described. In a sense, are not all angels of the Lord, and yet only this one is called the angel of the Lord. So there's something different even about the way he is entitled. Also interesting are some of the things that are never said about this angel. We're going to go through these passages. I've truncated some of them for the sake of time. But it's interesting that we never find this angel to have wings. As we so often associate with angels. This angel of the Lord is never called a cherub or a seraph, as many of the other angels are called. He does not hover or fly, as we see and hear of the other angels And in fact, when his appearance, when his look is addressed at all, it's always in the manner of a human being. He appears as a man. And notably, unlike the other angels we've met, he is never mentioned in association with the throne of God in a guardian-type capacity. He does not attend to the throne of God. He does not guard the entrance to God as we saw the angels did last week. He does not seem to function as a herald either as the seraphim did. And even if Zechariah 3 were the only reference we had in all of the Bible to the angel of the Lord, his role in this scene is astounding. For he functions as the one who saves the high priest and symbolically the people of Israel for whom the priest stood. And so, for all of these reasons, and we will see a few others, the angel of the Lord warrants special attention So looking now in your bulletins at pages 13, 14, and 15, let's walk through systematically some of the texts that pertain to the angel of the Lord These are arranged thematically, not chronologically or canonically, and we're going to look at a few texts, draw a conclusion. Look at a few texts, draw a conclusion, and work our way through, and then try at the end to wrap it all together and see what it means. So the first thing we're going to do is consider what was said about the angel of the Lord. And initially by the humans he met. What? When people meet this angel of the Lord, what do they say about him? In our Old Testament reading, we heard about Hagar's encounter with the angel of the Lord. This is the first encounter that's recorded in the Bible, and the oldest encounter that we know about. uh historically speaking. I want to draw your attention particularly there in the bulletin to verses 11 and 13. In verse 11 it says, the angel of the Lord said to Hagar And then to verse thirteen, so she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are a God of sea. Hagar calls the angel of the Lord God Hagar believed this was no ordinary angel, but that it was God himself. Look at the second text there on that same page, Genesis 48. And verse 15, this is near the end of Jacob's life, right before he dies, Jacob blessed Joseph and said, The God before whom my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day, the angel who has redeemed me from all evil. Bless these boys. Jacob on his deathbed equates God to an angel. And an angel to God. And specifically, not, he's not reverted back to some form of paganism. He specifically says, the God of my father is Abraham and Isaac. is an angel who has redeemed. Jacob says the angel of the Lord was God. The third passage in Judges 13, we read the following. And when the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, the angel of the Lord went up in the flame of the altar. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of the Lord. And Manoah said to his wife, We shall surely die, for we have seen God. Hagar, Jacob, Manoah, he's the father of Samson, by the way. Hagar, Jacob, and Noah all believed that when they met the angel of the Lord, they met God. Now, part letter B there. What does the angel of the Lord say about himself? What does he have to say of who he is? In Genesis 31, Genesis 31, the angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob, and I said, here I am, and he said, I am the God of Bethel. We saw this last week, where Jacob falls into a deep sleep and he has this dream that the heavens have opened and there's a staircase reaching from heaven down to the earth and that the angels are ascending and descending on it. We saw this Now it's a few years later in Jacob's life, and this angel of the Lord speaks to Jacob and says, I'm that God. That God who revealed himself to you at Bethel, that's who I am. The angel of the Lord claims to be Jacob's God. In Judges 2, we read this. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim, and he said, I brought you up from Egypt. Two weeks ago we were talking about how the Bible specifies which God it means That just as the English tradition is to take your occupation and make it your last name, Smith, Miller, Baker, etc. So the Bible takes God's occupation and makes it his last name. The God who brought you up out of Egypt. That's how the God of Israel was always distinguished. And notice the angel of the Lord here claims that title for himself. He says, I am the God who brought you up out of Egypt. So we have the people who meet the angel of the Lord, they think he's God. The angel of the Lord claims to be God. And yet I've added a third category here. Because we must be reminded that people can be wrong, and the Bible records people being wrong. John the Baptist denied that he was the Elijah to come. Jesus says he was the Elijah to come. John got it wrong, and the Bible correctly recorded John's mistake. Just because these people, just because Hagar and Jacob and Manoah all thought they had met God, doesn't mean they had. Nor does the claim prove it to be true. For we met Satan some weeks back and he masquerades as an angel of light. So simply because an angel comes to you and says something and claims something doesn't make it so. So this third category is definitive. What do the Bible writers say about this angel? Why do I distinguish them? Because they are inspired by the Holy Spirit. They are the ones who testify to the truth. Let's see what they have to say. We go back now to the passage we've already considered, but we look at a different part of it now. And the angel of the Lord said to Hagar, So she called the name of Yahweh who spoke to her. Notice the Bible writer says it was Yahweh talking to Hagar. That the angel of the Lord was the true God. In Judges 6, this is the story of Gideon. And the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon and said to him, The Lord is with you, O mighty man of valor. And Gideon said, Gideon responds, I don't record that responding. And the Lord turned to him and said, Again, the inspired writer of the scriptures. The one who penned the book of Judges says, it was the angel of the Lord talking to Gideon, and then says, and the Lord said this while talking to Gideon. Book the writer of Judges believes the angel of the Lord to be God. In the third passage in Judges thirteen Again, we've seen this already, and I my apologies, I didn't cut and paste enough of this. So what you have there doesn't make sense on its own. But if you go back and look at the wider context of Judges 13, um what you see there is that the writer again affirms. that the angel of the Lord whom Manoah met was in fact God. So what are our conclusions from this? I think, I hope, trust it's obvious at this point. The people who meet the angel Lord say he's God. The angel of the Lord says he's God, and the inspired biblical writers all say that he is God. The angel of the Lord is God. Which ought to be reason enough to understand why I broke this out into a separate sermon. That this angel is no mere angel. He is not like the angels we met last week. And we must consider him differently. Now, this recognition, this conclusion that the angel of the Lord is God, probably raises as many questions as it answers, maybe more. Why would he appear as a man? Why is he called an angel? How is it that those who are seeing him are not falling down dead? And why is this theophany so different from the pillar of fire and smoke or the lightning atop of Mount Sinai? How and why is this God, the appearance of God, so different? Let's see if we can answer those So point question number two in our outline here, what happened when people met the angel of the Lord? And I want to skip kind of really quickly through the first two points and get to the third one. So one of the things what happened, we've already seen it. They spoke of him as God. We're gonna we saw it, they they were I'm saying they worshipped him as God. We kind of see a little bit of that in Hagar's response. We'll see more of that in a moment They worshipped him as God. It's really this third category, category C, that I want to address. And technically it's not even addressed, I said I asked the question, what happened when people I really want to focus on what doesn't happen. It's notable what doesn't happen here. For starters, and we've already alluded to this, for starters, they don't die. When the high priest entered into the most holy place on Yom Kippur, he entered with great fear, with great trepidation, for there was this fear that he would be struck dead. If he entered wrongly. We're going to read about Nadab and Abayu in a moment, but we find out, but we follow their story. Later they are struck dead. by the God of Israel. Uzzah was struck dead by the God of Israel. Throughout the prophets, the coming of the God of Israel is a terrible thing. A terrifying thing is coming in scriptures. It's almost always fearful. It is accompanied by death. Yet these people do not drop dead. And for the most part, they're not particularly fearful. But Noah was a little scared. If we had read on, we'd see that his fear is put aside. But apart from Manoah, the rest of those who encountered the angel of the Lord aren't struck with terror. When Isaiah meets God in the temple, Isaiah is sure he's going to die. When John meets God in the book of Revelation, he's sure he's going to die. But not so with those who meet the angel of the Lord. These people do not drop dead, and they are not particularly afraid either. But I think what is most striking in these encounters is what the angel himself does not do. Last week in Revelation 22, we saw how John encounter when when when John uh Sorry, sorry, apologize for my stammering here. When John's tour guide, his angel guide, revealed to him certain things. John was in awe and he fell at the feet of the angel to worship the angel. Do you recall what we saw last week? The angel immediately scolded John Get up! Don't worship me! I am merely an angel. I am merely a servant of the Most High God. Worship God alone It's stunning. The angel of the Lord never says such things. When Hagar called him God, the angel of the Lord did not rebuke her. When Manoah is afraid that he because he has met God, the angel of the Lord does not correct him. In a moment we're going to see a passage where Joshua worships the angel of the Lord. And far from telling him to get up, the angel of the Lord says, by the way, that's not enough that you're bowing down. You need to take your sandals off also. The angel of the Lord never stops anyone from worshiping him. And in fact, he encourages it and directs them to worship him properly. He must be God. For if any mere angel did that, he would be one of the fallen angels, and the angel of the Lord is never presented in that way in the Bible. The fact that the angel of the Lord accepts worship. So our conclusion here is very similar to the previous conclusion. The actions of the angel of the Lord affirm that he was God. He accepts worship. But there is a nuanced difference this time. There's something different about this appearance of God. There's something different about this theophany. He doesn't strike that same terror in the hearts of men. As many of the other appearances of God do. Those whom he visits do not drop dead, nor are they particularly afraid that they might. Again, apart from Benoit. He is God, but he is God in some form, in some way, in some manifestation, in which somehow his glory is shielded. Shrouded. The people are protected from the fullness of it. So we have this developing picture of the angel of the Lord as God But a manifestation of God that is, shall I use the word safer Number three. In what other biblical senior stories is the angel of the Lord believed to have been present? And you may feel like this is a little bit of a side trail here. I guess in one sense it kind of is. But I want to point out four, I think it's four, important uh times when the text doesn't use the phrase angel of the Lord. Those words are not specifically in the page But most scholars think that this is the same being. These are arranged in order of confidence. The first almost everybody agrees is the angel of the Lord. By the time we get to the fourth, there is more debate. The first comes out of Joshua 5 and 6. By the way, the first is a great reminder also, do not let chapter divisions interrupt how you think about the scriptures. They are not divinely inspired. As you pick up reading in chapter 6, you don't realize that it's the angel of the Lord speaking to Joshua. So we back up to the end of chapter 5. Joshua lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing before him. And the man said, I am the commander of the army of the Lord. Why do we think this is the angel of the Lord? Because no mere man can dare claim that title. Be the commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshipped. And the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy. So there we see it again. No mere man would ever allow themselves to be worshipped in this manner. And then add on, oh by the way, you're not worshiping me properly. And then we keep reading. Jericho was shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out, and none came in. And the Lord said to Joshua, And what follows is the explanation of how to take Jericho. You're gonna march around it one time each day and on the seventh day you're gonna march around seven times, blow the trumpets and walls and full. That's what comes next, I guess we We didn't get into all that, so I tr stopped short of that. What is notable here is that this commander of the army of the Lord is said by the writer of Joshua to be the Lord. He appears as a man. And so we have here, and Joshua worships him, but Joshua isn't terrified for his life And so we have a lot of Angel of the Lord-esque ideas that like the Angel of the Lord, this one appears as a man. Like the angel of the Lord, this one accepts worship. Like the angel of the Lord, this one comes with the authority of the Lord. Like the angel of the Lord, this one is called the Lord. And so most scholars agree that this is a theophany. This is an appearance of the angel of the Lord. In Genesis chapter 32. This is uh Jacob the the the famous meeting uh uh of the his wrestling all night and his name being changed to Israel. Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day Then he, that is, that man, said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God. He spends the night wrestling a man, and then the man the next day says, Oh, by the way, I am God. You have been fighting God all night long. By the way, you and your descendants are going to continue to be Godfighters, and that is your new name, Israel, Godfighter. This one appears as a man. Jacob, far from being afraid of him, decides to take him on. And then this one claims to be God. And if this one is not truly God, think about the implications. That the nation of God, the people of God, changed their name because a non-God fooled their forefather Jacob Clearly, this is God. So both of these passages are generally agreed to be an appearance of the angel of the Lord. Though he's not called that in your case, he has all of the Angel of the Lord-esque properties. These next two are a bit more debatable. In Exodus 24, the scene is that of the first corporate worship service. We'll allude to it again when we come to the Lord's table. Israel is at Sinai, the Ten Commandments have been given, and the elders of Israel ascend to the mountaintop. To worship. And in verse 10 we read this. They saw the God of Israel. Below a few verses. I probably should have included it. And he did not lay a hand upon the chiefs of Israel. Now it's interesting. Back in Exodus 20, when the people come to Mount Sinai, when God appears to them on the mountain, he appears with lightning and thunder and smoke and fire, and the people are terrified. And they sit at the bottom of Sinai and they say to Moses at the end of chapter 20, do not ever let him appear to us like that again. For we will die. But on this occasion, the elders ascend the mountain, and it just says they saw God. In fact, it specifies he didn't lay a hand on them. And we will see later how it all played out. This is a very different theophany than we have in Exodus 20. It's a very different appearance of God than we have in Exodus 20. And it's in the context of the giving of the law, and we recall last week we saw that both Galatians and Hebrews say that angels or an angel brought the law to God, to Moses. And so it's very possible that this different encounter with God in the midst of the giving of the law is also the angel of the Lord. The angel who brought the law to Moses is the angel of the Lord. The angel who did not strike them dead, who appeared to them, is the angel of the Lord, as he doesn't strike the others dead when he appears to them. Our fourth and final passage, it's subtle. But pay attention to the carefulness of the wording. Following the golden calf debacle, Moses shattered the original stone tablets of the law. Now he is ascended again to the top of the mountain, and he is being given a second copy, a replacement set. Follow closely what happens The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with Moses there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and proclaim You see what's going on? The Lord is there twice. The Lord is there in duplicate. The Lord is standing with Moses. The Lord is passing before Moses. Yahweh is next to him, and Yahweh is in front of him. It's almost as if there are two different manifestations of the one God of Israel. Not gonna make a not gonna go overboard making too much out of that. But clearly there appears to be some sense Of God being in front of Moses in two distinct manifestations. So, what are our conclusions from these four passages? It's really rather simple. That God appeared to men, to mankind, far more frequently than we sometimes recognize. And he does so in ways which allowed people to see him and live. And in fact, most of these depictions are of him he's depicted as a man, as a human being. And these are probably also additional appearances of the angel of the Lord. So when people meet the angel of the Lord, they call him God. The angel of the Lord calls himself God. The biblical writers call him God. People worship him, and there is no penalty for doing so. And neither are they destroyed in meeting God, so he's somehow different from some of the Theophanies of God, distinct from other theophanies of God. Come to our fourth section. This one's kind of important. We're going to look at some of the significant works of the angel of the Lord. In Genesis twenty-two, Abraham has taken Isaac to Mount Moriah. You'll remember the story. The boy recognizes that they are going to worship. The boy recognizes that they have most of what they need for sacrifice, that they have wood, they have fire, there is a knife. And the boy recognizes that there is no sacrifice. They ascend the mountain, they are on top of the mountain. Abraham binds Isaac. He lays Isaac on the altar on top of the wood, and in a terrible and in difficult scene. Abraham is about to slaughter his son. Pick up in verse ten. Then Abraham reached out his hand, took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven. A second time later on in the passage, the angel of the Lord called Abraham a second time from heaven. You recall what happened next? You recall how the scene played out? The angel of the Lord restrains Abraham's hand, keeps him from slaughtering Isaac. Makes known to him a ram caught in the thicket, its horns tangled in the briars. The angel of the Lord provides a substitution. A sacrifice in place of. Now, Isaac is the father of Jacob, and Jacob, his name is changed to Israel, and they become the people of God. In the saving of Isaac, the angel of the Lord very much saved God's people. But it would not have existed had Isaac been slaughtered. The angel of the Lord intervenes in Genesis 22 to provide a sacrifice of substitution to save God's people. In Exodus 23, Moses is concluding his uh what is his second visit to the top of Sinai. His first visit, he'd been given the Ten Commandments. In this brief second visit, he begins to be given the detailed case law to help interpret and apply the Ten Commandments. And as this section closes, God says to Moses in verse 20 of Exodus 23, Behold, I send an angel before you, plural, you plural, the people. To guard you, plural, on the way to on the way, and to bring you to the place that I have prepared. Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression. For my name is in him. We don't always appreciate the importance of names in the Old Testament. But recall what Moses wanted from God back at the burning bush. I gotta know your name. I'm going to understand you, I've got to be able to name you. Now God says, look to the angel who is going to guide you. He has my name. He is me. He is the essence of me. He guides the people in their wandering in the wilderness. He protects them. He keeps them. He brings them to the promise. The angel of the Lord saved the people of God in Isaac, and he guides and leads the people of God in the wilderness. And now we jump back to Exodus 3, and maybe I should have put these in chronological or canonical order, but whatever. Exodus three Verse 2. And the angel of the Lord appeared to Moses in a flame out of the midst of a bush. Everyone knows, and I think literally everyone knows the story of the burning bush. Even if they don't know the details. That Moses meets God in the burning bush. But the text tells us it's the angel of the Lord. Now how does it play out? What happens? There's the back and forth. Moses doesn't want to be the spokesman. The angel of the Lord God from the bush says, no, I'm going to empower you. I'm going to give you all the signs and wonders you need. I'm going to give you all the confidence and give you all the power and give you all the ability. You're going to lead my people. You're going to be the mechanism by which I free them. And Moses famously demands, who shall I say has sent me? Who are you? The one from the bush says, I am that I am I'm the one who is self-defining. I am the one who will be what he needs to be. Who is who he is in and of himself without regard to anyone else? It's the angel of the Lord. Appears to Moses, who establishes the plan of salvation for the people, who chooses the conduit of that salvation, Moses himself. who maps out how it's going to be, who empowers Moses with the gifts and the signs and the wonders to do what he has to do. It is the angel of the law. Frees God's people, saving them from their incarceration, slavery in Egypt If Exodus 3 looks forward to Israel's salvation, Isaiah 63 looks back. Verse 9 says, In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them. And in his love and in his pity he redeemed them. He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. This is Isaiah. This is the one who in his 53rd chapter famously looked forward and saw that God's suffering servant would be afflicted for the salvation of his people. And here Isaiah looks back and says that the angel of God's presence always was afflicted along with God's people. The one in whom the name of God resides, the one whom God promised to Moses back in Exodus 23. Isaiah says he's always been with us. He's always suffered the affliction we have suffered. He has always guided us. He has always protected us. He has been God's presence among us. Brings us back around to Zechariah 3 again. The last cr chronologically and the last canonically. The last time we know that the angel of the Lord appeared to anyone. And it is, in my opinion, one of the most profound and explicit appearances of the angel of the Lord. The adversary, Satan, is attacking Joshua the high priest. And we're reminded that in the form of religion that God gave before the cross, In that form of a religion, the people of God were represented before God by priests. And the high priest was the ultimate representative of the people of God. And so when Satan attacks the high priest, he is attacking the people of God. And it turns out he's justified in his attack. The text says that Joshua the high priest is standing there with filthy robes. That is the English euphemism. For the Hebrew word behind it, excrement, dung, biological waste He's covered. He literally stinks to high heaven. And he is covered with the yuck of this life. Standing in the presence of the angel of the angel of the Lord says, I see it I know. But this is a brand plucked from the fire, an ember that would have burned up, except that I reached in and pulled it out. I have saved this one, these people, Jerusalem, and I'm going to make them clean. And the angel of the Lord directs that the filthy robes of the high priest be stripped off from him. And that he that clean robes be given to him. It is symbolic It is the need for cleanness, cleanliness, righteousness we are to stand in the presence of God. And it is the angel of the Lord who provides that righteousness. Joshua isn't sent away to clean himself up as given the cleanness he needs. I love the little Zachariah. I can't wait for them to finish. Put a clean turban on them also. Don't miss that. If you're going to clean them up, just get them all clean. And the angel of the Lord says, yep, put a new turban. It is the angel of the Lord who makes the people of Israel, the people of God, clean. So that they might stand in God's presence. The angel of the Lord saved Israel by saving Isaac. Turn to the conclusion section now He provided a substitutionary sacrifice. At the burning of the bush, the angel of the Lord provided for the saving of Israel, choosing her leader, empowering him, making promises to him. A top Sinai, God promises an angel with his name will go before them and lead them as they traverse the wilderness of this life. And he will usher them into the promised land. Isaiah says the angel walked alongside God's people through their history, suffering what they suffered, afflicted as they were afflicted. And in our main text from Zechariah 3, we read that as the angel of the Lord who provides the cleanliness needed to stand in the presence of God, making moot the accusations of the adversary. So, what are our final conclusions? How do we tie this all together? The angel of the Lord is God. The angel of the Lord is somehow distinct from God He is Israel's savior and protector. So the fourth one there, I ask a question. I know those four points aren't parallel, Mrs. Nelson, my seventh-grading teacher would be disappointed in. But they're not parallel to make a point. What does angel mean? We saw last week that angel meant messenger. Messenger, one who brings a message. We have recognized that the angel of the Lord is in fact the Lord Himself. This angel is God. So why is the word angel appended to him at all? Because he is somehow God the messenger. Not Hermes or Mercury, not one of these other gods that brings messages No, he is God acting as a messenger, God being the messenger. And yet he's God. And yet he's distinct from God. Where does it come together? I have often argued that I wish the Gospel of John opened up the New Testament. I'm not going to start a denomination over that either. John ties it together force in our New Testament. In the beginning was the message. And the message was with God, and the message was God. This Greek word logos that John uses is a loaded word. It's a big word. It's a word full of much content. It can mean simply word, but usually, and particularly the way John uses it, it is talking about something bigger than a mirror. function of of lexography. This is not just simply a conveyance of a single idea, but rather the complex set of all the things that come together to mean something big. The word of God is that bringing it all together, tying it all together, making it clear to us, communicating it to us, communicating it to us in all of its fullness. How did the author of Hebrews open up? In the former days God revealed himself in this way, but in the latter days he has revealed himself to us through his son, who is the exact representation of his being. That's what John is trying to capture here for us. That the Logos is the fullness of God revealed to us. Revealed to us in a way that we could comprehend. One of the great church fathers used to say that God speaks to us as a mother speaks to a baby with this lisping sort of um uh uh baby talk way so that we can comprehend And John is clearly talking about Jesus. There's no question to whom he is pointing. And yet he ties it back for them. The one who is the Word of God to man, the one who brings the message of God to man, the one who embodies the fullness of the meaning of God for men is Jesus. But this word logos is a message. It's an idea. It's a communication of a concept. So that the messenger of the Lord, the angel of the Lord, is Jesus. Doesn't yet have that name, for he has not yet been born of Mary. He's not permanently incarnate. But we see throughout the Old Testament that God the Son takes on the form of one of us to communicate God to us, to enact the benefits of God among us. To save us, to guide us, to protect us, to do all of the things that we are accustomed to Jesus doing. Now there are some implications of this. First of all, while the fullness of Trinity doesn't really take shape until the New Testament. Anyone who says that the Trinity was the invention of Christian Jews, that the Trinity doesn't really come about until the Christian era has simply not studied the Old Testament. God's Spirit, that is the Holy Spirit, is all over the Old Testament. And as it turns out, God the Son, the Word of God, the Messenger of God, the angel of the Lord, is also all over the Old Testament and is distinct in some way Certainly the concept of God the Father and God the Son would come into fuller view in the New Testament. But the idea that both existed is clearly in the Old Testament. We did not invent this. God did. Even at the time of Jesus, Christianity was not a new faith in this way, but be faith, holding to what had always been taught. Secondly, the economy of the Trinity is already in view in the Old Testament. Each person has his role that he plays, as it were. They're all involved in all aspects of being God, and yet the Father, the Son, and the Spirit have different roles. And this angel of the Lord, this mediator between God and man, he is the form of God, the manifestation of God, who is approachable, to whom we can speak without fear. He is the one who enacts the plan of God's salvation. It's not as if God had grown tired by the time of the New Testament and then decided to divvy up his roles to different persons. No, these had always been there. Our God does not change and he does not grow weary. The second person of the Trinity has been carrying out the duties of self- Salvation from the beginning. Thirdly, this speaks volumes about the kindness and mercy and gentleness of God in the Old Testament. How often do we hear, I imagine some of us think, wow, the God of the Old Testament was just mean. Just nasty, unapproachable, people just dropping dead, right and left, lightning bolts flying all around. Jesus was not invented to put a softer, kinder, gentler face on God. The mercy of God has always been around His kindness and his gentleness with humanity have always been there. For it is the angel of the Lord who comes in that capacity, who is the pre-incarnate Christ. Who comes with a gentleness? Who comes in a shielded way? Who comes in a safe way? Who comes to us. Communicate God to us. I guess technically we could have considered the angel of the Lord last week as one of the angels. In this series of angels and demons, maybe we shouldn't have included them all, since he is God. But I didn't want us to walk away from this and to later encounter the angel of the Lord and go, what is this all about? This angel is particularly important. In the angel lord, we have God the Son, the word and messenger of God to man. He demonstrates God's mercy. Coming in a way which neither destroyed us nor overly frightened us. He enacts God's loving kindness, working salvation, and he walked alongside Israel. Afflicted as she was afflicted, guiding her and protecting her. This is your Jesus. Vealed from of old. to be the word of God, the messenger of the Lord to man. Amen. Lord, help us to see your salvation in Jesus Christ enacted from the earliest pages of the scriptures, set up for us in the angel of the Lord. Do not let us miss his glory, his mercy, his kindness, his salvation. Let us properly understand that this has always been your plan and your way of life. Lift these things up to you in his name.