The opening of our four-part Angels and Demons series, titled Satan, was not recorded. This covers that same material. I'm pretty sure it was C. S. Lewis who quipped that one of the church's greatest errors was not spending enough time talking about Satan, while another major error was spending too much time talking about Satan. He's not wrong. From what I understand, Satan is for the church a bit like a golfer standing at the T. She can't ignore the water hazard, or she might hit right into it But if she focuses on the water hazard, well, that's where the ball is headed, because that's where she's looking It's similar with our discussion of Satan. We must not obsess over him, but neither should we ignore him. Our study begins in Job, a story which opens in heaven, with God holding court and the angels reporting to him. Before we jump in, I think there is benefit to spending a little time thinking about verse 6 of Job 1. Job 1, verse 6. I begin by drawing our attention to the phrase sons of God. Now there was a day when the sons of God It is almost universally agreed that the sons of God, stated here in Job, is speaking of the angels. And that's going to be important for us. So the angels, the sons of God, came to present themselves before the Lord. The Lord. The definite article, the isn't used before names. I am not the Scot, I am just Scott. Well in Hebrew it says, Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before Yahweh. The Lord in English is a title. On the Hebrew page we find a name, Yahweh. Ironically, the very next thing in Hebrew is the word the, and it is missing from our English page. The Satan also came among them. Let me try to explain why I think this matters. While I am not the Scot, I am the pastor. The belongs before one's role, but not before one's name. The English makes God appear impersonal, fulfilling a role, while the devil is referenced by his proper name, Satan. But the opposite is true in Hebrew. God is named. He is personal. And he is personally attending to matters upon the earth Our God is not in heaven, oblivious to the concerns of our lives. And that's the whole point of the sons of God, the angels coming to him. They are reporting what they have observed on the earth. They are serving as God's eyes and ears. So in this scene, a personal God is attending to matters upon the earth, and into the scene comes an unnamed adversary. That's the meaning of the Satan. It means the adversary. The adversary is among those reporting to I am the personal God. In all our study of angels and demons and Satan, let's not lose sight of this fact. God is personally superintending all creatures, great and small, physical and non-physical. I'm going to read the rest of the passage from Job 1, beginning in verse 6, and I'm going to read it in the manner that I just described. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before Yahweh, and the adversary also came among them. Yahweh said to the adversary, From where have you come? The adversary answered Yahweh and said, From going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down on it. And Yahweh said to the adversary, Have you considered my servant Job that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man who fears God and turns away from evil? The adversary answered Yahweh and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face. And Yahweh said to the adversary, Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him do not stretch out your hand. So the adversary went out from the presence of Yahweh. Job is actually the oldest book in the Bible, predating Genesis by some 600 years. So it's One of the earliest, so in other words, one of the earliest beings that we meet in Scripture is the adversary. Interestingly enough, if we've begun in Genesis, the adversary appears very early there also showing up in Genesis 3. So whether we consider the Bible in its historical order or its canonical order, we find the adversary presented very early. Now if you're listening to this and you're above a certain age, I don't think you're going to find that surprising. We know from experience, from living in this life, that there is opposition to this life. There is something out there, or someone, which opposes us, oppresses us, and suppresses us. So we are not shocked that the Bible reveals the existence of an adversary. Even if we were new to the Scripture, we would still kind of know That he was there. It is, however, important to note the distinctiveness of this revelation. The adversary portrayed here in Scripture is noteworthy, and he's not like our human explanations of this world By way of contrast, let's briefly consider how the adversary, this opposition, is portrayed outside of the Bible Opposition is inherent in Eastern philosophy, right? They say there is light and dark, yang and yin, each counteracts the other, yet neither can overcome. In their view, this action and reaction, position and opposition is an eternal and irreducible attribute of nature itself. Peace, they argue, is not the absence of opposition, for this will always exist. Rather, peace comes in accepting that fact. judging neither the light nor the dark, and elevating oneself above the struggle. In acceptance of both the yang and the yin, the position and the opposition There is, they argue, balance and peace. Thus, in Eastern thought, the adversary is not personal, but inherent in nature and will therefore never go away. We in the West also acknowledge some sort of unseen opposition and adversarial presence at work in the universe. Unlike Eastern philosophy, most in the West will be more judgmental, labeling much of the opposition to life, as we think it should be, as evil. Neither do we simply accept it, but we fight back against it. Against it. Now, strict Western naturalism, that worldview which sees science as the only path to understanding. That eschews any idea of a mystical or spiritual force behind this opposition to our collective efforts. Instead, what you often see is this idea that the that There is an evil spirit in the sense that we might speak of a teen spirit or an esprit de corps. There's no being or personage behind evil Only in a united enthusiasm, as it were, for evil acts among at least a portion of the human species. The Bible presents a very different picture from either of these views. It recognizes the presence of an adversarial force in the world. and finds its locus in a person whom the Bible calls the devil or Satan. This brief study will consider Satan's nature and origin, his role, his binding, and his fate. So, where did Satan, uh, what is Satan and where did he come from? Well, Satan's ontology and his origin are intertwined. What he is is wrapped up in the question of where he came from. Neither can be stated with the sort of certainty we might like. But on the other hand, we are sure of some things Satan is not. He is not like God who had no beginning. If Satan's origin is a bit of a mystery, we are sure he had one. The Bible never portrays Satan as on par with God Satan is not the Bible yin to God's yang, two co-equal and opposing forces. In the passage from Job, Do we not see clearly that Satan is subordinate to God, coming before the Almighty as one among many, and leaving when he is dismissed? And though we did not read far enough to see this, the story goes on to tell us that the adversary's treatment of Job was bound by the limits God placed on him Satan is clearly portrayed as God's subject and not as God's equal. The picture in the New Testament is similar. Revelation 12 says Michael the Archangel uh dispatches Satan. Now, on the construction site, the apprentice tackles the minor snafuos. The master carpenter takes care of more challenging problems. But when the problem is going to significantly affect the final look of the home or the project's budget, The general contractor weighs in. It's his money and his reputation on the line. And so it's interesting that God does not rise from his throne to deal with Satan. But instead he dispatches Michael. That tells us something of the gulf of power which exists between our God and our adversary. Is there a cosmic struggle between good and evil? Yes. But this struggle is not eternal as Eastern philosophy imagines. Because Satan is not a god, a demigod, or any sort of being one might place on par with God. I cannot stress this enough. We need to be wary of Satan, we need but we need not worry about Satan Our thinking about him must be informed by the knowledge that whatever he might be, he is not God's equal in being or power. God clearly holds Satan's leash and keeps him in check for now, and will one day put him away for all eternity. So that's what Satan isn't, but what is he? If we consider Isaiah 14, we get a little bit of insight. Isaiah 14, we're looking specifically at verses 12, 13, and 14 Isaiah 14, 12, 13, and 14. Here's what we read. This is from the English Standard Version How you are fallen from heaven, O daystar, son of dawn. And I will note that Son of Dawn is transferred as Lucifer in the King James Bible, which is where we sometimes get that name for Satan. How you are fallen from heaven, O Daystar Son of Dawn, how you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low. You said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven. Above the stars of God, I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the far reaches of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High. This passage, together with a similar passage in Ezekiel 28, is generally taken to be a description of the origin of Satan. He is imagined to have been an exalted creation of God, highly placed, greatly esteemed, but he was not content with what God had made him and wanted more. And given that this was a time of sinlessness, God's full power and wrath against sin had never been displayed. The fullness of God was unknowable in that moment And so this exalted creation, this great one among the sons of God, imagined the gulf between himself and the Creator to be much smaller than it really was, and he sought to usurp God and take his throne. Jesus makes a remark in Luke 10. 18 that seems to support this view. He says, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven, implying that Satan was once in heaven and then cast out. So taken together, Isaiah 14, Ezekiel 28, and Luke 10 suggest Satan as a fallen angel. We'll talk more about fallen angels in the weeks to come. Now, that all seems tidy enough, and I think it is very likely the explanation of his origin. But I want to stop short of absolute certainty. Why? Because at the top of that chapter, back in verse 4 of Isaiah 14, the prophet says explicitly that this is a taunt to be directed at the king of Babylon. And the parallel passage in Ezekiel explicitly speaks of the king of Tyre The two prophetic passages, which are taken as Satan's backstory, are explicitly said to be about earthly kings. So now we have to ask why do we even entertain the idea that they might be about Satan at all? Well, the language is over the top, it is excessive. In what way would the king of Babylon ever have been regarded as the morning star? It's also hard to see the language of these passages as being merely human. And we know from the Psalms that it was it's not unheard of for these Hebrew texts to have two levels of meaning. There are psalms which on one level point clearly to King David, and yet on a deeper level they point to the greater Messiah who was to come. And so perhaps these passages in Isaiah and Ezekiel also do double duty. I point this out mostly to remind us to hold some doctrines with certainty, but to hold others with humility. I'm pretty sure Satan was once an exalted angel whose pride caused him to sin and who was displaced from his seat of glory and power. But there is a reason that that sort of doctrine doesn't make it into things like the Nicene Creed. So we hold it with humility, willing to be wrong, to give it up if necessary We can be absolute where the Bible is absolute. Maybe we should be silent where it is silent. And everywhere in between, let's try to walk with gentle humility. Before we leave the question of what is Satan, I want to address one more thing. Satan is a person. On Earth, we tend to use person synonymously with human, understandable, but incomplete. God is a person. In fact, he is three persons While personhood is difficult to define, and it is hotly debated in legal and philosophical circles Persons generally have characteristics like consciousness, rationality, volition, self-awareness, and the capacity for social interaction. Satan has all of these. He is conscious, self-aware, rational, volitional, and he speaks I point this out because there is a growing tendency in many churches to depersonalize our enemy. Many pastors are teaching that Satan on the paging of Scripture is the embodiment of the human capacity for wrong, but he is not an actual discrete being. Pastor Donald Barnhouse, paraphrasing a French poet, liked to say, The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist. I don't want you to fall for that trick. The devil is real and he is a person. He is a spirit being, having no form and no body, but very real. He appears to be a fallen angel of tremendous power. What then is Satan's role? Well, as I stressed in our scripture reading, Satan did not begin as a name, but as a role. In Job 1 and 2 and in Zechariah 3, it is always written as the Satan in Hebrew. the adversary or the accuser. In this sense, Satan was a legal term, the one who opposed you or accused you in court. In time, this role he played became his name. So for example, in 1 Chronicles 21:1 We see for the first time in the Hebrew the word Satan without the definite article. Then Satan, not the Satan, stood against Israel and incited David. His role was the same. He stood against God's people and God's king and incited the king to sin. But now Satan is used as a name. The New Testament uses Satan as a name as well. And this is the key role Satan plays. He opposes God by inciting sin. He is the adversary. Now I've just said he incites sin, but please do not ever say, when you sin, the devil made me do it. Dear believer, you sin of your own free will. The devil did not make you do it, but for sure he is a tempter. It was he who deceived Eve and who stoked Adam's pride. He incited David to sin, and we meet him for the first time in the New Testament in that very role when he tempted Jesus in the wilderness. Speaking of Satan tempting Jesus, let's look briefly at the devil's technique as recorded by the Apostle Matthew. So this is from Matthew chapter 4. Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. The tempter came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, Tell these stones to become bread. Jesus answered. It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Now it is not inherently sinful to eat bread, nor is it a sin to work a miracle. So where is the temptation here? It is in the subtle wording with which Satan approached Jesus. If you are the Son of God. We must be very wary. The tempter will come at us this same way. If you are a child of God, wouldn't God want you to have that new car? You know, the one you cannot actually afford, the car that'll make it impossible for you to tithe. But if you are the child of God, wouldn't he want you to have it? The power is in that word, if. And we feel the need to prove our status. We live with doubt, and Satan exploits that doubt. Keep reading, picking up in verse 5. Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down. And here's where Satan takes a different tact this time. For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Jesus answered him, It is also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Satan again uses that if, but he steps it up this time, quoting Scripture. What would that sound like to us? If you are God's child, didn't Jesus say you should have an abundant life? Buy the car. Go on, buy it. Again, like the stones to bread, buying a car is not inherently sinful. But when buying that car causes sin in other ways, when it causes financial stress, in our marriage, when it keeps us from giving to the Lord, when it cripples our ability to be generous with our fellow man. In all of these ways, it becomes sin. Satan uses God's word to cast doubt. He did it to Eve. Did God really say This is one of many reasons we need to be in church on a regular weekly even more often basis so that those lies and deceptions can be countermanded by God's ordained servant, who strives to place God's word in its proper context. Abundant life is promised. But since it was a promise given to the twelve, and since all twelve lived lives of poverty and struggle, And eleven of the twelve died horrible deaths. Maybe, just maybe, that promise wasn't meant for this life. And that's the reminder, the sort of reminder that we need. Those are the sorts of things we need to hear, and we need to be in church regularly to be protected against the deception of Satan. We need someone to point that out to us. So Satan is a tempter, and he tempts primarily through lies and deception Now we pick up in verse 8. Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. All this I will give you, he said, that is, Satan said, if you will bow down and worship me Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil left him, and angels came and attended him. Here's where we must be very careful about our adversary. He does, in fact, possess great power and tremendous authority. He claims to control all the kingdoms of the earth. And notice Jesus doesn't argue that point. In fact, the New Testament appears to uphold this claim. 1 Corinthians 4. 4 says The God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers. Now who must that be? Who is the great adversary who would oppose the gospel and the glory of Christ and blind the eyes of unbelievers? This can only be Satan. And here he is called the God of this world. His reign over humanity, over culture, over our thoughts and attitudes is so complete it is as if he were God. Ephesians 2-2 is in some ways even scarier. It calls Satan the prince of the power of the air It is as if we are simply breathing him in through the air. He's that powerful, that influential. Now, I was emphatic earlier that he was not co-equal with God, and he is not. But that is not to say he is powerless. And he will offer you a taste of that power to lead you into sin. That's what he does to Jesus in the third temptation. Bow to me, and I will give you power. I suspect this is why a woman might try to sleep her way to advancement. The lust for power causes her to sin. It's why men trample other men in business. And in the final analysis, the pursuit of power is what causes war. Satan will subtly deceive you, if you really are. He will use scripture to mislead you. Abundant life, abundant life. And he will bring the offer of power. Just a little sin will get you everything you want. Be very wary of the adversary. His goal is to lead you into sin. Satan has other tactics. 1 Thessalonians 3 and Revelation 2, both of those passages portray him as bringing destruction and suffering to God's people to tempt them to abandon the faith. Revelation 9 calls Satan the destroyer, and he uses that power to bring suffering, which in turn he hopes will dislodge faith. This is yet another reason we must gather frequently. To encourage one another in the face of suffering. We need to be in church so that we are reminded that much of the suffering we maybe are facing or will one day face. is intended by our adversary to turn us from the hope we have in Jesus. Be wary of our adversary. For all of this, let me take you to an incredibly important passage which is often misunderstood in this context. Matthew 10, and I'm going to pick up in verse 28. Matthew 10, 28 says this. Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. So right there we have a reference to hell and reference to one who destroys, and too many of us immediately think of Satan. Is he not the destroyer? Well yes he is. Is he not powerful, having tremendous sway over this world? Well yes he does And is he not out to get us? Yes, he is. But he is not the one Jesus wants us to fear. So we keep reading. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? Yet not one of them will fall to the ground, aside from your father's care. The disposition of sparrows is in the Father's hand, not Satan's. And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So don't be afraid you are worth more than many sparrows Whoever acknowledges me before others, I will also acknowledge before my Father in heaven. But whoever disowns me before others, I will disown before my Father in heaven. And there we have it. Our final destiny is in Christ's hands, not Satan's. If God is for us, who can be against us? While Satan is the accuser now, on the day of judgment, it is Jesus who will either stand with us, because we acknowledged him, or he will not know us. Because we claim not to know him. It is God who will dispatch souls to either heaven or hell. We must be wary of Satan, but we must fear God. Which brings up an interesting question How should we deal with Satan's temptations and attacks? Becky and I were recently sitting with a woman who told us that her cat got all fired up when she yelled at Satan. the woman was yelling at Satan, not the cat. There is a thread in American Christianity which encourages that sort of response to Satan, that we should address him directly, yell at him, rebuke him, etc. And to be sure, we saw Jesus do exactly this in the wilderness temptation. And we ask ourselves, shouldn't we do the same like Jesus did? To see the answer, picture this. A young woman is walking down the street when a man accosts her. She yells at the man, get away from me, stop it, leave me alone Now what do you think? Has she acted rightly? Well let me fill in an important missing detail The young man a young woman was walking down the street with her husband, 6'3, 210 pounds, 28 years old, and a green beret for seven years. Now what do you think of the young woman's strategy? Yelling at Satan, talking to him at all, is foolishness. The woman had a one-man killing machine at her elbow, but instead of turning to him, she hoped she could rebuke the attacker into submission? Let me stress again, in the words of the Apostle John, he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. In your battle with the adversary, turn to your advocate, the Holy Spirit. Turn to his word, turn to his people, turn to his help in prayer. You look silly yelling at Satan and leaving the Holy Spirit on the sidelines. And by the way, Let's go back to that young woman and imagine that the scolding worked, that the assailant turned around and ran. Do we really think it was her yelling that dissuaded his attack? Wasn't it more likely that he looked up and saw her husband? When you rebuke Satan and he turns away, are you taking credit for what the Holy Spirit has actually caused? In addressing Satan, we need to take a minute to address a very disputed passage about Satan. Revelation 20 says this. Beginning in verse 1. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pin and a great chain. And he seized the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, and threw him into the pit. and shut it and sealed it over him so that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while. I haven't the time to fully address this passage, but let me uh say just a few things about it. First, even within the reformed camp, Where we generally agree on most things, we do not agree on this. So I'm going to give you the view I hold, and which is probably the most prevalent view among reformed uh thinkers, but it is not universal even within our camp. And we should be gentle with those who differ from us. So here's my take on this passage Right out of the gate, let's dispatch any notion of this being literal. Why? Well for starters, chains cannot bind spirits. The devil is a spirit being, having no body. He is not held by physical chains, yet the angel binds him with a great chain It's a metaphor. It's a word picture. It is not literal. Neither is the pit. And neither is the thousand years. 1,000 is to the Bible a generic number expressing enormity. I used to say to my children, I have told you a bazillion times not to do this or that or the other thing. That's how the Bible uses 1,000. The Lord owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Now in the driftless region of southwestern Wisconsin alone, there are more than a thousand hills with cattle on them. So are all of the cattle outside the dairy state not gods? Clearly the psalmist was being picturesque, making the point that the Lord owns a lot of cattle on a lot of hills. In another place, the Psalms say, Better is one day in your court than a thousand elsewhere. So, for a for a thousand and one days elsewhere, should we trade in the Lord's presence? You get the idea. Honestly, I am unaware of a single instance in the Bible where 1,000 is for sure literal. Even the Song of Solomon puts his wives at about 140. So is it possible that the Book of Kings, by saying Solomon had a thousand wives, was trying to make a hyperbolic point? The man just had way too many wives. Anyway, this passage in Revelation 20 is not literal with regard to the pit. or the chain, or the 1,000 years. It speaks of a lengthy time during which Satan is bound in some way. Now we'll come back to Revelation 20 in a moment, but let's jump over to Matthew 12 and consider Jesus' showdown with the Pharisees there. He has been casting out demons. They've accused him of being the prince of demons, and that's how he can cast them out. And he responds this way in Matthew 12, 26. If Satan drives out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then can his kingdom stand? And if I drive out demons by Beelzebubul, the prince of demons, by whom do your people drive them out? So then they will be your judges. But if it is by the Spirit of God that I drive out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or again, how can anyone enter a strong man's house and carry off his possessions unless he first ties up the strongman? Then he can plunder his house. Jesus is saying, in effect, that the very fact that he is able to drive out demons indicates that something is happening in front of their eyes. something new by which the power of Satan is being limited. The strong man, in Jesus' metaphor, is being uh uh Tied up, being bound in the way Jesus put it. The work of Christ, this is the binding of Revelation 20. The work of Christ upon the earth, his life, his death, and his resurrection have all served to bind Satan, drastically limiting his power. During the lengthy period which follows, the church age, not a literal 1,000 years, during this time Satan is no longer able, what did it say in Revelation 20, no longer able to deceive the nations. You see, prior to Christ, salvation was largely limited to one nation after Christ. Whole swath of Gentiles have come to be saved in Jesus. Whole nations are no longer under Satan's sway, even if many individuals are. Again, he is powerful, but far from omnipotent. And what power he once had has been reduced by the work of Christ, in effect, binding him during this church age. So, finally, let's take a look at what is his fate. And related to that, can he be redeemed? We're going back now to Revelation 20, and we're picking up in verse 4. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. The scene is one of judgment, and it's filled in with some more detail in verses 5 and 6. Verses 7, 8, and 9 outline what happens when Satan is temporarily freed from his binding. And we pick up again in verse 10. And the devil, who had deceived them, was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. Satan's fate is sealed. It is known with absolute certainty. Notice the lack of contingency here. It doesn't say unless he repents. It doesn't say if he continues on this path, one day Satan will most certainly be cast into hell. And there he will suffer. He will be actively tormented day and night, without ceasing, without end. This is the fate of Satan. He cannot be redeemed. He cannot be bought back. He cannot repent and return to his previous status. Which reveals something of about his role that we discussed earlier. In 2008, Becky and I were moving to Michigan. That was uh right around the peak of the mortgage crisis. Houses were in foreclosure everywhere. It was striking how many foreclosed houses we visited were in shambles. Why? Because as they were being evicted, the occupants trashed them, vandalized them. Why? Because it was all they could think to do to vent their anger and frustration. at a fate which many had brought on themselves through foolish decisions. That illustrates the work of Satan on this earth He's been evicted from heaven because of decisions he made. His fate is sealed, and all he can think of doing is to lash out at the rightful owner Trashing the place in his frustration. Satan means adversary. He is God's opponent and ours. He is not a vague idea. He's not the spirit of human struggle, nor the yang to God's yin. He is a personal being with volition, self-awareness, and speech He is likely an angel who sinned, and thus he is a spirit being lacking a body. Though thrown out of heaven, he still possesses tremendous power and authority. He is the power of the air, the God of this world, though he is no match for the true God who has bound him in Christ, who holds his leash even today, and who has sealed the devil's fate in hell. This is the God who stands ready to confront the adversary. It is he whom we should fear, not Satan. And it is he who is in us and greater than he who is in the world. Amen.