Please turn in your copy of God's Word to Psalm 4. Reminder that the Psalms fall very near the physical center of your Bible, and so it's pretty easy to find. We're going to be looking today at Psalm 4. Before I begin reading, a couple of Technical comments. You'll notice at the top of there, there's a couple of comments made by the psalmist, or the uh the compiler of the psalms, one of those two, to the choir master with stringed instruments. You should know that musical directions like these are commonplace in the book of Psalms, and you should also know that they're found in the oldest available copies of the scripture. In other words, unlike the paragraph headings, these were not added by the translator, but appear to be part of the scripture itself. I share that with you, not because we're going to sing it this morning, but because I want us to realize that these were intended to be sung. These were intended to be put to music. And the scriptures show us that. We then see it says a psalm of David. This is a little more problematic. It seems like a straightforward sentence in English. Unfortunately, Hebrew is not as precise as we might want it to be. In Hebrew, there is a letter added to David's name, the letter Lamed, and it can mean of. It was written by David. But unfortunately, that letter can also indicate that it's for or two, that someone else wrote this psalm and it was dedicated to David or for David. That Lamid can also indicate the word about or concerning. In other words, this is a psalm written about David. I share that to say this. We must be a little careful how dogmatic we get when the Bible is more ambiguous than perhaps the way it's translated. Nothing wrong with translation. There's nothing else they could do But we have to realize that there is room for broader understanding of some of these Psalms that say they are of David. Now having said that, I'm going to turn to write around and make this comment. Based on the content of this psalm, as you'll see in a moment, I'm absolutely convinced this one was written by King David himself, not merely for him or to him, but by him. One last technical comment. Following verses 2, at the end of verses 2 and 4, your Bible has the little word Sila in it. That is a transliteration of the Hebrew word. That is precisely the Hebrew word that's there. And it's transliterated because we have no idea what it means. We don't know how to translate it. Most scholars think it's probably some kind of technical musical term, maybe a breath mark or something like that, but we don't know. So I'm not going to read it. When I read the Psalm, I will omit that. After all, the New Testament says that when we speak in tongues, there must be a translator, and says we don't know how to translate this. I'm going to let the word Sila go here as we read it. Without any further ado, then hear now the word of Almighty God from Psalm 4. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. Yahweh hears when I call to him. Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the I am. There are many who say, Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. In peace I will both lie down and sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. Let's pray. God speak to us through this your word, as we consider the lament of King David Teach us how to pour out our grief and our despair and our anxiety before you. Teach us how to handle the trials of this life by bringing them To you, and not trying to take care of them on our own. And let us enjoy the blessing that David found. The blessing of peace that comes after coming to you in our time of trial. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I don't know how about you, but I know for myself there have been many, many times that I have sat in a sermon or a service or a Sunday school lesson and the person that was prepared presenting would speak about the joy of the Lord. And in my own mind I would think, what joy? What joy is he talking about? Where is she getting that? I don't spe experience that kind of joy, at least not lately. The boss has been on my case. And he doesn't bring me joy. He brings me nothing but trial and difficulty. I fear financially, I'm not sure I can pay all the bills and make ends meet. And even my family is more frustration than joy lately. And we hear talk about the joy of the Lord, and when we hear it, we begin to doubt our salvation. Maybe I'm not a real Christian because I'm not feeling joy right now. I feel grief and I feel anxiety and I feel stress, but I don't feel joy. And we began to doubt our standing before the Lord. In our study of the Psalms this summer, excuse me, we have been considering different, I'm going to take a drink here before we fight this any longer. My apologies for that. We've been considering different genres of the psalms. The first week we looked at a wisdom psalm. Psalm 1. In our second week, we looked at a hymn, a psalm of praise, Psalm 33. This week we are looking at a psalm of lament. I want to give you a couple of facts and figures that are kind of interesting, kind of telling. If you go through and categorize all of the psalms by genre, by type. First of all, no two people will agree on that list. There's a lot of discussion and debate about how to categorize certain psalms, but a list I found that I more or less agree with. If we count up all the wisdom psalms, they make up 7% of all the psalms. 7% If we count up all the hymns, the psalms of praise, they make up just slightly, not quite twice that, 13% of all of the Psalter are songs of praise. Now some people will say, yeah, but Pastor, you know, uh thanksgiving really should be counted as a type of praise, and so maybe the hymns of thanksgiving and the hymns hymns of uh praise, uh psalms of praise and thanksgiving should be lumped together. Okay, that's a valid argument. Eleven percent of the psalms are Thanksgiving Psalms. So if you take the thirteen percent that are hymns, the eleven percent that are Thanksgiving and put them together you get twenty-four percent Forty-six percent of the Psalter is lament. The Psalms of Lament are almost twice as frequent as the Psalms of Thanksgiving and Hymn combined. Why is that? Why do I share that fact with you? It's not meant so you can win Bible trivia the next time you have a get-together at your home. It's meant to say this. When you are not feeling the joy of the Lord, you are not alone. The walk of faith throughout the centuries has often been a walk of grief. and of despair, and of anxiety, and of stress, and of feeling lost. And when God equipped his people with poems and songs to express the emotion of the life of faith, he equipped them with a significant number of laments. Psalms of grief, of mourning, of complaint to God Which transitions immediately into the application of today's sermon. Most of us as preachers, if we include application at all, we put it at the end of the sermon. I want to move it up front today. I want us to start with an understanding of where we're headed with this. You see, as we consider this psalm, we're going to see that in it, and in all the other 45 Psalms of Lament, are ways to express our grief, our despair, our discouragement, and our complaints against God. So that when you are struggling with this life, when you are saying to yourself, I don't feel the joy of the Lord. Don't turn away from God. Don't walk away saying, well, I can't go to God. I'm not worthy of God because I don't feel the joy of the Lord. No, turn to the Lord. Go to His word. Seek out these Psalms of Lament, and I'm happy to provide you a list of the Psalms of Lament so you can look through them and find the one that fits your situation. And express to God in godly biblical terms. Your hurt, and your pain, and your grief, and your anxiety. That's what we're going to see today. That's the application of this sermon. As we consider now, let's look at this. I have called this sermon, I've entitled the sermon, Anxiety's Decrescendo. Decrescendo is a musical term that talks about the volume decreasing. What starts out as forte moves to mezzo forte and moves to mezzo piano and then becomes piano. That's decrescendo. Anxiety is decrescendo. We're going to see as the Psalmist unfolds his heart before God that he begins with a high level of anxiety and he it goes away as he expresses himself to God. The anxiety fades away and comfort and peace take its place. That right there ought to be encouragement to us. To cry out to the Lord, to take our difficulties to him, to go to him with our times of anxiety in the hope that we will have what the psalmist here has, a decrescendo, an unwinding, a lessening of our grief and of our anxiety. Psalm 4 specifically deals with anxiety over our place in this world, our calling, the place where God has put us. David is a king. But as we are going to see as we unwrap this psalm, his place in this world was under attack. In 2 Samuel 16, we actually read that his own son Absalom drove him out of Jerusalem for a time and tried to usurp the throne and take it away from his own father. And most scholars believe that that is when David wrote this psalm, when he was battling his own son for control of God's people. You and I are not kings, but our place in the world, our calling in this life, is constantly under attack. The world says I'm wasting my life just being a mother. And this morning the kids seem to be confirming that. Lord, I'm just a salesman. Is that really a worthy and worthwhile life pursuit? It seems no one is listening. Maybe I was not meant to be a pastor. I was told that teaching was a noble profession, but I seem to be spinning my wheels and making no difference. Whatever your calling in life, whatever the vocation and the place that God has put you, you've wondered about it. You've doubted it. You have questioned whether or not it is worthwhile, and others have questioned it, and others have assaulted you and challenged you to make you wonder if you really are doing God's work. There are internal doubts and external pressures, and so anxiety builds up. And that anxiety, if it is not dealt with, if it is not addressed in a godly biblical way. will lead to spiritual and physical disasters. Let's look at anxiety's decrescendo as it is outlined in Psalm 4. First, we have the reason for crying out to God. Verse 1. The reasons, actually I I put reason singular, but now I think it's better plural, the reasons for crying out to God. The psalmist opens up with, Answer me when I call. This is not really as impertinent as it might seem to us. We're a little shy about telling God to do things. About going to God with this kind of imperative direction. Answer me when I call. And yet we have to realize that this comes from a place of relationship. It comes from a place of covenant. It comes from a place of understanding that God has obligated himself to me. Now, King David received that in a very direct personal way. We see in Samuel 7 where God comes to David and makes a covenant personally with David and with his household. But all of us who are believers are in a covenant relationship with God. We are all in a place to be able to go to God and say what David says. God, you have bound yourself to me. You've made covenant with me. You've made promises to me And I need you to fulfill them now. He says of God, O God of my righteousness. It's an interesting thing. The word God here is the he for the Hebrew word Elohim. He doesn't, later in the Psalm, he uses the personal name of God, the covenant name of God, Yahweh. But interesting here, as he's crying out to the covenant God, he cries out, Elohim. We don't have time to fully unpack all the meaning of that name. But at its core, it has the idea of being the creator, the sovereign one, the one who has authority and right. And he says, God, you're the one in charge. You're the sovereign one, Elohim. You have made me king. You've put me in this place. I didn't get here by happenstance or by chance. And neither has any of us become who we are by happenstance or chance. God has ordained every moment of our lives for us to be who we are and do what He's called us to do. He says, oh Elohim of my righteousness. Interesting statement. What does he mean by that? Well, a couple of things. One, he says, you have made me Elohim king. I have a right. It's righteous for me to rule. My detractors are telling lies about me and they're saying I have no business being king, but it's white and righteous for me to be king. Just as it is right and righteous to be a parent and have the authority that comes with that To be a boss and have the authority that comes with that. To be a follower and to submit is a right and righteous thing, not something to be degraded or belittled. O God, O Elohim, you put me in this place, and therefore it is righteous. O God of my righteousness. There's also a defensive call there. Imagine a confrontation of some sort, a minor traffic accident, and you get out of your car and the you and the other driver are beginning to have a debate about who's at fault. Well, the one who is in the right is happy to call the police and have them settle it. Call the cops, I don't mind, bring them. I didn't do anything wrong. That's what David's saying here. Oh God of my righteousness, come defend me. Come stand up for me. I've not done anything wrong by being king. It's not uh uh uh that I lack humility because I'm the king or that I uh I've got too much pride. You made me king So it is with our callings today. The world will assault our place. You've got no right to tell your kids, you did those things when you were a teenager, you've got no right to tell your kids they can't do it. What? Because I sinned back then? I'm supposed to let my kids sin today? That's insanity. God, come defend my righteousness in my place that you've put me. He goes on to say, You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. Two more imperatives, two more times, and he tells God what to do. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. But the reason is interesting. You have given me relief when I was in distress. It's kind of an interesting statement there. God, you came through for me in the past, therefore you have to come through for me now. Why on earth would David word it that way? Because he's begun to rely on God He's come to see God as his only option. He doesn't have a plan B. The life of faith is the life of one and only one plan. Trust God. There is no plan B. And he says to God, You have taught me to rely on you. You've answered me before. And so I don't have another way out of this mess. So you've got to come bail me out. That's uh uh in one sense uh a risky way to live. But if we stop and think about who our plan A is, we realize there is no need for a plan B. There is no need for another way to deal with the situation. And so David says with confidence, you have bailed me out before. Save me this time. It's almost like a codependency relationship. I've become dependent upon you. Therefore, save me. David cries out to God, who is the Elohim, the sovereign one, because it is Elohim who m put David in his place as Elohim Ehim king. That same God has ordained you to be who you are. David cries out to God because he is the defender of David's righteousness. David has a right to exercise kingly authority. You have a right to be mom, dad, elder, deacon. teacher, plumber, etc. And David cries out to God because God has come through for him in the past. And he has no plan B. Verse 1 shows the reason for crying out to God. Verses 2 and 3 show the reason for crying out at all. The reason why he is crying out. His honor, his reputation is being attacked. What does he say there? O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Someone is running around. We tend to think of kings as having this uh uh absolute position in power, but the truth is they had to build coalitions of support. Their reign was never absolute, and if they got on the wrong side of too many people, then their end was not far off. Someone is running around Jerusalem and running around broader Israel and lying about King David. Yeah, you know, David, you know, he may have slain his ten thousand back then, but have you seen him lately? Looking a little more uh uh ragged than rugged. uh uh a little more uh uh uh fearful than frightening. He is not the guy he used to be. And by the way, what about that affair with Bathsheba and her husband? Are you even sure that God still wants him to be king? And they are undermining David's place. That's the reason, one of the reasons he is crying out to God. It's one of the reasons we should be crying out to God. As the world assaults the things that we are doing, our weaknesses get paraded before our eyes, and worse yet, they get paraded before everybody else's eyes to see, and we begin to doubt ourselves. David says something interesting here. He calls these things lies. But there's a really good chance that much of what was being said about David was technically true. So why does he call them lies? Because they're being used for false purposes and dishonest ends. The words themselves, while technically true, are being twisted and manipulated to arrive at an untrue goal. And David is a model of this. You'll recall that early in his life, he knew he was to be king. He had been anointed, but he would not lift his hand against Saul. Why not? Because he's God's anointed. God made Saul king, and God will take Saul down when it's time. I will not lift my hand against God's anointed. And now there are others who are trying to take out God's anointed, trying to undo David's reign. And David says that is a false purpose. It doesn't matter if the words you say are true. It doesn't matter if the things being said about you are true. It doesn't undo God's calling on your life. And if Satan and your own fleshly doubts are using those things to undermine you, you've got to see that that is a false purpose. It does not lead to a godly goal. It may be that you have weaknesses, that you have shortcomings, just as David did. Maybe you spanked a kid who probably didn't deserve it. It doesn't end your role as a parent. You go, you apologize, you make it right, and you continue in the calling that God has put on your life. Maybe you are the plumber who shortcut the last job site and didn't do it the right way. That doesn't mean you could never again honor God with your work as a plumber. It just means you've got to make it right, you've got to repent of that sin, and you've got to seek to honor God in the next job site. David's past weaknesses don't undermine his place as king. He is still God's chosen one. When we get to verse 3, I'm not 100% certain I wasn't 100% certain where to put it in the outline, so I put it here. If it's really a pivotal verse, let's look at verse 3 a little more closely. First of all I want to address that phrase, but know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. Those two words, the godly It's a perfectly appropriate translation, but it's uh can be ambiguous. We've got to read it carefully. It's not it can be read as though it's plural, the godly people, plural. It's really not. If you look at the context of the next line, the Lord hears when I call to him. Well, this is vague in English, it's not vague in Hebrew. The godly is singular. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly man, me, his godly servant. That's really what David is writing there for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. And it really is something we need to remember in our lives. Oh stubborn child. Hear me. God has set me apart as your parent. Oh stubborn church member, hear me. God has set me apart as one of your elders. Oh dear friend, hear me. God has set me apart as one to whom you are accountable in the body of Christ. David says, O dear enemy, do you not realize I am God's servant? And you have taken up a stand against me. You know, verses two and three when we put them together are really kind of interesting, but they're not unique in the Psalms. Too often I think we read the Psalms and glance over this and don't consider the importance of verses 2 and 3, particularly in Psalm 4. O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself, the Lord calls when call here is what I call to him. To whom is David speaking? Well, he's speaking to his earthly opponents. He's speaking to his enemies. Now stop and think about this for just a moment. If we're right, and I think we are, that that this was written when Absalom rose up against David and tries to steal the throne, then David is off somewhere hiding. And as a distraction, as a way to turn his attention to God and not to be caught up in his own anxiety, he writes this psalm. Are his enemies ever going to hear it? Honestly, are the men to whom he's addressing it ever going to hear this psalm? Well, the only way they're going to hear this psalm is if they repent and give up their their their uh coup d'etat And come back under his leadership, but which point they don't need to hear the psalm. The psalm is addressed to someone who will never benefit from the psalm. So what's going on? Again, this is common in the Psalms. The psalmist speaks to one who will never hear what is being said to them. So, my first job out of college, I'm at a small rural high school in Indiana. If you're not familiar with high school in Indiana, basketball is everything. So if I wanted to ingratiate myself into the culture of that high school, I needed to figure out a way to get connected to basketball. I can't run, I can't jump, I can't shoot, I can't dribble, so coaching was out. So I decided to work the table, the scores table. I became the official clock operator for the home games at our school. The math teacher, Mr. Newell, he was the official bookkeeper, scorekeeper. So one day we're sitting there at this basketball game and the head coach of our team comes over to the bench of the home team and begins yelling at the boys on the bench. He's hollering at them till he's blue in the face. And Dave and I are cracking up laughing. Because what he's saying to them is That was a terrible call! You need glasses! Do you not have any idea what's going on? He's talking to the officials, even though he's looking at his team. A message directed to the team was directed to the officials. That's kind of what David's doing. By the way, he did get a technical foul. The officials did catch on. That's kind of what David's doing here. He has phrased it as though it is to his enemies, but it's really a message to himself It is really words that he needs to hear, that he needs to be reminded of, that he needs to realize are true. I need to be reminded that God has made me king. I need to be reminded that I didn't put myself here. God put me here. I need to be reminded that my calling in life is God's calling on my life. And while I might cry out against those who are attacking me, I'm really trying to encourage and remind myself of what's going on. That's what David is doing here in verses 2 and 3, even as he addresses his enemies. In verse 1, we see the reason David calls out to God. In verses 2 and 3, we see the reasons that David cries out at all. In verses 4 through 7, we see the responses to having cried out. In verses 4 and 5, we see how David's response toward his enemy is impacted by crying out to God. Now, the Bible translation I use every Sunday that I teach preach from and teach from is the ESV. I use it. What else am I supposed to use? That's the Eastern Shore version, so you know I have no choice. No, it's an excellent, excellent translation, a faithful, wonderful translation, but it blew it here in verse 4. Those two words be angry, if you're inclined to this sort of thing, I might put a little line through those and write the word tremble above there. Be angry is the translation of the Greek Old Testament, the Septuagint. Tremble is the translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, and every other major translation offers tremble. And if you read it in context, the word tremble makes a lot more sense here. So, what has David just said to his enemies? I am God's chosen one. He called me and set me apart to be king. And he hears me when I call. Tremble at that. Oh my dear enemy, that should cause you to shake in your boots Yahweh, the great I am, the sovereign creator, hears me when I call. Do you really think that you have any chance in this fight against me? Tremble and give up your plan against me. Tremble and do not sin. Tremble and repent. Fear the Lord and turn away from the path you are on. That's how David cries out to his enemy. He says, You should ponder these things. Lie awake on your bed. Think about this tonight when you try to sleep. That God's on my side. God has ordained me. God has put me in this place. I'm one of his. Think about that tonight and see if you can fall asleep. How do that in your heart and on your bed and be silent And then something amazing happens. And this is where we see the decrescendo of David's anxiety. He cries out to God in verse 1. He explains why in verses 2 and 3. Here in verse 4, he begins to respond to having cried out. Now we see how it plays out in him, and he he he warns his enemy. But notice he doesn't warn his enemy and then rejoice in any condemnation or damnation that might come against his enemy. Look at verse 5. What does he say? Yeah, verse 5. Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the Lord. Come join me on this side. Yes, be afraid. Yes, tremble. Yes, sit on your beds and ponder this and be unable to sleep. But having done that, come over. Come to the gospel. Come to Jesus Christ. He's the one that's made the right sacrifice for you and can make you right with God. Do we treat our enemies that way? When we are frustrated with those at work or even in our own homes and in our own families who are causing us anxiety. Do we see that the ultimate path to peace with them is when they become at peace with God? A. W. Tozer, I won't be able to quote him exactly, but he's got a lovely quote when he says, you can try all you want to get people to be in tune with each other. But the better way is to get them both to be in tune with Jesus. And he says, here's the illustration. You can have a hundred pianos and try to tune them to each other, but if you tune them all to the same tuning fork, they will be in tune with each other. You want to be at peace with your enemy? Pray that your enemy comes to Jesus. Pray that your enemy makes the right sacrifice that's offered in the gospel and comes to the Lord. In verse 6, we see David go on now and address the condition of his friends, of those who are loyalist. There are many who say who will show us some good. O dear Lord, my friends, those who have been loyal to me, they're despairing of any hope in this time of trial. And look what he says. Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. What is that? That's really a neat uh word picture. How might we render that in a more colloquial way today? Smile. Right? We saw somebody somebody's face lights up a room. What are we talking about? Their smile. He's saying, God smile on my friends. Smile on those who have been loyal. Smile on us, bless us, be kind to us. They're scared. But having I was scared at the beginning of this psalm, but as my anxiety begins to unwind, I realize that I want you to do the same for my friends. In verse 7, he then turns internally. Why do I want you to do this for my friends? Because I know what you've done for me. I have far more joy in my relationship with you than all of my enemies could have in all of their wealth of this world. Yes, I am currently deposed from my throne and I'm on the run from my own son, but I have an eternal perspective. I'm looking at the big picture over the long haul. And God, that provides joy. My enemies, they like it when their r harvest is plentiful and their their wine is plentiful, but I know what really matters. And he closes out in an interesting way. He comes back to this idea of sleep and he reflects on it anew. He calls on his enemies, those who are standing against God's anointed, to lie awake. And to ponder and to wonder and to be afraid. And then in verse 8 he says, In peace, I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone, O Lord. Yahweh, I am covenant God, you make me dwell in safety You can just feel the decrescendo. You can feel the tension has melted away from the fullness as he's poured out his heart to God. He's been renewed and reminded of his own standing. And he's been renewed and reminded of his own standing. He has been able to turn from anger toward his enemies to longing for them to become co-workers of the Lord to join him in the gospel work. And he's been able to give attention to his friends. And he's been able to be reminded himself of all the joy he does have in the Lord. And at the end of it he's able to sleep, to rest. To rest in this life, but certainly a picture of the rest that is ultimately available. You know, I opened up this sermon with a little few comments about lament in general, and as we come to a close, I want to make a few specific comments about Christian lament. There are some things that we need to think of in today's uh the way we live today as different from how the psalmists lamented. First of all, unlike the Old Testament saints, we have been told that we will suffer. We read that in our New Testament reading Jesus tells his followers that you're going to suffer. He says, listen, if they call the head of the household be Elzebul, certainly they're going to attack you. And that is different than the Old Testament saints. They were told that if they obeyed, they would receive blessing, and if they disobeyed, they would receive curses. And David is scratching his head going, This doesn't feel like blessing, Lord. Job says, this feels an awful lot like a curse, God. I'm a little confused. Yes, we can lament. And yes, we will suffer. And yes, we can take those sufferings to God. But we have to recognize that we've been told that we will suffer precisely because we're walking with Jesus. This is why we can see things like the book of James that says, rejoice in all suffering and count it as a blessing. It's a marker that you have you are walking in the way that Jesus walked Also as Christians, as we consider lament and as we bring our grief to God, we need to recognize what is true suffering. Some of you may have heard of some of the uh challenges the Shah has had on vacation. On our way down, we discovered uh frighteningly that I had put the wrong hitch on the vehicle and was could not tow our camper properly. We spent seven hours and a whole lot of money getting that mistake fixed. And it delayed our trip by a day. We finally got down there and we're towing things around in southern Georgia and southern Alabama and it's 98 degrees and we got an older vehicle and it stressed it all out and the alternator goes out and so our day at the beach was canceled And then we just started having we were having transmission troubles and find out we have blown a seal on the transmission, but the transmission shop can't get to it until the Monday we were planning to go home. And so our relocation to a new campground was canceled. And you can begin to sit in a time like that and go, oh, I'm suffering. I'm suffering. I'm gonna take my lament to God. And we've got to realize that ain't suffering. I was on vacation. How much of the world even gets to take a vacation? The fact that I can even think about going on vacation means I am wealthier than the vast majority of people. That's not suffering. That's disappointment because things didn't go the way I had planned. But it's not suffering. We must be able to distinguish true suffering. Getting fired from your job because you took a stand for righteousness. And then we need to realize this next part. Jesus said, talked about suffering for righteousness' sake. Sometimes we truly are suffering. There really are difficulties in our life, but often they're caused by our own sin. I hurt somebody. I mouthed off at work. That's why I lost my job. That's not suffering for righteousness' sake. It is suffering. But it's not suffering for righteousness' sake. We as American, modern-day American Christians have lost sight of the sort of suffering that the laments of the Psalms really talk about. And largely because we don't stand for righteousness on a regular basis. Jesus suffered, and he said, my followers will suffer. Why did he suffer? Precisely because he did exactly what the Father told him to do, and it was not well received. Are we suffering for righteousness' sake? Some of you are. I've heard some of your stories. I encourage you to consider these laments and to take them before God as a way to bring down that anxiety. But let's not get confused about what real suffering is. And finally In your time of lamentation, in your time of discouragement, in your time of despair, don't turn to ice cream. Don't turn to a hobby. Don't pour yourself into more work. Don't bury yourself in a bottle. Turn to God. Take your lament to God. I want to close out with a paraphrase of Psalm 4. You follow along in your text as I offer you a version, an alternative way to read this. And listen to Psalm 4. Answer me as I cry out to you, O Elohim, sovereign God, who made it righteous that I am in this life place, you who made me king, a mother, a plumber, a salesman, a pastor, a teacher. You have fostered dependency in me by coming to my aid in the past. So I need you to come through this time as well. And you, my dear opponents, how long will you try to turn the honored place God gave me into something shameful? How long will you spread lies and gossip about me to undermine my confidence that God put me in this place? Give it up. Know that it is Yahweh Himself, the great I am, who has set me apart for this calling. He made me who I am. Therefore He hears when I cry out to Him Tremble at that thought that Yahweh hears me, your opponent, and give up your sinful assault against me. Think about the implications of that as it keeps you awake in the night, and shut up. But my dear opponent, I do not hate you. Rather hear the gospel, make things ripe with God, and join me as one who trusts I am. Lord, there are many even among my friends who wonder who will even show us anything good. As an encouragement to them, smile on us, O Lord. And I know from my own experience that the encouragement of your smile provides more joy than earthly prosperity ever could. I have vented, O Lord, to you, the only one who can do anything about my situation. It is in your hands now, and so I can rest peacefully. My safety and salvation are assured in you, no matter what outcome you ordain for this temporary time of tribulation. That's the message of Psalm 4. That we can go to God in our despair and our discouragement and that He will hear us and that He has got His hand firmly on us. Let's pray. God, let us learn to come to you in our time of despair, in our time of discouragement, in our time of of uh a doubt about your call in our lives? Let us recognize that you have made us who we are, you have put us in the place that we find ourselves, and that we need to be faithfully obedient to you in this place. And when we doubt, and when the world attacks, and when our own flesh causes us to wonder Teach us to come to you. Teach us to turn to Psalm 4. To have our anxiety ratcheted down. So that we move from a place of anxiety and uncertainty to a place of calmness and assurance. A place of grasping to a place of resting. Let us hear the message of Psalm 4 in our lives. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.