We began last week a sermon series in the book of Romans, and of all places we began at the end. We went to Romans 16. so that we could understand the church in Rome a bit better, so that we would have a grasp of what they were dealing with. As Paul closes the letter with his personal greetings, he reveals much about that church. things that they would have known as they read the letter from its very beginning, but things which we would not have known. And so we looked at the issues that were in that church, a church that was struggling with the tensions between Jew and Gentile, between slave and slave owner, between freed man and their former owners Between the rich and the poor, between patrons and clients, perhaps even between men and women. The church in Rome was a church that was fraught with internal stress. It was also dealing with the fact that there was geographic isolation. It met in at least three, and depending on our interpretation, perhaps as many as five different neighborhood churches. And so they have gathered together to hear the letter of a r- uh from Paul read out to them. But for many of them, this may have been the first time they would actually worship side by side with some of the others. In amidst all of the internal tension, there was the external strife. Christianity was pulling away from its roots in Judaism, and there were all of the issues surrounding that. To quote the prophet Jeremiah, there was terror on every side. And yet there was great hope. And the book of Romans is a letter of hope. And today we are going to jump back to the beginning of that letter and introduce it We met the church. Now we will meet the letter itself. And this morning, as we do so, we're going to look at three things that come out of this introduction. We're going to look at what Paul has to say about Paul. Paul on Paul. We're going to look at what Paul has to say about the gospel. Paul on his message. And we're going to look also at what Paul has to say about the church. Paul on believers. We're going to look at Paul on Paul, Paul on his message, and Paul. on the church. Join with me now in Romans chapter 1, verses 1 through 7. If you're using the Red Pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 1116. Romans 1, 1 to 7. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the whole church concerning his son. who was descended from David according to the flesh, and was declared to be the Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints, grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Spirit of God, we know that you wrote this. You are the one that is behind the pen of Paul. You are the one who has preserved these words through the centuries, across the millennia, that we might hear them. And so we ask for your hand in our understanding, we ask for your hand in our obedience. That you would work in us to submit ourselves to the wonderful truths we find here. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen. We said we were going to look at these three things, and one of those is Paul on the subject of Paul. What does he have to say about himself? Now, if you've been paying even the slightest little bit of attention to the election and to the efforts of the major parties, you have probably heard this phrase in the last few weeks One of the candidates is being touted as the dad in plaid. Now in the years past Had the fashion, had the attire of a candidate or perhaps a candidate's wife come up for discussion in the media, it would have been dismissed as so much fluff and superficial nonsense. But this year is not the media, it's the campaign itself, promoting one of its candidates as dad in plaid. Why? Well, it's their way of introducing their candidates to us. They're signaling that he's just one of us, just a common ordinary Joe. The campaign has selected a particular narrative about the candidate as a way of subtly telling us how to relate to him. Paul has done the same thing in his opening. He has selected aspects of his personal narrative and laid them in front. of the church in Rome and in front of us to say something about himself to them and to us. And we're going to take a look a closer look at that right now. Now, if you think about it, in our world today, much of our communication is preloaded with the identification of the communicator. Right? If I call Becky, a particular ringtone on her phone tells me that I'm the one that that it's me calling If I text you, my number is probably in your phone and it pops up with my name. You know in advance who's communicating with you. In the ancient world, they led with the identification in the same way. That Paul opens this letter with his name right at the top was standard operating procedure. And in fact, if you look at all the new letters in the New Testament, the overwhelming majority of them begin with the name of the author. James, a servant of Christ Jesus. Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ, and on and on, Peter, etc. A couple of exceptions. The epistles of John and the book of Hebrews are the exceptions. All the rest of them begin in this way. And this was the standard practice of the ancient Roman world. Hundreds, hundreds, probably thousands of have been found by archaeologists, and we see this over and over and over again. Paul begins by identifying himself. But he does not quit there. He goes on and adds what is not always found in those other letters. He says some things about himself. He calls himself in the very next, so Paul, comma, he calls himself, and the Greek word is doulos. Not doula, he is not offering to deliver your baby. He is calling himself a doulos. The translation of this word is difficult. Not because the word is difficult in Greek, it is simple in Greek. But because the word is complex in English, for if we choose the word servant, as my translation chose, we have some shortcomings. For a servant in modern English has some freedom. They take vacations, they take days off, they can quit and no longer be your servant. Servant, as Paul means it here, has none of that freedom. Paul does not see himself as an optional or part-time follower of Jesus. Jesus has control over his life in every way and in every aspect. There is no vacation for him for being an apostle. And yet, if we offer the English word slave, that's loaded with all kinds of connotations of oppression and mistreatment And Paul would never identify any of those with his relationship to Jesus Christ. There is no, there is never a hint of oppression, of mistreatment, or abuse that might be associated with our English word slave. And so it is a difficult word to translate. It is a person who is bound in every way and every sense, but never oppressed, never abused, never mistreated. When I was the headmaster at the school, there would be days where I had to deal with multiple situations. I might have to mediate a fight between two situations students, I might have to settle a grade dispute between a parent and a teacher, and I might have to convince an angry father that his child was getting exactly the right amount of playing time on the soccer team And after such a day, I would go home and not want to make another decision for the rest of the evening. I would look at Becky and say, tell me what to eat Tell me what game to play with the kids, tell me when to what show to watch, and tell me when to go to bed. I loved her and she loved me. And it wasn't it wasn't oppressive that I would put myself under her complete control. It was a great blessing. To be able to be under her complete control. That probably approaches the picture of Paul and his relationship to Jesus Christ. He is under the absolute control and authority of Jesus as a doulos. Never abused, never mistreated, never oppressed But also completely and totally bound. We must also understand a little something about the man who is writing, about Paul himself. We read of Paul's conversion at our New Testament reading in Acts chapter 9. But had we gone back a few chapters earlier, we would have seen this same man being the one who was overseeing the execution of the deacon Stephen. It was the same man who approved of the murder of the deacon Stephen And why was he overseeing it? Why was he in charge of it? Because he was a prominent young member of the Sanhedrin, the council in Jerusalem the leaders of the Jewish religion. He was a Pharisee, an expert of the law. He had trained, we know from other places, that he had trained under Gameliel of Jerusalem. That doesn't mean much to us today. That was the Harvard of that time and place. Gamelio, we know from other records, was the top rabbi in Jerusalem. Paul was a scholar of the Old Testament par excellence. And he thought in Old Testament terms. Which means we also have to understand that when he calls himself a servant of Christ Jesus, a doulos of Christ Jesus, he is using the same word That is used over and over and over again in the Old Testament of the prophets. As the servant of the of God. They too were bound to say exactly what God told them to say. And that's the picture Paul is painting here. As a doulos, as a servant, as a slave of Christ Jesus. He is telling his audience back in Rome and us today That's what I have to say to you is what God said through me. That the word of Romans is the word of God. Not merely that of Paul. And the meaning for us is rather obvious, even if we did not have 1 Timothy 3:16, all scripture is God-breathed, even without that verse. Based solely on his introduction of himself here, we would understand that this is divinely inspired. That he is delivering the message that he had to deliver as one who is a servant of Christ Jesus. He is not a dad in plaid. He is not a common Joe. He is one of us, but he has been set apart from us. for a particular service to God. And he is an apostle. Apostles were specifically commissioned By Jesus. They were his representatives, and they wielded his authority. That's an important distinction A preacher might speak on behalf of God. The preacher does not wield the authority of Jesus Christ. Jesus says to the twelve, to them, and not to you and me, to you I give the keys of heaven Whatever you bind on earth, it shall be bound in heaven. And whatever you loose upon the earth, it shall be loosed in heaven. The apostles had the power and authority of Jesus himself. And Paul is claiming that privilege in that position. The basis of Paul's claim to apostleship was his conversion that we read earlier. That's why we had that New Testament reading. Paul was not with Jesus during his earthly ministry in the way that the other eleven were, but he is saying, and he is claiming that Jesus incarnate The God man himself made a return to the earth, and he singled me out. For this calling. That just as the eleven got their commission directly from Jesus, Paul says, I got my commission in the same way. Now the Holy Spirit ordains men to the ministry by the internal call in their own hearts, by the affirmation of the courts of the church, and by the assent of a congregation that says, yes, we will follow you, be our pastor. It is a legitimate call to the ministry, but it is a distinct call from the apostles. From the one who got his call directly from the lips of Jesus himself. That's the claim of the Apostle Paul. Now, is that a valid claim? Is it okay to just say, well, Jesus called me and I'm an apostle? Could I stand up here and say, well, I had a dream, and in the dream, Jesus came to me and he made me an apostle, and you have to listen to me with the authority of the other apostles. Is that enough? It has been pointed out repeatedly. The book of Acts is structured in two parallel sections. The first 12 chapters are dominated by the Apostle Peter. And there would be no one in the early church who would question Peter's apostleship. That was a given. But the next 16 chapters of the book of Acts are dominated by Paul. And Luke very carefully, very intentionally, sets the two men in parallel to each other. It is noticeable that whatever Peter does, Paul does. Peter preaches with power, so that many are converted, and we have records of Paul preaching with power and many being converted. Peter raises somebody from the dead. Paul raises somebody from the dead. Peter is able to heal by indirect contact. Paul heals by indirect contact. And the list goes on and on. The book of Acts, in addition to establishing how the church came to be, also establishes The authority of the Apostle Paul, that he is an exact parallel of Peter This is no dad in plaid. Paul is not setting himself out as just one of us. And the application ought to be obvious The book of Romans must be authoritative in our lives. What it says, God says. That's Paul on himself. He then moves on to his message. What does Paul have to say about the gospel? Make no mistake. Paul is not going to lay out every detail of his message right here in the introduction. That's going to kind of be the point of the rest of the book But he does tell us a great deal about his message here in the introduction. First of all, it is the gospel of God. You know, the key to understanding any communication is going to be understanding the words in the manner that the writer intended. Last week I used the illustration of my grandparents' correspondence during the World War II. Let me lean on that illustration yet again. If grandma wrote to grandpa back in 1942, 43, somewhere in that time frame, if grandma wrote to grandpa And described to him while he was in North Africa a gay event in their small Michigan town, that would mean a little something different than it means to us today. And if we're going to properly understand grandma's writing, we've got to understand what she would have meant by that, not what we think it might mean now. If we're going to understand the book of Romans, we've got to think about the word gospel. It's going to be key to this book. It's going to be key to this sermon series. We've got to understand what that word means Then and there, particularly to Paul. Well, first we look at the culture in which he writes. He is a man steeped in the Greek culture of his time and place. And so he's going to use the word in the way that it's being used then. And we actually do have that word gospel, U and Gelion in the Greek, in use in archaeology in ancient uh uh the Roman world in the Greek-speaking eastern part of the Roman world. And one of the things we see is that it is frequently a word used of the uh uh uh It's good news. Well, gospel gives me good news. It does mean that. But it's not good news in any old sense In other words, you know, you might say to yourself, hey, I'm going to get a refund of my taxes this year. That's good news. But that's completely expected. You knew it was coming. Yes, it's good news, but it's kind of okay, great. The sense of gospel, the sense of uangeli, and the sense of this word in the ancient world was more one of uncertain outcome. A battle is raging. Who is going to win it? If you've seen the movie The Lord of the Rings, there is that great scene where the where there's a attack on the the country the nation of Roan and they all gather in the cave. The women and the children and the old men are all put in the cave for safekeeping and they can hear the battle outside, but they don't know which way it's going At any moment, somebody could break through the door, and it could be your enemy breaking through the door, and that's bad news. Or it could be a messenger coming through the door with good news of victory. And it's that tension, that uncertainty, that everything is on the line moment, that's the sense in which this word is frequently used in the Roman world. And it's the sense in which it is used in the Old Testament in which Paul is steeped. We already said he was an Old Testament scholar. Now we don't see the word gospel in the Old Testament like we ought to see it, but it is there, perhaps most prominently in the prophet Isaiah. Beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. And if you look at that verse in the wider context of Isaiah, it's a military victory. Who say to Zion, in the midst of conflict, your God reigns There's all this strife going on in the world. There's all this uncertainty about how things are going to turn out. And here's the good news. Your God reigns. Everything is on the line. This is not, oh, I got a tax return this year. This is everything is on the line, and it broke my way. I've already made one reference to the election at hand. Here's another. On election night, there are going to be all of these rooms that are going to be watching the TV screens to see if their candidate pulled it out. And when it's announced in their favor, they're going to erupt with joy. It wasn't a certain thing. It wasn't a for sure outcome. And it was a big deal to them. That really is the sense of this word. Does gospel mean good news? Absolutely, it does. But it is loaded with this idea of explosive joy because everything was on the line and it broke your way And it's the good news of God. It's the gospel of God to which he was called to preach. This is a genitive of source. It's the joyful news not about God, but from God. So we actually need to take my previous example of the military strife and military conflict and flip it on its head You see, an army which retreats, an army which is driven back, oh good news, our enemy has withdrawn, that army can regroup and re-attack The good news might be very temporary. This is good news about, not about God, but from God This is God Himself saying, oh, by the way, I've won. I've defeated you. Who were once my enemy. Paul is going to lay out that we and God were enemies. And the good news of the gospel of God, the gospel from God, is that he defeated us And then turned right around and said, I will not burn your villages. I will not kill all your men. I will not take your wives and children into slavery. I have won, I have defeated you, you were once my enemy, and I have now conquered you, but I'm doing it for the sake of reconciliation. And since I was your only enemy back in the day, you can be at peace forevermore. It is why this section closes with the promise of peace with God. This is the good news from God. You see, our world has good news about God. Our world says that God is dead We have thrown off his oppressive dominion. We can be who and what we want to be. That's the good news of this world about God. But Paul's gospel is good news from God. He won. And therefore, true peace and true rest are possible, as shocking as that might seem. Now, news that your enemy is one, but hey, it's all good. He's promising to be our friend, we would be skeptical of that, would we not? Something like that that came to us, we would doubt that And which is why Paul goes on to say in verse, it was promised beforehand. He says this isn't new. God has been laying the foundation for this, the groundwork for this, for millennia. I'm not coming to you with something new I just made up. God was once your enemy, now he's conquered you, and he wants to be at peace with you. You'd be skeptical of that, I understand. But this has been God's message for thousands of years, Paul says And where is it promised beforehand? Well, we're going to see Paul relate to it many times. Later in this very passage, he's going to make reference to the Davidic covenant. That God promised this to David. In chapter 4, he's going to make reference to the Abrahamic covenant. In chapters 9, 10, and 11, he's going to make references to the Mosaic covenant. That God has been about this news For as long as there has been human history. It was promised beforehand. And where, you know, it as a promise, if he's saying it's what was revealed beforehand as promises, We do need to understand he's also telling us that it continues to be a question of promise But what we have here is not fulfillment of the gospel. Paul is not saying that the gospel has come to its completion, that the good news is over, that it's in this life now. He is saying it's rooted in the promises and it is still a promise. Where is the evidence of that? Well, arguably, Romans 8 is the heart and soul of the book of Romans. And it is in Romans 8 that Paul says twice that we are going to suffer in this life. But then promise us the great hope of the next life. The beauty of Romans 8 is not in the present, Confirmation or completion of the gospel, the peace won by God's victory through Jesus Christ is not for the here and now. It is for the day to come. It's rooted in the promises of old, and it continues to be a promise that is forward-oriented Why does that matter? What difference does that make to us as a church? Well, for much of the 19th century, American Christianity was convinced That the gospel could change this world now. And then there was the Great War. And then there was another world war. And much of American society looks at Christianity and says, Ben Mayer done that. It didn't work. All of your attempts to Christianize our nation in the 1800s did not pan out with utopia here on earth. Christianity is a failure. Sadly, much of the church today is still trying to sell Christianity as the answer to the world's problems today But Paul is saying it is rooted in the promises of the Old Testament, and it is a promise restated in this New Testament. Paul is putting forth the gospel as good news of a reality that is still unseen to us. That still awaits us in the future. Which is why in chapter 8 he will say that you suffer now, but you will one day be glorified. Paul says um Sorry, I lost my place. Paul also says this message of good news comes through the prophets in the Holy Scriptures. He is going to quote the Bible over and over and over again in the book of Romans We are going to see the Old Testament repeatedly. Paul is rooting this in the past message of God. Now, Paul is going to ask his audience to trust. He's going to ask us to trust in God's promises. And so now in verse 3, he offers a foundation for that trust. The gospel, this message Paul brings, is in verse 3, concerning his son, who was descended from David according to the flesh. Now, why does that matter? Well Paul says he looked, look, we know that God promised David that there would be an heir on his throne forever. The Messiah is going to have to be descended from David, or he is no Messiah at all. And it's why the Gospels of Matthew and Luke both go to great lengths to give us genealogies of Jesus. And Matthew traces the legal claim to the throne through the adoptive earthly father Joseph Luke, always attentive to the testimony of the women in Jesus' life, he traces the genealogy of Jesus biologically through his mother, Mary. So that both are able to say, look, he has a claim to the throne of David. And Paul points that out right here to be able to say to us, if you're doubting the promises, let's begin with the fact that we begin to see them fulfilled. Are they all completed? Absolutely not. But we begin to see these promises taking place in the life of Jesus. And then in verse 4, and was declared to be the Son of God in power According to the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus can be the fulfillment of the Divinity promises because he descends from David. But he died. If he's going to reign on the throne of David forever, he can't be dead. And we are going to begin to see even here in Romans, just like in Corinthians, just like every other place that Paul writes, the resurrection of Jesus from the dead is going to be of central importance to his understanding of the gospel message. You see, the one who defeats death is never again subject to death. And he can reign forever. He can be king on the throne of David forever. He can have dominion and power and authority over everyone and all things. You see, this was once the call of Adam to take dominion over the earth, to rule it in God's place and on God's behalf. To be a human ruler over the creation of God. But Adam failed. And he failed in a world that lacked sin. Jesus comes to a world full of sin and succeeds And so all authority and all dominion and all power will be granted to him. That he was the Son of God in power speaks to his role that he performs on God's behalf If Paul was a servant of Jesus Christ, bound to carry out the message of Jesus, how much more than the son of that king? You see, in the ancient world, servants could conduct business on behalf of their owners, on behalf of their masters. But sons, they were on a whole nother level. The son of the emperor could go to the far-flung corners of the empire and execute his father's will. With the authority of his father. Now, to be sure, many such princes, many such sons wielded their power wickedly. They used it for all manner of corruption. They used it in self-serving ways. And they did not carry out their father's work in righteousness. But what are we told here? Jesus did this according to spirit of holiness. Jesus is not like the emperor's son who might use his power selfishly. He acted with purity. He acted according to the spirit of holiness. And all of this is by his resurrection from the dead. Let me see if I can illustrate that last phrase and the significance of it. If you've never lived in Metro Detroit, you might not understand this, but in Metro Detroit, there is an annual pilgrimage you're all expected to take You gotta go downtown to the North American International Auto Show. Because all of Detroit is the motor city, it's all dominated by the automotive industry, and you gotta go down and you've got to see all the automoth all the new automobiles on display And there in the the the the the convention center is just filled with hundreds, perhaps thousands of different cars, shiny, brand new, all the bells and whistles, all the top of the line, all the best paint jobs, all the prettiest cars from every manufacturer around the globe. And those cars that get the most attention, as a general rule, are the concept cars. They're not real. They're not really going to drive on the road. Many of them don't even have engines in them. They don't actually work. There are these beautiful, fanciful, amazing vehicles that always disappointed me Because I would look at them and go, oh, that's so cool, but it's never going to happen. By pointing to the resurrection of Jesus, Paul is trying to get us to understand that the promises of God, peace with God, eternal life in God. These are not merely conceptual. This is reality. The prototype, the first one, has rolled off the assembly line. This is actually in production. I'm using an industrial illustration. But what does the agricultural society of the Bible call Jesus? The first fruits from the dead. He's the proof of concept. He's the road-ready, real-world drivable, functioning model. In the resurrection of Jesus, we find the reality of all of the promises. Is the gospel message completely fulfilled in the here and now? No. But is it absolutely certain? Yes. Look at the resurrection of Jesus from the dead and know that in him all these promises are sure. Verse 1 is what Paul had to say about himself. And in verses 2, 3, and 4, we have taken a look at what Paul has to say about his message, about the gospel. About how our enemy has won and won for the sake of our salvation and peace with him, reconciliation by the resurrection of Jesus. Verses 5, 6, and 7, Paul has some things to say about the church, about the believers And it is not inappropriate, it is not a stretch to take these things that he applied to that church then and understand them to be fitting to the church, capital C. In other words, they befit us. So in verse 5, he begins his transition, through whom we have received grace. and apostleship to bring about the obedience of for the sake of his name among all the nations. Notice the good news that's wrapped up in that Because Christ Jesus rose from the dead, because he is the proof of concept, there is now grace. God's anger has been propitiated, and he is now willing to offer grace. He makes apostles so that this word can be declared with power. And he works the obedience of faith. I'm not going to touch the exact meaning of that. We're going to see it unfold in the weeks to come. And he does so for the sake of his name among all the nations. This is a very Jewish way of addressing the Gentiles. I'm not aware of that any of us here are Jewish. And part of the good news we have to recognize here is that the Messiah who came to save the Jews also came to save sinful Gentiles. He is our Lord and not merely theirs. And Paul speaks of him that way. as our Lord with the plural pronoun that it's uh uh belongs to all of us We see in verse 6, he goes on, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, those who are the Gentiles who are among all those nations. And this is one of the reasons why Paul, though he has never met the church in Rome, feels compelled to write to them. For as we saw in our New Testament reading, he was set apart by God, set apart by Jesus Christ to be the apostle to the Gentiles. And the Roman church is increasingly taken on a Gentile flavor. And Paul feels the weight of trying to help that church. And so he writes to them. They are called to belong to Jesus Christ. Think about how that mirrors Paul what he said about himself. They are called to belong to Jesus Christ. He was called to be an apostle. They belong to Jesus. He was a slave servant doulos of Jesus. And so, whatever authority he has among them is a difference of degree, not of kind. He is not something altogether not like them. For he had, they have the same experience with God that he has had, that they have been called by God. To be belonged to Jesus Christ. And he finally, in verse 7, makes these profound conclusions. But we really do need to hear these. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. The word translated saint is in the Greek actually an adjective. Literally, it's the word holy. Now, to be sure, in every language that I'm familiar with, adjectives can be used in a nominative sense. We sing about the home of the brave. Right? The national anthem? Brave is not actually a noun, it's an adjective. But we use it in a nominative sense there. That's how this has been translated. Called to be saints. But I also want to point this out. The verb to be is not in the Greek. If you have a King James or an NASB, to be will probably be italicized. But telling added it in there. It's not in the Greek. So it literally says those who are called holy. I really think that is the better translation This is a profound thing. Paul is writing to this church at Rome. This church that we have discovered is deeply flawed. Through its own sin, through the machinations of the world around it, it has the potential to come apart at the scenes in any given moment. And Paul writes to them and says, you are called holy. Holy. Set apart, special, of spiritual importance, holy to the Lord. Those are the things in the tabernacle and in the temple which were used with great honor. which were used to glorify and to worship God, which were not for common and ordinary purposes. Paul says to the Christians in Rome, and the Holy Spirit says to us, You are holy. Now, if you have reflected upon yourself over the past week, this is a judgment that might be hard to agree with. If you are honest with yourself about who you are, what you do, and what you're like, this is a pronouncement you're going to have a hard time buying into. There are times in our lives where we simply have to accept something, even if we don't understand it. And Paul says to the church, You are called holy How? He's going to explain. He's going to come back around and spell this out. He's going to give it some meat. But he opens up by saying, it is so. Accept it. God has set you apart for his great spiritual purposes. And you are loved. Loved by God We're in that cave and Helm's Deep and that movie and that battle scene and we're inside there and he breaks through the door and it's our enemy. It's the one we hated. It's the one that we deny, we would not worship, we would not submit to. It is the creator of the universe whom we did not bow before And he breaks through the gate and says, I have won because I love you. It's kind of unfathomable. There really isn't a good illustration for it, because there's nothing like it in this world. And at what costs the victory, my son? I have won. I have overcome. I have broken through Because I love you. Our Sunday school class is focused on joy. If that's not reason for joy, I'm not sure what is. The one who was our enemy, the one whom we despised in our sin, claimed a victory at the cost of his own son. So that we could be called holy and loved by Him. The good news of the gospel, the surprising, stunning reason for celebration Is that we who were once the enemies of God are holy and loved by Him Let's pray. God, this is an amazing truth that is going to be difficult for us to accept fully. To grasp in all of its depth, and all of its meaning, and all the implications of it. And so we look forward to this A book of Romans, as your servant Paul lays these things out for us, as he begins to put meat on the bones, as he begins to explain to us in great detail, with great care. All that the gospel is, and all that it means for us as your servants. But until we understand those things, and perhaps we never will, we ask for your help believing them, accepting them as true Living as though it is so. With great joy, with great thanksgiving, with great desire to return service to you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen