Who are you? Most of us, I imagine, would answer that question with our name. I'm John Smith. I'm Janie Davis. But what if we were pushed? No, no, no, I'm not asking for your name. I'm asking, who are you? How would you then answer that question? I'm a husband, I'm a mother, a teacher, a plumber, a brother, a daughter. Who are you? I'm a political conservative. I'm a registered Democrat. Who are you? We are not a particularly ritualistic culture. We pay little heed to the power of ceremony and of rights to change who we are. We have no bar mitzvah by which a boy becomes a man. We do not celebrate the uh and I'll never say this correctly. the quinceanera, quincenera of of the Hispanic, of the Latina culture, the traditional announcement that this girl has been trained and taught and prepared for womanhood Consequently, we don't always understand the significance of ceremony and of ritual and of its power to fundamentally change us. Though our culture is trying to strip us of this as well, there is for most of us one lasting, one uh residual ritual that still has meaning. for us. Life-changing significance. Isn't it striking? Isn't it rather shocking? That on the night of our wedding, we become intimately familiar with each other. But on the next morning, we will often greet each other with formality. Good morning, Mrs. Shaw. Good morning, Mr. Shaw. Why does such formality follow such intimacy? It is an acknowledgement that we have been changed. That the ceremony, the ritual of the wedding, fundamentally changed who we were. On the morning of July 16th, 1988, Becky and I were parts of two different, distinct families. On the morning of July 17th, we were something new, something different than we had ever been. before. Our fundamental identity was altered. And the formality of that greeting that morning acknowledged the power of ceremony. to change us. Open your Bibles, please, to Joshua 5. Joshua chapter 5. It's page 213 in the Pew Bible. Joshua 5, we'll begin in a moment with verse. Joshua five beginning in verse one. Let me set the stage ever so quickly. Moses has died. God has anointed Joshua to take command of Israel and her armies. Preparations for the invasion of the Promised Land were underway. And God had ushered Israel into that land by the parting of the Jordan River Now imagine you're part of that company of people, that mass of humanity. What's next You have crossed the Jordan. The waters have closed in behind you. Your escape is blocked. You are committed. So what do you do next? I think sometimes we lose the power, the impact of Joshua chapter 5, because we don't fit it into that context. We don't stop and think about what the human will would have been in that moment. Pick up your shields, strap on your swords, and get ready. Because there is no turning back. But that's not what happened. That's not what we see in Joshua 5. Read with me. As we go into Joshua 5. And as we do so, I will remind you that here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. And that means, among many other things, that if we want to rightly understand the life-changing power of ritual and ceremony, we must understand God's Word. Joshua 5, beginning in verse 1. As soon as all the kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard that Yahweh had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel. until they had crossed over. Their hearts melted and there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel. If you were a military commander, you'd say, seize the moment, now's the time to attack. Verse 2 At that time Yahweh said to Joshua, Make flint knives, and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time. So Joshua made flint knives. By the way, no one man can be circumcised a second time, obviously. This is a corporate reference. They had been circumcised way back in the day, as we'll read in a moment. They are now to be circumcised as a nation again. So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibbeth Heraloth Militarily speaking, this is utter foolishness. But the inhabitants of Jericho, the inhabitants of Canaan, were of no threat to Israel. The inhabitants of this earth are not our enemy. We have but one true enemy in this life, and it is a holy God. It is the Lord Jesus Christ who will ride forth on a white horse one day and slay all his enemies. That's the great threat to our lives. But if we are reconciled to him, if by the blood of Jesus we are made right with God, then what can man do to us? If Israel was ever going to cease to exist, it was not going to be because of the people of Jericho or any other nation. Their existence had everything to do with their relationship to their God. Being right with him, reconciled to him, was the single most important thing they could do. Verse 4. And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them. All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt. Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised. Notice the corporate identity here We would say all the men had been circumcised, but our author doesn't. He says all the people have been circumcised. This is a beautiful illustration of what it means to be in fellowship. We're in this together. What happens to one happens to all of us. What is true of the one is true of all of us. We are the body of Christ, united in him. It's why we do our wedding ceremonies in our churches in front of our brothers and sisters, so that they may hold us accountable to our vows. It's why we don't practice private baptisms and private communions because we are a corporate unity and a corporate entity. The people were uncircumcised, not just the men For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished, because they did not obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord swore to them That he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give us a land flowing with milk and honey So it was their children whom he raised up in their place that Joshua circumcised, for they were uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed. Again, militarily speaking, this seems like foolishness. You've incapacitated the entire army of Israel. But Joshua fears the Lord more than he fears Jericho. And the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. And so the name of that place is called Gilgal, rolling to this day. Let's pray. Lord, reveal to us your word this morning, and let us hear its import, its impact upon our lives, its significance for us. Help us to see How this event, all those many years ago, should instruct us and give us great confidence in our Savior Jesus Christ, in whom we pray. Amen. Today, I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you As strange as it may sound, understanding this passage and particularly that very last sentence will help us to understand baptism. It will help us to answer the question of who we are. Today I have ruled away the reproach of Egypt from you. We step away for just a moment and ask this question, and we will connect back around. Why does the minister wear a robe? Tradition? Not for me. I grew up with a church that traditionally eschewed these types of formalities. This church has traditionally not applied them. So why does the minister wear a robe? Pomp, circumstance? Maybe in some traditions, but even in those, that's not how they got started. Even if something is because of tradition, that tradition had a reason for its beginning. Why does the minister wear a robe? Ponder for a moment the meaning of the word minister. And consider what you think of when you think of that word. It's probably hard to answer the question of why the minister wears a robe because we're not thinking rightly about the word minister. You know, we've had to think preacher. But that's not the principal definition. If we go look up the word minister, we find the following A minister is a person appointed under the authority of a sovereign to some high office, especially to that of the head of an administrative department. For example, the Minister of Finance. That's how most of the world uses the word minister. A minister is, here's another definition, same source, a person acting as the agent or instrument of another A minister is a person acting as the agent or instrument of another. Ministers are not principally preachers, they are primarily those appointed under an authority to act on behalf of that authority. The British Prime Minister is the foremost instrument of the United Kingdom. There are defense ministers and finance ministers and foreign ministers, and each of them conducts business under the authority of the state A minister is the agent or instrument of another. The minister wears a robe because he is not himself. When he dons that cloak, he dons the responsibility of speaking for, of acting on behalf of a sovereign authority which ordained him. Paradoxically, the robe hides the man while highlighting the office. Ministers are not prophets, yet they are empowered to use the prophet's copyright phrase. Thus saith the Lord. You see, when you hear the minister, you're supposed to hear the Lord. It's why the Second Helvetic Confession is comfortable saying, that's a reformed confession that we would Get along very well with the second Helvetic Confession is comfortable saying the preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God It's why the scriptures hold ministers to such high standards and why it warns them that they face a much harsher judgment in the next life. Because a false minister represents the God of truth in a false way. It's why in our denomination We have such rigorous examination processes before one is allowed to call himself or be called a minister. It protects him from God's judgment on those who would represent him. Ministers are not empowered to act in or of themselves, but only on behalf of Jesus Christ. Thus the reformers, by and large, adopted plain black robes. As an aid toward those seemingly contradictory goals of distinguishing the office while hiding and obscuring the man. It is the office which matters because it is the office which acts as the agent or instrument. of another. You see, in a short time, a minister will apply water to Silas Baer. An agent acting on behalf of another It is that other who said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore into all the world and make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We, strictly speaking, do not baptize. Churches do not baptize. God baptizes. Jesus baptizes. It is why baptism is to be administered only by a duly appointed minister. It must be done by one who we recognize as God's minister so that we understand that it's being done by God. You see, we have rules about who can perform a baptism and traditions about what the minister should wear, not for the sake of rule and tradition alone, but because we are to remember that it is God who who does these things. It is God who speaks by his word. It is God who nourishes us at his table. It is God who baptizes. You see what God says there at the end of Joshua 1. 9 or 5. 9? Today I have rolled away the reproach. of Egypt. Yes, it was Joshua who created the hill of foreskins. That's what the one long name in there means. But he did not. Joshua did not roll away the reproach upon Israel. God did. Joshua was merely his minister, his agent, his instrument. One of the earliest disputes in the Christian church might actually help illustrate the significance of this point. When you get into the second and third centuries after Christ, you get into a time when the Roman government began to officially and systematically persecute Christians. And so the Romans would come into your small village, let's say in North Africa, and they would seek out the Christians looking to imprison or execute them. And they would find, almost always, one of the first they found was the local pastor or bishop. And they would hold a sword to his throat and say, Do you recant? And most of them would faithfully say, No, I do not. I believe in Jesus Christ. And they would suffer the consequences. But some. Would apostatize, they would recant their faith, they would turn away from Christ and deny him when their lives were on the line. This caused a tremendous consternation in that village, in that small town. For I was baptized by that minister. I was married by that minister. Is my baptism invalid? Is my marriage illegitimate? This was a controversy in the early church. But the church quickly settled the issue by recognizing that it is not the minister who matters He is but an instrument of God, and God is free to use whomever he wants as instruments. It was God who baptized you. Your baptism is valid. How do we conclude a marriage ceremony? The minister will say, I now pronounce you husband and wife. And then immediately follow it with whom God has joined together. Let no man tear asunder. The minister doesn't marry them, God marries them. The minister doesn't baptize, God baptizes. And so if your minister apostatizes, if he walks away from the faith, you are not invalidated in any way because it was still God who was behind it. Your baptism is valid, not because your minister is faithful, but because God is God. Your marriage will be legitimate right up until the time God stops being God Our rules and our traditions and our formalities were not intended to be for their own sake, but as a way of reminding us of who is truly operating, truly acting, truly at work. You see, in a few minutes a minister will apply water to Silas, but God will baptize him. Brothers and sisters, understand this not for Silas's sake alone, but for yourselves. You were dicked, dripped, or dumped by a minister. You were washed by God. Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt That's the promise God gives to Joshua and the nation of Israel. The sign and the symbol are applied by the minister. The meaning and importance reside with God. Now let's look closely for a moment at the sign which was applied. How did circumcision remove from Israel the reproach of Egypt? And by analogy, how does baptism work? What was so important about that ritual? Well, first of all, let's just disabuse ourselves of any notion that circumcision was uniquely Jewish, uniquely Israeli. It was not. Many people groups in the ancient world practiced circumcision. The sign given to Abraham was known and used by other cultures. But what was fairly uncommon, what was less regular, was its application to infants. You see, in most people groups, in most cultures, the rite of circumcision, it marked progress or accomplishment in the recipient's life Sometimes this was through feats of strength andor bravery. A young man would have to prove himself in some way, in order to be circumcised and to pass into manhood. In some cultures, it was simply a matter of turning 13, of staying alive, which, by the way, in the ancient world was no mean feat. And it was a celebration that you had lived long enough to be called a man. But either way, it was applied because of something in the recipient's life. Not so with the sign given to Abraham. The symbol and the symbolism must not be lost to us. You see, for both the sons of Abraham were circumcised. Ishmael when he was thirteen. Ishmael was marked with the covenant sign in a way that all the peoples around them were marked with the covenant sign. At puberty, at age 13, having achieved this, having reached this point, you are now marked. But Ishmael was the product of human effort. Ishmael was the product of Abraham's plan, not of God's. Isaac, by contrast, was circumcised at eight days old, to mark him Not because of anything in him, not because of what he had done or become, but because of God's promise, because of God's sovereign plan for that child. It was God who made that promise. Turn to Genesis 17. Let's take a look at this real quickly. Genesis chapter 17. I didn't note the page number in the Pew Bible, so you're going to be on your own to find it. It's easy enough. Genesis is the first book of the Bible. Go to the 17th chapter. Bam, you're there. Genesis 17, beginning in verse 1. And while you're turning there, let me quickly set the stage. Back in Genesis 15, God had entered a covenant with Abram. They had cut a covenant that he would be Abram's God and the God of his children after him. And there would be children. In Genesis 16, With no child coming, Abram and Sarai, his wife, they employ a form of surrogacy that was fairly common in the ancient world by which a slave girl is raped. And her child taken and made the child of the primary or the the uh first rank wife And now in seventeen we read the following: When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant. between me and you, and may uh multiply you greatly. Then Abram fell on his face, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be called Abraham For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. Who are you? You notice God's changing of the man's answer to that question? This is a proper life-changing ceremony. Your whole identity is shifting, so much so that your name will change I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you, and I will establish my covenant between me and you, and your offspring after you throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant. to be God to you and to your offspring after you. Coveted is the key. Covenant is everything here. It's a binding agreement that is in view, one which God made with Abraham and his offspring And it is this circumcision that marks them as members of the covenant. And I will give, verse eight, and I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be They're God. You see now why children are a part of the church? Because they've always been a part of the church from the very beginning of the church. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations, this is my covenant which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised Every male throughout your generations, whether born into your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring Both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Circumcision was for Israel not a rite of passage into adulthood. It was not the precursor of bar mitzvah. It was not a mark of any accomplishment on behalf of the recipient. It did not denote him as a great warrior or huntsman. It was a mark of participation in God's covenant. It marked a people as belonging to Abraham's God. This one is mine. God put his sign onto Abraham and unto Abraham's children and said, mine. Abraham, I am marking your flesh as a seal, that you and I have a covenant, a binding agreement. But more than that, I am marking your offspring in the same Way. How much where would the blessing have been for Abraham? If he had imagined that this God was saving him and him only, and leaving his children to blow in the wind, leaving his offspring to all the false gods of the surrounding nations. Where would the joy in life be? Where would the blessings of grace arise? God says to Abraham, I will be your God and the God of your children after you. Our covenant, Abraham extends to them. I am your God, I will be their God, you are my child, they will be my children. And our narrator in Joshua 5. 5 tells us that when the people left Egypt back in the day, they were all Circumcised. God had once marked them as His. He placed on them the sign of His covenant. But now this people is on the brink of taking the promised land With no mark of identity. Who are they? If you were to ask them, who are you, what would they say? And if they made a claim, how would they prove it? They lack the marker of the identity of God. Why? Was it an omission? Was it an oversight? Certainly not You will recall that Moses himself nearly died. The angel of the Lord was on the verge of executing Moses because he had not circumcised his own sons. Remember the story Zipporah intervenes, she circumcises the boys, she rescued, uh saves Moses' life. Okay Moses is not going to allow that to happen another time. He's not going to accidentally forget about circumcision. For the last 40 years in the wilderness, why has there been no circumcision? Why have the people, the offspring of Israel, not been circumcised? Why have Moses' own grandsons not been circumcised? Because God has forbidden it God has precluded it. God has said to them, not mine You saw all that I did to Egypt, and you didn't believe me. Not money. And they lack in their bodies the identifying marker Of who they are. They are a people with no identity. They are a people devoid of knowledge of themselves. This was the reproach of Egypt. You are a people without a god. Do you remember what happened when Moses goes to Pharaoh? Moses, the minister of God, speaking on behalf of God as God's instrument, says to Pharaoh, Let my people go, that they may go into the wilderness and worship me. And what does Pharaoh say? Who is Yahweh? I don't know Yahweh. I know Osiris. I know Isis, I've heard of Ra and all the other gods of Egypt, but I have never heard of Yahweh. Now how could those tens of thousands of Hebrews have lived in Egypt and Pharaoh never heard of their God? Because they have lost faith in him. They've stopped talking about him. They've stopped believing that they were his. And the reproach of Egypt is: you are a people with no God. I know the gods of Egypt. I do not know your God. You are a godless people. And Yahweh intervenes, and he works miracles in Egypt. But what do the Egyptians do? They mimic the miracles. Oh, your God can turn some water red. Our priests can do that too. Oh, your God can cause some frauds to appear. Our priests can work those sorts of things out also. And they belittle the God of Israel. The reproach of Egypt was the reproach of being you have no God. And on this day, before the walls of Jericho, in the valley with the Jordan River behind them blocking their retreat, God stands over Israel and to all of them, all at once, on the same day, says, Mine! You're mine! For 40 years you have wandered, wondering what would become, wondering if the promise would be fulfilled, wondering if the power of God would ever deliver you. But today I'm telling you, it will I am your God. The covenant I made with your father Abraham is in place today. And I mark you as mine. Recipients of the covenant. I have not forgotten you And you are no longer a people without a God. You are no longer a people without a divine defender. You are no longer a people who wander with no God riding the clouds above you to protect you. Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt They did not fear being incapacitated for three days. They did not fear being immobilized by way of the mass circumcision because they only feared the Lord at this point. They had angered him in the wilderness, but today he has marked them as his own, as members of his covenant community. Do not fear Jericho, Jesus says, who can kill only the body. Rather, fear the one who can destroy both body and soul in hell. We are circumcised. We are initiated into the covenant of grace. So if God is for us, who can stand against us? Israel, who are you? A few days earlier, on the east side of the Jordan River, they may have hummed and hawed and not been sure how to answer that question. But they will get up tomorrow morning and Joshua will rally the armies of Israel. And I have in my mind that scene at the end of the movie, The Lord of the Rings, where Aragorn stands before all the armies of men at the you know the the gates of Mordor and he says, you know, he gives that rallying cry before the great battle. You can imagine Joshua before the armies of Israel going, Who are you? And together they cry out, We are the Lord's. We didn't know that a few days ago because He hadn't marked us, He hadn't put on us the sign of His covenant. But today we have it. We're changed. We bear the covenant marker, we belong to God as we are His. Now, if that doesn't change a person, nothing will. So here we are 3500 years later. And we are asked the same question: Who are you? And sadly, most of us don't look to our baptism to inform our answer. We stammer before the question because we have failed to understand what baptism is. It is the sign of initiation into the covenant of grace. It is the marker that we belong to God. It is the symbol that He has watched us and made us His own. In the second century, there was a martyr named Majorchus. He was headed to the arena to die for his faith On the night before his mother was able to visit him, I believe his mother's name was Dionysia, as I recall. She encouraged him With these words, you are baptized On the next day, this young man was going to face the temptation to be unfaithful to the Lord, to recant, to deny Jesus. And his mother reminded him of a ceremony that he couldn't remember himself. But it had marked him. It had changed him. He was not who he would otherwise have been. You, my son, are baptized. And so he died faithfully. Martin Luther, the father of the Reformation, was constantly beset by all manner of trials and temptations and doubts and fears. And it is said that he could be overheard yelling to himself, I am baptized. It's not unlike a man tempted by lust, saying to himself, I'm a married man, I'm a married man, I'm a married man. It changes you. It puts you into a new category. It is not who you would have otherwise have been. Do not imagine that the ceremony has no power, the ritual has no weight, that rites and signs and symbols are empty gestures Luther was not appealing to his baptism as that which would save him, but rather as the marker of his salvation. Of his identity, of being in the Lord. I'm not who I would have been. I'm not merely Martin, son of Hans. I am not merely a man trained in the law. I am not merely a man ordained to the ministry. I am baptized. I've been marked by God, washed by him, sealed in his covenant of grace. God once stood over me and pronounced a single word. Mine. Brothers and sisters, we have forgotten our baptism. In part because we have imagined it to be of little significance, just something the pastor did. But the minister is merely the instrument, the agent. It's something God did. We have forgotten our baptisms because we have failed to understand it as the initiation into the covenant of grace, as a marker of identity. And we forget our baptisms because we make the mistake of putting experience above truth. Truth isn't true because of your experience of it. Truth transcends experience. You do not recall the experience of your mother naming you. But it's who you are When I was two, the neighbor boy with whom I played regularly could not pronounce Scott. That has forever marked my life. To my parents, to my sister, to my brother, and to those four people alone, and none of you I am forever fuck I have no memory of that happening, but I will never forget it My experience of it doesn't make it so. It happened. And it marked my life. And to this day and forevermore, I am suck. Remember your baptism. Regardless of your memory of it. Luther did not recall his, but he would not let himself forget it. Majorchus had no memory of his, but his mother reminded him of it. Who are you? An American? A Democrat? A teacher, a retiree, a nurse, above all else, you are God You belong to him. You are a baptized person, marked by God as the beneficiary of his covenant. Amen. Lord, remind us of our baptism. Remind us that you stood over us once and said, mine. When we doubt, when we are tossed around by our fears, when we are assailed by this world, remind us that you once said, mine. That you applied to us the sign of your covenant. That you washed us symbolically with physical water. And pointed us to the washing of regeneration by your Holy Spirit. We are not our own. We have been bought at a price. And we have been marked by baptism as a reminder of that truth. We pray this in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.