Will you please be seated? But don't put your bulletins away just yet. Look at our first hymn, How Great Thou Art, the last verse, When Christ shall come with shout of acclamation. Our second hymn on page six on Jordan's Stormy Bank, the whole thing is about Christ coming back and us spending eternity with him. On page 8, the song we just sang, the last verse, creation longs for his return when Christ shall reign upon the earth. There's a little bit of a theme this morning. It's a theme of our Lord coming back, of his return to the earth of his ruling over creation for all of eternity. It's a theme that leads beautifully into Zechariah 14. And I invite you to open your Bibles to Zechariah chapter 14. Zechariah has been preaching a sermon, it's been a three chapters in the book of Zechariah, chapters 12 and 13 and 14, and those Three chapters are held together. The theme of his sermon is on that day. It's a day in chapter twelve where that began with the one whom we pierced. He told us to look upon the one whom we pierced, and to mourn for our sin that pierced him. In chapter 13, last week we saw, though, that Zachariah said that the one pierced, that piercing, opened up a flow, a fountain Which washes us and cleanses us. Chapter 13 went on to say that the cleansing of the people of God will continue through a process of refinement, of purification through trial and difficulty. Chapter 14 is going to open up with that trial and that difficulty, connecting to 13. But then it flows into our great and final hope. It's a very wonderful sermon that Zechariah has pulled together, and I would hope at some point you sit down and read all three chapters consecutively to see the flow of his thought. Now I want to turn our attention to the Word of Almighty God, the inerrant authoritative word that will stand forever. Hear now the word of God from Zechariah 14. Behold, a day is coming for the Lord, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lie before Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the mount shall move northward, and the other half southward, and you shall flee to the valley of my mountains For the valley of the mountain shall reach to Azal, and you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost. And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but at evening time there shall be light. On that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the Eastern Sea, and half of them to the Western Sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter. And the Lord will be king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one, and his name one. The whole land shall be turned into a plain from Gebah to Ramon, south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem shall remain aloft on its site, from the gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the corner gate, and from the Tower of Hanal to the king's wine presses And it shall be inhabited, for there shall never again be a decree of utter destruction destruction. Jerusalem shall dwell in security. And this shall be the plague with which the Lord will strike all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem. Their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths. And on that day a great panic from the Lord shall fall on them, so that each will seize the hand of another, and the hand of one will be raised against the hand of another. Even Judah will fight at Jerusalem, and the wealth of all the surrounding nations shall be collected, gold, silver, and garments in great abundance. And a plague like this plague shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and whatever beast may be in those camps. Then, everyone who survives of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts. And to keep the feast of Booze. And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain on them. And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain. There shall be the plague which the Lord afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of booze. This shall be the punishment to Egypt, and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of booze. And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, holy to the Lord. And the pots in the house of the Lord shall be as the bowls before the altar. And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the Lord of hosts. So that all who sacrifice may come and take of them, and boil the meat of the sacrifice in them. And there shall no longer be a traitor in the house of the Lord of hosts on that day. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord, open your word to us, and open our hearts and minds to it. Let us see the day that is coming. Let us be a people who tell others about this great and terrible day. Who long for it ourselves, who hope in it, rest on it, and who look forward to living for all eternity because of it. We offer this prayer and this service in the name of our Savior. Amen. As we have seen, this text opens with darkness, with with uh uh bitter uh uh uh difficulty It opens in verses 1 and 2 with what I am calling the night before the day. If you'd like to follow along, there is an outline on page 11 of your bulletin. In verses 1 and 2, we see the night before the day, the darkness before the dawn, the difficulties of the people of God. The refining that we saw at the end of chapter 13 is now taken up in chapter 14 and described in very stark terms. When you sum it up, it's a message that everything we love in this world can and will be taken away. Everything we love in this world can and will be taken away. The spoil of our victories past will be taken away. The places where we live, the places we go for our refuge, the places that we go to be safe and to secure and to feel good and comfortable, our homes will be taken away. Our loved ones, great harm will be done to them. And we will be scattered out of the very place we desire to be in Jerusalem. With God among his people. It is a dark day. And what's more, these things will happen What happened, our enemies will do these things right before our very eyes. They will take these things away from us as we're forced to watch. All that we love, all that we cling to in this world, can and will be taken away. There's something interesting in its absence in these verses. As a general rule, when the prophets pronounce God's uh judgment of this sort, and judgment's a bad word, I shouldn't have used it. When they talk about the Lord bringing this kind of catastrophe, it's usually framed up as his judgment And we're usually told why it's coming. Because of your idolatry. Because of the injustice that you show toward the poor in the land. Because of your intermarriage with the unsaved peoples around you. But in these verses, there is a description of terrible things coming against the people of God, and no explanation as to why. No pronouncement on their sin. No description of what's happening. And we're reminded that not all things that are catastrophic that befall us befall us because of our sin Jesus was walking, and he came upon a man born blind from birth, and his disciples asked him in John 9, why was this man born blind? What did he do? What sin did he or his parents commit? That he's been blind his whole life. You'll recall that Jesus said to his disciples, Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but rather this has happened in his life so that the glory of God might be displayed. That's what's going on in verses 1 and 2. When we look at what's coming against the people of God, and when we look at the these difficult and dark days. that are coming to the people of God. What we see is that it's actually God's plan to gather the nations. It's actually God's mechanism to get all of his enemies together, to give them a sense of having won, of having been victorious. Look at what we've done to the church. We've destroyed it. We've plundered it. We've taken all of its wealth and divided it up amongst the heathens of the world. So much for your God. So much for Jesus. You Christians were fools all along The darkness of the coming day need not necessarily be interpreted as a punishment. But much like the life of Job. God is going to turn to his enemies and say, Did you not see the faithfulness of my people even as you were doing this to them? Did you not see that they clung to me even in the midst of all of this? Do you not see that they are still hoping in me? And then in verse 3, 4, 5, we see the dawn of the day When that darkness is at its deepest, when our despair is at its greatest, when the church is most fearful and the world feeling most victorious, we read what happens next. Then What a wonderful word. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. All of a sudden there is a change. Verses 1 and 2 are the night before the day. Verses 3, 4, and 5 are the dawning of the day. Now there is light. Now there is hope. Verse 3 is an interesting verse the way it's worded. The implication is that You have never yet seen Yahweh, the God of Israel, the God of the church. You have yet to see him actually unleash his wrath fully. On that day he is going to fight as the Lord fights. You know, it's very common in the scriptures that we'll see that there's going to come a judgment like this house or like that warrior. But Zachariah has no comparison. What is going to be unleashed on that day against the powers of this world is what can only be compared to God Himself. He's going to fight as only He can fight. There is no comparison. The most sweeping victory in the history of military power will be nothing compared to what the Lord is going to unleash on that day. The dawning of that day begins when the Lord rides out. When things look the bleakest, when your hope is wobbling the most. When as a church collectively we are in great despair and the world is feeling victorious, the Lord rides out. He is in control. You know, one of the functions of the prophets is to foretell disaster so that when disaster comes, the people of God Don't wobble, they don't fret, they don't wonder if God's still in control. But rather they look at the prophet and say, no, he said this was coming. This is happening exactly as God foretold. I guess I don't need to give up on him. I don't need to look for a plan B. I don't need to hedge my bets. I don't need a backup plan of salvation. We collectively as the church, as this world rises evermore ferociously against us, We need not despair. We need not give up. For it is foretold that these things will happen. And it is also foretold that God will ride forth and do battle for us. We continue to read in verses 3, 4, and 5 about the things that are going to happen there. We see the the uh uh There's a safe place to run that's described. We're told about the uh uh the Lord is going to come down, he's gonna stand on the Mount of Olives, and the mountain is gonna split open. And a portion of it's going to move northward and a portion southward, a great valley is going to open up. And I have, I don't know exactly how literally to take this. That's a challenge to figure out how literally to apply this. But one way or another, something catastrophic and terrible, something only our God can execute, is going to play out on that day. And something interesting happens. This terrible, fearsome sight becomes the point to which the people of God run. They don't run away from this terror. They don't run away from this splitting of the mountain. They run to it. We had some pets when I was growing up. We had a Doberman Pincher. He was a fearsome and awesome dog. I like that dog. He was 90 pounds of teeth and muscle, and he was well trained, and he was fearsome. We had a little furball of a cat that we got as a kitten who she thought she was all that and could take the dog and she would sit there and hiss and swat at the dog and the dog would just kind of ignore her and every once in a while he'd take his nose and toss her across the room away whatever. But they the cat grew up with this Doberman pincher and I don't know if dogs and cats can be friends, but it kind of looked like that. And uh they grew up. Well one day we see something interesting happen and over the years we saw this play out a couple of times. You see, this cat would go out into the neighborhood and pick fights with other cats. The cat was not particularly big or particularly fearsome and would begin to lose those fights. You know what the cat would do? It would tear through the neighborhood, run into our backyard, and go stand right under the Doberman. And taunt the other cats. Ha ha, nanny nanna boo-boo. You can't get me. What was terrifying to all of the other cats in the neighborhood Was salvation for our cat. That's an image of what's going on here. When the Lord comes, what is terrifying for everyone else is salvation for us. We're going to run into the midst of the storm. We're going to run to the great earthquake. We're going to go toward the valley that's opening up. Not because we are afraid we're going to fall into a chasm and be devoured, but because we know that this is our God, this is his plan of salvation, that that valley is our safe place And just as the cat trusted in the dog, and everyone else feared, we will trust in the Lord and run to him on that day. There's one other interesting thing that's said here in verse 5, the last part of verse 5, then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him. That word holy ones, when it shows up in the New Testament, is frequently translated as saints. All the saints. This here in Zechariah is a picture of what we see in the New Testament. We read from 1 Thessalonians 5 a description of how we need not worry on that day, but rather it is a day of salvation for us. But in 1 Thessalonians 4, it reminds us that the dead in Christ will rise and meet him in the air and then come with him as his entourage. This king deserves a glorious entourage. This king deserves for there to be multitudes and throngs of people singing his praises as he comes to the earth. And that's what he's going to do. He's going to gather his own. And bring them with him. And we see Zachariah saying the same thing. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones, all the saints, with him. Verses 1 and 2 are the night before the day. A reminder that terrible things are going to happen, but they are in the hand of our God, and he is bringing them about for his own good purposes. Verses 3, 4, and 5 are the dawning of the day. And the remainder of the chapters 6 through 21 describes the day itself. What is that day going to be like? Let's take a look at some of the description there. First of all, in verses 6 and 7, it is a day unlike any other. It is a unique day. Now that's not a fun thing to read as a pastor. How are you supposed to describe a unique day? What analogy should you use? What illustration do you have? They say, well, this is kind of light. Well, it's not light. This word of God says it's unlike anything else ever. It is a completely unique day. But we're clued into the sorts of things that are going on. Notice that the patterns of weather, patterns of day and night will all be disrupted. It will be a day in which God just shows his power over the normal routine of things. You see, we live in a world that is pred uh where naturalism is beginning to predominate ever more and more. This idea that all things just occur naturally and that there is no one or nothing in control of them. And one of the things we see here is that naturalism is going to be thrown out the window. That our God is going to come in and say, No, no, no. Those day-night patterns, those weather patterns that you've grown accustomed to were occurring because I wanted them to occur, and now I am bringing them to an end. It is going to be a unique day of the demonstration of God's power. In verses 8 through 11, we see that it is a day of hope and help. for God's people. In verse 8, we see on that day living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half to the east and half to the east to the west. And it's a Hebraic way of saying it's going to flood everywhere. It's going to flow everywhere. This living water is going to flood the earth and nourish the people of God. It's going to bring, it's going to quench the thirst that we have for him. It's going to to provide the growth that we need. It's going to bring our sanctification to completion and accomplish our glorification. The nourishment of the living waters of Almighty God are going to flow in every direction to all of His people. You know, that's a day a lot of us long for without even realizing it. We don't even always know that we're longing for it, but we get disgusted when the pastor says dumb things and you go in your car car ride home going, What did he- That's not what that pastor says. Oh my goodness What does he do? We're longing for this thing of pure living waters because our pastors fail us and they misinterpret things and they misapply things and our Sunday school teachers fail us, and our churches fail us. We long for this day of absolutely pure living water. But I do want to challenge you. Don't forego the living water altogether because it's made us a little impure by sinful human beings. It's still the living water. Don't give up on church because your pastor failed you. Seek the living water, even now, and begin to grow as a result of being nourished by it. Seek out the Word of God, even if it is not as pure as it ought to be. Forgoing water altogether is not a healthier alternative. We see the living water in verse 8 and verse 9. We see that Yahweh will be an unrivaled king and the Lord all caps. Reminder that that is the English rendering of the proper name of God. And I think this is a place where it'd be better to actually use his proper name rather than the word Lord. Because the point here is that this is not just any old master, any old lord. This is Yahweh, the one true God. Yahweh will be king over all the earth. On that day, Yahweh will be one and his name one. This is a hearkening back to the creed of Israel in Deuteronomy, the Shema. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. They're saying it'll be completed, it'll be known to the whole earth. Everybody will see it. And his name one. There will be no other name put next to him. No one will dare say in that day, well, Allah is also God, or just another name for God. No, his name will be one and everybody will know what it is. No one will dare say in that day, Buddha is also God or a God. No one will dare lift up any alternative to the one true king. On that day, the king will be clear to everyone. The whole earth will know it and no one will open their mouth to suggest that there is an alternative to Yahweh And I'll remind you also that we know the name Yahweh, we use it all the time. Yahweh saves is what Jesus means. And we hold him up and proclaim that salvation every time we proclaim his name. The day itself in verses six through twenty-one, is it it's a daylight unlike any other? It's a day of hope and help for God's people We see one other aspect of that hope and help in verse 10. We see there, the whole land shall be turned into a plain. But Jerusalem will be remain aloft. This harkens back to the prophecies of Isaiah, where the land will be made flat and the way of the Lord be made straight. This is a a statement that all obstacles for coming to the Lord and knowing who he is will be removed. There will be nothing in the way. Everyone will see. Everyone will know. Everyone will be able to clearly get. there. It's also, if you remember uh uh uh if you were part of our study of uh King's in Sunday school class uh a year ago we saw that that the high places kept coming up in the Book of Kings as a chronic problem. High places being here and there and everywhere. These alternative worships. And part of what we got here with the land being made flat, there are no longer any high places And in fact the point of the text is the only high place, the only place of worship at all will be Jerusalem. The land is made flat, there will be no alternative worship. There will be no other God. There will be no other temple to any other God. There will be no temptation to worship any other God. We've seen this repeatedly. We talk about it again. Philippians makes it clear. That every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord. On that day All obstacles to worshiping the one true God, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, will be removed. All high places that tempt us away from Him will be flattened. It is a unique day, verses 6 and 7. It is a day of hope and help for God's people, verses 8 through 11. And then we see in verses 12 to 15 that it is a day of punishment for God's enemies. A day of punishment for God's enemies. In verse twelve, we see a description of a plague In verse 13, panic will fall on the enemies of God. In verse 14, poverty will strike them. And in verse 15, their property will be taken away. There is a plague on the enemies of God, panic among the enemies of God, poverty for the enemies of God and their property will be taken away. And the sum of these verses, 12, 13, 14, and 15 Forces us to reject any claim of universalism. Any claim that everyone is going to be saved. There are many, sadly, in the church today Who they they couch it in lovely language. They say things like this. Well, you know, the love of God is such that He's going to save everyone, that all will be saved. That's how much God loves. But that, of course, is not the biblical portrayal of God. For God is not a one-dimensional God in the Bible. Yes, God is love, but he is also just and righteous and holy. Did you know that the adjective used for God more often than any other, in fact more often than the second and third adjectives combined, is the word holy. That's the principal characteristic of God in the Bible. And holy means separate, particularly separate from sin. He is not going to save sinners who have not been covered by the blood of Christ. And the text makes it clear that there is judgment coming upon them. That there is terrible things awaiting those who are the enemies of God, who are not by faith in Jesus Christ. And we do them no service if we don't tell them about this. It's amazing. We'll go to great lengths to warn people about the dangers of smoking But we won't talk about this at all. Smoking can only affect this life. This This is the truth that affects eternity. God is not going to save everyone. He is going to save those who are his by faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. We need to increase that number. We need to be afraid of that truth. And for the sake of our loved ones and for the sake of the name and the glory of Jesus Christ, we need to tell people that this is coming. And I don't mean every conversation with every unsafe friend has to start with hellfire and brimstone. It's not what I'm suggesting. But if you never bring it up, if you never talk about it, if you never seek an opportunity to warn these people, then this is what awaits them And it is a terrible, terrible future. The day is a day unlike any other. It is a day of hope and help for God's people. It is a day of punishment for God's enemies. Verses 16 to 19, we see that it is a day of worship. Then everyone who survives of all the nations. Note there. Salvation has never been just for one small family in West Asia, descendants of Abraham. It's always been for all the nations. You see, all of those nations that come against Jerusalem, some of those people are coming to Jerusalem. They're not fighting with the enemies of God. They're coming for the reasons you and I are coming. To stand in that valley that's been opened up and to be saved. And when it's all done and when the dust settles, all of those Who have been saved, who have survived, shall go up year after year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of booze. And if any of the families of Israel do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king of uh the king of the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain on them. In other words, they won't survive. They'll they'll there'll be famine, they'll start to The picture is one of eternal worship. That the survivors are going to worship the king who comes on that day. Finally, in verses 20 and 21, it is a day of purity. A day of purity. On that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, holy to the Lord. Now you may not recall, but back in uh Exodus when the garbs of the priest were described, the high priest, when he went to do his ministerial duties in the tabernacle later in the temple, He wore on his headpiece a gold plate over his forehead, and that gold plate said, holy to the Lord. This way, because it's Hebrew goes that way. Holy to the Lord. But now it says even the horses will be declared that. That the purity of the people of God, that the sanctification of the household of God is going to be so thorough that it extends even to the beast of the field. God will cleanse us. The cleansing that was begun in chapter 13 now becomes complete. So that even the horses will wear what once only the high priest wore. Holy to the Lord. They will be made we will be so pure that even our whore He goes on to describe the pots and the bowls, and how every pot in Jerusalem and Judy shall be holy to the Lord of hosts, so that all who sacrifice may come. In other words, we'll no longer have to take our sacrifices to the priest. We'll no longer have to uh uh go through another medium. That the mediator Jesus Christ will have uh uh been established and be he'll he'll have claimed us because that mediator Jesus Christ has claimed us, we can now go directly to God ourselves. In that day we can go right to God, right to the throne ourselves. We needn't go through the priest. That's how pure we're going to be. That's how holy we're going to be made. Passage ends with a difficult verse, that last verse and uh the last sentence, and there shall no longer be a traitor in the house of the Lord of hosts on that day. The word traitor is actually the word uh canana from which we get the word Canaanite. You can actually hear it, canana, Canaanite. And so translators rustle with why is this a Canaanite there? There shall no longer be a Canaanite in the house of the Lord of hosts. Well the Canaanites were very active traders, and so some translations have offered traitor. Uh I really think Canaanite would have been the better word. It is the literal Hebrew word that's there. And I think the picture is this, that the people of God, when they took the land, never did empty it of the enemies of God like they were supposed to have done. They never did, even in the days of Joshua, they never did clear out all of the enemies of God. Never got rid of all the Perizzites and Jebusites and Ammonites and all the rest of them. Never cleared them up Completely. David did a little bit more, but still didn't finish the work. That always there have lived among the people of God those who are not believers, though those who are just people of the world. I think it's a picture of the fact that this is the completion of the wheat and the tares, or the sheep and the goats. That God is going to sort out. And finally make pure his people. Zachariah closes with a beautiful picture of hope. A beautiful picture of what awaits those of us who trust in Jesus Christ. It said all along that the message of Zechariah was a message of hope. And he closes with a word of hope. And he invites us to look for that day, to long for that day, to live for that day. When all of God's enemies and our enemies will be cast aside, rendered as Jesus' footstool. When we will reign with him, when he will be king on this earth, when we will benefit from the purity that he is going to finish in us. When we will be blessed by His presence and we can go directly to Him for all eternity. That's our hope. That's what we have. And that's what we have to offer to this world. And we need to tell them. Let's pray. Lord get us excited about that day. About the coming hope of eternity with you, among your people Purified, sanctified, made right, washed by the waters, the living waters that flow, living with you. Help us to proclaim that, to hope in that, to long for that, to work toward that. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.