Open your Bibles, if you would, please, to the close of the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 20 and following. Hebrews 13, 20 to 25, if you're using the red pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 1198 And I want to share a little secret with you. The layout of the Bible is not at all obvious. It isn't always easy to find passages. So if you ever need to whisper Hey Siri, show me Hebrews 13. We'd be totally okay with that. We want you to find the page and be on it and read the Bible with us. How you get there depends on what you need to do. We arrive today at the end of our sermon series in the book of Hebrews, and it is an end with two endings Hebrews closes with two closings. The first is the end of the sermon, that is the book of Hebrews We have been reminded many times throughout this study that Hebrews was not originally written as a letter. It was originally written as a sermon, and then it was made into a letter. So the sermon has its ending, and then the letter has its ending. Thus we arrive now at the ending of the sermon and the ending of the letter. By the way, if you've ever wondered why is it a preacher will say now in conclusion and then preach for another 20 minutes, well this is our biblical justification right here. If Hebrews has two endings, our sermons can have two endings. Hebrews 13, 20, and uh 20 and 21 represent the end of the sermon of Hebrews. Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant Equip you with everything good that you may do His will, working in us that which is pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. And then the conclusion to the letter in verse 22. I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon. Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings. Grace be with all of you. This is the Word of God, and as such it is infallible It is the only guide we have for thinking and living, which will never fail us. Let's pray and ask God to help us understand it. Lord, reveal to us your word this morning. Make its meaning plain, and make our hearts willing to receive it. We ask this grace in Christ's name. Amen. We sometimes make the mistake of thinking that worship services are strictly that which we give to God But worship is also something God gives to us. He frames up worship. He sets the parameters for it. He's the one who required it in the first place. And the elements of worship and the structure of a worship service actually flow out of the Word of God. They are given to us by Him. Our sermon this morning is entitled Benediction. It's titled for one of the common elements of liturgy. The benediction. There's an outline, by the way, on page 13 of the bulletin, if you want to use that to help follow along. That outline, as you would see, is simply the reverse of the close of Hebrews. In other words, I want to take the end of the letter first, and then I want to go back and look at the end of the sermon. And the reason for that is really very simple. I want the inspired preachers' last words to be our last words. I want the close of this sermon and sermon series to reflect the close of the book of Hebrews and his sermon. So we're going to look at the the uh uh uh epistolary uh clothing first, the postscript sort of, and then go back and look at the benediction to this sermon. So beginning in verse 22, the postscript as I'm calling it, it's really the kind of the main source of a lot of our speculation about the book of Hebrews. You know, who wrote it, to whom was it addressed? There really are hints to these things here in this postscript. But most importantly of all, this postscript contains an important argument for seeing Hebrews as a sermon. There are many good reasons to conclude that Hebrews was written initially as a sermon, not strictly as a letter. But verse 22 is the plainest of those reasons. Look at verse 22 I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. Most of us, if we were stopped on the street suddenly with no warning, no time to get our thoughts gathered, and somebody just said to us, what makes a sermon a sermon? What makes preaching preaching? We would struggle to answer the question, but in reality we know the answer. What makes preaching preaching? Well, just think about how it was as a teenager. No teenager has ever complained to his friends, I wish my parents would get off my case and stop teaching at me. He never says that. He says, I wish my parents would stop preaching at me. Why? Because his parents do not strictly impart information They don't strictly tell him stuff. When mom says, Do you understand the hours of labor I went through to give birth to you? She doesn't just do it so that he knows that. No, she expects him to do something with that information. She expects him to be or behave or do because of the information. You see, exhortation is at the heart of preaching What sets preaching apart from teaching is that directive, that application, that go and do because of what you've heard. One of the uh best-known sermons out of the New Testament, when Peter is preaching at the on the day of Pentecost in the immediate aftermath of the ascension, uh the Holy Spirit has come down and he Preaching to the crowd, his sermon is so powerful and it's so brilliantly done that when he gets done with the teaching portion, the crowd actually screams out for the exhortation. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? They're saying, preach to us. Exhort us. You have given us information, but we need more than that. We need to know what to do. Exhortation is the heart and soul of preaching. And the book of Hebrews is a word of exhortation This is one of the main reasons we have been calling this a sermon all along, because the author calls it a sermon. He says it's a word of exhortation. And not for nothing, but he says it's a brief word of exhortation. Takes about 80 minutes to read this thing aloud. So, you know, hey, I'm just saying, you know, you got a problem with that being called brief, take it up with God. It's a brief word of exhortation. And by the way, we're a small church. We have no ready backup preacher If anything were ever to take me out on a Sunday morning, illness, family emergency, whatever it might be, this service goes on. Worship is not about me. This service goes on and we still worship. We sing the songs, we give the givings, we pray the prayers, and somebody can just get up. There are a lot of sermons in the scriptures: Sermon on the Mount, the Book of James, and the Book of Hebrews Anybody could get up, any one of our elders or deacons could get up and read that, and we would have a legitimate worship service. It is a word of exhortation, it is a sermon. We see then also that it includes some information about other people. Verse 23, you should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon. This Timothy is of the young man who traveled back in the book of Acts. He travels with Paul and Luke and Barnabas. And it's one of the reasons that I lean toward Luke being an author of the book of Hebrews because he knows Timothy firsthand, and we know that Luke knew Timothy firsthand. This Timothy was a man who was himself ordained as a preacher. He was himself the recipient of two of Paul's letters. And he was himself co-author with Paul for six of the New Testament letters. This is not an insignificant figure in the history of the church. This is not a minor player in the New Testament. So why do I point that out? I want you to see here that Timothy had troubles. He's been released. From what? Well from prison. And why was he being held? It's hard to picture the Timothy we know as a common criminal. He's not in prison because of some crime he committed. He's in prison for his faith Timothy has been imprisoned. We don't know when, we don't know where, we don't know the extent. But at some point this young man was locked up for preaching. And now he's been set free. And he's just a little reminder of the personal nature of the reality of our faith. You know, the the the the there's this tendency to look at the Christian life and think it should somehow be a smooth or perfect life. I was listening to a preacher yesterday while I was mowing the grass, and he made this great line in there. He said, Christianity, the Christian life is not the removal of difficulties. It's the addition of joy and hope to deal with those difficulties. When you are struggling, when your life is not going the way you think it ought, remember that Timothy had those same struggles. He had those same difficulties. It is not that God does not love you. He has not lost sight of you. He's not forgotten about you. So the postscript of Hebrews says the body of the letter is a sermon, it is a word of exhortation. The postscript reminds us that even A pillar of the New Testament like Timothy had difficulties in life. And it also reminds us that the people of the New Testament, they had friends. They had acquaintances, they had relationships, they had people for whom they cared. Verse 24, greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy, send you greetings. You know, it's easy to think, well, that's just this little tiny line at the end of this. It's he doesn't seem to really care at all. It's a mere formality. But to say that is to re-to forget what it cost to write back then. In the first century, a copy of the Old Testament, not the entire Bible, a copy of just the Old Testament, would run you in today's economy about $150,000. That's how pricey, how expensive it was to communicate the written word back then. So when a writer took even a single line of parchment A single line of papyrus to put down something like this greeting. It was not a throwaway comment. They could not afford to put it on the paper. If it wasn't meaningful. So our writer has friendships, he has relationships. There are people he knows in this target church. He misses them. And he either is a feeling of warmth toward them and he wants to greet them. Never underestimate the value of friendships in the church. Of camaraderie, of socialization, of knowing one another and caring about one another And the specificity of the next line is kind of curious, is it not? Those who come from Italy send you greetings This is one of the reasons that many commentators, definitely not all, but many think the book of Hebrews may have been written back to the church in Rome. So we have Paul's letter to the Romans, and we may also have here Luke's letter to the Romans here in the book of Hebrews. And so what's happening is the author is writing and saying, hey, as I write this There are some Italian expatriates here, and they want me to say hi. They want me to send you back their greeting. Those who come from Italy send you greetings. Finally, we come to the end of this postscript in verse 25. Grace be with all of you. Grace be with all of you. Twenty-one of the 27 New Testament books are letters, they're epistles. 24 of those end as this one does. Grace be with all of you, or some variation on that sort of statement. This is, properly speaking, a benediction. It is a closing good word And so we're going to use it now as our transition into the next point of our sermon as we go back up now and look at verses 20 and 21, the benediction to the sermon. That is Hebrews. The letter closes with a short benediction. Grace be with all of you. The sermon closes with a longer one. Let's look at verses 20 and 21 and briefly consider the content of this benediction. Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, By the blood of the Eternal Covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. First, the content briefly. And again, we could make a full sermon out of just this right here. And actually you can make a full sermon out of some of these subpoints. But we we won't do that this morning, but we'll look rather at the in in broad strokes at the net effect of all of it. May the God of peace You ever stop to think about the fact that in one sense, the idea that we could be at peace with God really is kind of the heart of the gospel? That the gospel message is a message of a path to peace with God. God's wrath, due to His holiness, is ultimately our problem, is it not? We have troubles in this world because God cursed us, because we sinned, and because he is holy and could not abide that sin. God's wrath is also the fear that we face in the next life. It is because of God that we are not at peace. And yet here we have the God of peace. That's the gospel message. There is a way for sinners to have peace with a holy God. And how? He says it's through the Lord Jesus, whom he raised from the dead. This really is the first explicit reference to the resurrection in the book of Hebrews. And yet it's not the first time he's relied on the resurrection. If you were to go back to the very beginning of Hebrews, way back in chapter 1, verse 3, right at the top of this letter He wrote this. He, Jesus, is the very radiance of God's glory, the exact imprint of his nature. Let me read that again and emphasize the words in a better way. He, Jesus, is the very radiance of God's glory, the exact imprint of his nature. This is being written at least 20 years after the death of Jesus. If our author didn't believe in the resurrection, he would not speak of Jesus in the present tense. He would have written that he was the radiance of God's glory. But that's not what he does. Our author has been assuming the resurrection from the very get-go, from the first stroke of his pen. And then he will go on to compare Jesus in the present tense to Moses and to Abraham and to the angels and to all of these other aspects of Judaism And he sees Jesus in the present tense as superior to all of them. And of course, our author has talked about how Jesus uh enters the heavenly temple, the the holy of holies, which is in heaven. That assumes the resurrection. You cannot ascend to heaven and go in as a high priest. Priests were people, the whole metaphor of a priest assumes that he's a human being. You cannot be a human being who enters into the temple and functions as a priest if you're dead. The whole book of Hebrews has assumed the resurrection. And yet here at the close, he states it explicitly. Why? Because it's tied into that idea of the God of peace. You see, why can we have peace with God? Why is an angry, wrathful, holy God suddenly a God of peace? Because one human being finally did what we were supposed to do. One human being finally kept the law. finally obeyed completely, finally lived out the human life he was supposed to live out. And God validated him. by not making him suffer death any longer. But rendered him the first fruit of the resurrection that is to come, the resurrection for which we await. And Jesus was the marker of that. You see, this one who's been raised is the one by whom we can have peace. Peace in the world to come, peace with God in the future, peace at the final judgment, but also peace here and now. Look how he goes on. This Jesus is the great shepherd of the sheep. Now it's my understanding that there are some churches, I'm sure those are other churches, that occasionally are disappointed in their pastors. Every once in a while, the pastor doesn't meet their needs. Doesn't deliver the sermon in a way that connects with them, doesn't apply anything to them, doesn't care for them the way he ought. Doesn't feed them or shepherd them the way they wish he would. You see what these other congregations are struggling with? They may not even realize it. They may never have articulated it this way. The problem is they want Jesus. They want that shepherd. They want the great shepherd, the good shepherd, the one who will never fail, never disappoint, never let them down, never fail to meet their needs. That's the shepherd we all really want. And here is the promise that we have him We know, as your elders, we know that we are called to be the under-shepherds of the flock of Christ, and we know we fail. But please don't think that there are other mere human shepherds out there who are going to somehow pull it off. Don't turn to another shepherd. Don't turn to another place on this earth for your hope. Run to this one who was raised from the dead. Pray to Jesus. Read Jesus. Pull out your gospels and look at his ministry and ask yourself, how does it feed me? How does it help me? This is the great shepherd of the sheep. This is the one who will always provide How did God establish peace? How did he raise Jesus from the dead? How did he make Jesus into the great shepherd? By the blood of the eternal covenant. That by itself could be probably, I don't know, six, eight, ten weeks worth of sermons by the blood of the eternal covenant. When Jeremiah introduced the language of New Covenant in Jeremiah 31, he talked about how the new covenant would last for as long as God's created order lasts. In other words, forever. His point was that it would be an eternal covenant. So when this says right here, the blood of the eternal covenant, it is speaking of the new covenant. That's the one that's being talked about here. And then we are reminded at communion. And I wish we were doing communion this morning. We were reminded at communion. That on the night when he was betrayed, after dinner, our Lord took the cup. And giving it to his disciples, he said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. When this talks about the blood of the eternal covenant, it is talking about the new covenant which was ratified by the death of Jesus. Blood is always, the spilling of blood is always a metaphor for death. And the wages of sin are death. And the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. Death has been, throughout all of history, the payment necessary for sin. So when this talks about the blood of the covenant, it's talking about the death that ratified the covenant. And what did Jesus say about that cup of the new covenant? It's the cup of the new covenant in my blood, shed for many for the remission of sins. Hebrews, the author of Hebrews has reminded us himself back in 922, without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. We can be at peace with God because there is blood of a new covenant, an eternal covenant. There is the blood of Christ. the high priest who ascended into the Holy of Holies in heaven itself and made his offering on our behalf. In many ways, this uh uh benediction here at the close of his sermon summarizes all that he has been teaching throughout the book of Hebrews. And all of this good news, it's a summary of the gospel. But by itself, it isn't really quite a benediction. So I finally want to now, right now, stop and consider what makes a benediction a benediction. Literally, the word benediction Quite literally means good word. Benny as in uh uh beneficial or benevolent Means good. A benefactor donates a lot of money to your hospital or your research project or whatever. They are a good factor. Beni means good. Diction is just the Latin word from which we get dictionary and dictator. Dictionary, a book of words, dictator rules by his word, diction means word. A benediction is literally a good word. And in that sense, we can find benedictions in all kinds of places. Our assurance of grace coming after our confession of sin is technically a benediction. It is a good word from God. In that sense. But as a general rule, a benediction proper has a little something more to go with it. Let me see if I can illustrate. My mother was not a particularly sentimental woman. She just wasn't into nostalgia in any form. We were pretty happy as kids if our school artwork survived the night and was still on the fridge the next morning. I'm not exaggerating. But while that might seem harsh to some, it was a backdrop against which some other things need to be set. You see, my mother was also one who was spectacular at listening, at hearing me. As I would talk about whatever was the struggle in my life. Perhaps at a young age, the older kids, the bullies at school were picking on me. As I got a little older, the girls were picking on me and they wouldn't go out with me. Thank you, honey. Sometimes it was just me messing up my own life. My immaturity, my foolishness My stupid decisions, and I would make a hash out of whatever situation. And mom would listen, and mom would hear me. And then mom would give you a hug, and mom would say, I love. I care. You're still my son. And I'm going to get you through this. Tomorrow will be a better day. Mom brought a benediction That's a benediction. It's not just good news in a vague sense, it's good news applied It's good news connected directly to you. It's good news which is for you in this moment. She provided good news to get me through the difficulty, to propel me on to the next day. Look at verse 21. Everything in verse 20 is good news, but it's in verse 21 that our author puts the tweak on things that makes this a proper benediction. You see, the God of peace will equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ. You see, it would be easy to sit here at the close of Hebrews 13 and reflect on all that's been said in Hebrews 13. Hebrews 13:1. Brotherly love must continue. But I have routinely not loved my brothers and sisters like I should. Brotherly love must be manifest in your marriages, but I have not. love my spouse as I should. Brotherly love must be manifest in hospitality, he told us, in the way you treat one another, but I've not treated other people like I should Brotherly love must be manifest in the way you handle your money, but I haven't done that with righteousness and goodness. Brotherly love must be manifest in obedience to your leaders, he's told us. And I struggle with authority And it's easy to sit at the end of Hebrews 13 and to sit there and reflect on yourself and go, I have messed it up. I am a Christian screw-up. I have made a hash of my Christian life. And this is where the benediction comes in. He doesn't just say, oh, there's good news out there. He says the good news is for you. Because God has done all those things through Christ Jesus Because Jesus obeyed perfectly and lived out a perfect life, because he died for our sins, because God raised him from the dead, because God has established a new covenant in his blood, he's going to also equip you With what? Everything good that you may do his will. Now there are days it doesn't feel like that. When I sat on the edge of mom's bed or she sat on the edge of mine and I was crying about how terrible my life was and all the things that had gone wrong that day, it didn't feel that night when she said, You're gonna get through this, honey, I'm gonna help you through, we're gonna make it through, I love you, we're gonna get it didn't feel that way in that moment. But it was a word of comfort. A word of good news. It was a good word. That's what a benediction is. It is the close of things, the wrapping them up in a way that says, this is for you, applied to you. And he says, you need sanctification, the God of peace will equip you. You need to make God happy, he will work in you what is pleasing to him. And he will do it through Jesus. You see, the benediction to the letter, verse 25, was brief, like most of the New Testament letters. Grace be with all of you, but it's not a throwaway line. Grace It's what you don't deserve. It's what you didn't earn. And in fact, it's the very opposite of what you earned. You earned death, you earned curses, you earned wrath and anger and hatred, but there is grace, and it's for you. From this point forward, I would encourage all of us, every single one of us, to listen to the benediction each week, each service. And to hear in it God's good word to us. It is not just a mere formality by which we close our service. It is God's word to you. It is his motherly hug. And yes, if God can compare himself to a hen who gathers her chicks, then we can compare him to a motherly hug. It is in the image of God that they were created, male and female, he created them. The benediction is God's motherly hug. On your way off to school, as you leave for your first date, as you have to go face a bully, as you start to pick up the pieces of the mess you made. On your way out into the world every Sunday morning, the benediction is God saying, I love you. I'm with you. My grace is for you. My good news of the gospel is for you. No matter how the sermon has made you feel, many sermons are convicting, are they not? The point is that you don't go out feeling guilty. You go out being reminded that God loves you. The benediction. Is the love of God applied in specific, concrete ways to a people who need to hear it? There's one point left, but it's a brief one. Doxology. The very end of verse 21. Why do we celebrate Mother's Day? Isn't it precisely because of the many benedictions that they pronounce into our lives? Oh baby, let me kiss that and make it better for you. By the way, to the young moms out here, don't ever dismiss the power of a healing kiss. It has tremendous value. Let me kiss that for you, honey, and make it better. Let me help you study for that test so you can get through it. Let me fix your prom dress, honey, so you look good going out the door. And there is no son of mine going to walk down the aisle with his bow tie looking like that. Moms state these good words, these benedictions to our lives all the time And what's the appropriate response? The glorification of motherhood. Mother's Day. You see how this benediction just naturally flows right into doxology? If benediction means good word, doxology means a a word of glory, logos, word, Greek, diction is Latin Greek for uh logos is Greek for a word, and doxa, doxa is the Greek word for glory. It's a word of glory. The good word from God gives way to a word of glory about God You see, when he says that all this will be done through Jesus Christ, he can't help but add on, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. It is standard practice in the New Testament for many, many, many of the benedictions to give way to doxology. They are blurred. The hymn we're going to close with in a few minutes has verses of benediction and it has a chorus of doctology. The two are almost inseparable. Because it's right and fitting. To hear a good word from God and go, really He loves me? Really that up to me? Really, the grace of God is for me? Then I need to praise Him. And so we close with benediction and doxology. Hebrews closes with benediction and doxology. The elements of our worship service are not chosen for our preferences. God structures these things in a particular way for his purposes in our lives. Oh, we have some freedom. We have some choices of preference. But let's not toss aside. Things like God's motherly hug at the end of a service. And our response of doxology. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for this reminder at the close of Hebrews That all the doctrine, all the theology, all of the excellent Christology that we have found in the book of Hebrews is not merely something that sits on a shelf in a theologian's office. It is for us. It applies to us. It is so that we will be equipped, so that we can please you. Not in and of ourselves we're reminded, but through Jesus Christ. So help us to hold fast our confession of Him. Help us to linger in him precisely when life is most difficult for us. And let us find in him the great comfort and good news and the good word that you have pronounced on us through him. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.