I invite you now to open your Bibles to Mark 14. Mark 14, we'll be beginning at verse 53. We have just a few sermons left in our Mark series, Mark, A Call to Confess Christ. And I look forward to These last few sermons I was sharing with the elders the other day. I don't know how you are. Some books I've read over the years. I I I'm sad when the book is done. I don't want to leave that world behind. I don't want those characters to cease to be part of my life And I'm feeling that way about the Gospel of Mark. I'm sad that we're coming to the end of it. And yet, at the end of Mark is good news, great news indeed. And so I look forward to this conclusion with you Hear now the Word of God, the only infallible rule for faith and practice, direction for how we should live and what we should believe, what we should know about the choices Jesus made on our behalf. Beginning in verse 53 of Mark 14. And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest And he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none For many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree. And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands. Yet even about this their testimony did not agree. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus. Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man, seated at the right hand of power, and coming with the clouds of heaven And the high priest tore his garments and said, What further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision? And they all condemned him as deserving death. And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to strike him, saying to him, Prophesy! And the guards received him with blows And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene Jesus But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you mean. And he went out into the gateway, and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him again and began again to say to the bystanders, This man is one of them. But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean. But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And he broke down and wept. And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and they bound Jesus and led him away, and delivered him over to Pilate. And Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him, You have said so. And the chief priest accused him of many things. And Pilate again asked him, Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you? But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed. Now at the feast, he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked. And among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. And he answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priest had delivered him up But the chief priest stirred up the crowd, to have him release for them Barabbas instead. And Pilate again said to them, Then what shall I do with the man you call the king of the Jews? And they cried out, Crucify Him. And Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? But they shouted all the more, Crucify Him! So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Pray. Lord, let us hear you this morning through this text. Let us recognize the choices that must be made and the choices that have been made Work in our hearts a willingness to follow Jesus and to cling to Him because of all that He has done for us. We pray this in His beautiful name. Amen. Life is full of choices. I don't think this comes as a great shock to any of us. Some of those choices are easy, prime rib, or salad. It's the prime rib in case there's any doubt. It's an easy choice. Some of the choices have no wrong answer. Oysters or crab. Some choices have no good answer. One that my mother used to, a choice that my mother used to extend to me and my siblings was this one. You can eat your vegetables with or without a spanking. You'd be amazed at how often I chose wrongly. Some choices are hard and they have lasting consequences. I love this house, but I'm not sure I can actually afford it. Mark's gospel has been all about convincing his readers to make a choice. From the beginning, he has told us that we must make a declaration about this man Jesus. We have said that the gospel is framed up over two such declarations. We saw Peter's a few weeks ago in 829, where Peter says, You are the Christ. And right around the corner in the text comes the confession of the centurion. Surely this man was the Son of God. And throughout the rest of the text, Mark has been challenging his readers in the first century, those who were facing persecution at the hands of Rome. Mark is saying to them, you must make a choice. And Mark has laid out evidence upon evidence upon evidence upon evidence to make the choice to cling to Jesus, that he is who he claims to be. In this text this morning, we see the choices of four different groups of people. First, we're going to see choices made by those who knew Jesus well. The leaders of the Jews and Peter. Then we're going to see some choices made by those who did not know Jesus as well. Pilate and the crowds in Jerusalem. And we're going to consider. Each of those choices and what they say to us. First, looking at the choices of the chief priests, elders, and scribes These are men who had heard Jesus claims. They had sent representatives up to Galilee to hear him teach. to have arguments with him, to have confrontations. Even in this week of his life, as he's been in Jerusalem, they have had different discussions with him. They know Jesus. They know his claims. They know his teaching. They know what he stands for. And they reject him. They are akin to many liberals in the church today Those who have studied in seminary, those who have read, who know the claims of Jesus, who know that he said that he came to ransom for himself a people. That he came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life. But they reject this claim of Jesus. And they say, no, there are other ways. That's not the main reason Jesus came. No, he really came primarily to be for us an example. And that the real way to salvation, the real way that humanity is going to save itself, is through any number of things. We're going to stamp out all the wrong in this world, and that'll save us. We're going to live in accord with the environment, and that will save us. We're going to, in an imprudent and unwise manner, approve of All alternative lifestyles, and that will save us. And they reject the claims of Jesus, though they know them well, though they have studied them, though they have heard Jesus They reject him. I don't share this with us. I don't point this out because I think this is a choice that we have made, that those here have made, but rather because it is such a common choice in the church today that we need to be aware of it. But we need to recognize that it is not a new choice. There have always been those who hear the claims, who know the truth, and say, I'll find my own way. I'll go another route. I'll find salvation in some other path other than Jesus. The chief priests, the elders, and the scribes chose that path. And they reject, you rejected Jesus. Peter makes a choice. And starting in verse 66, we see Peter And I think in many ways Peter represents many of us. For he chooses to follow Jesus. The text is very clear. It says right there. You know, that Peter had followed right in to the courtyard. And yet Peter, though he desires to follow Jesus, though his intent is to be a good disciple. He caves under the pressure of this world. When there is fear, when there are terrifying things, you know, like servant girls. Peter cannot stay true to the faith. Many of us do the same We have a desire to pursue Jesus, but we do so at arm's length. We want to stay far enough back that if things get intense, we have plausible deniability, that we won't be identified with Him That we won't be called, you know, a a Christian. That is who many of us are. Yet I think we need to be reminded of what this text implies, though it isn't explicitly said here. For the very fact that this isn't the Gospel of Mark is a reminder to us of how we got the Gospel of Mark. For Mark's account of Jesus comes largely through the preaching and teaching of Peter. Mark was the associate pastor to Peter in Rome. Mark heard Peter tell this account. And after Peter was crucified, and Mark recognized that he needed to quickly write down all that he had learned and all that he had heard from Peter, and make a record of the life of Jesus, which you hold in your hands this morning. And when that was first read out to that church in Rome, within a year after Peter's own crucifixion, I can't imagine for a moment there was a dry eye in the place. For they knew Peter, and they knew his heart, and they knew his love for the Lord. And what they saw in their pastor was a testimony to the wonderful grace of God For they knew this story. And as it was read out for the first time in that church, they were reminded of having heard this from Peter himself. But the very fact that Peter was their pastor testified to the grace of God. in his life. And I remind each of us that as we stumble along the way, as we fail like Peter failed, when we deny Jesus as Peter has denied Jesus, that is not a reason to turn and walk away. For the assurance of your eternal life never rested with you or your ability to do good things, for it rests with God. And his ability to secure you despite your sinfulness, despite your shortcomings and your failings. And so in the account of Peter We see the account of ourselves, followers of Jesus, who fail far too often, who deny him way too easily, but in the end beneficiaries of his one The text goes on and gives us accounts of a few others. We move in chapter fifteen to the Choices being made by those who know Jesus less well. We see, first of all, Pilate, he doesn't know Jesus the way that the others knew Jesus. He's heard about Jesus. He's interacted with Jesus a little bit over the couple of hours that Jesus is in his courtroom, but he doesn't really know him well. And Pilate makes the choice that many make and says, he seems like a good guy. I think I can be friends with Jesus. He has some interesting ideas. His thoughts about ministry, his thoughts about religion, probably worth listening to. I'd love to have lunch with him sometime But Jesus reminded us earlier in the Gospel of Mark that to follow him means to give up everything. Not that God always requires us to give up everything. But following Jesus means that we are prepared to give up everything. And this Pilate could not do. Pilate knows full well that if he tries to set Jesus free, there's going to be a riot outside his window. And even if he successfully quells the riot, nevertheless, word is going to get back to Rome. And when the Romans hear that Pilate was not able to keep control in that little province, they're going to find somebody who will. And his power and his prestige and his position will be forfeit. He's not willing to give up those things for Jesus. Pilate will say, Well, I never rejected Jesus. I never said he was a bad guy. In fact, I didn't see anything wrong with him. But to make a non-decision about Jesus, to try to walk a middle road where he's just a good guy, but you're not going to follow him fully is to reject him It has the same effect as the Jewish leadership had. It leads to Jesus' death. It leads to spiritual death in our own lives. C. S. Lewis famously framed it up this way. This is not an exact quote, but the common summary of Lewis. He said, Jesus is either a liar, a lunatic, or he is Lord. Those are the only choices. For if he is not who he claimed to be, then he is a liar, if he knew conscientiously that he wasn't those things. And if he thought he was those things but wasn't, then he's a lunatic And if he is those things and claim them, then he is Lord. There is no middle path. There is no choice. You cannot check a box with regard to Jesus that says, good guy, I like him. But he's not Lord. He's not worth giving up everything for That choice is not an option before us. And Mark makes that plain through pilot. The fourth choice we see is the crowd gathered in Jerusalem. This is not the crowd that followed him up out of Galilee. We'll hear more from them next week as we consider their cries of Hosanna on his entry into Jerusalem. But rather, this is the Jerusalem clock crowd that doesn't know him as well. They've not heard his teachings, they've not seen him firsthand. Maybe they picked up a little something this last week he was in Jerusalem, but they don't know him. And they make a decision based not on first-hand knowledge, but rather on the instructions How did the text tell us it says that they that the Jewish leadership stirred up the crowd against Jesus And they say to themselves, well, I don't know what to think about this Jesus, but the experts here in town say I should reject him, so I'm going to reject him. Again, it's not a choice that I think many of us make, but it's a choice that many around us are making all the time. Many Americans. are looking at Jesus from afar, never consider him, never get up close to judge him for themselves, never actually hear his teaching firsthand. But they listen to the so-called experts in our society, and they say, well, you know, these experts, they say that, you know, that religion's crazy, so I guess I'm going to reject it. And we need to recognize how terrible and tragic that is. And we need to seek to do everything in our power to bring Jesus to those people. So that they may see him up close. So that he's not filtered by the so-called experts of our society, but rather they get to hear him and see him And know him in a firsthand way. The scribes and the elders And the Pharisees, they knew Jesus well, and they flat out rejected him, saying we were going to choose another way to God. Peter knew Jesus well and follows Jesus, but does so very failingly, very uh faultingly. Pilate knew Jesus only a cursory matter and so it doesn't really reject Jesus per se, but nevertheless. Does not claim Jesus, does not confess him as Lord, does not cling to him, and therefore it leads to death in Pilate's life. And the crowds of Jerusalem judge him from afar. Listening only to the so-called experts, they rally against Jesus and cry that he die. Just as many in this country want the death of Christianity. I mentioned that we were going to see four sets of choices in the text, but the truth is there is another set of choices. There is a fifth set of choices happening throughout the entirety of the text, and I hope that you have seen them. Last week we saw Jesus in the garden. We heard him pray. That if there be any other way, Father, please take this cup from me. And yet here we see Jesus staying the course, on the road, on his way. To giving up his life. You know, there is an old hymn, the chorus of which says he could have called 10,000 angels to destroy the world. and set him free. He could have called 10,000 angels, but he died alone for you and me. And that is the choice we see throughout this text That Jesus chooses to stay on the path to the cross, not rejecting it, not taking another way out But staying there. Why, according to the what we read in Hebrews, why did Jesus do this? It says that Jesus, who for the joy set before him endured. The cross. We heard that in our New Testament reading this morning. And we must remind ourselves, what was the joy set before Jesus? That joy was you and me. That joy is the redemption of a people who can come into the presence of a holy God. That joy is an eternity spent with us. For us and for our sake, the confession says. He came down and died. That was the choice Jesus made. There are other choices that Jesus makes in this text. Let me point a few of them out. I first want to say this. By any human standard, Jesus is a terrible lawyer. He's really bad in court. Look at what he does. All these false accusations come against him. And the scribes say, the chief priest says, aren't you going to address any of those? And Jesus says nothing. They would have crumbled like a house of cards, Mark implies. But Jesus just lets them go and says nothing. The same before Pilate. Pilate's amazed in verse 5. Are you not going to answer any of this? The easiest argument to win in the whole trial, Jesus doesn't even take up the argument, doesn't even address it, lets it go. Then at the two places Where it was most inopportune, most from a legal standpoint, most unwise to say anything, that's where Jesus speaks up. When the Jewish leadership charges him and says, they ask him the question, are you the son of the blessed? At that point, he answers. It's important that we see the threefold aspect of his answer. It's important that we recognize how and why he answers here when he said nothing before First, he claims the name of God. I am. First words out of his mouth. In Greek, ego-ami, an emphatic formation of that response. the exact formation used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament of the burning bush. When Moses says to God, Who shall I say has sent me? God says to Moses, tell them, ego ami has sent you, I am has sent you. That's what Jesus says in response He takes the name of God. Then he claims the place of God. He says that you're going to see him sit at the right hand of the Father. We heard that in the Psalm we read this morning. But the Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand. To sit at the right hand of God is to sit at the place of power and glory and prestige. And Jesus says, that's going to be my seat. Then he goes on and he claims the glory of God. What's he say there? He says that he is going to come back. And he will come again with the clouds of heaven. That is a clear word. He calls himself Son of Man and then talks about coming in clouds. That is a clear allusion to Daniel 7, our Old Testament reading this morning. Where one like the Son of Man approached the ancient of days and was given dominion and power and the right to judge in an everlasting kingdom. Jesus says nothing when the charges against him are a house of cards. And at the very moment that the charge against him is that he is claiming to be God, he says, I am, taking in the name of God. And he says, I will be at the right hand of the Father, taking the place of God. And he says, and I will come again in the clouds of glory, claiming the glory of God. I don't know how anyone can read the Gospels and say, you know, I don't know if Jesus ever actually claimed to be God. That was an invention of the later church. You know, they made that up about him. They wanted him to be more than he ever claimed to be. No. And if you doubt that he's claiming to be God, you need only look at the response of the Jewish leadership. What do they do? They accuse him of blasphemy. And the trial is over, for he is condemned himself. Then he enters into the Roman court And in the Roman court, again, he lets every legal argument against him go until the one that will convict him. Pilate doesn't care about blasphemy. What does he care if there's this dispute among the Jews about what the religion is? I don't care if he's your Messiah or isn't your Messiah. But Pilate has to defend the authority of Rome, and when one claims to be king other than Caesar, then Pilate better pay attention. And Pilate turns to him and says, so? Is it true? Are you the king of the Jews? And again, this is the only time Jesus answers, and he says, Yes, I am. He said, It is as you have said. You have said it yourself. You know, it's interesting. Every time Jesus had there had been evidence of his deity out in public, he told people to keep it quiet. He'd heal someone and say, don't tell anybody He'd raise a child from the dead and say, don't talk about it. Peter says, you are the Christ, and he says, keep it to yourselves. But when he stands in the courtroom of the Jewish leadership and they say, Are you the son of the blessed? He says, Yes, I am. It's interesting the crowds had offered and tried to crown him as king, and he had rejected that. Said, no, don't do that. But now he stands before Pilate. And he claims to be king. Why? He is making the intentional, conscientious, purposeful choice to bring himself To the cross. He is doing exactly what is necessary so that the scriptures would be fulfilled. So that he does not die in any other way, but dies only as the scriptures have said the Messiah would die, so that you and I would know that he's the one. So we would not doubt it. So there would be no question in our lives. So that we would see Him as having fulfilled all the scriptures about the Messiah. There's a lot of irony in this text. In the quiet garden, Jesus was distraught. But in the chaos of the crowds and kangaroo courts, he is calm. Judith's kiss, an outward sign of affection, was actually an inward sign of hate It's interesting that by telling the truth, Jesus is accused of lying. The God man is convicted of blasphemy. Think about that for just a moment. The only one who couldn't possibly be guilty of blasphemy. That's his conviction. The healer is now hurt. The disciple, who identified Jesus as the Christ, now refuses to be identified with him at all. The same disciple who drew his source in the face of an armed mob shrinks from a servant girl. Ironically, it's Jesus' enemies who get it right about who he is. They're the ones who identify him as the Son of God and the King of the Jews. And interestingly enough, Pilate, who holds all earthly power, refuses to use it to do the right thing. And Jesus, who holds all power, refuses to use it to do the right thing All of this irony serves Mark's purpose. And Mark is challenging us. Do we see the truth that lies underneath all of this? Do we see what's behind all of this? And as he writes to his first seven century audience, Encourage them in the face of the lions, in the face of crucifixion, in the face of being burned, cling to Christ, confess him. And he says to his 21st century audience the same thing. Do you see the choice that Jesus made for you? Do you see the road he walked in your place? Confess him. Cling to him. Choose him Because he is the one who fulfills all the scriptures, and in whom we have the hope that all that is left undone will one day be fulfilled What a wonderful choice Jesus made on our behalf. Let's go to Him.