Invite you to uh open your Bibles to the book of Zechariah, Zechariah chapter 13 And I may have thrown some of you for a loop, thinking, well, it's see, it's Easter Sunday morning, it's got to be one of the four Gospels or 1 Corinthians 15, right? Those are your standard Easter text, but I'll tell you what, the good news of the gospel is found throughout the scriptures, and we're going to continue this morning in Zechariah 13. I hope you've picked up on the theme this morning. It was in our psalm that we opened with. It was In a couple of our hymns. It was in our Old Testament reading, our New Testament reading, and it's the theme of being cleansed, of being cleaned from sin. And it's a theme that we're going to see this morning. And it is the theme about which we rejoice on Easter and on every Sunday, that we have been cleaned from our sins, that there is a way to be cleansed, to be made right with God. And so we are going to hear that now from the prophet Zechariah. We'll be looking at the uh the uh entire uh chapter of uh thirteen one uh one through nine. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. What that means is this, that if you want to know what to believe, how to think about this world, if you want to know how to live in this world, if you want to know how it is that we can be cleansed. And you must know God's word. So I invite you now to hear the word of Almighty God from Zechariah 13. On that day there shall be a fountain open for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. And on that day, declares the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, so that they shall be remembered no more. And also I will remove from the land the prophets and the spirit of uncleanness. And if any one again prophesies, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of Yahweh. And his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through when he prophesies. On that day, every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies. He will not put on a hairy cloak in order to deceive, but he will say, I am no prophet, I am a worker of the soil, for a man sold me in my youth. And if one asks him, what are these wounds on your back, he will say, the wounds I received in the house of my friends. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me, declares the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. I will turn my hand against the little ones. In the whole land, declares the Lord, two-thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left alive, and I will put this third into the fire. And refine them as one refines silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them. I will say, They are my people. And they will say, The Lord is my God. Let's pray. O Lord, who is our God, show us yourself through this text Let us see the cleansing that is ours through the fountain that was open when Jesus died. More than that, let us see how the resurrection is your final stamp and assurance that this cleansing is real. Really ours. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. This text is uh uh uh uh uh one that continues from the text in chapter 12, what we heard on Thursday evening here at the church at our Maundy Thursday service. This text picks up the same theme. In fact, most scholars believe it is that chapters 12, 13, and 14 are one continuous sermon that the prophet Zechariah And we continue to hear the theme of on that day. And if you were with us, able to be with us Thursday evening, you've heard that that day that is referenced over and over and over again is the day of the Lord. It is the day of his coming and his beginning to reign. It is the day during which in which we live right now, in which he is on the throne as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's been lifted there because of the work he accomplished while he was here on earth. The day of the Lord has begun. It is underway. As to when exactly it began, we don't know for certain. There is some debate. Did it begin with Jesus' birth, with his baptism, with the transfiguration? Did it begin with the Lord's Supper? Or with his dying, or with his rising, or with his ascension into heaven. We don't know exactly, but we do know it began during his earthly ministry. And that it will conclude when he comes back, as Zechariah 14 will address next week. When he comes back to finish all that he has started. And yet here we are in Zechariah 13. We find ourselves in the midst of that unfinished work. And yet we find wonderful things said about what is ours even now as we await the completion. We see there in verse 13, chapter 13, verse 1, a statement of the clean cleansing. On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. Well, what is that fountain that is open? What is that day? Well, if you go back up to chapter 12, verse 10, well part of what we heard Thursday evening, we read there. And the Lord is speaking, and I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced. They shall mourn for him. What Zachariah is saying is that it is the piercing of our Lord that has opened up that fountain. That the things that happened on Good Friday cause that fountain of cleansing to be poured out. It is the hymn that we just sang a moment ago. There is a fountain filled with blood. Doesn't seem like a logical way to make things clean, but it is the only way that our sinfulness and our uncleanness can be purified. John, the Apostle John, when he writes his gospel in chapter 19, verse 37, he picks up this theme. He stands and witnesses the the the guards come to take Jesus off the cross and and it was typical that crucifixion would take days and days perhaps for the person to die The person being crucified. And so the guards are going to the cross and they're breaking the legs of the other two thieves to speed the process of their death, basically to cause internal bleeding so that the men die out more die more quickly and then can be taken off the crosses. And they get to Jesus and find that he is already dead. And they do not break his legs. In keeping with the prophecy of Isaiah, none of his bones were broken. Yet in keeping with the prophecy of Zechariah, they take a sword and they pierce him in the side to see that in fact he is dead. And out of that wound, John records, blood and water poured out. And John then, when summing this up quotes Zechariah 13, 1. He sees this as the fountain that was opened when Jesus was pierced. So what is the fountain that Zachariah mentions here? It is the work of Jesus on Good Friday. It is his death, it is his suffering, it is his piercing. that caused the fountain to flow out. What else do we see here in Zechariah 131? That this fountain is for a particular group of people. The fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem in order to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. It is not a fountain that washes the whole world. For if it washed the whole world, then the whole world would be saved. And yet we saw in our New Testament reading that the enemies of our Lord Jesus will one day be made his footstool. They are not going to be saved. It is a fountain that is there for those for whom it was intended. And yet something interesting comes out of this passage. And we might think to ourselves, well of course it's for the house of David. You've got to be one of the royals there in in Israel. What hope is there for me? I'm just a mere mortal, a mere commoner. I can't possibly be benefit from this fountain, so this fountain is worthless and useless. Why would I celebrate it? But there is really something interesting going on here. For if you caught this wording, it is a phone open for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Well, a moment ago we reread 1210. And we read about those who pierced Jesus. It's exactly the same people. The house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. It's the same people who pierced him. This is not for those who happen to be Jesus' friends. This is not a fountain that washes those who happen to be on the in-group. But rather it is a fountain, as our as our brother Tom pointed out Thursday evening at the Lord's table, it's a fountain, ironically, for those who caused it to open up in the first place. Those who pierced Jesus, those who caused his death, and you say, no, wait a second here. If I know one thing, I know this, that to be loved by somebody to be to be uh one of their people, to be among their group of friends, it sure starts with not killing them. And yet this This text says that it is precisely those who killed the shepherd, precisely those who killed the one on the cross, precisely those who pierced him, for whom the fountain is opened up. For you see, if our sins are not on Jesus by faith, if our evil is not on him at the cross, then we still bear it. And if we still bear it, we are not clean. The fountain that is opened when Jesus dies on Good Friday is precisely for those of us who put him to death. You see, that's why he came. He says he came to make his life a ransom for many. And he says to you, if you will believe that I have died for you, then I have died for you. And your sins were on me when I was on that cross. In another place, how does the New Testament say it? He who knew no sin became sin for us. Those who pierce him in 1210 are those who benefit from the cleansing in 13. 1. What an amazing turn of events. What a topsy, turvy gospel. What an upside-down way of salvation, but it is the only way that's possible. As we continue to read on, we see that this fountain actually makes clean. We're continuing in verse 1. It is a fountain that to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. It accomplishes it. It is a a done deal. If you have put your faith in Jesus Christ, if your hope is in his death on Good Friday, then this is true of you. You're clean. Really, truly clean. Deep inside you're going, no, I'm not. I know I'm not I'm still a sinner. I sin all the time. I hate it. I don't like it about myself. I can't shake it. I can't break free of it. How can you say I'm clean? Because the text says it. Because it is a forensic reality. It is a legal reality. It is the situation of standing there before the judge of all the world and he comes and he says, Scott, Shaw, what do you have to say for yourself? And before I can open my mouth, Jesus steps up and says, Father, he's one of mine. I died for his sins. Don't hold them against him, but rather take my righteousness in his place. And the Father says, so it is. Now enter into your rest. It's a reality that is ours. Now you're going to see here in a moment, we're going to need to continue to grow in it. We need to continue to need help. It's not a reality that we own in a practical way yet. But it is a legal forensic reality that we can rejoice in and rest in So we see in 13. 1 that we are cleansed by the fountain. In verses 2 through 6, we see this that we are cleansed by God's ongoing work. Notice what it says there. On that day declares the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols. And I will remove from the land the prophets. And it goes on in, I will uh uh uh make them clean. It is an ongoing work of the Lord in us. We are cleansed by God's ongoing work. You say, now wait a second, Scott, you just said we were really clean, and now you're saying we need an ongoing cleansing. What is this? What is going on here? Well we've got the difference between that legal forensic reality and our practic practical world living. How we continue to exist yet as we await the future version of ourselves. We have a nephew, we have several nephews, but one in particular I'm thinking of here. who uh when he was you know uh late elementary, early middle school, he went through that phase that many boys went through, you know, I'm gonna shower once a month whether I need it or not. And his mom sent him off to summer camp. Summer camp in, you know, July, so it's hot and sweaty. And she sends him off, and a week later she picks him up from the bus and he gets off the bus wearing exactly the same clothes that she sent him to camp with a week earlier They get in the car listening to all the stories, driving home. She's got to put the windows down because the smell is unbearable. They get home, they flip open the suitcase, everything is packed exactly where she left it The swim trunks have come out and gone back in. Of course they went back in wet and muddy, on top of all the clean clothes. He had no part, no interest in being clean. No desire to worry about those things. All he wanted to do was go play and have a good time. Now something would have interesting would happen if she needed him to be clean for a particular occasion. You know, we had a a birthday party with one of the cousins and she'd get him all cleaned up and give course what she had to do is she had to stay on top of him. His nature was to go get sweaty, to go run around, to go get dirty, to go get in whatever, and she had to stay there and s police him And say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, let's wait, let's wait. At least till the pictures, at least till Aunt Becky gets the photo, if you're looking nice and clean. Okay, then we'll dismiss. And because of his nature He had been clean and his mom had to continue to work to keep him clean. That's sort of an illustration of what we've got going on here. That we've been cleaned as God's people. We are cleansed, and yet the Lord knows our nature is to fall back into sin. You see, while we have taken on a new nature, we have yet to fully shed the old one. And so the two natures now battle with each other. And we have this ongoing issue. So the Lord begins to purify us, He cuts off the idols. He removes the false prophets from the land and the spirit of uncleanness. He begins to do these things in order to help keep us clean. The Lord begins to work in our lives both individually and collectively so that we are protected from our own sinful nature. And those verses begin to describe something interesting that happens among the people of God as they are cleaned. You notice how back up in in chapter 12, what we saw Thursday night, that the the anguish of a parent losing a child was the metaphor for the morning when we see the one we have pierced, when we realize that our sins have caused Jesus pain. We mourn and we anguish over that, as a parent losing a child. Now, Zechariah takes that metaphor and he flips it on his head, and we see here in verses 6 Oops, I lost my place there. Where am I? Oops, uh three, three, four, and five. Three three really is where we are. Um his so somebody is prophesying falsely. His father and mother who bore him will say, You shall not live His father and mother bore him, shall pierce him through when he prophesies. We have an interesting Zechariah takes his parent-child love metaphor and turns it on his head and says, When you've been made clean, when the Lord is guarding your sinful nature and keeping you clean, you become zealous for righteousness. So that if your own if your own child is preaching falsehood and telling lies and distorting the truth, that you will stand with the truth rather than with your own child. How did Jesus say it? In order to follow me, you must hate your father and mother, brother, sister, your wife, your children, even your own life We must love Jesus more than anyone else. And I've seen this, you've seen this. We know of people who have had to make hard choices in the church. Do I side with the truth or do I side with my loved one? Do I side with the truth or do I side with my friends? And you see the work of the Lord in them when they say to a child, I love you, I love you dearly, but what you're doing is wrong. It's sin. It's hurting you and it's hurting the church, and I can no longer be part of it. And they make choices to favor the church. That's what the text is talking about. That's the sort of righteousness that begins to grow inside of us as we realize the cleanness that is ours in Christ. Because of that fountain of blood and water that has poured out of his side, I don't want to continue to sin. I don't want to re-pierce him. I don't want to re-puncture his wounds. I don't want to re-harm him. I want his bride and his people to be purified and protected. And I'm going to side with my spiritual family over my biological family. Doesn't mean it's easy. But it is a sign of the work of the Lord within us. It goes on to talk about in verse 4 there how the false prophets themselves will begin to be ashamed. And I'm going to talk a little bit about this for just a moment. So in the ancient world, especially in in the the regions around Jerusalem, uh there were a lot of people who went by the name prophet or seer, and they would They're not dislike what we have today when we have, you know, uh psychic stands and fortune tellers and poem readers and these sorts of things. You pay them some money and they tell you good things about your future. About the good things are going to happen to you at some point down the road. And they called themselves prophets back then. And f and they made it tended to make a good living. It tended to be a highly respected, highly regarded place in society. And that's why it makes this so interesting. What happens here? What does this false prophet do? They become so embarrassed about their false prophecy that they'd rather be regarded as an indentured servant. Oh, no, no, no, I was never a prophet. Oh, I know you thought you you uh you think you saw me in the booth at the carnival, but that wasn't me, that was my twin brother I really am just a worker of the soil. My parents sold me into indenture servitude when I was a child. They take on the lowest rung of the society rather than be regarded as the one the prophet because they begin to be getting embarrassed because the righteousness That is beginning to take over the people of God, they say, I don't want to be a part of that anymore. And they flee their sinful past. So that the righteousness of the people of God begins to spread in to others. Now you rem you maybe remember the story of Elijah on the mountain against the prophets of Baal, when they were going to have that little duel about who which God would light the sacrifice on fire. And the prophets of Baal have built their altar and they put their sacrifice on the top of the altar, and they began to sing and to dance and to call on Baal, and he doesn't answer, he doesn't like the fountain uh uh doesn't like the uh the altar up. And uh you recall that Elijah begins to mock them, hey a little louder, maybe he's sleeping. You know, maybe he's using the facilities, maybe he's, you know, on vacation. You need to yell a little louder to get your God out here. And then you remember what the prophets of Baal began to do. They began to cut themselves. They begin to harm themselves. They begin to injure themselves. This was a common practice for the prophets back then. that that they would uh uh uh uh there would be uh self-abuse and that's the reference we see here when the the prophet you know says you know I uh I I'm not a prophet, I'm not a seer of visions You know, he won't put on his hairy cloak. In other words, not going to wear the garb of a prophet. Elijah wore that camel cloak. John the Baptist wore that camel cloak. I'm not going to put that on. I want to be known as a prophet anymore. Yeah, I'm not a prophet, I'm a worker of a soil, for a man sold me in my youth. And if anyone asks him, what are these wounds on your back? Yes, you're a prophet. We can tell you you've beaten yourself in the past. You're like those prophets of Baal who've beaten and whipped themselves. We can see the marks on your back. And what does it say? He says, oh, he'll lie about it and go, no, no, no. Those are the wounds I got in the house of a friend. You see, when I was a kid, I was over at a buddy's house and his dad got drunk and he beat us, and that's what that's from. Not from meeting a false prophet. The fountain that is opened up begins to clean the people of God, and it cleans us individually, but it begins to clean us collectively, and the Lord begins to permeate his people with a desire for cleanness. So that those who once told lies will flee from their past and no longer want to be associated with the lying they told. Those whose children and loved ones tell those lies will will make the hard choice to choose the truth in the people of God over the lie of the false prophet. We see that God's ongoing work among his people begins continues to clean them. So that the the legal standing that we had in verse 1, that we are clean before God, begins to become a practical reality. No, we will never fully achieve it in this lifetime. The Apostle John is very clear. He says if you claim to be present tense without sin, you deceive yourself. But nevertheless, we become less sinful. We became become more like Christ. The cleansing that is happening in these people begins to happen in us as we are the people of God. So in verse 1, we are cleansed by the fountain. In verses 2 through 6, we are cleansed by God's ongoing work among us. And then in verses 7 through 9, we see the text take an interesting turn. We are cleansed by testing and by trial. Something interesting happens. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me, declares the Lord of hosts. So first of all, what we see there is that no longer is the piercing of the shepherd being blamed solely on the people, the sin of the people. But rather now we see that it was the plan of God all along. It is the Lord of hosts who orders that he be pierced. This, of course, is in keeping with the prophet Isaiah, who said it was God's will to crush him. What happened on Good Friday did not happen because evil men took control. They took the reins of the universe and ran roughshod over the Creator. What happened on Good Friday happened because it was God's plan for it to happen. And Zechariah confirms that here now. Wake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me, declares the Lord of hosts. And of course, when Peter is preaching in Acts at the day of Pentecost in Acts 2. 23, he says this: Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. Jesus was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. Isaiah says it, Zechariah says it, Peter says it. God did not take a bad thing and spin it into something good. But rather he had always planned That our evil hatred for Jesus would be the means by which he would open up a fountain of cleansing As that fountain pours out, we see that there's now going to be a tri time of trial. Jesus quotes the second half of verse 7 here when uh when he's uh uh uh uh in the garden uh uh On the night before you've betrayed, uh strike the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered. I will turn my hand against the little ones But the whole But if in the whole land declares the Lord, two-thirds shall be cut off and perish, one-third shall be left alive. Now listen to what it says. Those who are still alive, those who are saved by Jesus, those who are not the ones who are scattered, but the ones who are drawn to him. I will put this third into the fire and refine them as one refines silver and test them as gold is tested. Pastor, you said we were clean. You said that the Lord is working to keep us clean. But boy, there are still our trials, there are still difficulties, there are still hard times in my life. Bad things happen, and I don't understand why. The text tells us why. Because our Lord is still refining us. He's still working in us to make us more like Him. Metals are refined to a large degree by heating them till they are liquid, till they are molten. Silver or gold would be refined in that way. So you have this pot of silver and you heat it up until the silver turns liquid. Some of the other metals that have higher melting points will now sink to the bottom. And some of the lower melting point impurities will float to the top. And you skim off the top, often referred to as the dross. You skim off the top. You pour the silver out slowly, leaving behind the dregs in the bottom. And what is in between is this very pure, very refined silver. Gold is refined in the same way. And our Lord is saying, that's why you continue to have difficulties and trials in your life. That's why there continue to be uh uh uh uh hard times battling with sin, uh uh going through hurt, uh suffering loss. Because these things refine us. They get the yucky stuff out. And they make us more pure. The heat of that fire is used by our Lord to purify us. It's interesting. I was the headmaster at a Christian school. And one of the things that was always a source of frustration for some of us the the as the teachers in the administration was that sometimes it felt like some of the little kids that when we have our chapel time during the week and we'd we'd have a worship time They just didn't seem to get into that worship time. But I have to admit, when I look back at my own teenage years, I didn't always worship like I should have and frequently didn't not. And yet now I look forward to the worship. I long for it. What's the difference? These times of trial These times of difficulty. I've now seen my Lord carry me through these times. I've now seen him bring me out the other side of them, and in deepening my faith and growing me in him. And I desire all the more to be with him and This refining makes us more like him and want to be You see in the end there, finally, at the end of the second half of uh uh verse nine, um they will call upon my name in the midst of all these trials, in the midst of uh in the midst of all these They will call upon my name and I will answer them. I will say they are my people, and they will say, The Lord is my God. There's what that refining accomplishes. It secures us in him. It assures us that we are his. We are made clean by the fountain poured out. We are made clean by God's ongoing work in us, and we are made clean by the testing and the trials that come in our lives. And you're saying, Pastor, the passage has run out of verses, and you've not said anything about the resurrection. And it's Easter Sunday morning. You know, there's something interesting. We can be sitting here looking at this and going, well, this is all about Good Friday. This is all about the piercing and the blood flowing out and all the cleanness that's offered there. We don't need the resurrection. We've got it all at Good Friday, hence the name Good Friday. It's taken care of. Sad to say, I thought that way for a long time as a young Christian. Then I read some interesting verses. I read verses like First Corinthians uh chapter fifteen, um verse uh uh verse seventeen. Uh 1 Corinthians 15, 17 says this, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. And you are still in your sins. If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. You say, well, wait a second, Zachariah said we had the faith. fountain that was cleansing? Pastor, you said that was from the one that was pierced, that's Jesus on Good Friday? If the fountain broke out when he was pierced on Good Friday and it flowed over us, then we're clean, what's going on here? But Paul says if there's no resurrection, if Jesus didn't come up from the grave, you're still in your sins. How can that be? Are they contradicting each other? Are they at odds with one another? Is the Bible inconsistent? Well, there's another place where Paul writes that brings it together beautifully for us. In Romans 4, verse 25, Paul says this: Jesus our Lord. Was delivered up for our trespasses. Yes, he died for our sins. He was pierced for our transgressions. That fount poured out of his side to wash us clean. Now listen to what he goes on to say. Jesus our Lord was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. That's why the resurrection matters. That's why the resurrection pulls all this together and makes it a reality. For if Jesus stayed dead, Then that would be the declaration of the judge that he deserved to die. And if he deserved to die, that means he died for his own sins. And if he died for his own sins, then he can't possibly pay the price for yours and mine But you see, on the third day, the judge of all the world said he did not deserve to die. His death was unwarranted. He has lived out a perfect life, obeying every commandment, doing so with the right spirit and the right heart and the right motivation, not merely keeping them in an outward way, but keeping them because he loved God. And the judge says, no, he shall not stay dead. And the New Testament says, over we sometimes think that Jesus raised himself from the dead. No, the New Testament is very clear that it was the Father who raised him. The father called to the grave and said, Let him go! He didn't deserve to die. His death was unwarranted. He is now set free. And he walks out of the grave on Easter Sunday morning. raised from the dead for our justification, so the whole world could see he didn't deserve to die. His death is not on him for his sake and for his sins. So why did he die? Is God unjust at this point? Did he die for no reason? No. He died for the sins of those of us who pierced them. Who by faith gave our sins to him. He died for them. Easter's resurrection is the proof that his death covers us. Not himself, not his own sins. Easter's resurrection is the proof that the Lord counted him worthy. And because the Father counted him worthy, and his atonement is plentiful. It is enough for every sin you've ever committed, every sin you will ever commit. Your sins and mine, and all of those who will by faith say, I want that. Lord, apply it to me. I don't want to stand in judgment for my own sin. Will you stand in my place? And I know you can, because you rose from the dead at East. Easter. We are cleansed by the fountain that was poured out. But the proof that that fountain has cleansing power was the resurrection that occurred on Easter. Father, give us faith that we would receive this wonderful truth. And that we would know that you've applied it to us. And that we would live out this life joyfully telling other people about it. And that we would look forward to the day when you will bring it all together in completion. Thank you, Jesus, for living out a perfect life and for dying in our place. Thank you, Father, for raising him from the dead as a an affirmation, a confirmation, a a proof that his death was for us and not himself, so that we can know that we have the cleansing offered In the one whom we pierce. We offer up this prayer, this service, and our lives. In His name. Amen.