Open your Bibles if you would please to Matthew 24. Matthew 24. We are going to be looking, our sermon this morning is going to actually cover just over four chapters. of the book of Matthew and we will not read all of it, but we will be looking more specifically at a handful of verses in Matthew 24. So I encourage you to open your Bible, keep it open on your lap To Matthew twenty four On December 8, 1941, Lieutenant Commander Howard Gilmore was made captain of the as yet unfinished USS Growler that was a Gato class submarine. On July 5th, that following summer of 1942, the Growler saw its first combat, and it skillfully outmaneuvered its enemy in the Pacific Ocean. sinking or disabling three Japanese destroyers in a single day for that kind of excellence Commander Gilmore received the Navy Cross, an award that is second only to the Medal of Honor. During her second patrol, a month later, the Growlers' reputation grew even larger as she was able to sink fifteen thousand tons of military supplies severely crippling crippling the the enemy in that region of the s of the Pacific Theater. Commander Gilmore received his second Navy Cross In the pre-dawn blackness of February 7, 1943, the growler was running on the surface. She was maneuvering into position for yet another attack on enemy supply lines. Commander Gilmore, a junior officer, and a few enlisted sailors were on the bridge when large caliber gunfire erupted out of the darkness. The Japanese destroyer Hayasaki appeared out of nowhere and was bearing down fast, trying to ram and sink the growler. The machine gun fire struck both of the on-deck officers. The junior one died instantly. The injured commander, Gilmore, ordered that the deck be cleared and he shouted down to the down the conning tower. to his XO to perform an emergency crash dive. The XO expected his commander to come through the hatch at any moment But Gilmore's wounds meant he would have needed help getting through the hatch, and there wasn't time for that. He ordered the dive, and he clung to the deck, and the hatch was sealed. The lives of 58 sailors were saved that morning. And a few months later, Commander Gilmore's widow received the Medal of Honor on behalf of her late husband. On Sunday, March 29, A. D. 33, Jesus did not suddenly notice an enemy bearing down on him in a surprise attack. Rather, he provoked the attack. He rode into town we saw on a donkey in a parade as if he were the king of Jerusalem, raising a flag and saying, Here I am, come and get me And on Monday morning, he went to the temple and he took control of it as though he were God himself. He sealed the hatch. So that all those who would listen to his command and get inside would by faith be saved. But the attack on Jesus doesn't fall as quickly as might have been expected. In fact, he would live another three days yet. And this morning we're going to look at what happened on the following day, on Tuesday, March 31st. in the year AD thirty three. Let's pray and ask help as we do that. Lord, help us to consider closely All the many, many teachings that you gave on that day, all of the instruction that you did publicly, all the ways that you confronted your enemies. And all of the private instruction you gave to your disciples that evening. And as we try to digest this huge quantity of material, we ask your help in understanding it In seeing, in stepping back, in seeing the forest and recognizing what you were doing on our behalf. As if we consider your walk to the cross, we ask that we would be encouraged in our faith, renewed in our conviction, strengthened in our love and appreciation for Jesus. In whose name we pray. Amen. The The disciples are walking with Jesus out of the temple on that Tuesday afternoon, and they say, look, teacher, at the wonderful stones and buildings of the temple. This is a little tidbit that Mark adds that we don't have in Matthew's account. And so on that Tuesday afternoon, March 31st, 1992 years ago, this very week actually Jesus' followers were in such high spirits that their heads are up and they're just kind of soaking in the view. They've got Jerusalem kind of over their right shoulder as they're walking along. They've got the Mount of Olives in front of them The temple is sitting on top of a mountain, and it is fifteen stories tall, and it has twice the square footage any temple in Rome had. It is a magnificent building. And it's covered in gold and polished marble, and it's got to be gleaming in the setting sun behind them. Late not setting yet, but late afternoon sun behind them. And the reflection has got to be stunning And so they are in high spirits. And why wouldn't they be? You see, remember, twenty-four hours earlier They had lain in their beds on the Monday evening very worried about what had happened the last two days in Jerusalem, knowing full well that their teacher had infuriated The Jerusalem leadership, this Galilean rube had come down and dared to act as he acted He had upset tradition on Sunday by riding into Jerusalem rather than walking as if he were a king And he had outraged everyone on Monday by violently clearing the temple as if he as if it was his house. And so on Monday night, the disciples were afraid of what was going to happen Tuesday, knowing the Pharisees would never let that go. But the confrontation on Tuesday was not what they expected. It was surprisingly, first of all, nonviolent. There were no soldiers, there was no armed mob, there was no arrest warrant. You see, instead, the leadership had made the decision that they couldn't arrest Jesus because of his popularity. It would cause an uproar in Jerusalem, and they didn't want that at a time when the population of Jerusalem had nearly doubled because of the Passover. And so their strategy is to undermine Jesus. Their strategy is to uh uh uh chip away at his popular support, softening the ground as it were. So that they could arrest him later. And so their leadership in Jerusalem wa uh uh uh being unfamiliar with Jesus, you know, having He remembers most of his ministry was in the north in Galilee. The leadership in Jerusalem, they don't realize what a gifted teacher this man is. They don't realize how knowledgeable he is. And so they decide that through a series of public confrontations, they're going to expose him for the fraud that he is. So on that Tuesday morning, Jesus, when he got to the temple, he was hit with this choreographed barrage of questions. Each one intended to weaken him. First, his rabbinical credentials were attacked. On what authority do you do these things? That was the opening salvo. It was followed by a politically dicey question. Should we pay taxes? Then there was a doctrinal difficulty. If you're married more than once in this life, whose spouse are you in the next life? And finally there was a question of practical authority. Which commandment is most important? Now I call these choreographs for a reason. You see, we will often today link Pharisees and Sadducees together in the same sentence. But that wasn't the case back then. They hated each other. The Pharisees were the ultra-conservatives, and the Sadducees were the liberals. The Pharisees were religious zealots. The Sadducees were religious only in that it served them socially. The Pharisees believed the Bible to be literally true. The Sadducees denied practically everything about the Bible. The Pharisees were fierce naturalists. They loved a lot of which rather. They hated it. There we go. They did not love. They hated the Romans. The Sadducees were absolutely willing to work with Rome when it served their purposes. So the very fact that we see the Pharisees and Sadducees together attacking Jesus Is evidence of what was going on behind the scenes. What is that old saying? The enemy of my enemy is my friend? Their mutual hatred for Jesus had driven these two parties together, and they attacked him publicly on that Tuesday morning in the temple. Now, how does this explain the fact that the twelve are in such a good mood as they're walking out of Jerusalem, such a good mood that they're taking in the scenery and pointing out the beauty of the temple? Because of the performance of their teacher. Their rabbi knocked it out of the park that morning. If the plan was to discredit Jesus, it failed. It didn't just fail at faith planted in the mud It was an utter disaster from the perspective of the Pharisees. And the disciples are looking at all that's going down, and they're looking at going the odds that Jesus is going to be arrested this week have dropped to zero. We're going to be able to go home to Galilee and at least live to fight another day. Now, how did Jesus fare so well? Well, he didn't just eke out a victory. He crushed it. He knocked it out of the park. He deathly dodged every thrust. He parried every flash. At one turn he was just simply cleverer than those attacking him. At another, he exposed the simple unbelief of his opponents. At a third time, he uh uh takes on their final assault just by knowing the scriptures inside out, upside and down. You see, so when they ask Jesus, on what authority do you do these things? You have ridden in Jerusalem like a king, you have walked into the temple like a god. What gave you the right? And Jesus just exposes them. For who they are. You say, you care about authority? Well, that's great. That's wonderful that you care so much about authority Clearly, men who are as worried about authority as you are, you must have closely evaluated John the Baptist After all, that guy preached some pretty radical things out there, so you have taken some time to consider him closely, because you care so much about authority. So tell me on what authority did John preach? They can't. They aren't really serious about this. They're trying to take down Jesus. They're not careful, thoughtful monitors of religion. They're just trying to take down Jesus. And they have no answer for this. And they know full well the crowds loved John, so they can't come out against him. But if they dare say that John was a godly man, then they're going to get blasted for not having to listen to him. And so they punt. And they say, well, we don't really know. And Jesus kind of looks at them and goes, so you care so much about authority that you've never even considered justice. I'm not going to bother answering your question. And he dodges it and he makes them look foolish in the process. Their thrust was dodged. Now to the amazement of those who were watching all of this, Jesus actually flips it around and goes on the offensive. He teaches a series of parables. And again, we're black using higher up in Matthew, and I'm just kind of skimming through what's happening there. And he says to the crowd, wouldn't you agree That if a father has two children and one of them says, Hey Dad, I will absolutely do whatever you say, but then doesn't do it And the other one argues with that initially, but ends up obeying. He says, wouldn't you agree the second child is the legitimate, the better child, the faithful child? And what was Jesus' point? It was pretty simple. You Pharisees, you can give a good answer like the first child, but then you turn around and disobey. And these tax collectors, these prostitutes, these sinners, they gave some pretty bad answers initially, but they have fallen in line and obeyed. And he challenges the Pharisees in a very direct way. He offered another parable. It's a slightly similar warning from a slightly different perspective. Jesus says, does not a man, if he invests in a vineyard, does he not have a right to expect fruit? The answer was blatantly obvious to everybody. And when he sends his son to collect the fruit, Jesus argued, and the tenant farmers, if they kill the son, does not that landlord have a right to punish them? And again, the answer is blatantly obvious. You see, the father of the first parable had a right to expect obedience. The landlord of the second parable had a right to expect fruit. And we begin to see Jesus building a theme. That there are expectations on us, and there are consequences when we do not meet them. Jesus offered a third parable. A banquet host, if he is spurned and dishonored, has every right to rescind his invitation and extend it to another. Now this one's a little tougher for us to appreciate nowadays. But in that culture, and you've heard me talk about some of this with the introduction of the Book of Romans, with that culture, honor was everything. It was all about the honor. If you pursued wealth, it was so you would be honored, and not wealth for its own sake. So to extend an invitation to somebody and have them turn it down was a dishonor. And Jesus is saying, you have dishonored God. He has extended to you an invitation, and you have not taken up on it. He has every right to close his door, his banquet to you, and to open it to others. And so the Pharisees are on their heels at this point. They're not going to give up, though. And so they seize on this idea of owing. You have said we owe the the children owe the father obedience. You've said the tenants owe the farmer fruit. You have said, Jesus, that uh that that we owe honor to the man who invites us to the banquet Well, we got an owing question for you. Do we owe taxes to Caesar? And they know this is a political loser, right? You never campaign on more taxes And I think they expect Jesus to try to wriggle out from underneath it. They expect Jesus to try to come up with some way and he's gonna look kind of he's gonna look like he's flim clamming out there And Jesus doesn't even hesitate. He says, absolutely you owe taxes to Caesar. What a stupid question! We are all under authority. We all owe somebody something. Of course you owe taxes to Caesar. And then attacks this on. Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's. If you Pharisees are going to dare say that you are not under the authority of the state, you're going to go so far as to say you're not under the authority of God? And he points out that these are men who think they are the end-all and be-all of Jewish religion, forgetting that they answer to God. The Pharisees are silenced at that point. And so the Sadducees, they bring up their prickly question about the afterlife, about this being married to multiple spouses and dying and going to the new world, the afterlife. To whom are you married in the afterlife? But you see here's what we've got to remember. The Sadducees, they rejected the idea of afterlife. They didn't believe in the afterlife. They didn't think there was a resurrection. They're not asking a legitimate question. They're not trying. They're not saying, teacher, please help us understand. No, they're trying to trip Jesus up and publicly humiliate him Accountability is again the theme, but this time it's about our accountability to obey in faith, to submit in faith. It's the confidence that we owe God. He says, you are wrong because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. He says, you don't get it. Your inability to understand the doctrine doesn't make it untrue. You don't understand how the afterlife's going to work? Fine. You owe God faith anyway. If God has to explain everything to you and is accountable to you, then who's really in charge? And he says to the Sadducees, Just accept the teaching of the afterlife, even if you can't make sense of it. You owe God that So now the scribes, they send a young lawyer, they send him up to the mound as a release pitcher, and Jesus knocks it out of the park. Baseball season just started. In that day, the scholars of Jewish religion had identified 613 unique laws in the Old Testament. On top of that were layered a thousand or more additional guidelines in terms of tradition and uh interpretation, these sorts of things. There were thousands and thousands of laws that a good faithful Jew was supposed to have to follow. And they figure there is no way this country carpenter can possibly know all those, let alone sit through them on a moment's notice. So they send a lawyer who knows those laws inside out, upside down. And he says to Jesus, which of the many, many, many, many, many, many, many commandments is the most important one. Without missing a beat, Jesus says, that's easy. You are to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your mind, soul, and with all your mind and with all your strength. And without hesitating, without missing a beat, without even being asked, Jesus then tacks on, and the second one is really close behind it. You are to love your neighbor as yourself. And the lawyer conceived readily that Jesus was spot on. So first the Pharisees and the Sadducees and finally the scribes, and none of them can discredit this country rabbi. Instead, they reveal a man who could plumb the motivations of their hearts, who taught that all men, even the Pharisees, were accountable to God. And a man who absolutely knew God's word inside out and upside down. Jesus was more popular with the crowds than ever in that moment. So Jesus again seizes the momentum. He again goes on the offensive. You've asked me some questions, let me ask you one. You say that Christ will be David's offspring. Yet in Psalm 110, the one with which we open our service, in Psalm 110, David calls Christ the Christ Lord. So answer me this. How would the great King David call one of his own offspring Lord? That is not how it worked in that culture. Grandparents did not bow before grandchildren. And they cannot answer. They have no explanation. It's never dawned on them to think of what that implies. That somehow this offspring of David is also superior to David. That he is both a descendant of And Lord over King David of all people. And so this itinerant rube has vested Jerusalem's brightest Yet to see this as a battle of the minds is to kind of miss the point. It's a battle of the wills. His is submitted to God, and theirs are not. He's in submission to the Father, and they are not. He's ready to face God's assessment of him, and they cannot If they had then submitted to God, they would have repented and believed right in that moment. And so the confrontation that day in the temple, it ends with Jesus pronouncing woes and warnings. We're now into Matthew 23. We're getting close to our text this morning. And the warnings were warnings of accountability, of judgment, of owing God. The warnings were, quite frankly, Based on the theme of the day. And so the showdown in the temple ended like this. I ask you to open your Bible to Matthew 24, look up one verse to the end of 23 Look at the last verse of 23. This is the close of Jesus' encounter in the temple. He says, I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And in case you were not able to be with us last week, we cannot miss the significance of that. For you'll recall that when Jesus was riding into Jerusalem on the donkey, this is what the people were shouting. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. And the Pharisees pull Jesus's eye and go, do you hear what they're saying about you? That's just wrong. Only that that can only be said about God. You've got to stop them. And Jesus says right here, no, no, no, no, no You're going to join them. And you're either going to do so willingly in this life and pronounce me the blessed one who comes in the name of the Lord. Or when you see me the next time, you're still going to say it, but it'll be with great regret. That's how the public confrontation on Tuesday closes. And Jesus is turning to leave the temple. Mark tells us, Mark and Luke tell us, that as he turns to leave the temple, a sermon illustration walks right in front of him. She just presents herself right there. We pastors, we preachers love when sermon illustrations walk up this easily. And Jesus sees all of the wealthy pilgrims pouring bags of money into the temple box And among them is this widow giving two insignificant coins. He turns to his disciples and he says, that's what I'm talking about. She gets it. She understands that she's accountable to God, that she owes God everything. She is giving to God all the money she has. And trusting God with her life. That's what I'm talking about. Do not be misled by all the wealth of these clowns over here. Understand that what I want from my followers is a complete commitment to trust God. This is why the twelve are in a pretty good mood when they walk out of Jerusalem that day. Jesus has warned about the judgment that's coming, but he's warned us for those who will not submit to God. And they are following the Christ. They've submitted to God in this regard. They believe in Jesus, but unlike the Sadducees, they take the Bible seriously. You see, all the warnings of the morning were actually not for them. We have seen Jesus chastise them any number of times throughout his ministry, but not today. They are walking out of Jerusalem going, our teacher knocked it out of the park today. And everything said, we're on the right side of it. But tell me, would you be in a good mood? I would leave. And so they walk out of the city. There is the warm uh spring sun is at their backs, and they're now facing the Mount of Olives And it's bursting with color. Almond trees are in bloom. Anemon anemones, poppies are all in bloom on the side of the Mount of Olives. And so beauty is on their minds. And they point to the temple off to the right. And they say, Jesus, do you see that? Isn't that stunning? Jesus' reply, and this is where we're going to pick up now in Matthew 24, I didn't note the verse number, I think it's verse 3. Jesus' reply does not match their mood. You see all these, do you not? I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. And he just walks away at that point. And he walks up the mountainside. Probably quite a crowd with him still at this point, but it looks like, we don't know for sure, but it looks like the four broke off. Peter, James, and John, we're used to those three being the inner circle And Brother Andrew joins. Peter, James, John, and Andrew, maybe with the rest of the 12, maybe not. They follow Jesus up the mountainside. And they've got a few questions. What do you mean the temple is coming down? And Jesus sits down on this mountain and now that temple is behind him. And off in the distance is the almost setting sun out over the Mediterranean Sea. And he begins to teach about tribulation, about destruction, about false teachers, about strife. And he's teaching it to those who are sitting there, and they in turn to us. Now to understand what Jesus taught that day. This is what's commonly referred to as the Olivet Discourse. Okay, the Olivet Discourse, you've done the Mount of Olives, the Olivet Discourse. In order to understand this, we've got to first understand what the four asked him. Again, Matthew's account being the most detailed is the one we're going to follow this morning with some supplements from the others. According to him, and this is in verse 3, they said, Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Now imagine with me for the sake of illustration that a child gives grandma a call in the days leading up to grandma's much anticipated visit. And the child gets on the phone and says, Nana, when are you getting here and giving me my birthday gift? Grandma answers, I'll be there Friday and give you your gift at your party. Now it would be easy to see how we, if we were careless, we might misinterpret grandma. We would think that grandma was saying, I'm getting there Friday and giving you your gifts Friday. But that's not what she says. She answered the two, the child has blended two questions into one. Grandma answers them individually. You've asked when I'm getting there. I'm getting there on Friday. You've asked when I'm giving you your gift. That will be at your party. That doesn't mean the party is Friday. So now we get back to what's going on here. Understandably, the disciples, they've they've conflated two events The destruction of the temple and the end of the age. The child could not imagine grandma arriving and not giving her her gift. The disciples cannot imagine the temple coming down and the world not ending. That's how they're thinking. Which is why they ask their question. Tell us when these things will be and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age. In their minds, the two must coincide The temple is the center of the worship of God on the earth. And if the temple comes down, then the worship of God is in it, which means this world is ended, which means it's got to be these two that are the same thing. Jesus, however, knows that they are two distinct events. They do not coincide. And he answers them separately. Now this passage is supremely difficult, and we are actually considering three different versions of it. We're kind of look we're leaning most heavily on Matthew, but we're going to also fill in some holes from Mark and Luke And I think this warrants a brief aside. I mentioned this this morning in Sunday school, but I'll reiterate now. The quotation marks in our modern English Bibles do us no favors. You see, we Westerners, when we see quotation marks, we take that to mean that this is exactly what was said. I'm quoting him or her But that's almost certainly not the level of precision we have. Again, let me illustrate. Imagine two, you are, sorry, you ask two co-workers What time did Jennifer want us at her place on Friday? One of them replies, right after work, while the other blurts out, 5:30. They've delivered the same message, haven't they? In essence, it's the same thing. But they don't match each other. And it turns out there's a really good chance neither one of them is quoting Jennifer, who said, come back to work whenever is convenient for you. You see the problem? If we approach this as the exact thing Jesus said, and we're gonna have a hard time piecing these different accounts together. We've got to understand that this is the Holy Spirit's uh uh rendering of what was said that day so that we would understand the message You see, the gospels were not, the gospel writers were not journalists. They didn't stand there taking dictation. To put quote marks on it forces a level of precision that probably isn't there. So as we consider these accounts from different witnesses and we blend them together, let's not be put off by the fact that Matthew, Mark, and Luke tell us the same thing in slightly different ways. And in fact, let's accept the fact that that's actually an affirmation that this is really what happened That we have multiple accounts, multiple testimony, multiple witnesses. Jamawe refuses to say nothing about this event. But the other three tell us what went down. So now we get back to what Jesus is teaching. Jesus answers their questions, and he does so in reverse order. What will be the signs of my coming at the end of the age? Wars and rumors of wars, he says. Famines and earthquakes, tribulation, persecution, and hatred, because you belong to me. All of this will precede the end of the age, Jesus teaches. Now some of you might be sitting there going, whoa, Pastor, wait a second here. wars and rumors of wars. How can those be signs of the end of the age? Those never cease. Those have continued from the time of Jesus to our time today, and we can't imagine them going away Good point. Let me ask you this question. Do you know anyone? Not any Christian, anyone, who thinks that wars and rumors of wars are the way the world ought to be Is there anyone who in their ideal vision of the world says, yeah, those wars and that hope of another war, that's good news Nobody thinks that way. And yet it's surprising, is it not, given that a huge swath of modern humanity actually argues That we have been improved by a survival of the fittest By different groups vying over the same resources, those that are better equipped survive And yet somehow they don't look at the vine of war and the survival of one side over the other as the advancement of humanity. And in fact, everyone out there will argue that human advancement would occur through peace. Not war. So you see, the whole world agrees that the wars and the rumors of war are a disaster. There are bad things. Something is wrong And the whole world is looking for a savior. They're looking for that political power that will fix this. They're looking for that strong man dictator who will lead their country out of this. They're looking for someone to make the world right. And Jesus says, when you see these things, when there's tribulation, when there's strife, when your job goes astray, when inflation kills your fixed income, when your children are sent to war. Whatever the problem is in this world, do not see in that the abandonment of God. From this world. But be reminded that you need a savior, that it needs to be fixed, and that I have begun that process. I've used this illustration before, but I have yet to find a better one. It is to the end of World War II what D-Day was. D-Day was the end of World War II, what this is to the fixing of the world. No, it's not over, but the big step in the right direction has been accomplished. The beachhead, in my death that's about to come, in my resurrection, in my ascension, the beachhead we need to defeat evil and to take back this world. has been accomplished, and I will certainly bring it to conclusion. And Jesus says, when you hear these things Yes, they might spark despair. But let that despair be re- remind you that you need a savior. Let that remind you that I am that savior. And I am coming again. Jesus has two Jesus adds two notes of encouragement. First in Matthew 24, 13 he says this, the one who endures to the end will be saved. It's a powerful motivation, a powerful reminder to persevere, to stay the course, to stay in the faith. Amid all the tribulation, amid all the strife, amid all the trials, amid even persecution for being a Christian, Jesus says, if you just stick with me to the end. It will all be made right. And then the answer offers this second wonderful tidbit. He says the gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. Now we don't like waiting. We wish Jesus would come back right away. But can you imagine for a moment if he had come back before the gospel came to you? Would you like that? You see, we wait on Jesus. We plan to spend an eternity with him, and we wait on him Because we don't want him to not have all those who are his. We don't want there to be a single friend from a single people group that doesn't represent it, represents that people group before him. You see, the fullness of his glory is found in the fullness of mankind being with him, from every tribe and tongue and nation. What is the chief end of man? Well, we always know the answer. That's the glory of God. What then is the chief end of our waiting? It's the full glory of Christ. so that all may hear. We're going to gather back in a few weeks to reach out to and support our missionaries. Maybe to encourage them to hurry up So the gospel will get to all the corners of the earth and Christ will come back. By the way, if you ever look for motivation for missions, that's a pretty good one right there Now, having described the general sense of tribulation which must be suffered while we await Christ's return, Jesus also addressed the disciples' first question. And it gave some very specific information that many who followed him on the earth would themselves, in their own lives, face. So he's told about the coming of the end of the age. Now he steps back and answers the question, when will these things take place? The destruction of the temple. And in verse 15 he says, When you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place. Now we are not first century Jews, so we don't connect with this test quite the way they would have. But to every first century Jew, if you made reference to the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, they all knew what that was. They all had the same historical event in their mind. About 200 years before Jesus is teaching this, in 168 BC, the Greek ruler Antiochus IV Epipanes, he entered the temple. That's bad. He's not a Jew. He's a pagan and he goes into the temple. And he made a sacrifice to Zeus. In Yahweh's temple, upon the altar in the temple. And his sacrifice was a pig. Now, you don't have to know a lot about Judaism to know that that is an abomination. That you would sacrifice a pig on God's altar to a foreign God That has to be the abomination of desolation that Daniel was talking about, right? Yet Jesus is speaking as though it's still in the future. When you see it Not when you hear about it from the past, when you see it in the holy place. And then Jesus adds that little comment in there, let the reader understand. In other words, the one who reads Daniel, let him understand these things. Can you imagine being a first century Jew and being told that as bad as that pig on the altar was, something worse is coming? Something which is even a bigger abomination is still out there. And what follows over the next 13 verses is a description not of the time of the end of the age, and that's the mistake we make when we blend all this into one answer. But this is a description of the destruction of the temple. Remember, they asked two questions. When will these things happen, the temple coming down, and what is the sign of the end of the age? And he's answering that first question now. And Luke's parallel account, Luke chapter 21, verses 20 and 21, Luke gives us a little detail that Matthew omits, and it helps us realize the period of time we're talking about. Luke says this. Oh sorry, Jesus says this according to Luke. When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near. At which point Luke's version then merges with Matthew's. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Okay, so here we go. AD 66, about 33 years after Jesus taught this. There was a rebellion in Jerusalem that was sparked by the Roman leader. And for about two years, that rebellion went totally in favor of the Jews. They actually captured all of Jerusalem and drove the Romans out. They captured the Roman fortress just outside, you may know the name of it, Bossada. And it looked like they were winning. And then in sixty-eight AD The Romans began to close in, first at the outer edge of the portions, the territories the Jews had recaptured, and the Romans began to come in And what does Luke's account say? When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know the desolation has come near. Jesus had warned that, warned about those armies surrounding Jerusalem. And in A. D. 69, they finally did. And any who did not heed Jesus' warning to flee, they regretted it. For Titus, the Roman general at that point He finally laid siege to Jerusalem in A. D. 70. There were no airdrops of supplies back then. To be under siege was to starve. And the accounts of the suffering in Jerusalem are horrific. And I will not go into them. But all the misery that Jesus foretold happened in Jerusalem in A. D. 70. And Titus' men eventually took the outermost wall of Jerusalem. That would be the newest wall, that would be the best of the walls, that'd be the one that that was most easily defensible, and they took it. But the zealots, rather than surrender, they fell back to an older inner wall and re-established themselves. And so another siege again. But this wall fell more quickly. It was older, less defensible. And it fell back to the original wall And another siege began. And it fell even more quickly. And at this point, it's self-evident to everybody that the Romans are winning, the Zealots have got to give up, the rebels have got to quit, and they don't They flee to the temple and try to use the temple wall as a line of defense. Now, according to the Jewish historian Josephus, Titus wanted to save the temple. He respected its beauty It's our conjecture. But his men were furious. We should have been able to go home to our wives months ago. And you're not going to quit this foolish effort to resist us? And they set the temple ablaze. And burnt. And in the smoldering ashes, they go through and they execute summarily every single surviving Jewish rebel. And the banner of Titus, the banner of the Roman general, was driven into the ground at the very place where the Holy of Holies had once stood. The abomination that the sign of Rome would be in God's temple. The fire melted the gold that was on so many of the surfaces of the temple, so that the gold ran down into the masonry joints. And in the days after, as it cooled, Titus's men began to tear each stone from the other to get at the gold in those joints. So that at the end, no stone remained on another. There's the desolation. And all these years later, there has never been another sacrifice in that temple. We look at Matthew 24, 24. Jesus says, for false Christs And false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand In that kind of trauma, amidst that kind of upheaval to their worldview, many will begin to cast around for anyone to become their leader and their savior. And Jesus says, remember. I told you these things before they happened. I'm not going to be here any longer. You're going to be tempted to follow one of the Christs, one of the Messiahs that's right in front of you. But did they foretell all of this? I have told you, so that you will know that I am the true prophet from God. And in verse 26, he picks up: so if they say to you, Look, he's in the wilderness, do not go out there. If they say, Look, he's in the inner rooms, do not believe it. When the temple was destroyed, every Jew had to be wondering if that was the end of the age. But Jesus says to his dear friends, you can be sure that it is not, that I have not returned. How could they be sure? How could they be certain that that wasn't the end of the age? Look at verse 27. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. He says, everybody's going to know when I come back. If you have to wonder, if you're scratching your head going, well, the fall of the temple, hmm, I wonder if that was the return of the Christ. No! There's going to be no wondering. Everybody's going to know it. It'll be like lightning in the sky, nobody will miss it. Even the unbelievers will admit it. Verse 30, they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with great power and glory. Jesus says, no, the fall of the temple is not the end of the age. You have made a mistake of blending those two things. The end of the age will be self-evident. But I told you about the temple so that you will not be led astray. By the way, in the midst of all of this, Jesus makes one of his most a couple of his most profound claims of deity Son of man, which is Jesus' favorite description of himself, Son of Man actually comes from Daniel, which Jesus is quoting right now. Daniel saw a vision of one like a son of man, and Daniel has to word it that way because Daniel admits that he doesn't understand the vision. He is mystified how it looks like a human being. But he walks right up to the throne of the Ancient of Days. And Daniel's catching is like there's no human being to do that. But he does. And he's not struck down for his insolence. He's rewarded for it. He's given honor and glory and power, and he's given a kingdom that will last forever and ever. Jesus calls himself that Son of Man. Even as he's quoting the very prophecies from Daniel. He is saying, I am that one. Daniel thought I was one like a son of man, but I really am a son of man. I am really a human being, but I am also God. For we remember that Isaiah says very clearly, God through Isaiah says, I will not share my glory with another. Isaiah 40, verse 10. But this son of man walks right to the throne and shares the glory of God. Either God lied to Isaiah, or that son of man is God. And then Jesus says something profound in verse 35. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. There are just three types of Jews who would dare say something like that. There is the Jew who does not fear God by reason of insanity. There is the Jew who does not fear God because he is hardened in evil. And there is the Jew who is God. So do you think Jesus to be insane? Do you think him to be evil? And if your answer to both of those is no, then you've got to admit he's God. And worship him as such, and honor him as such, and believe in him as such, and admit that to everyone else that will listen. Jesus gives a bit more information before he closes the teaching. Verse 36, he says plainly that no one, including himself, knows the day of the end of the age. That's really easy, folks. Any book that claims to know the day, burn it, or don't buy it in the first place Any blogger who claims to know the day, they figured all the numerology of the scriptures and they can now tell you when the day of Jesus' coming is. Two things. One, you know that's not the day. And number two, you need to stop following that blogger. Any preacher who claims to know the day claims to know more than Jesus knew. Don't listen to them. Why does Jesus make a point of that? Because he begins to warn the people. Those who are listening to him right there, sitting on the mountain, he begins to share more parables, parables of warning. And the shadows are lengthening and it's getting into the evening, and Jesus is explaining to them that there's the parable, the warning about a man who, if he knew his house was robbed, he would stay vigilant. And be ready. And Jesus says, you need to be like that man and be ready. He shares the parable of the ten virgins waiting for the wedding. Five have enough oil, five don't. He says, You've got to be like the ones with the oil, you've got to be ready When the Son of Man appears, he shares the parable of the talents, how the master gives to each servant. And the one who uses it diligently gets to hear, well done, good and faithful servant. I never put those parables in that context before He has just said, hey, there's going to come a day of judgment, and you don't know when it is. And then he gives these parables about staying ready. And then Jesus warned a final judgment. He taught about the sheep and the goats. He taught about how the righteous sheep, when they eat wicked goats, would be separated from one another. And he says the goats are sent away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. And we're getting near the end. We look down at Matthew 26. Look at Matthew 26, verses 1 to 4. It's Tuesday evening, March 31st, A. D. 33. It's been a long, long day for Jesus, even longer than this sermon. It began in the temple. It began with his authority being challenged. It began with his doctrinal knowledge and his knowledge of scripture being challenged. And he defeated each challenge, and he talked through the parables, and he warned about we must give to God what we owe God. And now they're outside the city, and they're on the mountain, they're looking back at the temple, and Jesus has warned his disciples, at least four of them. about God's coming judgment upon Jerusalem and the temple, and about his return at the end of the age, and about their need to always be ready for that, and about the final judgment which it will usher in. And if there is a theme to this Tuesday and Holy Week of Jesus' life, it is a warning, upon warning, upon warning. And then look at Matthew 26 with me. When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to the disciples. You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. Me and you were in a good mood because you thought we won today. And in a sense we did. But do not mistake temporal victories for eternal ones. Do not get lured into thinking that a little pushback in the temple today was somehow the ultimate victory. In two days it's going to look like it's been turned into defeat. And just like I warned you about the coming destruction of the temple, I am warning you about the coming destruction of the Son of Man For if you do not understand its coming, you will fall away. And I don't want that to happen. And Jesus said, you understand that's why I rode into Jerusalem on Sunday. So that they would kill me on Friday You understand that's why I went into the temple and cleared it out on Monday, so that they would kill me on Friday. You understand that's why I went toe-to-toe with them today, so that they would kill me on Friday. This is how it's got to be. This has always been my path on this earth. And it must come to completion. And then Matthew gives us a little insight. Verses 3 and 4. You see the chief priests and the elders of the people They had gathered in the palace of the high priest, his name was Caiaphas, and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. They were no longer worried about his popular support. They're going to fail. So that closes the Tuesday. The sermon series is supposed to be two days at a time and you're thinking, oh my goodness, we're only through Tuesday. We know very little about Wednesday. We don't really know what happened all that day. But a Wednesday evening they gathered for dinner. And we heard in our New Testament reading earlier what happened. During dinner, on that quiet Wednesday, A woman takes an expensive bottle of perfume, to give you some sense of what I mean by expensive, roughly $80,000 in today's dollars. Takes this expensive bottle of perfume. And maybe she was trying to be discreet, but it doesn't matter. Once she opened it, the fragrance filled the whole room and everybody turned. And all eyes are on her. And she pours that perfume on Jesus. She got it. She understood. You see, that kind of expensive aromatic perfume only had two primary purposes in that culture. One was her ceremonial anointing. And she has just anointed the anointed one. That's what Christ means. He's the anointed of God, he's the Messiah. And while many had come to understand that and in their hearts recognized him as the anointed one, she visibly, outwardly, physically anoints him. Saying, I know you're the Messiah. The other use of that perfume, the other principal use of that perfume was to spare your loved ones from the humility of their rotting corpses smelling that. And so you buried your loved ones with this perfume. And she's putting it on Jesus. And she says, I get it, you're about to die. And I don't know if I'm going to have access to your body between now and then. And she makes a small effort to this to spare him one humiliation and death. At least you won't stink And she loves him in that way. And it's a reminder to us. Do we see Jesus as the anointed of God? The Christ, the one who would die two days hence? The one who would close himself on the outside of the hatch, who would be the protection for all of us who would climb into that submarine by faith He's the one who purposefully, intentionally, at his own provocation, went to his death to give his perfect life as a ransom for ours. Who will by faith accept it? Let's pray. Lord, we are overwhelmed by all that you did on this day, all that you taught, and to see it in this At one time in this big picture, and to understand how it all was woven together by you to be this consistent message. You warning us to remain faithful. You're warning to us that there's a judgment coming. You're teaching us that you went to your death on our behalf. But you were the Christ, the anointed one, the Son of Man, who must be given over to death. Help us to see it anew. Help us to be motivated in deeper, greater, richer faith because of what we have heard today. Help us to share it with others As we look back on your prophecy of the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem, we recognize the affirmation of your knowledge of the future. And so when that, in the in the fulfillment of that short-term prophecy, we have every confidence that you will fulfill your other prophecy. That you are coming back. But you will make everything right. And those who have persevered to the end will get to hear you say, Well done, good and faithful servant.