Well good morning. I think I'm running a tad late this morning. The glare blocked the view there. Sorry about that. Let's uh As we prepare to enter into worship, let's consider a few announcements before we do so. After worship today, we've got our congregational meeting and And everyone who attends here regularly is invited to be a part of that. There's some neat uh uh information that will be coming out that we want you to hear and be a part of and and and be connected to that. So please inv We plan to stay. There will be no Sunday school. All of us will be together for that congregational meeting. Saturday, our women are gathering here at the church, right? Somebody is that yes, here at the church. Uh uh uh they've got their Christmas craft and gifts gifts I don't know. I don't know what women do at their women's meetings. They got their thing here at the church on Saturday, so the details are there in the bulletin. There is in the corner of the uh the Narthax a uh a sign up table for that and there's also uh an envelope there if uh to help offset some of the costs. So if you'd please attend to that today, ladies, that would be appreciated. Next Sunday, the youth uh will be staying after Sunday school and putting together some uh some packages uh just to give to the the first responders in our community police fire and ambulance responders as a thank you from our church. And so if you're one of the youth families, please be aware of that. If you're not sure what you're supposed to be preparing or bringing, you can talk to uh Tiffany Rhea and she'll get you organized on We've got other things. We've got small groups happening this week and other ministries, and those details are there in the bulletin. I encourage you to take a look at those and be a part of them as you're able to do so. Now we encourage you to listen to the word uh the prelude. Use this as an opportunity to clear your hearts and minds and to prepare to enter into God's presence in worship. Let's stand and open our bulletins together, turn into page three and prepare to read responsibly from Psalm 89. Hear now the word of our God from Psalm 89. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. Christ said, and that's love will be built up forever. In the heavens you will establish your faithfulness. You have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant. I will establish your offspring forever and forever. Let the heavens praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness in the assembly of the Holy Ones. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord? A God greatly to be feared in the council of the Holy Ones and awesome above all who are around him. Let's pray. Lord, you promised, you swore a covenant to David, as we saw in this psalm. That there would always be one who ruled on his throne over your people for all of eternity. And we recognize that it was at the first Christmas. That the reality of that fulfillment of that covenant became visible to our eyes. When the baby came, who would become King of Kings. And Lord of Lords, who would ascend to the heavenly throne, who will one day descend to an earthly throne, and who will reign for all of eternity as David. David's air. As we come to you this morning, as we come to you during this Advent season, Lord, we ask that that truth would be driven home to you And in light of it, we would worship you this morning. Enjoy with enthusiasm, with the praise due your name. We pray this in and because of Jesus. Jesus of Nazareth. Amen Why does that five people praise Amen. Let's confess our sins together, praying the prayer found there on page five. Holy Spirit, forgive us for not believing that you can build up the church today just as you did in the days of Saul and Peter. Replace our unbelief with confidence and our timidity with fearlessness, so that we will proclaim with clarity and regularity that Jesus is the Son of God. In His name we pray. Amen Our assurance of grace comes from Romans 8, verse 1, where we read these wonderful words. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. What a wonderful reason to continue in worship. Our Old Testament reading this morning is Genesis 15, 1 through 6. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram. I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I can And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my house Household will be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him: this man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars if you are able to number them. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. Good morning. Obviously, I'm not Bill Webb. Bill uh unfortunately has lost sight in one of his eyes and um he is under doctor's care and we ask both for your prayer your prayers for both Bill and So that he may be healed and be back among us very soon. That being said Our New Testament reading comes to us from Matthew, the 16th chapter, verses 13 through 20. Now when Jesus came into this into the district of Caesarea Philippi, He asked his disciples, who do people say the Son of Man is? And they said, some say John the Baptist. say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, for flesh Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's stand and continue in worship by singing together, God rest, ye merry gentlemen, pages six and seven. God rest in the rich and top and that nothing you display Remember Christ our Savior was for my Christmas day. More hold from trade and for when we were gone astray, for joining the comfortable joy Company so From the Oran we Black Blast the Angel King And whose urban shape findings are the same Al Body was born a called by name. Oh joinings of comfortable joy, cover and joy, O signings of combo and joy. Feel not concerned angel as nothing to over This day is one of the same bright, to bring all those trusted him from Satan's power and white. All joys of comfortable joy, comfortable enjoy, all joinings of comfortable. Those are perfect And left the water feeling in tempest on the wind, and went to bed for straightway on some of them too. Succeeded. Join me in prayer this morning as we go before the Lord for our congregational prayer. Almighty God and King, Father, we thank you for calling us here to worship you on another Sabbath day. We thank you for the rest these days are to our bodies. to our minds, to our souls as we rest in the work you have done and look forward to the promises you have yet to fulfill. Lord, I pray that during this Christmas season, as we look back on promises fulfilled in Scripture, and we see the wonder of prophecy From thousands of years ago being fulfilled in the birth of Christ. Lord, I pray that that would give us encouragement to look forward and to live in the fullness of the promises that you have granted for Times yet to come. And Lord, that in that confidence we would be faithful in ministering to this world and spreading the truth of the gospel and proclaiming the truth of what Why we celebrate Christmas and what Christ has done for us and promises to do for all who repent and put their faith in Him. Lord, I pray for uh our church. Lord, we thank you for the blessing of the church and Lord the promises that you have given that there is nothing on earth that can stand against your church. And Lord, we though we may face trials and difficulties from within and without, Lord, I pray that we would live in the strength of your promises that you uh will keep your church and Lord that you will your church will prevail and be victorious and one day be raised to reign with you. And Lord I pray that In that strength, we would be faithful in ministering together with one another, lifting one another up in prayer and supporting one another. And Lord, that we would be A witness to the community around us. And Lord, that our lives would be markedly different. And Lord, we'd be a witness to Easton and the many other communities That you've placed us in. Father, I pray for some of our members who can't be here today. I think of Bill Webb and the problem he has with the sight in his eye. Lord, I pray for wisdom. for the doctors and for healing for Bill and and for strength for Betty as she cares for him. Father, I also pray for Dave Seymour as he He continues to be under care at Houghton Hospice. Continue to give him peace and uh comfort and uh that he might remain strong Strong in your promises and remain strong in his faith through these trials. There are many other prayer requests for health concerns. Father, I pray most of all for the spiritual health of those who are going through difficult times, whether it be with health or financial problems. Or whatever it is that we struggle with in this fallen world. Lord, I pray that these trials would not overwhelm us, but would grow us in our faith. Grow us in our love and devotion to you. And Lord, that they would perfect us for the life that is to come. Father, we thank you for your great promises. Thank you that we have a God who is faithful. Lord, that you never fail, and that you Never leave us or forsake us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's continue worshiping now with our tithes and offerings. Father, we thank you for these tithes and offerings. To glorify your name. Lord, make us faithful in the use of them. Father, make us faithful in the use of the many blessings that you give us for your glory. And for the furtherance of your kingdom. We continue our sermon series in the book of Acts, the record of the early church and the work of Jesus after his ascension. And curio uh invite you to turn to Acts nine. We'll pick up in uh verse nineteen, uh kind of the middle of the verse nineteen, the second half of it there, and we'll read through the end of Acts nine in a moment. If you've been here for any length of time, you have probably heard me, whether it be in a sermon or a Sunday school class, occasionally take issue with some of the human aids that have been put in place to help us with the Bible. paragraph headings or chapter divisions or verse divisions. And this morning, uh, as we approach this text, I was originally going to break this into two different sermons. And I was bewildered and baffled by the the chapter break. For you're going to see in the middle of our text this morning that we're going to jump from Saul Who became known as the Apostle Paul. We're going to jump to Peter and his actions. And I thought, well, chapter ten is all about Peter. Why wasn't the second half of this just put in there with chapter ten? The more I wrestled with it, the more I prayed over it, the more I read what others had to say about the passage, I came to understand that Luke was not focused on the human activity, but rather the divine activity. And the person who came along some 1500 years after Luke and put the chapter markings in place recognized. And so as we read through this passage, see if you can't find the unifying theme that holds together these verses and the the description, brief descriptions of the ministries of these two important apostles. Here now the Word of our God starting in Psalm Psalm. Sorry, starting in Acts 9, verse 19. For some days he, Saul, was with the disciples at Damascus, and immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, He is the Son of God. And all who heard him were amazed and said, Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priest? But Saul increased all the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus was the Christ. When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him, but his disciples took him by by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples, and they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord who spoke to him. And how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus. So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists But they were seeking to kill him. And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. Now, as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda. There he found a man named uh Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed. And Jesus said to him, I'm sorry, and Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Rise and make your bed. And immediately he rose. And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, which translated means means gazelle in English, Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of charity. In those days she became ill and died. And when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, Please come to us without delay. So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived they took him to the upper room. All the widows stood beside him, weeping, and showing their tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them. But Peter put them all outside and knelt down and prayed. Turning to the body, he said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up, and he gave her his hand, and raised her up. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. And he became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord, and he stayed in Japha for many days with one Simon, a tanner. Let's pray. Lord, open to us the meaning of this passage. Let us see the divine hand at work then, and let us believe that that same hand is at work in us. Today. Lord, convict us where we need to be corrected. Encourage us where we need to be strengthened. But most of all, speak to us and make your presence known known among us. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We are at that time of year where for a sports fan a lot of exciting things are happening. Yesterday was a big day in the world of college football. Uh the NFL, the season's winding down and it's getting to be see who's gonna make the playoffs and who isn't. College basketball has started up and the NBA, but I don't know. I just I don't get on board of the NBA. But the rest of it I'm really enjoying a lot of what's going on. And one of the things that you hear, and even if you're not a sports fan, you're going to understand this. One of the things that you hear a lot in football be these days is something called the importance of playing complementary football. Complimentary football. Now, that doesn't mean you go out there and say nice things about the opponent's uniform. Oh, what a lovely shade of purple you Ravens are wearing today. That's not what that's about. Complimentary football means that your team, the two halves of your team, the offense and the defense, play in such a way as to help each other out. That the defense complements the offense. And the offense complements or complete or fills in the holes of the defense. So that the offense stays on the field longer to give the defense a rest. The defense makes timely stops of the other team and has takeaways to get the offense back out there. That the team plays in such a way that the two halves complement each other. And that in complementing each other, the team as a whole is more successful. If you take a look at the outline that's in the bulletin there on page 10, you'll see that I have broken it down along the lines of offense and defense. Offense and defense. Trying to move the ball down the field on offense, trying to stop others from advancing on defense. And as we look at this passage, I want us to see the different ways this plays out here. First of all, I want us to begin by looking at the role of the different human players. in this passage and how they're at work. What are they doing? I want us to focus first on uh uh uh Call him the Apostle Paul, but in this passage he's still known as Saul. Want us to focus first on Saul and see how he is on the offense, how he has become one who is working diligently, working feverishly and fearlessly to promote the gospel, to advance the church, to move the ball down the field. The first thing we see there in verses 19 through 22 is just very simply that he turned his whole life was turned 180 degrees around. He originally was going to go into the synagogues, you'll recall from last week, he was originally going to go into the synagogues and find those who believed in Jesus of Nazareth and drag them out and take them back to Jerusalem And now he goes storming into the synagogues and he's proclaiming Jesus of Nazareth. He's now on the offensive. He is now uh uh trying to spread the word and advance the cause of Christianity. Christianity. Now you've got to imagine that the people in those synagogues were more than a little confused. The Jews who opposed Jesus had to be scratching their heads saying, I thought this guy was coming to help us. And those Jews who had believed Jesus and accepted him as the Messiah, they had to be, you know, they are the ones who probably stayed home that Saturday and said, well, I'm not going there if Saul's going to be there. I know he's here to arrest us. And they're at home hearing w rumors are getting around town and words getting out that what? He was he was advancing our cause? He was arguing on our behalf? How is it that this man could be Doing that. We saw last week that it's a function of conversion, a complete reorientation of your life toward the Lord. And he goes on the offensive in Damascus. We then see that he moves to Jerusalem and he takes up the offensive approach in Jerusalem. In verses 28 and 29, we see a description there. So he went in and out among them, among the the the believers in Jerusalem. preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. And he spoke and disputed the Hellenists, but they were seeking to kill him. If you recall from a couple of weeks ago, these Hellenists, this is the same group in Jerusalem that Stephen was dis with whom Stephen was disputing. This is the same group that went toe-to-toe with him. And that dragged him to the Sanhedrin and ultimately led to his death. And now Saul is willing to take them on and go on the offensive. The church needs those who can go on the offensive, who can proclaim boldly what needs to be proclaimed, who can say what needs to be said Who can speak the truth into a dark and dying world? Who can declare that Jesus is the Son of God? Did you catch that? That's Saul's message here. You know, it's really, when Luke boils it down, it's really interesting there in verse 20, and he immediately proclaimed Jesus in the synagogue, saying, He is the Son of God. Now, if you're familiar with the rest of the New Testament, if you're familiar with Paul as the one who writes elegant arguments. and writes sophisticated descriptions of theology when he later, especially like in the book of Romans, where he unfolds so many wonderful doctrines You might have expected this to be some kind of advanced doctrinal class, you know, a 400-level theology class. But at this point, he is still a new convert, and he gets that there is one key message that must be driven home. Jesus is the Son of God. For everything else falls in place if that message is delivered. All the rest of it Do we worship? Do we obey? Do we how do we obey all the if he is God, then of course you worship. If he is God, of course you obey. If he is God, of course you tend to his word and try to figure out what he wants. And the need for the doctrine and the theology will flow naturally out of that simple truth. Jesus is the Son of God. And I point that out because I think many of us are timid about going on the offensive Side of the ball. When it comes to proclaiming and advancing the work of the gospel, we are unsure how to do it. But there's a model for you that is an easy one to follow. Just declare Jesus to be God. You say, well I don't I don't know how else what else am I gonna do. I don't know how somebody asked me this deep theological question, I'm not sure I know how to answer it. That's okay declare Jesus to be God. And what are all of the other things that will naturally flow out of that? They'll take care of themselves. My dear co-worker, that's a great question. And I'll try to find an answer for you. But here's the point. You really that that's kind of skirting the issue. You need to accept that Jesus is God. That's where it needs to begin. Once you have that, all the rest of it can and will be worked out. The offensive play, the message to deliver, is that Jesus is God. And you say, well, Pastor, won't that get old? Won't I get tired of declaring that same truth over and over and over again? Well, so we're going to continue with the football analogy is where we started. We might as well keep going with it. My brother was a high school football coach for a while, and he tells the story of a particular game Where the other team kept marching down the field and they ran the same play every single time. Why? Because his team couldn't stop it. They couldn't do anything about it. Why get more clever and run some other play when this one works? And it works over and oh my brother said it was frustrating as the coach of the other team because we couldn't stop that one play. Satan and all the forces of darkness cannot stop this one play This simple truth, that Jesus is the Son of God. He is the one who is the inheritor of all that is God's. He has all the qualities and properties of God. You know, the Shaw boys, when we go anywhere in public, nobody has a hard time believing we're related to each other. Me, my dad, my brother, we all kind of look alike. We walk in somewhere and somebody goes, oh yeah, I I see it, yeah, uh-huh. To the point where I was with my parents a couple of weeks ago. I'm taking my dad's ID and my dad's credit card and I'm running around town buying stuff They all know I'm not my dad. They're all it's a small town. They're all going, yeah, you're clearly Ron's son. I have no problem, you know. Boom, here, take stuff, you know. I'm charging stuff on my parents' account in the local hardware store, nobody's even questioning it So clearly, that's the point of him being the son of God. He bears all the image of God, all the qualities of God. He is God When we declare that, that's a message that cannot be stopped. It's a play the uh the other team cannot defend. And it is one that will produce wonderful results. We see Paul declaring the same thing when he gets to Jerusalem. We see also in the passage woven in here, people playing defense, those who are protecting the church, those who are trying to stop the opponents of the church. In 23 through 27, we see uh uh this group of people who are protecting Saul. When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, but their plot became known to Saul They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him, but his disciples took him by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples, and they were afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas Took him and brought him in to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus. We see in these verses that there are some, there's Paul, Saul on the offensive, but there are others playing defense. There are other those others who are playing a key role in protecting. the apostle and protecting the the the nascent church and protecting its development and they're playing defense you say well I can't preach like Paul that's okay Paul needed those who would protect him, those who had his back, those who made sure that he was okay. Can you imagine what the church today might look like had there not been these unnamed people who hit him and protected him and slipped him out of town? Quietly and got him away from the threat. We'd be missing a huge chunk of our New Testament. We'd be missing our of some wonderful statements about the truth of our God and the grace offered in Jesus Christ. They played key roles in the church. Protecting her, defending her. You say, well, how do I play defense? Well, simple things sometimes. is mocking the church, do you stand up for her? It's easy. Well you want to get a laugh in almost any setting. Make fun of a sermon Make fun of the church. It'll get you a laugh almost every time. Do you defend the church? When your coworker says, well, I don't go anymore, I just couldn't, you know, I wasn't getting anything out of that church, do you defend the church? Do you gently come alongside the co-worker and say You weren't getting anything out of it. God wasn't speaking to you through his word in that church? Well, yeah, the pastor preached the word of God. So you weren't getting anything out of God speaking to you? You need to go back. You need to go back to your church. You need to hear God speak to you. If he is really God, then he's really worth listening to. You say you believe in God, but you don't go to your church anymore? We need to defend the church. We need to defend those who teach and preach and speak the Word of God. We need to be like these who protected Paul. We see there in verses 30 and 31 that they get him out of Jerusalem, and when the brothers learned of the new plot, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus, his hometown. He gets out of town and goes off. He's protected again. We see later down in the passage where there is a defense of verses 36 and 39. Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha. Which translated means Dorca. She was full of good works and acts of charity. In the by the way, boy, that's something we should all want on our tombstones. What a great sentence right there. She was full of good works and acts of charity. What a wonderful thing to have said. In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. Oh, keep reading, sorry. Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, Please come to us without delay. So Peter rose and went with them, and when he arrived, they took him All the widows stood beside him, weeping and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them. What a scene! What a scene. Peter arrives. He's called down there to heal this woman, to raise her. That's why they're calling him. It's clearly what they're hoping for. And they're saying this woman was so key to our body here, so key to who we were as this little church in this small town. Look at what she did for us. And they stand there and saying, I wouldn't have this tunic, I wouldn't have this coat had Dorcas not provided it. I wouldn't have the scarf to keep out the cold had Dorcas not made it for me. She cared so much about her brothers and sisters. In the Lord. Dorcas was actively defending the others in her church. She had given her life, at least the last portion of it when she became a believer, to protecting and caring. caring for those in her church, defending them. And as a result, the church was built up. The church was strengthened Many in that in that flock now care deeply about her. And they want the church to be strengthened, and they call on Peter to come in. We see in this passage those who go on the offensive, Saul preaching boldly, declaring that Jesus is the Son of God. We see those on the defensive, those protecting him in Damascus, those protecting him in Jerusalem, the uh people like Dorcas, uh um Tabitha, whichever name you you want to use there, uh uh defending the brothers and sisters in the Lord. We see a description of a church working in harmony, working together. Some playing this role, others playing that role The question for us is: are you playing a role? I gift that you may not be comfortable standing here Delivering a sermon. And that probably is not your calling. But you have a calling. You have a role to play. You have a place. And you need to fulfill it. What is it? Search yourself. What can I be doing? What should I be doing? Either to offensively help advance the cause of my church, and of the gospel that it proclaims, and of the Lord whom it serves Or what could I be doing, or should I be doing, or perhaps am I doing, to defend her, to defend the Lord and his word. Interesting pivotal verse there in the center of the passage, verse 31. So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace. and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. Walking in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Holy Spirit. What an amazing sentence. It seems almost oxymoronic. How can they be both afraid of God and comforted by God? Walking in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Holy Spirit. But I think really what's going on here is Luke is summarizing this, it's two different things at play here. When it comes to the question of fear, they are more afraid of God's judgment about them, not condemnation. We saw in Romans 8:1, there is no condemnation. They're not worried about being condemned, but they are worried about God's judgment of them, his assessment of them, his opinion of them. They are more afraid of what God might have to say about them than they are of what the world has to say about them. And so they walk in the fear of the Lord, not in the fear of the world's opinion. But they walk in the fear of the Lord and the assurance and comfort that comes from being his. So their fear is one that is a fear of God's assessment of them, but not a fear that He's going to condemn them. For that, on that side of the issue, they have come. They have the assurance of the Holy Spirit that they will not be condemned. Then also woven through this passage, we see the church being built up by the work of people on the offensive side of things, work of people who are defending the church But we also see in this passage the work of God and the church being built up by God's work, both on the offense and the defense. Look at verse 32. Look how God goes on the offense here. Now as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lida. There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed. And Peter said to him, uh I think Aeneas, I'm sorry I mispronounced him Peter said to him in Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you, rise and make your bed. And immediately he rose. Now let me first get one thing out of the way here. Clearly, Aeneas is a man between the ages of 15 and 19. We know that for a fact, because he's told to get up and make his bed and it only affirms that he got up. Getting a teenage boy to make his bed is beyond even the power of the Apostle Peter, apparently. This young man is crippled. We actually don't know how old he is. This man is crippled. And the Lord sends Peter there, and Peter heals him. And we have seen by now that the miracles, the signs and wonders, the works of power That are part of the book of Acts are always to a point, to an end. They are never the end and of themselves. They are never the thing to be looked at, but rather they're the thing that points us to what we ought to be looking at. And we see that here. Look at the next verse. And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him. And they were amazed at Peter, and they were amazed at him, and they turned to the Lord. God goes on the offensive here. God is now following up what has been happening in Damascus and Jerusalem with the work of Saul. God now sends Peter into the outer edges of Judea. It's almost as if Saul's presence in Jerusalem and his work there has freed Peter to go out and begin working in the perimeter regions. And God says, now let me bring to you the wonders I did in Jerusalem. And he works a miracle that causes people to to believe. He shows his power and it causes them to come to faith. We see the same thing being said of Dorcas Down there at the bottom, verse 42, and it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. God's powerful work. Is the ultimate offensive weapon. It is the thing which will always advance the church. God's wonders, God's power, God's sovereign control over all things. is always what will push us down the road. It is always what will make the difference. It's what we see being proclaimed here. The work went forward because God declared that he wanted it. to go forward. And he affirmed those who were his representatives. Many of us wish that we still had the miraculous powers that the apostles had. And we say, wouldn't our work be easier if we had it? And I suppose in some sense it might be easier. But this was a work given to the apostles. And in fact, when uh Jesus sent the twelve out while he was still uh uh physically uh present on the earth It says that he gave them power to do miracles. The implication is he gave it to them. There were many other followers he had, but these twelve possessed that power. So what we have here is not something that we ought to be hoping for the miracle, but we ought to be praying for the same work to be among us. Not the sign, not the outward wonder, but the conversion of the hearts and minds. For one of the things that's not said here, then we must be reminded, is that many saw this. Same miraculous sign, and did not believe. They didn't come to the Lord. They were not converted. Miracles are not the end-all and be-all of evangelism And in fact, what we see here is that Saul sets out with the message that Jesus is the Son of God. That that's the most effective offensive weapon. In our New Testament reading, we saw that Peter is asked. Who do you say that I am? Jesus says to him, Who do you say that I am? Peter said, Well, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Same message that Paul has here. You are the Son of God. Same exact conclusion. And what does Jesus say? It is on that rock, on the confession that you have made. That I will build my church. And we see that right here in Acts 9. That the church is being built up on the upon the confession that Jesus is the Son of God. of God. It's those who see the miracles, those who don't see the miracles. It doesn't matter. It's that they come and make that profession. Finally, I close my outline by saying that God is on the defensive in this passage also. That the church is built up when God defends her, when God protects her, and you may be looking at it going, where do you see that pastor? And I will point out what comes next. It's easy if we isolate this passage from what comes next to miss what is going on here. It's an interesting thing in this passage that Saul and Peter are sent in contrast to each other. Saul comes across right now as a a little bit uh almost, I don't know if helpless is the right word, but definitely in need of help. Others are jumping in to protect him and help him. And Peter is presented here as the one who has got the power to do miracles and the power to advance the cause of the gospel. Why are these two presented together? Why did the divider of the chapters leave these two things together in one chapter? It's because of what comes next. You see, in chapter 10 and following, the gospel message is going to leave the confines of Judaism. And it's going to begin to reach out to Gentiles. Initially God-fearing Gentiles, but eventually pagans and heathens are going to come. And confess that Jesus is the Son of God. And controversy is going to break out. And many who believe that Jesus is the Messiah are going to struggle with the idea that those Who didn't grow up like them, who didn't come up in the same synagogues that they came up in, who didn't grow up in the same youth groups that they were a part of. There's going to be some controversy about whether or not those newbies, those Johnny cum latelis, really are a part of the body. And in giving Peter these miraculous signs, and in putting them in this place right here, we are Are reminded that He is God's man. He is validated by the Holy Spirit We saw some weeks ago in Sunday school that throughout history miracles have occurred in times and places when God reveals Himself in a special and new way. And here we have God revealing himself in a special and new way. My message is now for more than just the biological descendants of Abraham. The stars that Abraham saw were all those who were of the faith of Abraham, not all those who were biologically descended from Abraham. And the message is now going to go forward to a much wider audience, and many are going to struggle with that. What would that look like in our world today? I can remember one of the men at my church, the church I grew up in, we had a uh uh uh a men and boys, I don't know a m luncheon type event and I was I don't know, I was probably ten or twelve years old at the time. And I was sitting there and he was giving a report about how he'd been working down at the the local uh uh rescue mission And that there was a man down there who had come to the Lord very recently, a very rough life. Come to the Lord recently. but showed all the outward signs of an authentic, genuine conversion, was desiring to grow in his knowledge of the Lord And at one of the rescue meeting meet um rescue mission meetings, asked to pray. And this new convert having no background in the church didn't know that there were certain things you don't say in a prayer. And in the midst of his prayer, didn't know how to express his frustration. And he said, Lord, in the midst of what's going on, we just don't know what the hell to do. Probably not the right way to express your your consternation, and yet It's because he didn't have the training. He didn't have the background. He didn't come out of the Sunday school that I came out of. So what do you do in that situation? Do you scold the brother? Do you kick him out? Or do you come and guide him? and and and invite him to come along and teach him and instruct him. And that's the message here. The gospel is about to go forward in a new way. And there's going to be some who are upset about that But Saul, the apostle to the Gentiles, eventually, and Peter, right here, are being presented as the ones who were the backbone of On earth of this. God is defending his spokesmen right now. God is giving them the power of miracles so that we will believe their message. to what they have to say. So that in the next couple of chapters, when they render verdicts on how the church ought to behave toward outsiders. That we today will listen to those verdicts. We will figure out how to take that and apply it to our situation. It's very different than first century Jerusalem. But nevertheless, we must figure out how to apply it. Because God says, these are my men. These are the ones who are carrying my message They're the ones upon whom I have granted authority and I validate their message. And you must listen to them. God is defending his church to equip us. God goes on the offensive here to equip us to go on the offensive so that we will believe He can work this same power, so that we will believe that He can take this same message forward. So that we will believe that when we declare that Jesus is the Son of God, that his will his chosen ones, those whom he has called, will come to faith. Let us be a people who s share that word, who declare that message, who push that ball down the field faithfully. Let us be a people who defend the church, whether it be this particular church or the church in general, who defend her. In our workplaces, in our families, in our own mind, with our own speech. Let's be a people who rest in the fact that the Lord will accomplish his purposes. when we walk faithfully with him. Let's pray. God, let us hear this message and be encouraged by it. That you marked out your people, you marked out men like Saul and Peter to give us your message. You marked them with signs and wonders, and you worked conversion through them. Let us, as we hear them speak through their sermons in the coming pages of Acts, as we hear them speak to us through their epistles Let us submit to their leadership, because it is your leadership. Let us see you as the one who defends us. protects us, guards us, but also the one who has given us the message to go on the offensive. That Jesus is the Son of God. Because he is the Son of God, he is worthy of worship. He is worthy of our obedience. He is worthy of our belief and trust. We pray this in his name. Amen. We're gonna stand together and sing uh from page nine, Go Tell It on the Mountain. Twas a little team was I land bloss my night The whole should Jesus Christ is one Sunshore the angel chorus that Over the hills and everywhere, go tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is hold The manager, how humble Christ was born. And God sent us salvation, and bless the grace was for Co turn it on the mountain over here Go turn it on the mountain, and Jesus Christ is Invite all of you to stay for the congregational meeting. It'll be a wonderful time of fellowship and also some really exciting news that we would want you to be to hear and to be a part of. Receive now the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. And all of God's people said, Amen.