Open your Bibles to Acts chapter six, Acts Chapter Six, we've been Going this fall, we've been going through the book of Acts, Luke's account of the workings of the early church. And we come this week to Acts six, an important uh uh uh uh event in the life of the church, part something that resonates even down to the church today as we consider the role of deacons more closely in our Sunday school class this morning. Before we uh uh uh Go any further, I want to remind us that here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. But if you want to know how to conduct the business of the church, if you want to know about controversies and difficulties and problems in the church, then you must know the Word of Almighty God. And so I invite us now to hear Him speak through Acts 6. We'll be looking at verses 1 through 7 this morning. Now in these days, when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint by the Hellenist arose against the Hebrews, because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute. full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus, and Nicanor and Timon, and Permanius and Nicholas, a proselytite of Antioch. These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them. And the word of God continued to increase And the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. God has just been said, this is your word. For us to gain from it, we need you. We need you to interpret it rightly. Through my lips. We need you to put it to work in our hearts and minds. We need you to convict us of sin where we are guilty. to convince us of brotherly love for the sake of your church, and to show us how to get through difficult times in the body of Christ. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So there is a man. He is stranded. He is shipwrecked. He's been shipwrecked for a very long time by himself. on a remote island. And one day he looks up and he sees a ship. And he's able to get the ship's attention, and they send a crew in a small boat up to the shore. He's rescued. And with great excitement and great joy, he packs up the two or three things that he's acquired while on the island that he doesn't really feel like he can leave behind. He jumps in the small boat and they begin to make their way back to the ship And on the boat, as they're awaiting getting back to the ship, as they pull away from the island and look back on it, the crew that has rescued him notices three buildings. And they ask him about that. Why do you have three structures on the island? And he says, well the the the the the the little hut down on the beach, that's my home. That's where I lived, slept, ate my meals, etc. And they said, okay, we get that, but but up on the hill there are two structures. What's that all about? He said, well that one there, that's my church Every Sunday I would go up there and I would recite the b Bible passages that I could remember and I would pray and I would sing the songs that I could recall and I even made up a few of my own. And they said, okay, we get that you have a home and you have a church, but what's the other building on the hill? He said, Well, that's my old church. I just couldn't go there anymore. It is the nature of the church to have controversy and problems and difficulty. It is the nature of the church to have controversies and problems and difficulties And that is a statement that unnerves some people. There are some of us who are uncomfortable with that. We think the church should be perfect. It should be a little slice of heaven on earth. And to be sure it should be, but it never will be until the new Jerusalem is on the earth. It is the nature of the church to have controversy and problems and difficulty And as a consequence of this, I have known some men who could not continue to serve as elders because they could not stomach the ugly side of the church. I have known people who leave the church because of its ugly underbelly. And of course, there are those people who just deny that the church has an ugly side. But it is the nature of the church. to have controversy and difficulty and problems. Why? Why is that so? And in fact, in some ways more so than many of the other human institutions of which we are a part I would put forward to you that the church is more inclined to controversy and difficulty in problems than your place of employment. For reasons inherent to the church, because of who she is. For starters, we are a body of sinners. Redeemed sinners, to be sure, but sinners nevertheless. You say, well, so is my place of employment. Yes, but in your place of employment, when one person's sin becomes problematic, they can be fired. They can be let go. They can be told in an authoritative and authoritarian way to knock it off There is a measure of grace that permeates the church, that forces us to live with these difficulties. That forces us to put up with the controversies and the problems. We have a grace that comes with being a family that does not come with being a workplace. And our leader is absent. The one who has the authority to dictate is not with us for a time. And so we have these problems. I'm aware of a lot of businesses that choose never to go public, that remain privately owned businesses precisely so they can retain control. And it gives them the freedom to not have to deal with certain controversies. The family that owns it can decide what's going to happen. Others might have their opinions, but their opinions don't have to be heard. And there is no controversy. Not so the church. We, by our very nature, have a measure of tolerance and grace that causes And invites, and actually even to some degree fosters, certain amount of controversy and difficulty and problems. The church also addresses sin in a very direct way that bothers us, offends us, sets on our toes, hurts our pride. And therefore the church will have and is prone to have a certain level of controversy and difficulties and problems. And the church is far more tolerant of mistakes, mistakes that are not sin. In your place of employment, if you are an engineer and you consistently get 2 plus 2 equals 5, that may not be sin, but it is going to be cause for dismissal. Not so in the church. You might make chronic mistakes, which cause problems and difficulties and even controversy in the church. But because it is not sin There is a grace that permeates us. And so we live with it and we welcome you despite it. The church, by its very nature, is prone to controversy and difficulty and problems. And in the end We deal with things in a way that worldly institutions do not For what controversy is there in deciding to add pink to your line of widgets? We make blue widgets and yellow widgets and green widgets, let's add pink widgets. What controversy is there in that? There might be a little bit of debate for a time. But it's not something that is personal, close to home, cuts to the heart. But in the church, when you began to address My failings, my family, my eternal destiny. It stirs up personal passion that creates some of our difficulty. It is the nature of the church to have controversy and difficulty and problems. So what do we do? Are we like the man on the island? Do we leave the church and go seek out a better one? He could not live in a church of one person. Because of the problems in that church, we would be no different. We would be no different. So, do we look for a new church? You have to ask yourself some key questions. Is my problem at the church? Is it one of moral conviction? Is the church doing things that violate my moral conscience and are gonna make me do those things or I have to be at least complicit in them. If that's the case, probably eventually you're going to have to leave the church, that church. Well, you cannot live in sin. You've died to sin, how can you live in it any longer? But if the problem, if your challenge and your difficulty at the church is doctrinal, Probably not going to have to leave that church. That's a strange thing for a Presbyterian minister to say. We are known for our love of doctrine. Many of the other denominations, we mock them for certain things. When they mock us, they mock us for our focus on doctrine. And here I am saying that you don't leave over doctrine. Well, there might be some doctrines Those that strike at the fundamentals of the faith, I think maybe would be legitimate reasons to move on. If the church you're a part of does not believe in the inerrancy of Scripture That's going to lead to bigger problems and you probably have to move on. If the deity of Christ is in question, you've probably got to move on. If there is a uh d denying the substitutionary atonement of Christ, you've probably got to move on. If they deny bodily resurrection, you've probably got to move on But apart from certain fundamentals, there are a lot of important doctrines that we need to get right. But I don't know that they rise to the level of breaking covenant vows. I don't know that they rise to the level of spiritual adultery. For once we are inside those boundaries of the inerrancy of Scripture and the deity of Christ and his substitutionary atonement and the the the uh bodily resurrection, we are within the boundaries of Orthodox Christianity. And we are now vowed to that one we call the church. Vowed to her. Not vowed to her so long as I like her. Not vowed to her so long as she pleases me, vowed to her. So that if your problem is with doctrines that are important, But outside of the essential nature of Christianity, I'm not certain that's a valid reason to break your vow and leave the church. For the church is portrayed in the way that our marriage vows are portrayed Our covenant relationship to the church is similar to our covenant relationship to our spouse in many ways. And in fact, in most of our lives. We have only ever twice taken public vows of commitment. It was on the day we got married and the day we became a member of the church So do we leave over those things? I would say no, we really don't. And for every other issue, I think it's a pretty simple answer. I don't particularly find the pastor's sermons interesting. So what? Your spouse doesn't find all your conversations interesting. That's not a reason to break the vow. I don't like the music. Yeah, you can't sing a tune in the shower either What do we do? Let's look at the church a little differently than the man on the island looked at her. Let's take another tact. The early church fathers, many of them, were fond of speaking of the church as our spiritual mother. Fond of saying things along these lines. The one who has God as his or her father must necessarily have the church as his or her mother. And it makes sense. We are born of the church. Even our own doctrinal standards Speak of the fact that there is no ordinary means of salvation apart from the church And if the church is the bride of God, an image portrayed in both the Old and New Testaments, if the Church is the bride of God and God is our father, then it necessarily follows that the church is our mother. So I think a better way to look at it is this, and I didn't come up with this. This is a pastor I listened to many years ago. He said this Your mama may wear an ugly dress, but she's still your mama, and you still love her. Your mama may wear an ugly dress, but she's still your mama, and you still love her. And we've got to think that way about our church. And so if we look at this text and the controversy that breaks out in this text, And it is not the only controversy we're going to see in the book of Acts. Luke, as he writes to Theophilus and tries to convince him and grow him and strengthen him in the church Presents several controversies here in chapter 6, again in chapter 11, again in 15, and again in 18. We're going to see controversy in the early church. And if you're familiar with the rest of the New Testament, you will know that the books of Corinthians and Galatians and James and on and on and on were written because of controversy in the early church. So as we look at this, let's take a look more closely. We'll look first at the nature of the controversy in verse 1. Now, in those days when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected. in the daily distribution. A couple of terms there we need to understand. Hellenist in Hebrews. In this context, I am convinced, along with the vast majority of the students of this passage, I'm convinced that we are not dealing with two different uh uh uh uh uh uh real uh ethnic groups. But rather we're dealing with subdivisions within Jewish believers. The overwhelming evidence is that at this point in the history of the church, she is still largely made of Jews. Jews who have accepted that Jesus of Nazareth is the promised Messiah of the Old Testament, but Jews nevertheless So what we have here in view, the Hellas and the Hebrews are really two different subcategories of Jewish believers. The Hellenists being those who have not returned or had not previously returned from the diaspora. Throughout the history of Judaism, And and many people groups, not just Judaism, but the term diaspora is often re-used to refer specifically to Jews. Throughout the history of Judaism, there have been multiple occasions where Jews have been scattered across the globe. Dispersed, hence the word diaspora. Now many make an effort eventually to come back from that dispersion, from that diaspora, and return to the promised land And those who would cross deserts and oceans and uh distant uh paths in those ancient days, they were taking, they were being brave, they were taking on quite the challenge, and when they returned to the Holy Land, They tended to pat themselves on the back. Look what I did to get back to the motherland. I was not satisfied to live in comfort in the diaspora. I did the hard thing and returned. home to the promised land. They could be a little full of themselves as the Hebrews in this passage. On the flip side, though, when they returned to Jerusalem, they did tend to get more scripture, they did tend to get more teaching, they did tend to become better informed, and they did tend to be better Jews. So that the Hellenists, those who are heavily influenced by the Greek culture, those out in the diaspora, tended not to be as obedient to the law of Moses. And not to be quite as observant. And so the nature of the controversy is largely a religious controversy. It is a spiritual controversy. It is a debate over practice in the early church. Now some have said, some of the commentators I respect have said, well it's just a function of the fact that the church was growing too quickly. You see there in verse 1 it says, Now in those days when the disciples were increasing in number, if it's increasing so fast they couldn't keep up with the distribution of food to the widows. That'd be true if it were if widows on both sides of the aisle were being equally neglected. But that's not what's going on here. What's going on here is the Hebrew widows are getting their portion, and the Hellenic widows are not getting theirs. I don't think this is merely an administrative breakdown. Oh, that's part of it to be sure, but it is not merely that. And as I already said, I don't believe it to be a racial or ethnic breakdown, but rather I think it is a spiritual Disconnect. And I really do think this is the first of what we are going to see multiple times in the book of Acts. That within the early church there was this simmering, ongoing controversy between those who took a stricter view of Judaism and those who did not. In a few chapters, we're going to see Barnabas is sent to deal with a controversy in the Church of Antioch And that controversy comes down to dealing with Hebraic Jews and Hellenic Jews. Same issue we have here. Then in Acts 15, the church is going to gather many of the key pillars, that Paul later refers to, the pillars of the church, going to gather in Jerusalem to decide an issue that comes down to How much do we have to observe Mosaic law, and how much freedom is there to ignore it for Gentile converts? Again, this issue of what we have right here. The Hebraic taking a strong view of the Mosaic law versus the Hellenist taking a weaker view. It is going to be an ongoing issue in the church And here we see it right now. The nature of the controversy really comes down to how do we understand each other? in light of the law of God and our call to be Christians. You know, it's interesting We're going to see in a moment here that there is in one sense those who are really probably right in a lot of ways. Paul certainly is going to go on in some of his letters and later, and he is never going to he is going to advocate for Gentiles to be accepted as Gentiles into the church, but he is never going to argue that Jews should cease to be Jews. And in one sense, the the Hebrew Jews here are on the right side of the issue And they're going to be asked to be the ones who make the accommodation. Which takes us right into the nature of the solution. In verses 2 through 6, we see how it is outlined. And it really comes down to this. The apostles say, Do you really want us to spend time dealing with the color of the carpet in the sanctuary? Is that what you want? One of my pastors early in my adulthood He and I were talking, we were up to breakfast one morning, he said, Scott, he goes, you know one of the sad things about the church? He goes, I think there are Sundays. I could preach any number of heresies I wanted to from the pulpit and nobody would care. But if I proposed changing the hymnal or the color of the carpeting, I'd be fired the next day. Isn't that an amazing thing? And these guys say, really? Food? It's important? I mean, well, come on, on this alert life, what could be more important? It's food and it's widows. Yes, they have to be taken care of. It's of supreme importance. But we're not going to do it. The nature of the solution is to keep the main thing the main thing To stay focused on what is most important. And to come up with a solution that allows those called to the ministry of the Word to stay focused on the ministry of the Word. And they say, go, find yourselves reputable men, those whom you trust. Men who are full of the Spirit, let's not be uncertain about whether or not they're believers. Be convinced of their salvation. Men who are full of wisdom, be convinced that they will handle this controversy rightly, and then bring them back to us. And the solution is interesting. For how does it play out? Who has come to complain? It is the Hellenists who have come to complain Who is charged with going and finding seven men to solve the problem? The Hellenists, the complainers. Who then do they bring forward? Well, these seven names are given here. And there's an interesting observation that's been made for centuries. Every single one of the names on the list is a Greek name, not a Hebraic name in the group. Now we can't make too much of that. It is an argument from silence, and we must always be careful. But the apostles Went so far as to say, we are going to put this completely in your hands. We have wronged you. Every one of the apostles is a Hebraic Jew. We have wronged you and your widows, and we are going to empower you to solve it. And we recognize that this probably means we gotta have some Hellenic men who step up and solve it. There really is a political nature to the solution here. But again, the point of the solution is so that those called to the ministry of the Word can tend to the ministry of the Word. And I might like red carpet a lot, by the way, I love it. But if there was ever a proposal to change it, Could I let it go? So that your elders can stay focused on being elders? I know myself. No, I can't. But I'm supposed to. That's really what this comes down to. The nature of the solution is keep the main thing, the main thing. You know something else often also plays out here. Those who were probably in the right over this divide in the church. The Hebraic Jews, those who were more attentive to the law, who were more careful in its observance There's no indication here that these have gone over to being legalists. There's no indication here or later in the text that they are that they are the Judaizers, although I think the Judaizers would be sympathetic with this group But rather they are those who are seeking faithful obedience to God. And yet what is interesting here Is that they have to make the accommodation. They have to be the ones to let it go. They have to be the ones to suffer some amount of loss in the solution. We are going to see this over and over and over again in the New Testament. For this is the model It is the model set forward by our Savior, who said, I did not come, even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many. So that in Romans 15, Paul writes, We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. In First Corinthians eight, when Paul uh arrites of the controversy over meat sacrificed to idols, he s he g he says basically that you're right to many of you who are w free to eat that meat, you're fine, you're free to eat that meat, you're right. An idol is nothing, it is no God at all. You can eat that meat right up until the point that your weaker brother sees you eating it, and then you've gone wrong. The strong make the accommodation for the weak. The true knowers will always accommodate the non-knowers. The mature in faith are those who accommodate the immature. The strong accommodate the weak. One of the great ironies of settling a dispute in the church is this. The more I argue that I was right in my position, the more I'm wrong in prolonging the controversy. And that's not easy for me or many of us to let go. I can't keep I can't let go of a little thing like a game, you know, where with the youth group, the campsite Friday night, we're playing some games and the score doesn't get it added up quite right. It makes no difference. My place in the hierarchy didn't change. And I can't let it go because it deviates me. Because I want to be right. But to be right with regard to brotherly love and affection in the church, I've got to be willing to let it go. And let the other side have what they need so that we can move forward. The nature of the controversy was one of spiritual debate, and it broke two sides breaking down over a question of how to live out our lives rightly. The nature of the solution was one of accommodation. Letting the main thing stay the main thing, letting the apostles stay focused on their calling to be ministers of the word, and coming up with a solution that would accommodate and make comfortable and make the other side feel good and feel appreciated and feel heard And finally, we need to look at the impact of the solution. Verse 7 is an amazing verse. And because they solved this, because they dealt with the controversy in the church, because the Hellenists were heard and they got the Food their widows needed, because the Hebrews heard them and listened and gave up some of their control, gave up their position of rightness Because of that, verse 7 says, the word of God continued to increase, and the number of disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. And the clear implication of what Luke writes is that if it had not happened, then this would not have happened. Had the controversy gone on, then the Word of God would not have. Had more people been pulled into the dispute in the church, fewer people would have been pulled into the church. And because they were able to let go, because they were willing to figure out a way to work with each other. Then there was an opportunity for gospel growth. It's an interesting statement at the end, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. Luke seems to be drawing our attention to the fact that those who were familiar with the Word of God, those who were familiar with how behavior should exist in the spiritual life of the people of God looked at the Christians and looked at their controversy and said, wow, you guys are different. That's how I'm convinced it's supposed to be right there. And they became part of the church. It is the nature of the church to be steeped in controversy and problems and difficulties. But it ought also to be the nature of the church. To let it go. To live graciously with one another. to take our hands off from control, to give up our demand to be acknowledged as right. So that the gospel can go forward, so that the church can thrive. So that the ministers of the Word can continue to minister the Word. So that the unity that is supposed to be ours really is seen. This is not the last controversy we're going to see in the New Testament church. And if you've got years yet to live, you will see many more controversies in this church and any other you are ever part of. But let's turn back to passages like this. And seek them as guidance to find our way forward. Let's pray. Lord, forgive us for when our pride, our sin, our arrogance gets in the way of humility. Forgive us when we violate uh uh Romans Romans 16 our New Testament reading and we we do see ourselves as wise, wise in our own eyes. And let us instead be like the apostles here, like the uh Hebrew believers here. And let us hear the other side. Let us give them what they need. Let us accommodate them in such a way that there is unity. And the Word of God can go forward. And many, many will come to faith. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.