Please open your Bibles, open your copy of God's Word to Psalm 140, 140th Psalm. Before we read that, and as you're turning there, there are a few comments I want to make about this morning's psalm. If you've been with us this summer, You know, we have been taking a look at various psalms, particularly trying to pick out psalms that are representative of the different subcategories of psalm. So we opened with a wisdom psalm in week one, and then we considered a praise psalm, a hymn in week two. Last week we looked at a lament, and this week we are again looking at a lament. But it's a special subcategory of lament. Psalm 140 is one of several laments that are known as impregatory psalms. Now that word may not mean much to most of us here. An imprecation is a curse. An imprecation is a curse. Not not a curse like the the Boston Red Sox had the curse of babe fretting Babe Ruth or like the Chicago Cubs had the goat curse that kept them in the World Series. Not talking about that kind of curse. but rather a pronouncement of the curse of the covenant, a pronouncement of God's judgment against sin. Psalm 140 is an example of an imprecatory psalm, a lament that includes curses against the enemies of the psalmist and against God's enemies. Now, imprecations are not limited in the scripture to just the Psalms. They're found in the books of Jeremiah and Nehemiah as well, and some other places I think could be included. As we get into this this morning, there are some preliminary comments I want to make, and quite a few of the comments I'm going to take are from uh Professor William Van Gierman, Willem van Gierman, and so I want to give him credit for this. Don't think that I thought all this stuff up, but let me share with you some thoughts about psalms of imprecation, imprecatory psalms, psalms that pronounce a curse. How do we think about them? Well, first of all, in these prayers, the people of God pray for God's judgment and God's vengeance and God's curse on their enemies Their hatred for the enemies in some of these psalms is striking and startling, and it seems so opposed. to Jesus' teaching about love and the crint Christian emphasis upon grace and forgiveness. So can a Christian read or sing or pray one of these imprecatory psalms? How do these expressions of hatred correspond to Christ's teaching on love? These psalms force us to look at prayer against the enemies of God and of the psalmist relationship between the Old and New Testaments. And one of the things we recognize is that the Old and New Testaments hold intention the requirement for love and the hatred of evil. So that love is not found only in the New Testament, for in the books of Leviticus and Proverbs, we are told to love our enemies. That's Old Testament. Nor is judgment found only in the Old Testament, but we find that people the New Testament says that people are accountable to God. Paul's famous sermon on Mars Hill in Athens in Acts 17. He talks about the fact that the people are accountable to the God who created them. So that we see God's love and judgment and wrath in the Old Testament, God's love and judgment in the New Testament as well. Jesus himself proclaimed judgment, proclaimed curses on the cities of Khorazin and Capernaum in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, respectively. And he rebuked the leaders of the Jews for their unbelief. In the epistles of the New Testament, the apostles often count heretics and evildoers as cursed. As anathema. And in the parable of the unjust judge, our Lord encouraged the godly to persevere in prayer, confirming the conviction that God is just and he will bring about justice. for his chosen ones who cry out to him day and night. We also see in Revelation, in Revelation 6 six, where the martyrs who await God's judgment in heaven are asking God. They are before the throne of God asking that he would judge their persecutors. And then in Revelation 18 and 19, they rejoice when that judgment comes. So while we are going to be wrestling with an imprecatory psalm, the tension of how to balance love And curses, grace, and a hatred for evil, how to balance them is a tension we find throughout the scriptures. One of the commentators I read said this, the spirituality of the Psalms is shaped, defined, and characterized in specific historical, experiential categories. and shuns universals. One of the things we have to deal with is to we've got to avoid the temptation to take any one particular psalm and apply it universally. So that as we read Psalm 140 in a moment, we've got to be careful that we don't go, oh, David called curses on an enemy, so any old time we got an enemy, we can call a curse on him. Somebody cuts me off on the road, I can pronounce curses on him. No, we've got to be sure what what the commentator is reminding us is that these are very specific situations And if we're going to pray these prayers, we had better be sure that the situation of our life aligns with the situation of the psalm. Now, uh Van Gamerin, who I said I was indebted to for this at some of this introduction, he goes on to say this: uh indiscriminate hatred is wrong. The psalmists wrote under the inspiration of God regarding the nature of evil. They were intoxicated with God's character and name and were concerned with the manifestation of God's righteousness and holiness on earth. Now, when we stop and think about that, we recognize that often when we curse people, it's not because we are offended on behalf of God's holiness. It's just because we're offended. And the psalmist were not speaking these curses out of personal offense. But of a deep and abiding concern for God's goodness and righteousness and holiness C. S. Lewis was sensitive to this, to the piety of the Psalter, and he observes that the cry of the Psalmist may be explained because they in quote took right and wrong more seriously than we do. Unquote. Lewis goes on to say this. The Psalms remind us that there is evil in this world. Against all of this, the ferocious parts of the Psalms, and that's what Lewis called them, serve as a reminder that there is in the world such a thing as wickedness and that it is hateful. to good. One of the things we ought to learn from the imprecatory Psalms is the reality of God's uh the degree to which He despises evil. 20th century biblical scholar Meredith Klein, he used a phrase that I like a lot. He used to speak of intrusion ethics. Intrusion ethics. And he would speak of this in places where we see God's judgment come in catastrophic ways. And they sometimes offend our sensitivities. When God would send the people of Israel into the land of Canaan and tell them to destroy a city, utterly killing every living thing, man, woman, child, and beast. Found in that city. And it shocks us. But Professor Klein reminds us that that is the nature of God's position towards sin. We get comfortable in this period of common grace where God forbears with sinners and does not destroy them instantly, but puts up with them. And we begin to think, well, that's just the way it's supposed to be. God's always going to put up with sinners. And Klein reminded us, no, we see accounts of where the future ethic of final judgment intrudes into this period of common grace. And reminds us of how God views sin. And that is one function of the imprecatory Psalms. With all of that as prologue, let's consider now Psalm 140 more closely. Here at Short Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what God really truly thinks about sin, and if you want to know what awaits those who do not repent, then you must know His Word. Please hear now the word of Almighty God. Psalm 140 to the choir master, a psalm of David. Deliver me, O Lord, from evil men, preserve me from violent men, who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually. They make their tongue sharp as a serpent, and under their lips is the venom of ass. Guard me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked, preserve me from violent men who have planned to trip up my feet. The arrogant have hidden a trap for me, and with cords they have spread a net. Beside the way they have set snares for me. I say to the Lord, You are my God, give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O Lord. O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle. Grant not, O Lord, the desires of the wicked. Do not further their evil plot, or they will be exalted. As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them, let burning coals fall upon them, let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise. Let not the slanderer be established in the land. Let evil hunt down the violent man speedily. I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted and will execute justice for the needy. Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name, the upright shall dwell in your presence. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Spirit, open this word to us. so that we will understand it rightly, that we will see the the seriousness of sin in your eyes And that we will be moved by your compassion on us to be compassionate toward others. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's consider first the setting of Psalm 140, looking closely at what's going on in the text. Min in verse 1, it occurs twice in verse 1. In the Hebrew, that's actually singular. Man, not min. Plural. And most translations render it in the plural because the verbs of verse 2 are plural verbs. So there's a grammatical mismatch between verse 1 and verse 2 in the Hebrew, and that's been smoothed out into English. But I think the Hebrew is constructed that way for a reason. Because David starts out with a particular man in view, a particular person. He quickly broadens it to include all the enemies he has and all the enemies of God's people, but initially he has in view one man. The problem is identifying that man. Many commentators believe it to be Dogg. If you don't remember the name Dog, neither did I. I had to go look a story up Doag was the chief of Saul's herdsmen, and he is an eager volunteer. When Saul was uh David was running from uh uh uh Saul And David went to the tabernacle, and the priests there offered him help and assistance, knowing that he had been anointed by the prophet Samuel and that he was uh uh the rightful uh uh uh uh next king, they helped him out. Saul found out about this and was outraged and ordered that all the priests be killed Most of Saul's men couldn't bring themselves to do that. They would not take the sword to the priest. They may not have been uh uh godly men, but they still had some fear of the Lord left in them. Doag was not among them. When no one else would kill the priest, he volunteered. He jumped up, grabbed his sword, and slew the priest of God. He then became an eager pursuer of David Many commentators believe that Doeg is the man in view here. Commentators no less than Charles Spurgeon hold that view. The problem is, as much as I respect Spurgeon, a guy by the name of John Kelvin doesn't think it's Dog. He thinks it's Saul that's in view here. Unless I get caught between Spurgeon and Kelvin and be prove myself to be an utter fool for trying to settle that argument, I'm going to say this. I think that's a distinction with no difference. Whether it's Doeg that David has in mind or Saul, in the end it is Saul who is hunting down David, and Doeg is simply his henchman. Saul is the ultimate enemy, even if he's not the immediate enemy. Either way, we have a time when David is being pursued. He is fleeing for his life. That is the content, the setting of Psalm 100 and 40. As we consider now the the content of Psalm 140, it breaks into four parts. You'll notice in the outline in the bulletin that rather than labeling those four parts A, B, C, and D as we would ordinarily do, I've labeled them A and B and A prime and B prime. It's because the foam takes a redundant format Section A and A prime are similar. B and B prime are similar, but not identical. So that we see this pattern of a plea followed by a statement of confidence in God. And then another plea, followed by a statement of confidence in God. A and A prime are pleas to God. B and B prime are statements of confidence in God. Let's look more closely at them. Last week when we looked at Psalm 4, we saw that the main weapon that the that was being uh leveled against the psalmist who we believe to have been David later in his life. Psalm 140 is earlier in his life. Psalm 14 is later. We believe that was being labeled against David in Psalm 4 was words to undermine his authority as king. Now here we see a reference to words, but the words play a very different role. And here we see in verses 1 and 4 the word violence. And then in verse 2, we see reference to stirring up wars continually. The attack on David here is a literal physical mortal assault, one that threatens his life. I think that distinction is important as we think, as we wrestle with the imprecations that come in the second half of this poem, we must keep in mind. That this is not merely a case of David being unhappy or being uncomfortable or being beset by naysayers, but his life is on the line. Violence Is threatening him. So what's the words that are being spread, and what is the nature of that violence? Well, it seems to be what's going on here as we look at verses uh uh uh uh Verse 3, they make their tongue sharp as a serpent, and under their lips is the venom of asps. What probably is going on there is that Saul's men are flooding the countryside with rumors about David. All you Israelites, all you Judahites, all you Benjamites, everybody who lives in the central region here, you all know who David is, and you all know that he was once a hero. of Israel. He took down Goliath, but are you aware that he is staging a coup d'etat? Are you aware that he thinks he should be king? You all know that Samuel anointed me, Saul, to be king. And this David is trying to steal the throne right out from underneath me. That is probably the nature of what is going on. Wanted posters are being put up all over for David. If you see this man, report him to the palace so we can take care of the problem. And that is the nature of what's happening. That's the threat of violence against the hiding David. The degree to which David feels surrounded by danger comes through in verse five. where we see a threefold reference to a trap, to a net, and to snares. This threefold references reference, this uh uh emphatic statement, repetition for emphasis David is feeling utterly and completely surrounded. Well, gee, I wonder why. What did we read in our Old Testament reading? He's literally at one point trapped in the back of the cave. There is nowhere to run. David may feel metaphorically beset on every side, but at least a few times during this hunt for him He was literally surrounded on every side, with no place to go. We see David pointing that out. You know, in the midst of this, David asks God to guard him, to protect him, to keep him safe. Uh such a prayer in this uh yeah sorry, hold on, let me get my I've got a weird sentence in my notes here. Sorry about that. Uh uh uh you know sometimes we feel threatened and we feel attacked and we feel surrounded And the prayer we find at the first half here in verses 1 through 5 is a prayer we can offer up. We can offer this. Lord, please protect me from this threat. Protect my job from an evil boss so that I can continue to provide for my family. Protect my children from the evil forces that are looking to lead them astray. At this point, David is simply praying and asking for deliverance, for protection. And it is a prayer all of us can and should reflect. It is a prayer we've already prayed once this morning when we said, deliver us from evil. That's the prayer in verses 1 through 5. In verses 6 and 7, we see the first statement of David's confidence in God's deliverance. I want to point some technicalities out here, but it's a technicality that I think is fairly important. I don't love the way English translations render God's name. They all do it, and I I don't they they I'm in the total minority against guys who are a whole lot smarter than I am, so I don't know where I've gone wrong. But I wish we would render God's name as a name. When you see there in verses 6 and 7, the word Lord in all uppercase letters, that's the proper name of God in Hebrew And the reason I wish we render it as a name, because the way it's rendered right now, the word Lord just means master. The word lord is not a word that's inherently divine. We have landlords That word doesn't bother us a bit. We don't consider that a blasphemy to refer to the guy to whom we pay rent as a landlord. It's not blasphemy. That's the problem I have with this word. It says, you know, in verse 6 there, I say to the Lord, to the master, you are my God. Well, that's a bit of a tautology If you're not familiar with tautologies in logic, when a statement proves itself to be true and is circular, it's called a tautology. Okay? Well, that's a tautological statement. Of course the Master is God, and God is the Master. But that's not what David is saying. In Hebrew, he is crying out to God with the personal covenant name of God Yahweh, you are my God. Why is that significant? Because David's not running to any old God in that polytheistic uh setting back then, there were many who called who took the title of Lord. And in fact, in the Hebrew scriptures, uh uh Baal is sometimes referred to as Lord But David is not calling out to any old God. He's calling out to one God. Yahweh. The great I am, the one who revealed himself to the people, who at the burning bush entered into covenant. And when Moses said, What is your name? He said, My name is I Am. Tell them I am has sent you. That is to whom David is calling right now. Yahweh. Why does that matter? Because we're reminded that the book of Hebrews says this: whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. David ought not to expect God's deliverance if he doesn't go to God, the one true God. In the New Testament, Yahweh adds a suffix to his name. He becomes Yahweh Shua. Yeshua. Yahweh saves. Yahweh is salvation. We pronounce it Jesus. It's the same name. With the addition of his salvation noted. David is not running to any old God, nor should we. We must go to Jesus. Yahweh's salvation. We must go to him. It's not enough to believe in God in some generic way. It's not enough to talk about a supreme being, or worse yet, the big guy upstairs. We go to a personal God who has a personal name and has revealed it to us. We go to Jesus. That's what David was doing. Confidence for us is confidence in Jesus of Nazareth Point A, verses 1 through 5, is a plea for God to deliver David. Point B, verses 6 and 7, is a statement of confidence in that deliverance. Now we come back around to another set of pleas in verses A and A prime in the outline. In verse 8, the psalmist now turns his attention not toward what God will do for him, but what God will do to and uh uh uh with the wicked. His request starts rather small. Do not give the wicked what they want, do not let their plans succeed. You know, it's interesting. In this request, David remembers what we often forget: that even the most wicked forces of this world are under God's control. You know what's interesting, in America today, many in the evangelical church do everything they can to keep God at arm's length from anything bad that happens in your life Even we sometimes get caught up in this. You've heard me allude to this before. We'll have a close call out on the highway. a near miss in our car. We got we're really close to an accident, but it was nearly avoided and we'll say things like, It was a God thing. Well, that's true. But had you been in the accident, it still would have been a God thing. God is not the God of the good things in your life. He's the God of your life. Full stop It's interesting how the Old Testament writers go to great length to point out to the people of God that it's God who is behind the calamity that befalls them. If you don't connect that calamity to God bringing it about, then they're not going to learn the lessons they need to learn. My mom talks about how one of the things that she did when we were little so that we would connect to those lessons in an immediate way. was that if there was like a baked potato and it was hot, she'd tell us not to touch it, but then not intervene any further. Not gonna leave permanent scars, it's not red hot, it's not gonna brand the kit. But it's shiny and it's tempting And what do you do? You reach out and you grab it as a little kid. And you learn. Because there's an immediate response. You connect this and that. And you go, ah. When we distance God from the calamitous things in our life, we distance Him. We distance ourselves from learning the lessons we need to learn David, by the very fact that he says to God, do not let their plans succeed, he understands that if the plans do succeed, it's because God allowed it. Because God permitted it. God is sovereign over everything. Now, this verse by itself doesn't feel like much of an imprecation. It doesn't really feel like a curse. But it is the winding up. David has turned his focus from deliver me to do something about them. His attention is now elsewhere. And now in verse 9, we see it get more specific. The word head there should probably be understood as chief or principal person. Head being the guy in charge, not their physical noggin. Okay? And so now he's pointing either to Doeg or to Saul, either one. And he's asking that the dissent the that that is being fomented against him would actually backfire and take down the chief of his enemies. Again, as imprecations go, pretty mild one. It is a curse. I hope something bad befalls him, but it's a pretty mild one. But now in verse 10, he really begins to ramp it up. Look at the language of verse 10. Look at what's said there. Let burning coals fall upon them. Let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise. At first, he asked only that God would thwart the plans of the wicked. Then that God would turn those plans back against them. Now he is asking that God would not only end their plans, but that he would end them. And that's very different. You know, a couple months ago we were studying the book of Jude and we saw that Jude points to Sodom and Gomorrah as kind of the archetypical uh uh uh uh Example of judgment, and we see the psalmist here using that same language. Burning coals falling from the sky as a sign of judgment. But one of the things we've got to see here, we've got to be careful about here, is the rhetoric of imprecation. Now we all know this. We are all familiar in our everyday lives with the fact that different moods, different uh expressions take on a different rhetoric. So that we when we get cut off on the highway, when somebody cuts in front of us and then slows down, we, oh, I hate that Now the reality is in that moment we're not expressing hatred toward that person. Rather, that rhetoric expresses the level of our frustration with the situation. Not actually what we think about that person, but rather it expresses how we feel about the situation. Well, some of the commentators point out that that's one of the things we have to keep in mind with these imprecatory psalms. That they may or may not reflect literally what the psalmist wants to have happen But for sure they reflect how the psalmist feels about the situation. So that when we see this call for burning coals and fire and miry pits and never to rise again That may or may not be what David literally wants to have happen to his enemies, but for sure it reflects how desperate he feels in his situation. We should also note that David, in praying this prayer Turned his problem over to God. For all the critics who would fault David for his lack of love in this situation, They fail to remember that by praying this prayer, he walked in faith. What did we read in an Old Testament reading this morning? That he had a chance to kill Saul. There was an opportunity to sneak up behind Saul and cut off his head. Instead, he cut off a corner of Saul's robe so that he could show Saul that he had been merciful, but even then he felt remorse over that. I shouldn't have even done that. David does not take things into his own hands. This psalm of curses, this psalm of imprecation Reflects how he feels and he vents it to the Lord, but then he leaves it to the Lord. He does not act on it. And if there was ever anyone in history who could justify an assassination, it was David. Anointed by Samuel, told that God had set Saul aside. That God had disregarded Saul, that Saul was no longer the chosen one. He had been told that himself. Surely had he attacked Saul, we would have all said, well, yeah, he had good cause to. He had a right to. He knew that that was actually appropriate. That he was the next king and God had discarded Saul. His men in the cave were telling him to do that, on that logic. And David says, no. I am angry, and I am terrified, and I am desperate. And if it comes down, Lord, to me or them, then let it be them. But I will not act on my own. He trusted the sovereignty of God. Many of us would do well to do similarly. To pour out our anxiety to God, to pour out our frustration and our hatred and the way we feel inside toward our enemies, but then leave it to God. Not act to undermine them. Not take steps to backstab them. Not try to get even with them. But leave it to God. If you see that it is your job to set things right, then yeah, it's hard to love your enemies. But if you see it as God's job to set things right, then loving your enemies just got a whole lot easier. Again, in verses 12 and 13, uh David uh uh expresses confidence in God's justice. The translation here, I think, did a good job using the word needy there at the end of 12. Some translations have the word poor. I have a hard time seeing David as poor. He's never really shown to be a poor person, but he is needy. He has uh spiritual needs. He has a need for physical protection. And I think needy is a good translation there in an appropriate way to render that. And what we see in David when he words this here, you know, it's been said, some have said that God helps those who help themselves. Really, what the psalmist is declaring here is that God helps those who cannot possibly help themselves, who have no hope of helping themselves. That God intervenes on their behalf, that God is the one who will make sure that they receive justice. The psalm closes on an interesting note. In verse 10, the psalmist asks that the wicked would be cast into the miry pits never to rise again. But here it closes out, the upright shall dwell in your presence. What a difference between the two, the fate of those two, the destinies of those two. So we've considered the Psalm in summation, verses 1 through 5, a call for deliverance, verses 6 and 7, a cry of confidence Verses 8 through 10, a call for destruction. Verses 11 and 12, a cry of confidence. I'm sorry, 12 and 13, a cry of confidence. So how as Christians do we handle this passage? How does it apply to our lives? What do we do with Psalms like this? Is it appropriate for us to ask that our enemies have uh be cast into fire and into miry pits? What do we do with this? Well, I think there are several things, four actually, that I want to enumerate as we think about the application of this psalm. One, we should guard against disproportionate use of the imprecatory psalms. We should guard against disproportionate use of the imprecatory psalms. They make up actually a fairly small fraction of the Psalter. And they should make up a small fraction of our prayer life. If you find yourself regularly turning to the imprecatory psalms, there's probably something else going on. And it needs to be dealt with. Our calling is to find and care for the sheep, not to kill everything that is not a sheep. By the way, that's a key distinction between the gospel and something like Sharia law. If we uh descend into killing everything that's not a sheep, we have just created a Christianized version of Sharia law. The gospel calls us to seek the redemption of those who are not sheep. We must guard against disproportionate use of the imprecatory psalms. Secondly, Well uh imprecations must come from impot uh imp uh weakness. Impacy impotency, there's the word I wanted. Imprecations must come from impotency. They must come out of a place of weakness If you ever pray the imprecatory psalms in a triumphalistic way, in a boastful way, in a in a gloating way, you're praying it all wrong. You think you can take me on? Listen to the curses I'm about to pronounce the name of my God. That's not the way the psalmists ever offer up their imprecations. But rather it always comes out of a place of utter and complete helplessness. If we're going to pray imprecations, it must come from a place of complete impotency. That we are powerless in that situation. You can imagine a scenario a couple of years ago when things were getting pretty ugly in Syria or the prayer being offered up like this Lord, ISIS is beheading Christians in Syria. I hurt for them but cannot help them. I have no political power, no financial resources. on the scale necessary to make a difference, nor can I walk into the fracas and make one bit of change. All I can do is come to you in my utter impotence and beg you to stop them. Father, stop this atrocity. If it be by the conversion of these enemies to the by-to- to your Holy Spirit, stop this atrocity If it be by the escape of the soon-to-be martyred, stop this atrocity. If it be by the might of Allied military forces killing and detaining all the perpetrators, Lord of hosts, please stop this atrocity. Protect your children in that beleaguered region of the world. I think that might be an illustration of an appropriate imprecatory prayer. Christians are being killed, and I can't do anything about it. I am utterly and completely helpless. Lord, intervene on their behalf. Thirdly, we must recognize that in precatory psalms foreshadow the final judgment, but they do not necessarily call for it. Between now and then, between this moment and the moment of final judgment, God can and will intervene in this world, but he will not always do so in a final judgment sort of way. So we have to leave to God in our prayers the freedom for God to be God and do what He will do. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. You carry it out, Lord. You do it. We may pray in imprecation, but God may choose to act in a different way. Fourthly, some have referred to imprecatory prayers as the spiritual nuclear option, the weapon of last resort, the place you go when there's no other place to go. Yes, there is a time for love, but Ecclesiastes goes on and says, and a time for hate. A time for peace and a time for war. Christian ethicists for centuries have wrestled with the question of the appropriate use of lethal force. And they have generally recognized that it's wrong for a police officer to shoot an unarmed shoplifter. Taking a piece of candy i does not warrant death. It's disproportionate. Yet those same Christian ethicists throughout the centuries have recognized That when an armed madman walks into a crowded place, the police don't have the right to shoot. They have an obligation to shoot. One way or another, people are going to die. The sixth commandment is going to be violated no matter what happens, so you might as well stand up and defend the victims. The same thing is true of military ethices and ethics. Does a nation stand by when another nation invades a third party, a weak third party? Well yes, if you intervene militarily, there's going to be a loss of life. But if you stand by and watch tanks roll through villages, there's still going to be a loss of life. Either way, killing is going to happen And so you intervene to protect the victims. That may be how we need to look at imprecatory prayers Psalms of Curses, as the way to stop an otherwise catastrophic situation. Lord, if it is the death of my Christian brothers. Or the death of their persecutors, let it be their persecutors. If there is no other way to end this, then end them. Psalm 140 expresses David's cry for deliverance and his confidence in that deliverance, but it also reflects David's uh uh uh the the the the life or death situation in which he found himself, him and his men, he's moved he moves from a cry for deliverance to a call for destruction, precisely because lives are on the line. Lord, if it is me and my men, or Saul and his men, then save us and destroy them. As we wrestle with how to handle such thoughts in the light of Christ's teaching about love, let us default to love. But let our love extend to a love for our threatened brothers and sisters. Let our love extend to God's righteous indignation against evil. And so let our love rarely, but occasionally, include a call for God to intrude into our world here and now with the ethic of final judgment. Let's pray. Lord, as we wrestle with Psalms like 140, where we see David calling down curses on his enemies. We are baffled and bewildered about how to handle this. And yet, Lord, we we know that you put them here for a reason you kept these psalms through the centuries so that we would have them, so that we would understand how we might respond. When there is great wickedness on this earth, when there is tremendous evil that must be confronted, that we would not necessarily take up our, lift up our hand against it directly, but that we would Enlist your sovereign power to stop it at all costs. And Lord If our lives should take such a turn that we have to pray a prayer like this, give us wisdom to do it carefully. To do it thoughtfully. To do it with regard for your righteousness and not our convenience. To offer up this prayer with a regard for all of the lives that are at stake. And then to leave to you the decision about how to respond. Let us trust you in these most dire and difficult situations, just as we have trusted you. For our own, as we face judgment of our own, and as we hope to avoid it through Jesus Christ. We pray this in His name. Amen.