One of the ways that we show adoration for anyone is by listening to them, by hearing what they have to say, by saying to them what you say matters and is important. So let us adore our Lord right now by hearing his word. Please turn with me to Psalm 110. 110th Psalm as we continue in our summer series from the Psalms. We're going to be looking this morning at a royal psalm. Royal psalms obviously have a theme of God, of kingship. Sometimes they stress God's earthly king. Sometimes they stress God as king. And sometimes, like this one, they point to a third party who will be king. And we will look more closely at that in a moment here. Royal psalms will, there are many psalms that contain a royal element. Psalms of thanksgiving can thank God for his kingship. Hymns can praise God for his reign and rule. There are many psalms that re laments can actually cry out to God as King, that He would sovereignly intervene But there is a category of psalms that aren't Thanksgiving or hymns or lament and yet deal with the royal fiends And so they recognized as their own subcategory, their own genre of psalms, and Psalm 110 is one such royal psalm. I remind us frequently here that we at Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice, which means this. If you want to know who's really in charge, who really is the king, then you must know the word of God. So I invite you now to hear God's word from Psalm 110, a Psalm of David. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. From the womb of the morning the dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings. on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way. Therefore he will lift up. his head. Let's pray. Spirit of God, reveal to us your word this morning through this psalm. And in that revelation, let us see the one who was David's Lord, who is our Lord, who is Lord of all Lords and King of all kings. We pray this in his name. Amen. I mentioned that there are royal psalms that point to a third-party king, and that this is one such psalm. That may have sparked in your mind a question of who can be king besides God's anointed earthly king, the Davidic line, who can be king besides God Himself, and we are reminded that the Old Testament does point to this. Third party, this one who is not Yahweh per se, but neither is he an earthly king exactly in the mould of David. That might trigger in your mind the idea that this is a messianic psalm, and it is. It is both a royal psalm and a messianic psalm. It points to the Messiah. We've got to remind ourselves what that word means. Messiah means anointed. In that sense, there are many messiahs in the scriptures. Saul was a Messiah. He was anointed by God to be king over the people. David was a messiah. He was anointed by God to be king over the people. Joshua the high priest was a messiah. He was anointed by God to be the high priest. But none of them were the Messiah. We saw a few weeks ago, actually I was not here in service, I'm just getting confused. I'm doing way too much teaching and preaching. I just gotta quit. In Camp Ezra, we looked at the fact that John in his epistle refers to the Christ being a unique figure. And that's what we need to see this morning, is that this psalm, in addition to being a royal psalm, points to the Messiah. Among all of those whom God has anointed, there is a unique one whom God has anointed. And that we must recognize that. We also must remind ourselves of this, that Messiah is the English rendering of a Hebrew word. But it doesn't appear very often in the New Testament that way. In fact, it appears usually in the New Testament in the Greek version of the same word, anointed, and it shows up as Christ. So we must remember that what we see in the Old Testament that points to Messiah is affirmed in the New Testament when it speaks of the Christ. And who is the one affirmed in the New Testament as the Christ, the unique Messiah, the one and only Son of God? Well, that's clearly Jesus of Nazareth. And so we have here a psalm that points us To Jesus. That points us to Jesus of Nazareth and tells us a little something about who he is. Now, in the introduction in the notes on page 9, I have a Lord versus Lord. It's not a a a a battle situation. It's not like a shark versus alligator and some of those weird TV shows they've got out there. This is not a competition, but rather an understanding of the two different ways the word Lord is printed In your English Bibles, there are only a few exceptions to this, the vast majority of English Bibles, when they come across the proper Hebrew name of God, We're not sure how it's pronounced. We think it was probably pronounced Yahweh. When we come across that proper name of God, they render it in all caps. Lord, L-O-R-D, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D But there is a word in Hebrew that means Lord or master, or can even mean husband, occasionally, usually lord or master, and that is the word Adonai, the Hebrew word Adonai. So much like you might pay rent to your landlord, Hebrews would have play paid rent to their land at O'Neill. Don't think they said it that way, but that's how it could be used. Okay? So right there in verse 1, we see a bit of confusion. Verse 1 of Psalm 110 has the Lord says to my Lord. And you're thinking to yourself, is our God schizophrenic? Is he talking to himself? Are there two, is there one person being talking to himself? Lord says to Lord, they're the same person. But you notice the two different renderings of Lord. The Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, says to my Lord, lowercase O R D. So what we have here is Yahweh is speaking to one David calls Adonai, which is the source of the title of the sermon, David's Lord. The one to whom David bows, the one to whom King David pays homage and says, He is my Lord. So we have Yahweh saying to this one, this Adonai, this master, David's Lord, What we have there, we have uh, sit at my right hand. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand. Yahweh says to David's master, to David's Lord, sit at my right hand. There's a call to rest. And that's our first point in our sermon outline this morning. That in verses 1 through 3 we see the rest. of David's Lord, the rest given to David's Lord, the rest which belongs to David's Lord. The rest of David's Lord. It is the rest granted by Yahweh He's invited to rest by Yahweh. Now, if you're familiar with the Bible, this ought to spark in you an assumption about what came before. For in the scriptures, we do not see rest coming first. The pattern throughout the scriptures is that work comes first. followed by rest. The creation order is work followed by rest. The Sabbath comes at the end of the week. After we've worked. So there is an assumption right out of the gate here that there is some work in view that is being assumed by the psalmist. That this one whom David calls Adonai, whom David calls his Lord, has accomplished some work. And for that he is given rest. We continue there in the next verses, until I make your enemies your footstool. Yahweh Creator of all things, God of uh the only God among all the gods, the only real God, the only one who is truly living and divine, is going to give to this one David calls his Lord Arrest, and not only arrest, but arrest is going to culminate in his enemies being subdued on his behalf. We'll come back to that in just a moment. Go on to verse 2. The Lord sends forth from the I'm sorry, I skipped over it. Sit at my right hand. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand. I forgot to address today the key to that. The right hand was a position of honor. A position uh uh set aside for the one who would take over for the one on the throne. The king sat on his throne, and in the midst of a royal court or a royal gathering, the crown prince, the heir apparent, would sit at his right hand. So that the the the subjects would get used to seeing that person in a place of power and a place of authority and a place of privilege. So that when the day came that he actually took over the throne Well, it was something everybody was used to, him being up there. It was not uncommon in the ancient world for that right-hand son That one who was there to be the one who would be responsible to go out and prove his worth, to lead the armies of the nation, and to go out and conquer their enemies. While the king sat on the throne, the one who would be king must prove his mettle. But here we see something interesting going on. This one whom David calls Lord is being given the pri place of privilege and of honor and of authority, and the one on the throne. is going to go out and do work on his behalf. That is a most unusual circumstance. The Lord Yahweh says to my Lord, Adonai, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Verse 2, the Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. We see the continued pattern. Lord, all caps. Yahweh is the one who is extending the reign of this one at his right hand. of David's Lord. It is God who is sending forth his mighty scepter. And then God, Yahweh, turns to the one at the right hand and says, rule in the midst of your enemies. God is fighting for David's Lord, and then God is turning power over to that one. It is an amazing picture. Verse 3 says this, your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments from the womb of the morning. The dew of your youth will be yours. As if having Yahweh fight for you were not enough, the psalmist points out that there is an entire people waiting to fight for this Lord. David's Adonai, David's Lord, has Yahweh fighting for him, but there is also a people willing to do the same. And the description of this people Uh-uh. They are in holy garments. They are arrayed in their best, showing their respect For David's Adonai, David's Lord, showing the way they wish to honor David's Lord. And it says that they are there from the womb of the morning with the dew of your youth. First thing in the morning, at the crack of dawn, in eagerness, ready to go. Whatever the Minutemen could pull off, these can do better. They are ready and eager to fight. And in fact, what does it say? They will offer themselves freely. In other words, they're willing to die on behalf of David's Lord. Yahweh has invited David's Lord to rest while Yahweh fights on his behalf. And as if that were not enough, there is a people who will rise up and fight for David's Lord while he rests, while his enemies are made his footstool. The rest that is given here is an amazing thing. It's an astounding rest where God and the people of God are fighting for this one. And the thing we must conclude before we leave behind these verses about the rest of David's Lord, we must conclude this. That whatever work he did, whatever work he accomplished is a surpassing work. It is a unique work. For there is none other in all of history whom Yahweh says that he'll do these things for. There is no other to whom Yahweh gives that place of privilege and of power and says, by the way, you kick back and take it easy while I go fight for you. For the rest, for all of creation, I should not have said the rest, for all of creation is called to be servants of Yahweh. His workers doing his work. This one is called to rest because of something he's done. Some amazing work that has been accomplished, some profound act that has earned him this rest and this privilege and this place of power and authority. As we move on to verse 4, we see the roles of David's Lord, and we are not going to develop this as fully as we could. We are going to actually see this later this summer. We're going to come back and deal with this a little bit more. But something happened, something really interesting there in verse 4. The Lord, Yahweh, all caps. has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Now there's a whole lot going on here in this verse that's really interesting First of all, this one who is king, this one who was put at the right hand of the throne is now called a priest. That is an unprecedented thing. And in fact, well almost unprecedented. We'll see there's very little to uh precedent to it. In fact, David as a psalmist here has got to be scratching his head saying, wait a second, I'm king. I'm king rather than Jonathan, precisely because my predecessor took upon himself the privilege of the priesthood Because he decided when he would offer sacrifices and how they would be offered. My predecessor acted like a priest, and it cost him the dynasty. Now God is speaking of one who will be both king and priest and points to this enigmatic figure that appears just once in the Old Testament prior to this, Genesis 14. Abraham's coming back from war. He's got the spoils of war. He meets this one who is called the king of Salem. Most scholars think that's probably Heru Salem. Heru being Hebrew for city. Heru Salem, the city of Salem, Jerusalem. Okay? The king of Jerusalem comes out and Abraham pays to him, Abram at the time, pays to him a tithe. A tenth of all the that had been collected in the war and asked for his blessing. This is a priest to whom Abraham paid tribute and homage. We're not going to develop this more fully right now, but we do need to see these things. One, this is a unique calling to one who would be both king and priest. A most unusual circumstance. Number two, he is a king to whom David pays homage, whom David calls my Lord. The king, the earthly king, who is the benchmark for all other kings, calls this king my lord. And he's a priest to whom Abram paid tribute. He is a king who surpasses David, and a priest who surpasses Abraham and the Iranic priesthood. This is an amazing figure being described, a unique figure being described here in Psalm 110. We see now, we've considered the rest given to David's Lord. We've assumed that the reason for it is because of some unique work that's been accomplished. We've seen now the roles given to David's Lord there in verse 4, and we consider now in verses 5 through 7 the reign. David's Lord. Now, the truth is in these verses 5 through 7 ought to surprise us The content of verses 5 and 6 in particular ought to be surprising. Let me read them again and see if we can see what the surprise is. The Lord, lowercase, so this is the Adonai in verse 1. This is David's Lord. Okay? David's Lord is at your right hand. Well, we saw that back in verse 1. He's at Yahweh's right hand. He who? David's Lord will shatter kings in the day of his wrath. He, who, David's Lord, will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He David's Lord will shatter chiefs over the whole earth. Now I ask you, why should that be surprising? If we have read carefully, We should realize that way back up at the beginning of the Psalm, Yahweh promised to do all of this. Yahweh said to David's Lord, take a rest. Kick back while I make your enemies your footstool. And now at the end of the Psalm, we see David's Lord stepping up to complete the work. Begun by Yahweh, to bring it to its fulfillment. That ought to be stunning For who would presume to be able to bring to completion the work of God Almighty? For who among us would say to God, why don't you stop and I'll pick up from here? To the Philippians, Paul reminds them, he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. You're not going to God is the only one who can complete God's work. And David's Lord says, David says of his Lord, he will finish it. He will bring it to completion. He will do the very things that were promised to him by Yahweh. We have an interesting glimpse into the nature of this person. For he presumes to be able to do what God does And if we look there, we see some specifics addressed. In verse 5b, he will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. David's Lord has power to take down governments on this earth. Verse 6a, he will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. David's Lord has the right to judge. He has the right to judge even on to capital punishment. He has the power and authority to render the ultimate judgment And there's not a picture of one who's got to look over his shoulder. It's not a picture of one who's got to check and see if that's okay. It's not like a general who has to check in with the emperor and go, am I doing it right? Is this what you wanted? Is this the way you wanted it executed? No, it's a picture of one who is sent forth with full confidence that he will do it correctly. that he can execute the work of God. And in verse 6B, we see he will shatter chiefs. Over the whole earth. We've moved from national leadership in kings down to local leadership in chiefs. His reign extends even to the details of local governments It's not just that he can keep in mind all the chess pieces on a national level. He can keep in mind and deal with all of the small microcosms of humanity. This is one whose authority is extensive and whose control is complete. Reaching to all levels of humanity. And something interesting happens in verse 7. In verse 7, we read this. He will drink from the brook, by the way, therefore he will lift up his head. And there are many scholars, some of the commentators that I read in preparation for this sermon, said, well, you know what? That word therefore doesn't point back to the first part of verse 7. It points back to what came earlier Because of all that Yahweh has promised, therefore he will lift up his head. I totally disagree. I'm absolutely convinced that it points exactly where you expect it to point to the first half of verse 7. For here is the point. He has shattered the kings over the whole wide earth. He has taken down chiefs over the wide earth. He has conquered all of his enemies He should be exhausted. He should be utterly whipped. He should be just at the edge of collapse. And the sarcastic picture is one of who needs only a sip of water. To be refreshed. He barely broke a sweat doing all of this. He stops by the brook, dips a cup of water, he's ready to go for round two. Only there are no enemies left standing after round one. That's the picture of David's Lord. One who has been given rest, presumably, because of some phenomenal, unique, unparalleled work he has done One who was given the role of being the king who surpasses David, the priest who surpasses Aaron, to whom Abram paid homage. One who is able to carry out the work of God and bring it to completion. We must now see the one to whom this psalm points. We must recognize David's Lord, for it is clearly none other than Jesus Christ Himself. What David saw in his day and described in Psalm 110 is what Daniel saw several hundred years later and was read as our Old Testament reading. It is what the apostles and their friends saw when Jesus was taken up in the cloud. Daniel gets a glimpse of the heavenly side of things that we forget the apostles got a glimpse of the earthly side of the same event. For we're told that the apostles and the and the other believers saw Jesus taken up in a cloud into heaven. Daniel then picks up the story and says, now I see it from the other side. He comes in a cloud to the Ancient of Days. To him is given all dominion and rule and power and authority. For it is Jesus who has accomplished the unique work in all of human history. It is Jesus, who is the only one who has ever earned anything from God. It is Jesus. Who is the king that surpasses David? A priest who surpasses Abraham. And the one who fulfills and is the embodiment of Psalm 110, the one to whom rest is granted, because of his unique, unparalleled Work. And it is Jesus who will one day get up and bring it to an end. Who will one day shatter the kings that have not bowed their knee willingly. Who will one day take out the chiefs of this earth who have not humbled themselves voluntarily And we must recognize that. We must recognize right now that we have really just one choice. Either we submit to him in every aspect of our lives, we make him the king of our lives, don't simply declare him to be the king of kings, and since I'm not a king, well he's not the king of me then There's a logic in that. We must recognize His Lordship over us. And submit to it. We must recognize the unique work he has accomplished and the rest that he has earned. And his right to get up from that rest and to subjugate all who will not willingly bow before him. And bring it to completion. Jesus is David's Lord. He is Abraham's priest. He is God's right-hand man. And he is the one who must be the ruler of our hearts and lives, or else we will be shattered among those kings and chiefs. Let's pray. Lord, break our pride now Shatter our hearts now, so that we will come to you humbly, so that we will be saved in the day of your wrath set aside and protected from the wrath of David's Lord. Let us make him our Lord. Work in us that he will be our Master, our Adonai. And let us rejoice in the work he has accomplished, the rest that is his, the rest to which he invites us as his. And let us be among those people, willing and ready at the crack of dawn, arrayed in our very best to fight on his behalf if needed. We pray this in the glorious, mighty name of Jesus. Amen.