Open your Bibles if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. It'll be a few minutes before we actually get there But First Corinthians chapter ten will begin when we get there on verse twelve. If you're using that Pew Bible, it's on page eleven thirty-eight. First Corinthians ten. I'm also going to encourage you to keep your bulletins close at hand. We're going to be referring back to the Old and New Testament readings on page 7. So your Bible's open to 1 Corinthians 10, your bulletin's open to page 7. Let's pray before we begin this morning's sermon. Lord, we ask that you would keep us safe from the evil one and his many demons. Guard us against their destructive efforts. Help us to know your word. Give us wisdom individually that we would sift through the lies of demons and cling only to your truth. And give us humility to listen to others, particularly the elders you have ordained over us, so that we would not fall victim to our enemy and yours. Keep us on the path of true faith and repentance for Christ's glory and for our good. Amen. It's interesting, despite being released in 1973, that's a long time ago. Despite coming out in 1973, when movie tickets were, get this, a buck seventy-five. Despite that, the movie The Exorcist is still among the top ten highest-grossing horror films of all time. And by my calculation, if you adjust for inflation, it's number one all time, narrowly beating out Jaws. In the half-century since The Exorcist was released, thousands of other demon-themed movies have come and gone, and many of them made a lot of money. Sadly, these movies have significantly shaped our understanding of demons. Now, many people would deny that they even believe in demons. Sadly, even a large percentage of the evangelical church denies the existence of demons. But if we think about demons at all, and to the degree that we believe in their existence, we have been significantly affected by the doctrines not of Scripture, but of Hollywood. As a result, we fear what isn't really fearful, and we drop our guard against the real demonic threat. Letting Hollywood inform your thoughts about demonic activity is a bit like allowing social media to shape your medical comprehension. It'll be f filled with sensationalism, but fraught with deadly inaccuracies. Our misunderstanding of Scripture reinforces our miscomprehensions about demons. Let me illustrate An interpretive problem we have when it comes to the Bible, and then we'll bring this back around to our problems of misunderstanding demons. Let me use miracles as an illustration. Many of us believe that back in Bible times, the world was just full of miracles. Miracles were happening all the time. Miracles here, miracles there, miracles everywhere. Part of that comes from the way we teach the Bible. We tend to focus on the more sensational portions of it. And part of it is the way where our brains work. We tend to remember the more sensational things. But it turns out that if you are careful in your analysis of Scripture, and many of you have heard me talk about this before, that miracles are not throughout all of history In fact, miracles are gathered at three points in history: the coming of Moses and his successor Joshua, the coming of Elijah and his successor Elisha, and the coming of Jesus and his successors, the apostles. Apart from those three moments in history, there are very few miracles, even in the Bible. And what we see is that at those points in history, There was something significant happening in the unfolding of the redemptive history That with Moses and Elijah and Jesus came new moments of God revealing himself to mankind. And they were marked with the accompanying signs and wonders. The Bible's record of demonic possession, at least such as is common in our nightmares and in our movies, turns out to be even more rare than those times of miracles. Think about it. In all your knowledge of the Bible stories, did Moses ever confront a demon-possessed person? Did David? Did Elijah? Did Daniel? Samuel? Zachariah? None of them did. There is reference to an evil spirit that came upon King Saul, but that evil spirit is said specifically to have come from the Lord, and very few scholars believe it was a demon. In all of the Old Testament, there is not a single account of demonic possession. And for that matter, there isn't much of it in the New Testament either. Let me set aside the Gospels for a moment. And by the way, I'm going to set aside the three Gospels, not the four. For if we read John carefully, we find out he never mentions demon possession. Setting aside the free Gospels for just a moment, circling back around to them, picking up with the book of Acts and going through the rest of the New Testament. In the book of Acts, we see Peter heal a man. And a demon is mentioned. But if we read closely, the demon did not possess the man, rather, the demon inflicted the man with an injury. And Peter healed that injury caused by the demon. Paul is said to have uh uh cured the slave girl in Philippi who had a spirit of divination. And that one, maybe that might be a demon possession case, although it's interesting Luke, when he writes his gospel, uses the language of possession, and when he writes that account in Acts, does not use that language. So we're not even sure this girl was demon-possessed. And after that, the New Testament is silent on that subject. In fact, it's very interesting. The rest of the mentions of demons, Jude and Peter. probably the two most sensational New Testament writers, they both mention demons and turn right around and talk about the fact that those demons are bound by God. They are under his judgment. They are in chains awaiting the day of final judgment They are in no condition, no position to possess anyone. James makes reference to demons But it's talking about how they fear God, and we will come back around to that in a moment. John and his epistles, like his gospel, makes no mention of demons at all. The book of Hebrews makes no reference to demon possession. And Paul, though he did confront that girl with the spirit of divination, never once warns a single church to worry about demon possession Isn't that interesting? Of all the things he tells all the churches to worry about, to be on your guard against this, to be careful about that, to pray for this, he never once mentions demon possession. And interestingly, in the book of Ephesus, when he lists the officers that God ordains for his church, Paul says that the church needs pastors and teachers, that it needed apostles and prophets, but there is no mention of exorcists. For all of our sensationalism of spiritual warfare, if in fact demon possession is that common, is that uh uh uh uh typical, is that normative, Then it ought to be reflected in the New Testament writings, and it isn't. Why do I spend time talking about this? Because I want to be very clear right up front, dear brothers and sisters. You need not fear demon possession. It shows up for one brief moment in history. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all make reference to demon possession. But they limit it to the earthly ministry of Jesus, and they mention just seven such accounts spread over his three-year ministry. It's not even as if Jesus were encountering demons every single day. This was not the normal activity of the demonic world. Even then, and surely not outside of that time. And as we saw with miracles in our brief overview of them, they mark specific important times in redemptive history in the unfolding of God's revelation to us. Hmm. I wonder if there was anything significant going on in the spiritual realm during the ministry of Jesus. Did his life, death, and resurrection have any impact on the spiritual realm? And could there be any reason why demonic activity took on an unusual and new form? during those three years. I will also say But this is a point where we get embarrassed of the Bible. Skeptics will charge us with the silliness of the Bible. Come on, demon possession. They just those those bumpkins back then, those rubes, they just thought any illness was demonic possession. It's actually not true if you look carefully at the Gospels. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all specify that Jesus healed those with skin diseases, those who were lame, those who were deaf, and those who had demons. The demons are separate from the other diseases. They're not confusing demonic possession with disease. It's a whole other category, even in the Gospels. And the skeptic will say, come on, if demon possession is such a big deal, why don't we ever see it now? Well, I would turn that around and say this. The very fact that we see it then and only then is a testimony to the significance of the work of Christ. That the powers of hell did everything they could to upend it. They sought to derail the work of Jesus by discrediting his power But he was able to drive them out. They thought to uh sideline Jesus by tempting him to sin, but he withstood that temptation. And they sought to seal the tomb over him, and he was not kept in that grave. Far from discrediting the Bible That little glimpse into demonic activity during the ministry of Jesus actually testifies to who he was and what he did. It testifies to his unique place in all of human history. And so our time this morning looking at demons needs to be focused on what they actually do, not what we imagine they do. We are not going to give in to Hollywood sensationalism and worry about demon possession when the Bible doesn't worry about it. I will also point out that Paul is very careful to tell us that as believers, we are occupied, we are possessed, if you will, by the Holy Spirit. And with the word holy right on his name, I find it a little hard to imagine he's going to share that space with an evil spirit. And it has been Christian doctrine from day one that a true believer cannot be possessed by a demon. So the first thing right out of the gate is that we need to establish what we are not worried about, what we are not up against, what we do not have to fight against. And that is demon possession. There is nothing to be feared there. There is nothing we need to take account of. There is no sense in which we have to pay attention. If you're called to the mission field, don't worry that you may have to exercise a demon. It is not likely What then do we need to worry about? Are demons any threat at all? Is there anything to the substance of demonic activity? The answer is yes. But before we get there, I want to spend a couple of moments quickly talking about the question of what are demons? What are demons? Where did they come from? I want to look at four verses, and you don't need to necessarily turn there. They're short. I'm going to read through them quickly. But four verses That give us some sense of the nature of demons. Jude chapter one, Jude chapter one, Jude only has one chapter. Jude verse six says this The angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he, God, has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. They left their proper dwelling. It's kind of vague, but Peter writes after Jude and seems to and quotes Jude and he clarifies for us. If God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment. It goes on to explain the if statement. I'm stopping there. So Peter, like Jude, makes reference to the fact that there are angels. Who are condemned by God, held in chains, awaiting judgment. But Peter is clear that they sinned. Whatever Jews meant by they didn't stay in their own lane. Peter comes out and says, they sinned. Jesus, in the parable of the sheep and the goats in Matthew 25, he says this. Then he will say to those on his left, that being the judge, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. This is our third reference to hell-bound angels. And here they are explicitly linked to the adversary, to the one we met last week, to Satan. The final passage I'm going to reference comes from Revelation 12. 9. Revelation 12. 9. Revelation, singular, 12-9. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Four passages. Two which speak of angels who sinned, two others who speak of angels that are associated with Satan as a Angels that belong to Satan and are under the same condemnation as Satan. Technically, not one of these four passages uses the word demon. And yet there is no dispute, so far as I could see, not even in the wild west of the internet, is there any disputing that these four passages give us the origin of demons? That demons are fallen angels. That demons in their nature have the same nature as angels have. Something we will go into a little more detail next week when we talk about angels. And we saw last week we had a kind of a tenuous case that Satan was a fallen angel But now we see his connection with the fallen angels we know as demons, and it strengthens our understanding that is probably the origin of Satan also. The Bible treats the fall of angels differently from the fall of man. We can be redeemed, demons cannot. Always in the Bible, as we saw on these four passages, the assumption is that demons are doomed. There is never any suggestion of hope for fallen angels Their names, for instance, are never written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And in his discussion of saving faith, the half-brother of Jesus, James He speaks briefly of demons. He says, you believe in one God, good. Demons believe this and shudder. The knowledge of demons, the faith of demons, what they believe about God, doesn't bring them hope. It causes them to shudder. It causes them to fear. They have no hope of salvation. Peter speaks of angels looking longingly into the salvation that Christ offers to men. Most scholars will look at that word longingly and talk about how that kind of language tends to be used of an unrequited desire. That Peter's implication is that these angels are looking through the store window, but can't ever go in and get salvation Demons are fallen, sinful angels. They are without hope of salvation. As angelic beings, they are spirit without bodily form. They don't have tails or horns or any of the other features we imagine them having because they don't have physicality at all. As a result, when they wish to manifest themselves in the physical realm, they must occupy a host of some kind. This is the sense that we see of demon possession in the Gospels. They are squatters of a sort, living in a body not their own. A demon takes up residence. Now exactly how that works, the interplay between this demonic spirit and the physical body of a human host. We don't know how that works. That's a bit of a mystery. But of course it's a mystery for us too, right? We don't know how our spirit and our body connect to each other and interplay with one another. So we're not sure at all how this happens, but somehow demons do appear to have the ability to enter into some hosts. Occupy at least for a time and manipulate their voice and their actions. Let me say again that this phenomenon appears limited to the time of Jesus' earthly ministry. I can't say categorically that it cannot ever happen again. But there is little reason to think it will, and many good reasons to believe it won't. So our brief point to this thus far has been that for demons to make themselves known in the physical realm They have to occupy a host. Besides being spiritual, the angelic nature of demons also means they are personal. Not personable, but personal. They have volition and they have voice. They are self-aware and they are able to interact socially. That personality of demons, the fact that they are persons in the spirit realm, brings us a little closer to our main point this morning. So we do not need to fear demon possession. Demons are fallen angels. As such, they're spiritual beings, but they are persons. You'll recall last week the illustration I used. I can't think of a better one, so I'm using it again Back in 2008, Becky and I toured a lot of repossessed homes while we were looking for a house. And it was amazing how many of them had been purposefully damaged by the previous occupant. That borrower defaulted on their loans. They ran afoul of the covenant they had with the bank. The bank evicted them. And they were powerless and they were angry. And they lashed out at the bank by trashing the home. Bags of concrete were poured into toilets and allowed to harden. Holes were punched in drywall for no good reason. Appliances were stolen, some cases ripped right out of the wall with the wires left hanging. This was the sort of damage that was done to these houses. by the Eviktes being angry about what had happened to them, though it was, you know, they are the ones who did not keep the covenant with the bank. Nevertheless, they were angry. And they were powerless, and they lashed out to do damage against the bank. That is a great illustration of the threat of demons Having been evicted from heaven, having broken covenant with God, they are powerless in the grand scheme of things. And in bitterness seek to take down as many as they can with them. They do great damage to the household of God. They do great vandalism to the people of God. How does this play out? What does this look like? Turn back in your bulletin to page seven. The Old Testament reading first, and then the new Page 7 of that bulletin, Deuteronomy 32, quick literature lesson right here. Way back in seventh grade English, you know, we learned about past, present, and future tense. And seventh grade writers just write with past, present, and future tense. It's why their writing is kind of boring. Good writers know how to mix that up. They know how to speak of the future as if it were the past. And that's what Moses is doing here. It's called the prophetic perfect voice. The prophetic perfect, I'm not that voice, tense. The prophetic perfect tense Moses is speaking in past tense language of future events. Why? Because he's absolutely certain they're going to happen. This is going to play out in history this way. And what does he say? Jacob, that is the nation of Israel, grew fat, stout, and sleek. Then he forsook God, who made him, and scoffed at the rock of his salvation. They, Israel, stirred him, God, to jealousy with strange gods. With abominations, they provoked him to anger. They sacrificed to demons. That were no gods. To gods they had never known, to new gods that had come recently, whom your fathers had never dreaded. You were unmindful of the rock that bore you, and you forgot the God who gave you birth. They sacrificed to demons that were no gods. We have the benefit of sitting on the other end of history We can look back at the pages of Scripture and see how this played out among the people of God, how they were led astray by all manner of gods who looked More interesting and more fun than their God did. The gods of the surrounding nations Who encouraged them to have feasts, to participate in debauchery, who established temple prostitution, and by all of this they were sucked astray But it's not how it began. It's worth paying close attention to the origin of Israel's religious problems. Turn in your Bibles with me to 1 Kings 12. 1 Kings chapter 12, we're going to look at verse 25. 1 Kings 12 verse 25. While you're turning there, let me set the context Solomon, king of United Israel, has died. His son Rehoboam has taken the throne, and Rehabam is politically stupid. And the northern half of the nation rebels against his politics. And they put on the throne Jeroboam, son of Nabot. Jeroboam is now in control of a significant portion of the population of Israel, and he is afraid that they will return to Rehabom, son of Solomon, son of David. And we pick up with his concern in verse 25. Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and lived there, and he went out from there and built Penuel. And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now the kingdom will turn back to the house of David if this people go up to offer sacrifices in the temple of Yahweh Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will turn again to their Lord, to Rehobom, king of Judah, and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam, king of Judah. You see, he's worried about if they practice the proper religion, it's going to dawn on them that they're supposed to be loyal to David's house. So the king took counsel and made two calves of gold. And this is where we today in the modern world get it wrong. We misread what happens next. Be careful now. And he said to the people, You have gone up to Jerusalem long enough. Behold your Elohim. Elohim is the Hebrew word right there. I think the English does us a great disservice when they put God's plural. For Elohim, in most other occurrences of the Old Testament, refers to our true God. And if you look carefully at the context, this is exactly what Jeroboam meant to say. Behold your God, singular, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And he set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan, and then verse 30, then this thing became a sin. English, not the language, the people, the English, historically, they clarified identity by what you did, by your occupation. Who do you mean? John the Smith? John Smith? Oh, Susan Baker. Right? Jesse Miller. These names were former occupations, and they clarified who you were talking about. Which John in the village? Oh, John Smith. Who brought you up out of the land of Egypt is God's last name. It is his occupation. It is what he did. Which God are we talking about? Is this cath that you have made, Jeroboam? Is this Baal? Is this Asherah? Is this Moloch? Which God is this? And he says to them, this is God Smith. This is God who brought you up out of Egypt. Is that not exactly how God introduced himself to the people back at Sinai? Did he not sit at the top of the mountain and say, I am Yahweh your God? Who brought you out of the land of Egypt? You shall have no other gods before me. And throughout all of Israel's history, The phrase, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, is the last name of God. It is the identifying marker of which God we're talking about. Jeroboam is not setting up false gods. He's setting up false worship of the true God. He is setting before them Yahweh. And saying, let's take an easier path to worship. It's hard to trek all the way down to Jerusalem, so let's just go to Bethel. Stop up short of Jerusalem If you're not familiar with the geography, Bethel would have been on the road where you're headed north. Toward Jerusalem, you'd have stopped at Bethel. You don't need to go, but Bethel was in the lowlands, Jerusalem was high. You don't need to trek up that mountainside. Just stop at Bethel You live too far north, just go north to Dan and worship there. And the name of Ease, he set up Christianity But it was a false form of Christianity And so it is that they are led astray. Over time, this false worship of the true God leads to opening the door to false gods. If the God you are worshiping isn't a real God anyway, it doesn't matter what you call him, at that point they're willing to begin to worship other gods openly. And so now we look back at our Old Testament reading. Who does Moses say is behind all of this? They sacrificed to demons that were no gods. Dear friends, dear brothers and sisters in the Lord, you needn't fear that a demon might possess you. We need to fear greatly that a demon might possess us. Our church The teaching from this pulpit, the teaching in our Bible studies, that is the risk demon activity presents. That I will be tempted to take the easier path to God. That I will not say what is true for fear that it may alienate some. Don't trek all the way to Jerusalem. Stop at Bethel. And so it is in churches today Oh America, here is your God who brought you up out of Egypt. A God of love only, never of condemnation, a God who will never send anyone to hell. A God that does not pour out wrath on the wicked, who has all the tolerance in the world for those who practice all sorts of immorality. This is your God, O America And we are let astray by the tens of thousands. This is the demonic activity that we must fear. That we will do what is easy, what is convenient. what is non-confrontational, what goes down, what the masses like, what the people vote for with their feet and their dollars And fall victim to a God who is no God, but who is in fact a demon In short, the Israelites of the Old Testament were led astray by what today we would call biblical liberalism. Let's stretch God a little bit. Let's make him a bit bigger. Let's make him somebody we like a bit more. Let's he doesn't we don't have to go to Jerusalem to worship, we can stop in Bethel. We don't have to actually buy into the holiness of God. We can just focus on his love. And by making God something we deforming him, shaping into something we like a bit better, making them a bit bigger, making a few more people squeeze into that tent of of salvation eventually so the flap is open and everybody is saved. We create a God who bears the name of the true God. This is your God who brought you out of Egypt. But who, in the final analysis, is a demon. And so, of course, what happens to that? What happened to Israel of old? They came back out of the judgment that God had put placed on them. They came back from exile in Babylon and they said, We're never going to make that mistake again. We are never going to be misled into idolatry ever again. And by name, they never were again. Never again did the house of Israel worship Baal, Malach, Asherah, or any other false god. They were never tempted to worship Zeus when the Greeks took them. They were never tempted to worship Jupiter when the Romans conquered them. But instead, what arose was a strictness, a severity of religion We must not walk too far on Saturday lest we break the Sabbath. We must wash our hands and dishes in this manner, lest we eat in an unclean way. And they began to to, rather than growing God, they began to shrink the life he had for us. To fit into their image of God. And by the way They were, by all definitions, biblical conservatives. These were the men and women who held the Old Testament to be true, who held it to be the Word of God, who thought they ought to follow it, who believed it had authority in their lives. This is the sin that which for which we are always at risk as conservative Presbyterians And this conservative sect of Jews, who are going to be really careful to never go astray again, are known by New Testament times as the Pharisees. And we know how much Jesus got along with them. And Paul says to Timothy in the New Testament reading, look now at the New Testament reading. He says, now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teaching of demons. So here we have it again. Through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared. And what do they do? Do they tell you to go out and live wildly? No, just the opposite. They encourage an aesthetic lifestyle. They forbid marriage. They require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. Paul's concern is that we're going to go too far the other way. That demons are going to lead us into a form of Christianity that is so given over to its rules and its strictness. That it loses sight of the grace of God. That it believes that we can get there on our own merits. Oh, I get that very few Presbyterian pastors would ever say that explicitly. But we run the risk. Of expounding a form of Christianity that holds to this, even if we don't say it. And these are the teachings of demons, Paul says. Liars who forbid marriage and require absence. Don't have any fun. The people of old, they had too much fun. They went into wild parties and debauchery and temple prostitution and all those issues. Do the opposite. Don't have any fun at all. Don't enjoy this life. Be so strict and miserable that you will have already lived in hell and God owes you heaven. And demons can lead God's people into that false understanding also. You see the risk of demons? You see the risk of demonic activity in the church today? What the Bible paints is not a picture of demon possession. It's a picture of demons misleading us. That they would lead us astray from the grace of God in Christ by making us believe that we must give up these good things. Demons mislead by adding to our religious ideas things that never should have been there. And they mislead by robbing our religious beliefs of the good things of God. The danger of demons is not personal possession, rather, it's the threat that they will lead us astray religiously. You see, every follower of a false religion is ultimately a victim of demonic activity. including those who follow false forms of Christianity. And so we come finally to what is labeled as the sermon text. Look in your Bibles at First Corinthians ten, verse twelve. Paul is describing to the Corinthians the table of the Lord. And notice how demons play into this. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 12. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it. Well, Pastor, there you have it. If a demon tempts me to follow a false religion, God will give me an escape. He will let me endure that. I'm not going to fall to that temptation. Here's what Paul says to that. Verse 14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. Isn't it interesting? That he has said that when temptation comes, there will be a way for you to endure it. But when it comes to religious temptation, when it comes to worshiping what is false, idolatry, He doesn't want you to even try to endure it. Flee from it. Flee, run away, get as far away from liberal Christianity as you can possibly get Get as far away from legal Christianity as you can possibly get. Run away from Hinduism as far as you can run. Don't mess around with astrology or Eastern meditation. Don't fall victim to Western do-gooderism. Flee from all of these sorts of religious misleadings. Verse 15, I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless. Here at this table, that's what he's talking about. This cup right here. Is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, again, he's clearly talking about the Lord's table and this bread that we're going to partake of in a moment Is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread We who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? He points back now to the practice of ancient Israel He says, if you eat the animal that's been sacrificed, then you're partaking in the sacrifice. It's as if you were slain on that altar. And clearly he means to say the same of this table. Verse 19. And Paul anticipates the question. You know, so Paul, are you saying that you know somebody participates in a pagan sacrifice? Are you saying those gods are real gods and they're participating with them? Are you saying Hinduism is a real religion, that all of these things are genuine? He says no. Verse 19. What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything? Or that an idol is anything? No, I imply that what pagan sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God I do not want you to be participants with demons. There it is again. In Timothy, in Deuteronomy, and here in Corinthians. That what's behind false religion is demonic activity. This is how they wreak havoc, how they oppose God. This is their adversarial activity, that they create all manner of false faith, some of it bearing the name of Christianity, some of it not. Yet there is no God behind any of this. Only demonic activity. Verse 21. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? And here Paul references back to the passage we read in Deuteronomy in our Old Testament reading, where Moses spoke of provoking God's jealousy. Paul warns of the same thing. And so it was on the night that he was betrayed that our Lord took bread. And after giving thanks, as we will do in a moment, he broke it. And when he said to his disciples, This is my body broken for you, do this in remembrance of me. He was saying to them, Participate with me. Join in my sacrifice. Die to sin as I am going to die to sin, and be raised in newness of life as I am going to be raised in newness of life. He was inviting his followers to partake with him As Paul so brilliantly puts there for us. In the same way, after supper, he took the cup and he poured it out, and he said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. And it's shed for many for the forgiveness of sins. And so when we drink of it, we participate with him. We must do so with genuine repentance. We must do so with genuine hope in Him alone. Not in hope in Christ and our astrology charts. For those are demon activity. Not in the hope of Jesus and our transcendental med meditation. For all of those things are meant to mislead us. They are the activity of the enemy's minions, to take us away from the true hope we have in Christ.