Turn your Bibles, if you would, please, to Romans 12. I know that's not what's in the bulletin. We'll get back to the bulletin text in just a few minutes Please open to Romans 12, verse 1. Romans 12, 1. As we prepare to hear God's word, let's pray and seek his help. Lord, this morning we embark on these three chapters of Holy Scripture which confound us. about which there has been so much argument, over which brother has alienated brother, and because of which some have even walked away from the faith Not believing you could be this God. Spirit, we need you. Jesus called you the Paraclete, the helper. Please help us. Keep us from being our worst selves. Instead, let us humbly receive your word And if we cannot understand the how, let us at least believe. If we cannot comprehend the why, let us still adhere to it as what it is, your word. And we beg you, dear Spirit, never let us use this, your word, to do battle with each other. Let it be that the only one we ever attack with your word is the old sinful person who still resides within ourselves. Use these chapters that we might grow closer to you and further from that dead man Let these chapters make us more compassionate toward our brothers and sisters and more hopeful as we regard the lost. And so, dear Holy Spirit, helper, please help us. Let this be so in our midst. Looking at Romans twelve, one Uh Romans 12, 1. I know that's not what we've marked out, but you'll see, I think, that there's value in beginning here Join me in reading Romans 12. 1. I appeal to you, brothers, therefore, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. I appeal to you brothers therefore. We've all been taught that that word therefore it it links things. It points to what has come before and says it's the foundation for what's going to be said next. Because of what has been said, this can be said, therefore. Now I want you to appreciate the very natural way that Romans 12. 1 could have followed Romans 8. Think about the last five sermons out of Romans 8, out of all the good news we've heard there, and imagine how easily this verse in 12. 1 could have come right after it Grad school one time I turned in a paper which I accidentally left out a page. The professor immediately knew and noted on the grading of the paper that what was at the top of page 10 made no sense It did not continue what was at the bottom of page 8 because I was missing page 9. But if I gave you a copy of the book of Romans that omitted chapters 9, 10, and 11, Unless you absolutely knew the text in a familiar way, you could read very naturally from the end of 8 into the beginning of chapter 12. And why not? In chapter 8, we've heard how God has called us and predestined our lives that we would be glorified in Him. that we would be his. And because he has done this, because he has given his son to make it possible, there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God. Very naturally, that's the foundation for therefore. Therefore, give your lives to him as living sacrifices. Of course, that follows chapter 8. And in fact, in a moment when we actually read chapter 9, it's chapter 9 that's going to be the head scratcher. It's chapter 9 that doesn't seem to make sense. It's the non sequitur. Why is this here? And I'm going to guess that if readers digest every day the condensed version of the Bible, these three chapters would be gone. But we know by now that Paul is nothing if not logical. He is nothing if not thorough and systematic. This book of Romans has been leading from one thought into the next. Everything has been connected. So if we're confused by what comes in chapter 9, if we're bewildered as to why chapter 12 doesn't follow immediately after 8. We have got to wrestle with that fact. We've got to come to grips with it. We've got to make sense of why are these three chapters Three chapters, by the way, which are some of the most controversial in all the scripture. Three chapters, by the way, which are by far the hardest to preach. If these were gone, my job would be so much easier There is so much about these next three chapters that is confounding that we do wonder why they're here. Look, you're still in chapter 12, I hope. Look up just a little bit above that. If your Bible has the subheadings that are inserted occasionally. Most modern translations have those. If your Bible has those subheadings, you may or may not have one back up at 1133 That may or may not refer to this as a doxology, 33 to 36. A doxology is a statement of the glory of God, and we have it concluding this section. But go back up even a little higher, back up at verses 24 and 25, right in between 24 and 25. Every modern English version that I could find, all of them had a subheading there. And every one of those settings said something along those lines of the salvation of Israel. They're telling you that these verses deal with that topic. Specifically look at verse 26. And so in my version. Maybe your version reads, and thus, or some of them say, and in this way. All Israel will be saved. One of the thorniest clauses in all the Bible. All Israel will be saved. What's my point? That these three chapters, 9, 10, 11, these three chapters that confound, these three chapters that are the source of so much anxiety and frustration and argument, they close with the topic of the salvation of Israel, the promise that all Israel will be saved. Now, why have we taken this excursion to the end of 11 and beginning of 12? So that we can figure out why these chapters are here. So now we jump back to the beginning. We jump back to Romans 9:1. Turn back a couple of pages to Romans 9, verse 1, our sermon text. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's page 1123. And it is here that we begin our study of these chapters, the inerrant Word of God, the only authority for faith and for life. So that if we want to rightly understand who God is and what he has done, we have got to understand these three difficult chapters. Romans 9, beginning in verse 1. I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. That I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. Now do you see the non sequitur? Do you already go, wait a second, we just ended chapter 8 on this great joy, this pinnacle of the Christian good news. And now he has great sorrow and unceasing anguish. Why? Verse 3 For I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh. They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises. To them belong the patriarchs And from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. Now what does the opening of the passage have in common with the close that we saw? These three chapters closed. with an attention to the salvation of Israel, and they open with an attention to the salvation of Israel. At the close, he was rejoicing over the promise, the hope that all Israel would be saved. At the beginning, he is lamenting that she is not saved. Or that at least so few of her members are saved. And Paul here is speaking with characteristic Hebraic hyperbole. He expresses his agony and his emotional pain by proposing what is absolutely impossible, that his life would be traded for theirs, that he be sent to hell so that they are not. He is a vat distraught over the State of Israel with regard to salvation And so he opens these three chapters with the question of Israel's salvation, and he closes them with the question of Israel's salvation, and as we're going to see, most of what comes in between has to do with Israel's salvation. Salvation. So we've answered one of our questions about these difficult chapters. What are they about? Well, they're about the salvation of Israel. And that's going to be key to us understanding them. If we're going to unlock some of the difficulties in these chapters, we must keep that in our minds. They are about the salvation of Israel. Now, of course, that generates more questions than it answers, does it not? Paul is writing to a predominantly Gentile church. So why spill so much ink over the salvation of Israel? And on a related note, he has from chapter one on been expounding a gospel Which is for both Israel and Gentiles. He said it is both for Jew and for Gentile. That Jew and Gentile are alike are are are under sin, falling short of the glory of God, that Jew and Gentile alike are saved by faith. He has been expressing all along that his gospel is for both. So now why does he focus on the Jews, on Israel? Those are good questions. We're going to set them aside for the moment and just be happy that we've answered the one question. What are these three chapters about the salvation of Israel? Now before we move on, we actually have to deal with this of who or what is Israel. When Paul speaks of Israel talking about, now some of you are thinking to yourself, well, Pastor Wait a second, how can that even be a question? Is it not obvious from what we have read that he's talking about national ethnic Israel? And I would agree with you one hundred percent is patently obvious That he's talking about national, ethnic Israel. He has spoken of them according to the flesh, we would say today, biological, biology. He has spoken of them as his kinsmen. He has spoken of them as Jesus' kinsmen. Jesus was a Jew. He has spoken of the fact that to them were the patriarchs and the law and all these other things. He is clearly talking about ethnic biological national Israel. But as clear as that is in chapter nine When we get to chapter 11, Christians divide, we are less certain that he is talking about Israel in the national sense. In chapter 11. And yet I'm going to argue that he definitely is. That we're going to see in chapter 10, he's talking about Israel as a nation, as an ethnic group, as a community. And that aside from any overwhelming evidence to the contrary, we must assume that's how he's still thinking of it when we get to 11. And there is no overwhelming evidence to the contrary So when we hear Israel here, yes, the New Testament speaks of the church as Israel in other places. Paul himself speaks of the church as Israel in other places. But here he has made it clear, he's not talking about the church. He's talking about Israel as the nation chosen by God. I'm sorry, I lost my place there. I gotta cut regain it here. Um Okay. Finally, we've been stressing this idea, the centrality of Israel in these chapters, that they are written about Israel. But we must note that they're not written for Israel. We already said this is a letter primarily to a to a primarily Gentile church. Now that's a little bewildering at first, isn't it? That this would be written about Israel, but not to Israel. Now, before you think to yourself, well, that just can't be. Something is incongruous here, let me remind you that this is actually a common place in the Bible. The book of Nahem is written about Nineveh. But so far as we know, Nineveh's never read it. It was to Israel. The book of Obadiah is about Edom. But so far as we know, the Edomites never read it. It was to Israel The book of Jeremiah contains huge passages that are prophecies about Egypt. But it belong to Israel. So does the book of Isaiah. So we have this common in the scriptures, that what is written about one group of people will be given to or for another group. And that's important if we're going to understand these chapters. Yes, they are about Israel, but they are for the church. Paul writes this for us, that we would understand what is going on. And so we pick up now in verse six. It is not as though the word of God has failed. And right there we begin to understand why these chapters are inserted. How this connects back to chapter 8. How did Paul transition from that profound height of our inseparability from God's love to this mournful reflection on Israel's non-salvation? Because as emotionally high as we might have been last week, as exhilarating as chapter 8 is, sooner or later the high wears off. We've all had an experience, whether you went to summer camp as a teenager or you go to a Bible conference and you come home just so fired up, so excited, so emotionally exhilarated. And then you come back to earth. And when you come back to earth, hopefully, you begin to reflect on what was taught there, what was said there, and it begins to take root in your soul, and it is of great value to you. But imagine if you got the book of Romans and chapters 9, 10, 11 were omitted. You'd read through it the first time. And it would be so exhilarating. And you'd read about how God is love. We cannot be separated from God's love in chapter 8. And you'd read it, you'd skip to, now therefore I beseech you, brethren, according to God's mercies to live as, you know, to be living sacrifices. You'd go, absolutely, that makes sense. And you'd Phoebe would read this. two years to the church and she'd go away, she'd go back home, and she'd leave the letter with you, and you'd be going over and you'd be like, wow, this is amazing. But some months would go by and at some point somebody would raise this question Didn't God promise that to Israel? Aren't all the promises of Romans 8, aren't they all given to the Jews? But they're not saved? They're not the ones who are accepting the gospel. They don't believe in the Messiah. If we cannot be separated from the love of God, how has Israel been separated from the love of God? Do you begin to see now why this has got to be here? For if Romans 8 stands on its own, then the history of salvation and the Jewish people is going to cause it to crumble. The foundation of Romans 8, if we're going to believe it, if it's really true, if Paul is telling what Paul is telling us is honest to goodness, gospel truth can only be understood. if we also grasp all of the difficulty of Israel's history. Now we're not going to answer all of it today. Simply can't. It takes him three chapters to deal with it. Paul's a more gifted rhetorician than I am, so don't imagine I can do it in one sermon. We're going to get there, but we're only going to brush up against the answers today We have here Paul talking about the salvation of Israel because the salvation of Israel is key to understanding the salvation of the Church. And so he goes on. But it is not as though the word of God has failed, for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, and not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring. Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring. Now, right there, someone might say, Pastor, this proves that Paul is talking about the church and not about Israel But the church is the successor to Israel. He says right here, not all who are from Israel are Israel. We have to be careful. Let's handle this very judiciously. Paul is not saying that being descended from Abraham doesn't matter. He's not saying that Israel's biological connection to the patriarch is meaningless. How do I know that? Because up in verse 4, he's already said that the connection to the patriarchs is one of the great blessings of being an Israelite. And how did he open chapter 3? Then what advantage has the Jew? Or of what value is circumcision? And he answered his own question: Much in every way. So Paul has already told us that being a Jew is a big deal. So we can't discount this and go, look, he's not really talking about Judaism. He's not really talking about biological Jews. Absolutely, he is. He is not dismissing Jewishness. He is, however, limiting its value He is putting a cap on its efficacy, on what it means. He's saying that mere biology has never been enough. To put it in 21st century context, Ishmael had just as much Abrahamic DNA as did Isaac. Both were 50% Abraham in their biological makeup. Yet somehow Ishmael and his line are not God's chosen people, while Isaac and his line were. Now, was Ishmael blessed by his biological connection to Abraham? You bet he was. But was he saved by it? So you see the warning here. That we all must understand, even Israel must understand, that there's more to being God's people than merely biology. In fact, Paul, the point Paul is making in this section is that the outward physical things are important. But only insomuch as they lead to the deeper truth of our relationship to God. Does biology matter? Absolutely. Do not our children have an advantage because they are born into Christian homes? Absolutely. Are they not brought into the proximity of the love of God because of biology? Absolutely. But is that enough to save them? So what is the message to the Gentile Church? Well, we're going to see over the next couple of weeks, well, when we come back to Romans after Easter, we're going to see. That he's got a lot to say on that subject. But one of the things we can take right here is the limited value. Value, yes, but limited value of the mere physical things. Being born into a Christian, baptized as a child, being raised in the church, coming to this table every week, hearing the Word of God every week, all of those things are valuable, but none of those things save us. All of those things are the means of salvation, but they are not salvation. They are the means of grace, but they are not grace. And Paul is saying that's what's true of Israel. So the first thing he's saying about this is: if we're going to understand the promises of God, we've got to understand the people of God. Yes, they were a biological, ethnic, cultural entity, but that alone never made them the people of God. There was something else going on. Having argued he's he's pointed to Ishmael and Isaac, both descended from Abraham, and argued that Their biological descent was not the key issue, but rather God's choice of the one. And he goes on and illustrates the point again. Or in more detail. Verse 9. For this is what the promise said. About this time next year I will return and Sarah shall have a son. The point here is a reminder, Sarah was barren by virtue of her age. She had past that point where she could have children biologically speaking. And so there was this promise promise given to her that she would bear a child. And that's the point that's being made here It's that God chose her child to be the son of the promise, the child of promise, to be the line of the people of God. It was not mere biology That accomplished who were the people of God. And not only so, but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac. Though they were not yet born, and they had done nothing good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of Him who calls. She was told, the older will serve, the younger. Having looked at Isaac and Ishmael, He anticipates the argument, well, you know, but Ishmael, he had that Egyptian mother, and that's why he was disqualified. And Paul cuts that off right before we can even think it. No! Jacob and Esau had exactly the same parents. Their DNA was 100% the same sources. Same mom, same dad. Twins born on the same day. They couldn't be more similar biologically speaking. But one was chosen and one was not That's his point here. That's where he's headed with all this. And he quotes Malachi as it is written: Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. Hate it. It's a powerful language. We're gonna circle back around to this, but that is part of the reason I put that insert in the bulletin is so that you could go home this afternoon and wrestle with this more fully Verse 14. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. I hope by now you realize that this is Paul's pattern, right? He proposes a thesis, he defends it, then he anticipates somebody's question, somebody's objection to it. And he has just said that in the final analysis, salvation is of God. He chooses which brother. He chooses which line of people. He chooses who's born into that line of people. He chooses the Christian families that come to church or don't. He chooses whether or not you're born into one of those families. He chooses whether or not a missionary comes to you and gives you the word. He has selected all of these things. Salvation belongs to our God. But Paul realizes that somebody's going to throw up an objection. Well, that's not fair. That's not right. How can it be that God is going to choose some and leave others unchosen? That's unjust. And Paul has anticipated that question and asked and answered it He asks it now. Verse 16. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I raised you up that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. And a great many Christians at this point in the book of Romans have had a great difficulty with this text. And they have found the answer that is before us to be insufficient and unsatisfying. Now we're going to return to it a couple of times in the next few sermons on this. We're not done here, but let's follow Paul's thought. For by the power of the Holy Spirit, he knew full well we would struggle with this answer So look closely at verse 19 and how he responds. You will say to me then, why does he still f God still find fault? For who can resist his will? Come on, Paul. If God chooses some to be saved and some to be hardened, how is that fair? How can a man be on the hook, legally speaking? For the choice was not his own. Now listen to the answer But who are you, O man, to answer back to God Pulse point is quite simply this. God is God. He is free to do God's things. And he's not answerable to you or me. Nor should you imagine that even if he condescended to answer, that you could wrap your head around his answer. Like you could actually stand in judgment of God and evaluate his logic. Like you have that ability to comprehend these things. Who are you, oh man, to talk back to God? Will what is moldered say to it's molder? Why have you made me like this? Let's just stop here for a moment. Let's step back for a second from this question of salvation and damnation. Let's just step back and think only about the church for a moment. Setting aside this difficult question of who is called to eternal life. Which of us can explain God's choices even among his people? Can you explain why one man is called to be a deacon but not another Now we might say, well, sure we can, Pastor. That man has had deacon type skills. That man led a deacon-esque life, deacon, not deacon-ess, deacon-esque life. He lived like a deacon should live, and he had the skills that a deacon should have. That's why he's a deacon. Uh-uh. It's the other way around. God ordains deacons. Don't we don't make ourselves deacons God makes us deacons. He chooses. He guides that man, predestines his life, orders it so that he becomes the godly man he is going to to be to be a deacon. Points that out to the rest of the church so that the rest of us can look at the man and go, yeah, that's a deacon. But we can't explain why God would do that for one man and not another. In fact, we can't even explain why it's got to be a man. Right? I mean honestly, can we honestly say that we have all these reasons why men are so clearly deacon material when women are not? I haven't a clue. I've met an awful lot of women who I think would be better qualified to be elders than deacons. But God does what God does. He orders the things the way he wants to order them. And in the end, it's my job to fall in line, to obey, to listen to him, to do what he says even when I don't understand it. And if that's his choice, if that's the way he operates among his own people, Then can we step back and see that he has that same right to operate that way within the wider world? That he's God If he wants to save some people and not others, that's his prerogative. And he does not have to answer to us. Paul now specifically extends God's divine right to the question of salvation in verse 21. Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? And we can ask why, Paul. Why or why would God do that? Why would He discriminate between people and choose one and not the other? And Paul proposes an answer. And quite honestly, I think at this point, Paul is not asking this in a rhetorical question. I think he truly doesn't know. Let us sink in for a moment. That's going to freak us out at first glance. How can this spirit-inspired apostle not know the answer? The spirit-filled Jesus didn't know when the second coming was going to occur. Just because a human being is perfectly united to the Spirit of God doesn't make him any less of a human being. Still finite in his knowledge Still limited in his ability to wrap his brain around things. And I really think at this point, Paul is sincerely saying, I'm not sure. But here's the one I can piece together from the scriptures. Now he is spirit-inspired, so we can be sure this does not step out of the bounds of possibility. This is clearly within the boundaries of Scripture. And Paul says, what if this is the answer? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience? Vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. In order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy. That's about the fifth time we've seen the word mercy. We ought to be starting to tune into that Vessels of mercy which he prepared beforehand for glory, even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. And here Paul has, like I said, I think speculated within the bounds of Scripture, within the bounds of the spirit of the inspiration of the Spirit. But he can't wrap his head around the mysteries of God any better than we can. Okay, he can do better than we can. But he still couldn't do it. without the limits of the finitude of being human. And so he looks at his Bible. Look at verse 25 and fallen. Look how many times he looks to his Bible to try to figure out how to wrestle with this difficult question. And indeed he says in a Hosea, those who were not my people, I will call my people. And her who was not my beloved, I will call beloved. And in the very place where it was said to them, You are not my people, they will be called sons of the living God. He's proposing, looking at his Bible, that God has allowed Israel to walk away That God has borne their defiance with great patience, so that Gentiles might be saved. And in speculating that way, his mind goes to another of the prophets, and he continues in verse 27. And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved. For the Lord will carry out his sons upon the earth fully and without delay, and as Isaiah predicted. If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. Utterly wiped out, completely ended upon the earth. This final quote from Isaiah is so important to understanding everything that's come before. What is Paul's point in quoting this? That in the end, in the final analysis, it wasn't their Jewishness that was saving them. For Isaiah says, despite our Jewishness, if God had not had mercy on us, if God had not had compassion on us, if God had not spared us, we would have been completely white. out his point that he reflected earlier God said to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, I will compassion on whom I have compassion. It depends, Paul is continuing to argue, upon the mercy of God. And until we grasp that, not one word of Romans 9 is going to make sense. And everything about it is going to be difficult. Back in January, we were looking at the issue of sanctification and how Paul and his Jewish mind, when he used the word sanctification, he would look at two vessels, and I pulled these golden pictures out as illustration. We talked about the fact that that one of them would be sanctified, it would be set apart for use in the temple. That they were identical in every way, but so importantly different, and that one had been appointed for special use. Sanctuary fied, I said. Sanctified. And that that little difference of anointing the one and not the other made all the difference in the world and how they were to be used. That we can't use our bodies in the old way we want because we have been sanctuarified, we've been sanctified, we've been set apart for God's purposes And that was okay back there. But there's the problem Are you looking at humanity like these two gold pictures? Both beautiful, both well-made, both uh expert craftsmanship, both of precious and rare materials. And if we look at humanity as these two gold pitchers, and if we say to ourselves, well, why would God pick one for salvation and not the other? And that seems unfair, doesn't it? Both pictures seem worthy. Both pictures seem valuable. They seem precious. They seem beautiful. To take one and destroy it in hell is completely unfair And so long as we see humanity as inherently precious, as inherently beautiful, good in and of itself, we are going to struggle with Romans 9. But that's Paul's point. We don't look like that. That's not who we are in and of ourselves. In two weeks we're gonna do some cleaning around here, and the deacons wanna try to tackle the green shed. Now imagine for a moment that we get in there and we find this old broken pot. There are some old broken things out in that green shed. Despite this sermon, deacons, if you keep this, I will be most frustrated. But this is who we are. Broken. Worthless. Made of common materials. Made of the soil of the earth. Made of clay. We've busted ourselves up, we've soiled ourselves with dirt, we have got whatever fertilizer was used all over us And this is who we are. We're not those gold pitchers over there. We're broken pots. Deserving of the trash can. Deserving to be discarded by God. This is why the emphasis has been on mercy What is mercy? It's not getting what you deserve. It's not receiving the punishment that rightfully should be yours. And Paul says, if you're going to grasp salvation, if you're going to wrestle through the promises of Romans 8, then you've got to come to grips with Romans 9. This is humanity, every single one of us. God chooses in his divine compassion to take some broken pots and put them back together Mend them, glue them, fill in the holes, begin to rebuild them Imagine we find this and a few weeks later we we pull up one Sunday and there's this beautiful flowering plant out in front and it's got this gorgeous pot that's holding it and we're like, oh where'd that come from? And one of the deacons says Remember that broken pot we found in the shed? I put it back together and put it to that noble purpose. This is why there's no injustice in God. Would it be valid for the deacon to throw this away? Absolutely But God in his compassion chooses some of these broken pots to put back together. To patch, to paint, to beautify, to change from clay to gold, to make into something profoundly beautiful. For his purpose. So that. How many times have we heard the word purpose? All things work together for the good of those who've been called according to God's purpose. That his purpose and election might stand. God purposes broken people. And the only way that can be done would be through sovereign choice. There's no other way. The pock can't possibly make any claim. Look at me, I'm well suited to holding a beautiful plant. No All we can do is beg for mercy. And God chooses to be merciful. So how can we use that word hate? Because it is the only word that can fit out of the English language. When we regard what he does for the elect, when we understand that he chooses some and he rebuilds them and he remakes them and he reforms them and he puts them to noble use and he has a purpose for their life When that's the description of his love for them, those he passes by, he actively loves. God is love. He actively loves those whom he chooses. The ones, the the broken pots that he passes over, he doesn't actively smash them They weren't noble and perfect and in good shape, and he broke them. But the word hate is the fitting word For they get the opposite of what the elect get. They get the opposite of the love the elect receive. And so the only word that'll work is the opposite of love. But his love is active, his hate is not. His love is constructive, his hate is simply allowing. He does not destroy. And so this passage wrestles with this difficulty. Have we answered every question? No. We've still got more to read. We've got more to go in these three chapters. But Paul has said the first thing you gotta understand about salvation is that it belongs to our God. It is in his hands He will choose whom he saves. If you're wondering about the history of Israel, you first have got to deal with the fact that Israel was saved at all. And anybody from Israel would be saved. That God chose them at all is the miracle. That God had any compassion on anyone is the mystery. That some go to hell should not surprise that any go to heaven is a profound mystery. That this part would be thrown away is totally fitting. That it might be redeemed is by the amazing grace of God. Let's pray. Lord, these are difficult chapters filled with hard truths, and yet when we wrestle through them, when we see how you are at work in us. When we see that you are redeeming broken vessels, having mercy on those you choose to choose to have mercy, we are in awe of you. It is not as if it was just a question of you taking the time to piece together this fragmentary pot. No, to fix us cost you your son. What a profound thing that is. Let us never accuse you of being unfair, being injust. Let us never accuse you Of having a lack of compassion. For the very fact that you have called us to be your children is the proof that your compassion is profound. That your love is deeper and wider and richer than we could possibly comprehend You have taken us off from the floor of life's shed and redeemed us for your purposes. Let us rejoice in that truth. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.