Continue now in Romans chapter 8. If you'd open your Bibles to Romans chapter 8, we'll begin in a few minutes in verse 18. Um using the red pew Bible. I believe that's on page 1122. Romans 8, 18, 1122 of the Pew Bible Last week, when we were as we worked our way through the book of Romans, we saw that we are children of God, that we are adopted. That we are co-heirs with Jesus Christ of the riches that are God's. And that is indeed good news. It is absolutely worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Paul has told us that is who we are, children of God. But that begs the question, does it not? Why does life hurt so much? Why is there pain? Why is there suffering? Why is there so much difficulty if in fact we are the children? of God. In May of 2005, I lost my job. I would argue that I lost it unfairly. That I should not have. I had a stay-at-home wife and four children under the age of twelve. It was a time of great anxiety and stress. And a man in my church, meaning to comfort me, I'm sure, said to me, Scott, don't worry, you are a child of God It's interesting how often that sort of thing doesn't really help. And in fact, it sometimes has exactly the opposite impact. You see, when life is hard, when there is pain and there is trouble and there is difficulty, we have a tendency to doubt the promises. That we are adopted into God's family, his sons and daughters, his heirs. We ask ourselves, it's never allowed, in the back of our minds. Would God really treat his children this way? If I'm really God's, if I'm going through all this difficulty, And if God's promises are true, then maybe I'm not His child after all. Many of us this morning are experiencing some sort of difficulty. Maybe you are lonely. Oh, there are friends and there are family around you. You may even have a spouse. But your heart aches more than anyone knows. And you're asking yourself, can that really be a trait of a child of God? How can it be that Jesus said, I have come that they may have life and have it to the full, and I feel so empty? Maybe I'm not really his child. And we pray and we pray and we pray, and yet our prayers are not answered Loved ones die, they suffer, things happen, we lose our jobs, we go through tremendous difficulty. Children walk away from the faith, grandchildren suffer And yet Jesus said, if you who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to you who ask him? We're asking, and he's not giving. So maybe we're not really his children after all. And I think each of us could testify to the mountain that stood in our way. And it stubbornly refused to be taken up and cast into the sea. And we wonder to ourselves. Jesus said, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe you have received it, and it will be granted to you. And yet it hasn't worked. My obstacles in life are not removed, but compounded. So maybe I'm not really his child. And all the attempted comfort, rooted as it so often is in this life is far from helping us. In fact, it actually causes us to doubt our place in God's family Paul said, You are sons, heirs of God and co-heirs with Jesus Christ, fellow heirs with Christ. But outwardly, on the surface, not one of the promises of God seems to be coming true. And so you ask yourself, am I really a child of God? Better remind ourselves that the man who wrote these things suffered more than any of us have. Paul was beaten. He was unjustly imprisoned. He was mistreated, misunderstood, and misrepresented His ministry was besmirched and it was scandalized by people misrepresenting what he was actually teaching. Others who called themselves Christians pointed at Paul and said, the man preaches life-righteousness. He denies the law of God in our lives. If there was ever a child of God who might question his adoption, it would be the Apostle Paul And yet he writes on. He continues in chapter 8. Because he knows we need to understand these things. He knows that we have got to have a firm grasp on what it really really means to be a child of God, or we will walk away. Turn your Bibles if you have not already to Romans eight. Join me now in picking up in verse eighteen. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. John, is there anything I can do to help with it? For the creation was subjected to futility willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope, that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is in the what is in the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know That for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray and ask His help. We're standing it too. Lord, show us the richness, the depth, the wonderful promises that are laid before us in this text. Use it to strengthen us that we would cling to you even more when life is difficult. We ask for this help in Jesus' name. Amen. The following is inscribed on a stone. That stone is today in a museum in Rome. But once upon a time, about 2,000 years ago or so, it marked the grave of a wealthy Roman. Here's what the stone says. You see the funerary monument of Lucius Ven uh I knew I would struggle with his name, Lucius Venetius Musa Campister. Place of rest for those who are tired of life, exhausted by a life conducted in many different regions. Tranquility welcomes him to a deathly abode. Death is released from wealth and poverty, for nature forces both rich and poor to live in the poverty. anxiety. Lucius could have lived in 21st century America. His expression of exhaustion That he was chasing the wealth of this world, that he was always busy doing business, trying to gain whatever he might gain. And it wore him out To the point that death became the only hope of rest he had in his life. That he might go to the grave exhausted And there finally find rest. Many of us pursue things that ultimately exhaust We chase the wealth of this world. We are busy with the business of the world. And some say, oh, I'm not going to get on that gerbil wheel, the hamster wheel, I'm not going to just chase my tail doing those things. But most people who take that approach, what do they do with their life? They spend the weekend in debauchery, numbing themselves, medicating themselves against the emptiness of their life. Their life is so much fun that they cannot remember on Monday what they did on Friday We walk away from this life. We try to hide from it. We advertise vacations as an escape. From life, because we are exhausted by this life. And the pursuit of wealth doesn't alleviate the anxiety of life. It alleviates some of the occasions and affords us some distraction. The pursuit of pleasure may blot out some of the anxiety. And afford us an occasional distraction. But in the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ, God through Paul is offering another hope. Another way, another path, another door. And his gospel is appealing because It offers three things that we must understand, three insights into the difficulty of this life Let's take a look at those right now. The first thing that the gospel gives, according to Paul here, is that the gospel offers a realistic look at the hardships of life. The gospel offers a realistic look at the hardships of this life. The true gospel, which Paul preached to Rome, was honest about what we are going through He doesn't paint a rosy picture. He doesn't say being a Christian is going to make everything all better. He doesn't say, hey, as long as you have Christ, nothing will ever go wrong in life. That is not what he says at all. In fact, he says everyone's life, believers included, is subject to, in verse 20, futility and in verse 21, decay. Every one of us has had the experience of buying the product that didn't deliver what it promised. Every one of us has had that experience of chasing a hope which only disappointed us. Life hurts. And who among us, except perhaps those who are of the hardest of hearts, who among us would not grieve not just at the disappointment of life, but the outright evil of life It is a gut-wrenching reality that in this world there are people, women and children who are trafficked is the word we use. What a sanitized word, trafficked. As if they were being given directions by a love a nice kind policewoman with a whistle They're not trafficked. They're kidnapped. They're imprisoned. They're enslaved. They're drugged. They're raped. All for the perverse pleasure of rich men. That's going on in our world. And if we pretend it's not, then we are not nearly as honest as the Bible. How can we not be affected by that? When the Bible says, be angry and do not sin, this is what it's talking about. If that doesn't make you angry, you're sinning. Be angry and do not sin. And history is replete with men Who somehow manage to ascend to the top ranks of society only to plunder that society for their ultimate gain. They are not public servants, but public enslavers. Life is hard. And Paul's gospel admits this, it acknowledges this, it owns up to it, it has a place for it. More than that, it has an explanation. for it. For why life is hard and why it continues to be hard. The world suffers, Paul says, because human creatures have rebelled against their creator. Rather than worshiping God and giving thanks to God, they have defied him And done instead whatever pleases them. And because of this, the place where we were created, the place that is our home And will always be our home unless we die before the second coming. That place has been subjected to a curse. Creation is literally cursed because of our sin, Paul says. When we deny the reality of suffering, or if we pretend that somehow it's our direct fault Well, you're only suffering because you did something wrong. We actually weaken the face of brothers and sisters going through difficult times. Because we are saying to them That your suffering is somehow evidence that you aren't really adopted. You're not really a child of God. God would not let his children suffer like that. Jesus was clear, was he not? In this life you will have tribulations. He said, if they hated me, they will hate you. He said, anyone who would be my disciple must take up his cross and follow me, he went on to say, and be willing to lose your own life. One of the appeals of the gospel when it is presented rightly is the honesty of the gospel. People hear it and go, yes, that's what I'm experiencing. The slice is broken, and I'm broken, and yet I know it shouldn't be like this. You know, believing in Jesus is not going to change that reality. Going to church is not going to change that reality. Sending money into the televangelist is not going to change that reality. How did Paul say it to the Corinthians? If we have hope in Jesus for this life, we are to be pitied above all men. It is a sad and pathetic, lame Christianity that says Jesus came to fix this life And it's not honest. It's not real. And it's not what the Bible says. Paul in Romans 8 says life hurts. It's hard. But he doesn't leave it there. His gospel goes on to offer hope from for freedom from these hardships. If the gospel is honest about the fact that life is hard, it is also frank about the fact that there is a hope, that there is coming a day when we will be set free from these things. You know, it's interesting that the the the the men who represented it represented Jesus, the men who recounted what he said. Remember, there was no scribe taking notes during Jesus' life. Rather, those who followed him, his disciples, his apostles, they later wrote down what he said. Now, do you think it would have the irony would not have been lost on them? If Jesus had come to fix this life, do you not think they would have scoffed? At the very promises that he made, you know, people all the abundant life, a full life, we're going to have an abundant life in this life. The men who wrote these things, they gave up their lives Matthew was stoned and then beheaded. Peter and his brother Andrew were both crucified. Bartholomew, about whom we don't know a ton, it appears that he was actually flayed alive and then beheaded. Thomas died of spear stabbing. And the list goes on and on. Only John of the twelve apostles, 13, if you include Paul. Only John died of natural causes. All the others suffered horribly for their faith. But they stayed the course. This morning, our brother Ken is back in the hospital, continuing to suffer. And you might think If he's really a child of God and really going through all these sufferings, at what point does he just throw in the towel and say, I must not be a child? Why does he continue in faith? Because he understands that the hope promised in the gospel is not for the fixing of this life. It is for the next life. Peter went to that cross knowing that the abundant life he had been promised was just on the other side of that cross. Why do those who suffer continue to call themselves the children of God? Hope For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly. Now listen to this: the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope What a bizarre statement. How oxymoronic does that seem? You don't subject something to futility in hope. At least we mere humans do not. But that really is what God says here. That the creation was subjected to utility in hope. Now stop and think about it for a moment. Why is it that Jesus is so worried about the salvation of wealthy people? Why does he say that it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle We were sorting through some photos here the other day and we came across Caleb's photos of camels. He was stationed in Kuwait for a few years or for a few months with the army and he saw wild camels and he took some pictures They are big, gangly creatures. And Jesus says it would be easier for one of them to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And don't get me wrong, the Bible is clear. Matthew was wealthy, he saved. Bartholomew, uh uh, uh, uh Barnabas was wealthy, he saved. Lydia was wealthy, she saved. There are rich people who are saved. But Jesus' hyperbole is to make the point that that's not the norm. And history bears it out, does it not? The poor have usually come to faith in Christ much faster than the rich in much higher numbers. Why Futility. Futility drives them into the arms of Jesus. Car breaks down. You see a rich person, your car breaks down, what do you do? You buy a new car, maybe you go get the one fixed, but either way you can afford it. When a poor person's car breaks down, they don't get to work and they lose the meager job they had and now they're even poorer And they say, they acknowledge, they admit there's got to be something better. This can't be what life is supposed to be. And they say, there's got to be more out there. And futility drives them to hope. And Paul says that hope does not disappoint. Now, futility can breed despair. As it did for Lucius, the Roman man we met at the beginning with his funeral stone. But it can prompt us to find hope. And the gospel offers that hope. First, it agrees with your assessment of this life that it is broken. And secondly, it tells you why people are sinful. And then thirdly, it tells you that this is not all there is. For how does Paul continue? The creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Wait a second. Not only do we, as heirs of God, co-heirs, fellow heirs with Christ Jesus, not only do we inherit all the richness that is God's, but the creation itself. is going to one day benefit from that. When we are redeemed, it will be redeemed. When we're made full, it'll be made complete. When we're made right, it'll be made right. Creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. We groan inwardly as we eagerly await our adoption as sons. Isn't that an interesting statement? We saw last week Paul said you have been adopted. As the sons of God. This week he says we await our adoption of sons. Now, those are within a few verses of each other. It's not like Paul forgot what he said in one place and then said it differently in another place. Oops. No. With Paul, there is always Two aspects to our salvation, the now and the not yet. That which is true and that which will become true. That which has already been realized and that which awaits realization. And almost always for Paul, those are two intimately related issues. We are, in one sense, the children of God now. But in another sense, we await the day when we will become the children of God. For we realize that we aren't yet living with all of the benefits, all of the per prerogatives, all of the wealth and joy that befits the children of God. And yet it's out there. And we eagerly await our adoption as sons. You know, it's easy to to look at the child who is always sick, who never has the right clothes. whose car ain't cool if they have one at all, who cannot afford the private sports teams or the private SAT tutors It's easy to look at that person. Well, let me word it the other way around. Who's ever looked at such a person and said, wow, her daddy must be rich? Right? It's easy to look at a Christian and go, they aren't really the child of God. What have they got? Where are all the promises? What are you holding on to? Where's the comfort, the ease, the care that you claim to have is yours as the children of God? Why does God delay? Why has he put off the realization of our adopted our adopted status? Why is it that he has not publicly and openly made it crystal clear to the whole world? That we are his and bestowed on us all the riches that belong to us. We know Verse 28. We know that all things work together for the good of those who love God, who are called according to his purpose. Paul says that in this everything is working out. Everything is coming together for our good Why would an earthly father leave his son to spend an uncomfortable night in jail and not bail him out right away? For his own good. Why does a loving mother force her child to smoke that entire carton of cigarettes till they vomit for her own good? Why do parents allow teenagers to struggle through the missteps of life? Why do parents allow toddlers to fall and skin their knee? For their own good. Paul says, I know you don't feel like the child of God right now. I know that your life is full of suffering and full of pain and full of difficulty. But this is to be expected, he says. But it will work out for your good You see, if the we were all wealthy right now, if the whole world were comfortable, if everything was more or less working like it should. We wouldn't be driven with our skinned knee running into the arms of our Heavenly Father We wouldn't even necessarily realize that life could be better. If life were really close to being what it ought to be, we might actually be incredibly comfortable with it John Kelvin talked about the fact that one of the reasons that Christians continue to struggle in this life was so that they would pay attention and keep their eyes on the next life. Donald Barnhouse, the pastor at Tenth Prayers up in Philadelphia in the middle part of the twentieth century. He said it this way. If Satan were to take control of a city, all its bars would be closed, pornography would be banned, pristine streets would be filled with tidy pedestrians, all of whom smiled at each other. There would be no swearing, and children would say, yes, sir, and no, ma'am. And the churches would be full where Christ has never preached. When everything is going swimmingly, we start to think this is pretty good. I don't need anything better And we don't notice that we're still going to die. We don't notice that we are still at odds with our Maker. And we live a comfortable, happy, easy life and go to hell. How is that for our good? The suffering of this life The futility of this life is meant to keep driving us back to Jesus Christ. The sin we keep struggling with. reminds us that our righteousness is founded and not in ourselves. The pain reminds us that we look forward to the day when he will wipe every tear away The gospel comes along and it says, yes, something is wrong. Your world is broken, you are broken. It's because you're at odds with your Creator. It says the reason is because of sin. And you are wallowing in the effects of that so that you will understand that, so that you will come to your knowledge of your need for a Savior. But Paul's gospel presented here does not account only for the past and the future. He doesn't say, hey, we sinned and messed this world up, but there's a day coming when it'll be fixed. He also says that the gospel brings hope of help right now. Not of a complete fix, not of everything being made right, but the hope of help right now. The gospel promises God's help. As we wait for that day when it'll all be made right. Did you notice in the text, in verse 26? That wording there, that the Spirit of God groans. God's Spirit groans on our behalf It is no accident that Paul used that word. Why? Because it's exactly the same word he used to speak of our groaning and creation's groaning By the way, in the Greek version of the Old Testament, it's the same word that's used of Israel's groaning under Egypt's oppression. And Paul says, God knows your groaning, and he knows the creation around you is groaning. And his spirit is also groaning. You've heard me say this before, but it is always worth repeating. Why did Jesus cry at Lazarus' tomb? Not because he was sad about Lazarus, he was going to heal Lazarus. He knew he was raising Lazarus from the dead. Why did he cry? Because he was saddened by the estate of things. He was saddened that sin had crept into his father's creation. He was saddened that those whom he came to save had to go through this at all. The Spirit of God groans along with us But he doesn't just groan without any ability. He doesn't just groan because, well, can't do anything about it. Just sit here and pity and wallow. No, he groans and prays on our behalf. You see, in the midst of your frustration, whatever it may be the futility of your marriage or your job or your family, whatever it is. Which of us is able to express what's really going on? Who among us can sit in the therapist's office Or over coffee with a friend, or maybe even lying in bed with our spouse at night, and actually articulate all the emptiness we feel, all the pain we're going through, all of our struggle with sin. You see, the Holy Spirit does that on our behalf. He's able to search that pain in your heart and express it to your Heavenly Father In a way you simply cannot. He has both the depth of understanding of you as a human being and the depth of knowledge of the deity that he alone can connect the two. Your pain is not going unnoticed by God. Your Heavenly Father is allowing you to suffer for a while, but it's not as though he doesn't know about it or feel for you. His spirit searches your heart and joins in your groaning There's another thought here that I think is important, and it helps, for me at least, to kind of tie it all together. How is it that all things work for our good when the text says we don't even know how to pray? Stop and think about that. We're trying to pray for things to work out for our good, but uh scripture says we don't really know how to pray. How can it possibly work out for our good There was a movie about 20 years ago. Do not look this movie up. It is mostly blasphemous. But there was at least one redeeming scene. In which everyone is granted their prayer request for a time. And it's chaos. Two women, both running late for work, both pray that the stoplight will go green, and they both have the request granted. And they collide in the intersection. And neither one of them gets to work Do you stop to think about that? That you and your brothers and sisters in the Lord are praying at opposite purposes? We don't even know how to pray. And yet what are we told here? What are we shown here that the Spirit prays on our behalf Monica lived in the last century of the Roman Empire. She was a faithful Christian woman, and she lived in North Africa. She had an unbelieving son. Her unbelieving son and somewhat unwise son. He wanted to go to Rome Now, what does any small town mother, Christian mother, pray when her foolish son wants to go to the big city? Lord, don't let it happen. Lord, nothing good can come of this. If my boy goes into the big city, he is only going to be led into sin, into corruption. He is going to be led into evil. Do not, do not, do not, Lord, let my boy. Go to the big city. And that is what she prayed. He was a gifted and ambitious man. And his hope, his reason for wanting to go to Rome, was that his gifts and his talents and his intellect would be recognized by the authorities in Rome and that it would allow him to advance in his career and to rise up the social ladder of the Roman Empire. And despite mom's fervent prayers, despite this faithful woman praying for something good by the way. Praying for something noble, praying for something that any wise mother would pray for. Her Heavenly Father did not grant her request, and her boy went to Rome. And in Rome he was recognized. His talents were seen And the powers that be granted him a lucrative and prestigious position as a professor in the school up in Milan, Italy. Where he met Bishop Ambrose. And he converted and became a Christian It would be easy for mom to say, God didn't listen to me. God didn't grant my prayer. God didn't give me what I want. God is not acting like my Heavenly Father. But the Holy Spirit was praying something else on her behalf. And her boy went to Rome and then to Milan. He met a Christian bishop. He converted himself. He was himself converted to Christianity And Time magazine listed him as one of the 100 most influential people in history. You know him as St. Augustine. Arguably, he stands on the podium with Jesus and Paul as the most influential people in the history of Christianity. You see, when you're going through this life and there are things happening and you're scratching your head and you can't figure out why, and you're wondering what's happening, if you are a child of God, though the world may not see it Though you may not have yet the inheritance that would prove it, you have God's Holy Spirit searching your heart, helping you pray Praying prayers that you don't even know to pray. Working all things together for your good. That's only possible when it's in the hands of God. It's only possible when it is his Spirit that is interceding on our behalf and not us ourselves. It's only possible when we follow up with the fullness Of what Paul said in the previous section. Go back in your Bibles. Look back up at verses 16 and 17. I cut them short when I read them at the beginning. We cut them short when we remember what it means to be a child of God. When we think about our adoption into his family, we cut these off. Look at chapter 8, verses 16 and 17. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. That's where I stopped, and that's where we'd stop way too often. What does Paul go on to say? Provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Yeah, we are the children of God. But have you seen how he treated his son Have you noticed how the one who was his child by nature was treated? Have you seen how he stayed the course of faithfulness to his father? He could have called ten thousand angels He could have struck dead everyone who spoke against him that day. He could have freed himself from the cross and returned to the heavens where he would have had all the glory that was rightly his. But he chose the path of suffering out of obedience to his father for our good. When we're worried about the things in our life that don't seem like they're working out for our good, we've got to remember the way Jesus' life worked out For our good. He had every right As a child by nature, who, being in nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. But made himself nothing and took on the likeness of a man and became a servant and became obedient even to death on a cross This life is hard. The gospel admits that. But it is not a hopeless life, for there is a life There is a life everlasting in which all this utility will be removed, when all the groaning of our experience will be taken away, when every tear will be wiped away, as we sang earlier. And when our adoption will be made known to all men, when we will walk With all the public knowledge that we are heirs of the king. Until then we have his help. Until then we have him searching our hearts and praying on our behalf, groaning along with us, helping us go to our Heavenly Father. Whatever it is you're going through, and I don't know what you're going through. Do not, do not, do not let it cast doubts upon your status as a child of God. Let it be instead a futility that drives you to hope That causes you to look forward to the next life. That causes you to store up treasure in heaven. That causes you to fall on your knees and say, Spirit, I don't know what to say, but I'm here. Pray for me Being a child of God does involve some waiting. Does involve some difficulty and some suffering along the way. None of that means we're not his pray. Lord, we are an impatient people. We live in a society with instant gratification. We click, click, click on Amazon and we have it tomorrow. Lord help us to wait. Keep us faithful as we wait. And make us faithful until you return. And when you come back, find us waiting, find us wanting, find us praying, find us hoping That we would be recognized as your children and our adoption complete. In this hope, we come to you. Amen