Grab that bulletin, keep it nearby, open it to page eight, please. Open your bulletin to page eight We have there a a blending of all four Gospels, a reading that goes between the different Gospels, looking to each where it offers details that the others omitted. And this way we get the fullest possible picture of the resurrection account. So for example, we have Mark telling us that as the the uh the women walked toward the tomb. They were discussing who would roll the stone away, and we immediately uh segue into Matthew telling us that an angel rolled the stone away so that we understand how that all played out. So that's our reading that we're going to look at this morning. I will comment that uh uh uh as we transition from one book to another, we've uh I got bold superscript there, so you know, you can keep track of where I have found this, so you know it's all the word of God, the word of Scott There are a few words in brackets that I've added for clarity's sake because we did jump around. Let's pray and ask the Spirit's help as we consider this this uh uh more comprehensive look at the resurrection. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that we have so many witnesses, so many testimonies, so many uh accounts of this wonderful event, this historic and and world-changing event. We thank you that we need not take one person's word for it. But rather we can be assured by the repeated witness and the faithful witness as we look at all four of them. That Christ is indeed risen from the dead, and that we can absolutely take confidence in him forevermore. We pray this in his name. Amen. Before we jump into the reading, I just want you to think a little about a couple of things. One of them is this I almost always found it a little bit interesting that we celebrate July 4th as our National Day of Independence. I honestly wonder if we wouldn't be better off using October 19th. Now, October 19th is the day that General Cornwallis of the British Army surrendered to General Washington at the Battle of Yorktown. And the hostilities ceased. The war was over. You see my point. It's one thing to write on a piece of paper, on a document, hey, we're independent. It's another thing to actually back it up. It's another thing to actually make it so. If we had not won that war, what difference would July 4th make? There's a woman by the name of Buddhika, and she amassed an army, and she declared herself to be the queen of the Iceni, a tribe I had never heard of. And she gave a fiery motivational speech. Listen to this portion of it. It is not as a woman of nobility, but as one of the people that I am avenging lost freedom. This is a woman's resolve. As for men, they may live as slaves if they so choose. Wow. Now I ask you, with Women's History Month just past, how is it that none of us have ever heard of Boudhika? How do we not know that speech? Be lost. After her initial victory, the Romans quashed her rebellion, and for the next 400 years they ruled Britain peaceably. You know, it's many many will say they are king or they are queen as she did, but if they're not able to back it up then we then what they say becomes meaningless. This sermon series for the last three weeks in this fourth week has had a bold title, Eight Days That Changed Everything. And that's kind of a high bar to clear, to change everything. And to be honest, if you think about it, what we've seen so far is historical, but hardly historic. It happened, but it's not particularly noteworthy if you think about it. Jesus was neither the first nor the last man to ride ostentatiously into a city amid joyous clamoring as though he were its king. He was neither the first nor the last man in history to take on corrupt religious leadership, and he was certainly not only, history's not uh the not the only example in history of a man who was executed for doing precisely both of those things. There is nothing about what we've seen so far that is in and of itself particularly noteworthy. Not one of these items is on its own historic So why would I dare call these eight days that changed everything? Well, what if Cornwallis doesn't surrender on October 19, 1781, because four years earlier, in 1777, General Horatio Gates loses the Battle of Saratoga. New England is isolated from all the other colonies. France stays out of the war altogether, and probably about a year later the American Revolution sputters and dies. The signing of July 4, 1776 would be but a historical footnote. And today we'd all be speaking English. Conversely, what if Boudica had succeeded? What if her army had driven Rome from Britain's shores as she intended? She'd be one of history's greatest defenders of freedom. Laver have seeped into the Queen's English. The plural of radius would be radiuses. And a preposition would be something I could end the sentence with. There is that adage that history is written by the victors. What we remember and how we remember it turns, quite understandably, on the outcome of events. And so it's essential that we read and understand these final events. For without them, our faith is meaningless Our Jesus is but a historical footnote. And these days change nothing. We must hear this. And so we pick up actually on the final events of the Friday evening. I did not consider those last week purposefully. And we pick up there in your bulletin at the top of I lost the page, I think it's page eight in the bulletin. Now there was a man named Joseph. from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man, who had not consit since not consented to their decision and their action, and he was looking for the kingdom of God. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud, and laid him in a tomb cut in stone, where no one had ever yet been laid. It was the day of preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning. Remember, the ancient Jews counted their days from sunset to sunset a little differently than we do. So on that our Friday evening, their Sabbath was beginning. So this is Friday evening, April 3rd, A. D. 33. The women who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid. Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. The next day, that is, after the day of preparation, not sure why it's worded in such a convoluted way. We're on Saturday, the Sabbath. The chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember how that imposter said while he was still alive, After three days I will rise. Therefore, order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away, and tell the people he has risen from the dead. And the last fraud will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard of soldiers? Go, make it as secure as you can. So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard. At least four armed, trained uh Roman soldiers, probably actually 16. Okay, we don't know for sure but the way the watch cycles worked This is probably a rotating group of four men at a time, the other three groups sleeping, each taking a shift during the night. Probably 16 soldiers. When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome, brought spices, not sorry, bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, Who will roll the stone away, stone for us from the entrance of the tomb? Seems the women are not aware that a guard has been posted. They're worried about the stone. They're not worried about the soldiers. Understandably, they have no way of knowing a guard has been posted. And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back. It was very large. For behold, there was a great earthquake. was past tense. Matthew is stepping back and explaining how it is that the stone got removed. Behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. None of the writers note it, but almost everybody has agreed that at some point, obviously, these guards, while they initially fell down like dead men for fear, at some point they recovered their senses and they got up and they beat a path out of there And we will see them again back at Pilate's headquarters or back at the headquarters of the Jewish leadership very shortly. In entering the tomb, the women saw a young man sitting on the right side dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who is crucified. He is risen. He is not here. See the place where they leave him. But go, tell his disciples, and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you. They do eventually see him in Galilee, but we're going to see that they first get to meet him again in Jerusalem. And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. And they remembered and then they remembered his words. And returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to all st Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. But these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them. So Peter went out with the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, that is, John. And they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen claws lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linencloth lying there in the facecloth which had been on Jesus' head, not flying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb. As she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb. Mary Magdalene has apparently followed Peter and John, was unable to keep pace with them, and has arrived after them, and in fact after they've left. And she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know it was Jesus Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, If you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Raboni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father to my God and to your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. And behold, Jesus met the other women and said, Greetings And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. There they will see me. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priest all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave us a They gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. If a Roman soldier were found to be derelict in his duties, it was a capital offense. If these guards had let this body be stolen, they would have been put to death. That's why that comment, hey, if it gets back to the governor, we got your back. We'll cover, you're not gonna die for this. Okay. Um so they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. This next account of the Emmaus Road has been shortened. That very day that two of them, Pleopas, we find out, and possibly his wife Mary. were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were kept from recognizing him Beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. As they were talking about these things on the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now, Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, Place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side. I will never believe This ends the reading of God's word, praise be to God. Unbelievable is a word that is kind of losing its literal meaning, right? Today we say something is unbelievable. If we say, hey, let me tell you the unbelievable story of two teenagers What we expect to hear is an account of some hero uh heroism, or maybe a a harrowing tale of how they survived a plane wreck in the wilderness. But an unbelievable story is an amazing story. Of course, historically, literally, if I say, let me tell you the unbelievable story of two teenagers, what ought to follow is the lie they told their parents about why they miss curfew. It is the unbelievable story. The text before us today has both senses of unbelievable in it. There are both senses of the unbelief. That sense of wow and that sense of I just don't buy it. There is that sense of this is amazing and that sense of I don't think it can be believed. Unbelief, perhaps disbelief, appears first. And as we might expect, it appears among Jesus' opponents. From the very moment they approach Pilate to secure a guard, they are assuming there is a conspiracy in the offing. They represent this form of disbelief which is active. and stubborn, which suppresses the truth for its own purposes, which refuses to believe the evidence that's right in front of them Jesus had turned water to wine, walked on water, fed thousands, healed dozens, called storms, even raised the dead. And on two or three occasions When these very leaders were angry and prepared to grab him, he had actually disappeared from their view. They had seen firsthand his wonders, his power, his miracles, and they refused to believe And so they're not prepared, they're not willing to even consider the possibility that he might actually raise from the dead. They don't send the the Roman guards to the say, why don't you keep a lookout? Be sure that that his disciples don't steal the body. But if he rises, comes out of that grave on his own, we want to know about it. It's not what they're doing here. Their position is one of hardened disbelief. They are actively not believing Jesus and are not going to be willing to believe him. Now, thankfully, we know that some of the leadership did. We know that Nicodemus, Joseph Amerathy, and some others came to be believers in Jesus. The grace of God can extend even to Pharisees. But what we see here is this act of suppression of the truth. And I warn us against this. You might be thinking to yourself, well, wait a second, Pastor, we're Christians. We are believers. We're not like that. We would never actively suppress the truth. I would encourage you to just pay attention to politics. Every side bothfies all sides actively suppress the truth In the last presidential election, our choices of the major party candidates, our choices were somebody who denied the objective counting of votes or one who denied the objective reality of gender. Both sides suppress the truth. There is not any hope of truth in our politics. And if you don't think that societal bent creeps into the church, be warned right now. That attitude that we're going to be right and we're going to win no matter what, that that being in power matters more than clinging to the truth. It absolutely creeps into the church. Partisanship, maybe not of the Republican and Democrat variety, maybe not of the right and left variety, but partisanship sneaks into even our church. For we catch ourselves saying things like, well, that's the Reformed view. That's the Presbyterian way. That's partisanship. We must be very, very wary. That we do not become like these people. refusing the evidence that's right there in front of us in favor of a position we'd rather hold for some self-serving purpose. And when it comes to things like doctrine, when it comes to things like the church, almost always that self-serving purpose is this. I don't want to admit I was wrong. I don't want to be publicly apologetic and humble. Disbelief of an act of variety suppressing the truth of evidence right in front of us is always a risk to us, and we must be wary of it. Back to these men They establish the very first counter-theory for the resurrection. They establish what is today known as the stolen body theory of the resurrection. He didn't really rise from the dead. His body was taken. Why? Because we don't want to believe that he is the Christ. We don't want to submit to him as Lord. We don't want to admit we were wrong. So we've got to come up with an alternative to the resurrection. So we're going to say it's the stolen body theory. After all, we know that things like resurrection from the dead just don't happen. But I would like to point out that for the stolen body theory to be true, we have to believe that these fishermen, who are cowering in fear somehow summon the courage to try to sneak up on armed Roman guards. That they somehow acquired sufficient stealth that they were able to succeed. That they somehow were suddenly capable of moving a large stone behind the backs of these guards without being heard. Toss the body over their shoulder and get back out the way they came without ever being noticed. That requires more faith than the resurrection, I think. If you're against the resurrection because it took a miracle, that takes a miracle. But we're also supposed to believe this. That those men and then the women that are told in the story, and by the way, the whole fact that the story is led by women kind of undermines this. If you're going to write a conspiracy, if you're going to come up with a A false narrative, at least come up with one that's believable. Women were not allowed to be witnesses in court back then. They were inherently untrustworthy, you know, being female. So they couldn't testify in court. The whole fact that it's women who are the witnesses to this kind of undermines the idea that it's a made-up story. Because that's not how you'd make. Anyway, back to our account. So these men stole the body. They got out without being noticed miraculously. They buried the body somewhere else, and they went on to live out as though the resurrection had occurred. Now think about what that requires. We reject the resurrection, we the culture, not we this church. Reject the resurrection because it is simply unbelievable. But there are a lot of unbelievable things that we have to believe. Keep in mind that 100 years ago, what are we, 1920? Okay, 120 years ago, the very idea of human beings flying was utterly unbelievable. It would have seemed like magic. So there are people who have a hard time accepting that we walked on the moon. And let's face it, when you stop to really think about what's involved, when you try to wrap your head around all that it takes for a moon landing, it does come off as unbelievable, does it not? You want to know why I believe it? Because the conspiracy theorist who says it didn't happen cannot produce a single witness to their side of things. Not one person has ever stepped up and said, I was in the room when the conspiracy was hatched. I was there when we faked it. I was in the studio in Hollywood where we landed on the moon. Now you think about what that would be worth to that person. You know the books they could have sold, the movie rights they would have had, the speaking engagements they would have had, the fame that that person would have had. Not one person has ever done so. There's not one piece of evidence to actually support the idea that the moon landing was a conspiracy. So as unbelievable as it is, I'm forced to decide of things that go, it must have happened. Lots of people testify that it did happen. Nobody is able to positively say that it didn't Or even point to the idea that there was a conspiracy. That unbelievable thing happened. Already in this account, we have seen the opponents of Jesus pay Judas to get an inside man and betray Jesus They have paid the guards to tell the story they wanted to hear. Do you not imagine that they would have paid one of these people to sell out this? Do you not think Bartholomew would have not gotten well gone his wildest dreams? I picked on Bartholomew because we don't think about the guy, so you know I can pick on Bartholomew. He, if he had sold out Peter and John and Andrew and James and James and I can't, and Nathaniel and all the rest of them, he'd have made a fortune. Saying, guys, it was all fake, we stole the body, and let me show you where it is. The very fact that they went to their deaths for this. Is evidence that it really happened. The stolen body theory just doesn't hold water. And in fact, to the point where nowadays very few people actually hold to the stolen body theory, even the opponents of Christianity. The prevailing view today is generally one of mythology That it's a mythological thing. You see, even the early Christians didn't believe in the resurrection It was later that the church layered that on. You know how stories are, you tell a story, each retelling adds a little extra to it, enhances the story a bit, and it's two or three generations later that Jesus is raised from the dead. And that really is kind of the attitude of most of the academic elites today, if they think about Christianity at all. It's that there's this mythology of resurrection that has arisen around Jesus. And we in the church have got to be careful that does not seepen among us. We, when we start to talk about the resurrection as merely a metaphor for hope. as merely coinciding with the renewal of spring, we are risking falling victim to that lie. It is the historical reality as of something that actually happened. You see, here's the problem with the mythology view. We have fragments of the Gospel of John that date to 120 A. D. So what you say? Well, John was written around 90 A. D. So what you say? John was written in modern-day Turkey. These fragments were found in Egypt. That's quite a ways from each other in the ancient world. So copies were made up in Turkey and got recopied and spread and recopied and spread, all of which takes quite a bit of time, and it eventually ends up down in Egypt. And while you might bury grandma with her favorite Bible, the ancient world did not do that. Books were outrageously expensive. This copy of John that has been found was part of a burial ensemble, meaning the book had deteriorated sufficiently that it could be gotten rid of and used to bury a Christian. Now think about that. John writes his account in A. D. 90. It has to get copied, it has to spread, it has to be recopied. A copy of it has to get to Egypt. That copy has to be used for long enough that it's worn out enough that they can justify using it as part of a burial All of that in merely 30 years. And somehow, in the midst of just those 30 years, the myth of the resurrection got added to the story Because the early Christians didn't really believe in the resurrection. The mythology view does not hold water. It hasn't really seriously closely considered the facts. There are dozens of other explanations for the resurrection, but the reality is this. It's a historical fact. History is established in concrete ways. Do you know why nobody believes that George Washington actually chopped down a cherry tree and then actually said, I cannot tell a lie, I did it. That's an apocryphal tale. Because for history to be established, we need to have it in some primary or secondary sources, ideally to be corroborated by more than one of them from something that seems reputable A primary source is a diary from a soldier, a letter back home during a war, first-hand account of what was going on. A secondary source are those who were contemporaries and research it. They didn't live through it, but newspaper articles, things like that. There is no diary of George Washington cutting down the tree. There is no his mom didn't leave anything behind. There is no record of that being a real thing. But When it comes to the resurrection of Jesus, we have two primary sources. Matthew and John were both disciples of Jesus. They both walked with him. They saw these things and they write down their account of them. Luke was a secondary source for sure. He tells us right in verse 3 that he researched these things and put them down. Mark is a hybrid. Mark was almost certainly not a witness of the things that occurred up in Galilee, but he probably was a witness of much of what occurred down in Jerusalem. So he may have been a firsthand. So we've got multiple sources, multiple accounts. Yeah, but they've got to be credible. I mean you can't you say something like, uh there was a resurrection, you're immediately not credible. Come on, you silly Christians. Drew has an acquaintance that denies the Holocaust. On what grounds does he deny the Holocaust? Because he can't wrap his head around it. He can't believe that six million people were systematically murdered Therefore, it did not happen. Now think about that. I'm going to decide what is believable and not, and then I'm going to twist the facts to fit my view of the world. Is that not exactly what the skeptics of Christianity are saying? I can't believe in the resurrection, so I don't care that you have four primary, three primary sources and a secondary source. I don't care that they independently corroborate one another. I'm going to judge them to be unbelievable because I refuse to change my view of things. In the face of that evidence. The resurrection of Jesus is a historical fact. It occurred. Got off script. Sorry. Give me a second to get caught up with myself here. Um It is unbelievable in the sense that it's hard to wrap our minds around it, that it's amazing, that it's awe-inspiring. But it ought not be unbelievable in the sense that we refuse to believe it. We must learn to submit ourselves to the evidence, to the facts, to the things that are concrete, to the things that are right there in front of us. even if they force us to admit we were once wrong. There's another form of unbelief in the text, and it's noted twice in what we read. John speaking about himself says this. He, John, believed, saw and believed, saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from dead. Luke noted that the two that were walking to Emmaus, that Jesus explained to them the Bible, in the Bible, all the things concerning himself. Beginning with Moses and the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scripture the things concerning himself. One of the biggest problems among Jesus' earliest followers was their failure to grasp the scriptures. And to believe what they taught. Now, like the disbelief of Jesus' opponents, this too has persisted down to our day Now in Jesus' day it was somewhat excusable. There were entire villages that didn't have a copy of the Bible back then. When you adjust for inflation and for today's monetary evaluations, a copy of the Old Testament back then would have run you somewhere in the neighborhood of about $120,000. Most homes did not have one. There were many villages that did not have a copy of the Bible. So the people back then could not just read the Bible for themselves. They had to go to synagogue and hear it read aloud. And if the rabbi at the local synagogue is not a faithful man, then it's not being explained reliably. And it's understandable that they would not know the scriptures or believe the scriptures, but we have no such excuse. All of us have a copy of the Bible. Twelve of them, probably. We have access to unbelievable resources at the click of a mouse or the touch of a screen Most of them free. And if you're ever overwhelmed, if you ever need help sorting through them, come ask me. I would enjoy helping you sort through them. But we should know the scriptures, and we should know what they say and what they teach and what they mean We must not be like these disciples who did not know the scriptures and did not know how it pointed to the resurrection. I praise God as I look around this room. I started to think when I first was writing this sermon, I was thinking to myself, well, I can think of one, two, and it quickly became a number I couldn't even begin. I was like, oh my goodness, there are so many of you who have told me this story I was in a church, but it didn't make sense. I listened to what was said and I looked at my Bible and I was like, they don't match. And I eventually got out and found a different church. You'd be amazed how many of the people sitting around you right now have that story. We must be like that. We must demand that what is being taught to us and preached to us is consistent with the Word of God. You know, if you're here for a regular basis, this is an unusual Sunday that the sermon text is actually in the bulletin. And I did it only this morning because it leapt between all the different gospel accounts But we don't do that purposefully week in and week out. I want you to open your Bibles. I don't want you to look merely at the bulletin. Why? Because I want you to hold me accountable. Because I want your eye to look at the paragraph before and the paragraph after. It's the part I'm not reading And I want you to make sure that what is being said in this pulpit is faithful to the Word of God. We must know the Scriptures. And what they teach. We must understand what they have to say to us and that they declare the resurrection of Jesus. So many of these early disciples did not believe because they did not understand the scriptures. There was the rigid disbelief of the Jewish leadership that rejected the facts that were in front of them, and that kind of reflects the academic intelligentsia nowadays. There was the unbelief of many of the disciples that was a function of they just didn't know enough, a little bit of ignorance, and sadly there are still many churches today that don't pour over the scriptures for an account. But there is another type of unbelief in this story. Look in your bulletin at page nine. Well you're both on a page nine. Right smack dab in the middle of page nine as I recall. It's verse 11. I'm going to jump around a little bit, so keep that page nine handy in front of you here. Middle of page 9, verse 11, but Mary stood weeping. You see where I am? So give give me a few nods or look at me and kind of yeah, going, okay, you're with me? I don't know if I got it with me. Okay. Mary stood weeping. Now look down to the bottom of page nine. At verse 18. Mary Magdalene went and announced Now, why did I take a second to point that out? Mary was the single most popular name in first century Judaism. About 41% of all the women were named Mary. I wanted to make sure we knew which Mary were talking about. This is Mary Magdalene that's at the grave. Okay, with that in mind, go back to the top of that page. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Back to verse 11. Go back to verse 11. She's weeping outside the tomb. She pops her head in, sees the angels, and they ask her why she's crying. And what does she say? Look at verse 13. They have taken away my Lord, and I don't know where they have laid him. Mary is looking for a dead Jesus. And you say, Scott, yeah, we know this story. We've heard this every Easter our entire lives. We know Mary was looking for a dead Jesus. Go back to the top of page nine. What a blessing it was for me to weave these different texts together and see what was going on. Look up at the top of page nine at Luke's account. Luke adds this detail that I had never noticed before. And they, the women, remembered his words, and returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to the rest. Look at Luke 14, verse 10. Now it what uh now it not Luke 14, Luke 24 I think it is. Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women, Salome with them who told these things to the apostles, but these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them Mary Magdalene was one of the women who had gone to the tomb initially, been told by the angels, he's not here, he is risen. She runs to the apostles and says, and with the other women, and along the way they're going, oh, we remember him teaching about this. They remembered his words, and they get to the apostles, and they're like, guys, he's alive He's alive! He's risen! The angels told us so! Remember how he taught that he would rise How is it that an hour later she's standing at the tomb weeping, looking for the body of Jesus Because these words seemed like idol, like an idle tale to the apostles. And they did not believe them. Business leaders talk about the flywheel metaphor a lot. You're familiar with the flywheel, this device that you get it. spinning and it has a lot of momentum and you get it spinning and there's energy built up and you you keep pushing into it and you get more energy momentum builds up in the wheel and that wheel when your business begins to bog down got enough fly wheel the momentum will carry you through low times in your business and women tell you you all work together to get the momentum built back up. This flywheel analogy How do we think about the flywheel of faith? The church is to be a place where the flywheel of faith is gaining momentum. It's to be a place where we help each other We spin one another's flywheels so that when we are down, when there's discouragement, when it's dark, when it's difficult, that flywheel of faith carries us through, that momentum gets us through these down times. But this sister. . She comes to the church all excited and says, he's risen. And I don't want to make this a male-female thing. I do want to make it a leadership thing. The leadership of the church said, you know what you're talking about. And her faith was squashed. Her enthusiasm was killed. In that moment, she's sitting there going, well, if Peter and John and James and Andrew don't believe this, maybe I'm crazy. And she walks out and goes to look for a dead Jesus. Now the church got it fixed, right? We know all those men believed. We know they all came to understand the resurrection. We know they all went to their death for the resurrection. They got it fixed. But imagine for a moment that in her discouragement, and rather than following Peter and John back to the grave and meeting Jesus, what if in her discouragement she just walked out and went home? She didn't get to meet the risen Jesus. Would Mary Magdalene be among the saints that await us in heaven? Thank God the wet blanket of the apostles did not snuff out the slame of faith in this woman. This is true for all of us, but I do want to especially speak to the leaders among us The elders, the deacons, the Sunday school teachers, the Bible study leaders, the heads of households, parents, the grandparents. We have got to be those who spin the flywheel of faith, who help it gain momentum. Who encourage the excited young believer? Is it possible they're going to be excited about the wrong thing occasionally? You bet. But there are useful ways of redirecting their enthusiasm I know enough about myself to know that I default to the wet blanket approach. And I am sorry. But we can't do to one another what they did to Mary Magdalene. We can't take people who want to be enthusiastic about what they've come to understand and send them away discourage looking for a dead Jesus. We have got to do everything in our power to harness the enthusiasm to keep it alive. even while we have to maybe guide it and nudge it and redirect it into something that's a bit more accurate. But if you're a leader You know full well that was done for you at some point in the past. You had it wrong You had the wrong understanding, the wrong view, the wrong doctrine, the wrong whatever. But they didn't squash your faith. Somebody helped you. They encouraged you. They came alongside of you. And they taught you. What if on that day in that room those men had said, what are you, how? Oh What if they had said that is unbelievable? rather than that's unbelievable. And they began to talk about it. Say it again though. What did you see? What did you hear? You're sure they were angels. You're right, he did say he would rise from the dead. That's a good point. I forgot about that. If they'd had that conversation, how differently things might have gone. I was a former high school teacher when I became the principal of a K-12 Christian school, and I was not accustomed to dealing with the little ones, the the ankle biters, the knee huggers. Okay? And one day I'm walking down the hallway, and I think it was a second grader as I recall. Maybe third grade. Probably third grade given what the content was. And a third grader came running up to me, Mr. Shaw, Mr. Shaw, do you know the capital of Pennsylvania? And without hesitating, I said, of course, Harrisburg. And he just wilted. And he said yes and he walked away. And I instantly knew what happened. It's just I wasn't used to dealing with those little kids. He didn't care if I knew He knew and he wanted to tell me, and he was excited about what he had learned. And instead of spinning the flywheel of his educational enthusiasm, I knocked it off to Texas. We cannot do that to each other. I worry about the disbelief of our society, the stolen body or the mythology theories. I do worry about how they undermine our confidence in the account of the resurrection, but it is a historically established reality and we need to believe it. I worry about the fact that a lack of scriptural knowledge, the fact that we are not reading our Bibles enough or studying them enough. That we might fall victim to not knowing and believing what we ought to. But the goal of hearing the Word of God is not to notice the errors other people ought to worry about. It's to notice the ones we should worry about. And I suspect it's this last one that is the greatest threat to Shore Harvest. We cannot Destroy the enthusiasm of our brothers and sisters for the truth of the gospel. We cannot squash their excitement And knock their faith flywheel off its axes. Pray for the leadership of your church. Pray that if Mary Magdalene ever came running into our session meeting, We'd listen and get excited and help her figure it out. Rather than telling her, nah, that's not it. That's just an idle tale, woman. Get out of here. Unbelief can be of that inert variety that we saw right there at the end. Just the failure to believe. Not actively opposing it, but just sitting there going, yeah, I don't buy that. It can be of the defiant variety that we saw in the Jewish leadership. Or it can be of that variety of a lack of knowledge. But it's this last one I want to address now Why are these eight days that changed everything? Because the historical reality of the resurrection has impact. It has meaning. It has import. First of all, if there is a God who can overcome death, and clearly there is, then we better sit up and pay attention. We better find out what he wants from us, what he expects of us. And if there is one who went to his death willingly, as we have been seeing for the last three weeks that Jesus did. And if God intervened and said he didn't deserve to die and overturned the verdict of mankind, then there's something going on with that one. You see, this is not the signing of the Declaration of Independence and then losing the Battle of Yorktown. This is the one who went to the cross so that we could be freed from sin, and then was raised, was brought back to life. For our justification, Romans tells us, so that we can be right with God If you find this unbelievable, in that best sense of the word, that excited exclamation point, energetic, awestruck way, that's Wonderful. If you find this unbelievable, in the most literal sense of that word, I challenge you Why? What's going on? Why can't you accept the hard facts that are right in front of you? Because such a God is to be honored. Such a God is to be feared. Such a God is to be loved. He is to be followed He is to be listened to. He is to be obeyed. And he is to be trusted. Hoped in. Joyfully waited upon If he overcame death, he will and can do it again. And that's what we wait for. That's the excitement of this day. Not renewal in the tulip or daffodil sense of the word, but a renewal of the entire earth. When it will one day be made right, when he will return and fix all that is wrong with it. This is what we hope in. This is what we look for. This is why we celebrate the resurrection, and this is why these were eight days that changed everything. Let's pray. Lord, sweep away our doubt. It is easy to doubt. There are so many voices clamoring against this truth. Sweep away our doubt. And help us to know that our faith is not a blind faith, that we're not believing in some mystical sense of that word. But rather with great warrant, with great reason, with great evidence, we are staking our claim on the historical reality of the resurrection of Jesus. And in doing so, help us not to waver from that, but to know that it uh portends the day when he will come back. That the one who was raised from the dead in this life will come back and usher in the next life. So give us great confidence this morning in that. Reassure us. Strengthen us. Embolden us. We pray this in his name. Amen.