Please turn in your Bibles to the book of Zechariah. Zechariah is the second to last book of the Old Testament. So if you find Matthew, you go back, you find Malachi. And before that, Zechariah. We're going to be looking at the second chapter of Zechariah and considering verses 6 through 13 this morning. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what it is, you must believe. If you want to know how to live, if you want to know how to live in the presence of God, then you must know his word. So I invite you now to hear the word of God from Zechariah 2, starting in verse 6. Up, up, flee from the land of the north, declares the Lord, for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heaven, declares the Lord. Up, escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon. For thus says the Lord of hosts after his I'm sorry, for thus said the Lord of hosts, after his glory sent me to the nations who plundered you. For he who touches you touches the apple of his eye. Behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall become plunder for those who served them. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I come, and I will dwell in your midst, declares the Lord. And many nations shall join themselves to the Lord in that day and shall be my people. And I will dwell in your midst. And you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And the Lord will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem. Be silent, all flesh, before the Lord, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. This is the holy and errant and infallible word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Spirit, speak this message clearly to us this morning, that we would understand your desire to dwell with us, and that we would respond to the call. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Sophomore year in college, I had uh a A job that by a lot of accounts was a really good job for a part-time college student. It it paid well. It had uh uh I say paid well, like three times minimum wage at the time Um it had benefits, paid vacation, uh health insurance, dental insurance, eye insurance, all for part-time. And I quit the job. It was too hard. I had to work. I had to work hard. It was sweaty and nasty and dusty work. And I quit the job And a few months later, I went back to my boss at that job and I begged him to take me back. And of course he pointed out that I wasn't reliable. You already quit once, why would I take you back? And I said, well, i I won't quit this time. I will stay with it. He said, why? What has changed? What would make the difference? Well you see, in the intervening months, I had met this girl. I liked her a lot. And I wanted to marry her. And if I was going to get married, I had to pay the bills. And if I had to pay the bills, I had to have a job. And if I had to have a job, it might as well be a good job that had good pay and good benefits. And that was enough to convince my boss to take me back. He saw that that was a motivating factor, that I wanted to dwell with this girl. I wanted to live with her. Getting married first But nevertheless, I wanted to dwell and live with her. My desire to live with her motivated me, and I kept that job for the next five years. And in fact, I added two other jobs to it because I wanted to live with Becky. Our service this morning has had a theme of God's desire to dwell with his people. I hope you have seen that. From a psalm that speaks of the courthouse of our God, of the courtyards of our God, to songs that have talked about the resting place we have in him, that have invited him to come, Almighty King, and be in our presence. To our Old Testament reading that spoke of his covenant with Abraham, to a New Testament reading that spoke of our eternal destiny to live in the holy city, the New Jerusalem. This morning's text from Zechariah is a text about God dwelling with his people and his call for us to come to him and dwell with him. And that's really the text breaks into two parts. The sermon breaks into two parts. We're going to take a look at God's desire to dwell with his people. And then we're going to take a look at the call for us to dwell with him. God's desire to dwell with us and our call to dwell with him. And I hope you caught, before we jump into all of that, I hope you noticed the theme in this passage as we read. We saw back in in Zechariah 1, and it's not this passage, but it's nevertheless the part of the flow. You know, when Zechariah says, you know, return to the Lord and I will return to you. And then here we saw, up up, flee from the land. In verse 10, we saw sing and rejoice, for behold I come and I will dwell in your midst. Verse 11, I will dwell in your midst. Verse 12, the Lord will inherit Judah and will choose Jerusalem. And finally, in verse 13, he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. How does this fit into Zechariah? How does this fit into the broader narrative of Scripture? Well, first of all, I'll remind you where it fits into Zechariah that That Zechariah has been it's in the middle of the night, he's been seeing some visions. We have considered three of those visions so far And in the midst of those visions, as Zachariah is retelling those visions to the people, as he writes this out to share the visions with them, he stops and interjects this call from God. You see what has happened, the people need these visions of hope because they are in the dark night of their own collective souls They have, you may recall that they had been hauled off to Babylon and kept there in captivity for some 70 years, some of them as much as 85 years, depending on when they were initially taken. They've been hauled off and kept there. And at the opening of Zechariah, they had been back in the land about 16 years, and yet nothing had really been done to rebuild the land. And now, uh here we're about 18 years later, and now, and Zechariah is receiving these visions to encourage the people. And in the midst of these visions, he declares this word from God, this call to return to the land, because he desires to dwell with them. And I want us to see how this fits into Scripture. That this is not just a narrative of Zechariah 2, but this is the narrative of the Word of God. Let's go back to the beginning and think about how the Bible opens. The words are familiar to us. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Have you ever pondered that sentence? In the beginning, God created God, who reveals himself in chapter 2 as Yahweh, I am. The self-existent one. I exist. I am. Not I became or I was made. I am. He had no need of anything, and yet he created. Why? Why are we here? Stop and think about that for a moment. It's because of our God's character. Out of the overflow of his love, out of the abundance of his relational nature He desired to create us in order to have fellowship with us, to dwell in our midst And so he created Adam and Eve, and he came and he spent time with them here on this earth. He would walk with them in the garden and sp and fellowship with them. God desired to be with us. And we said, thanks God how great that is. No. We said, yeah, we're going to do it our own way. We're not going to listen to you. We're not going to do it the way you prescribe. And we sinned, and that fellowship was severed When I was a child, I loved Lego bricks. And by child, I mean pretty much anything under the age of 21. I played with Lego bricks all the time. I loved them. You know those little plastic interlocking things you could build things out of? And if I may brag about the childhood engineer inside of me, I was pretty good. I built some cool things. things with Lego bricks. But I noticed over the years an interesting trait. I never played with what I built. I would build a cool fort and then forget about it. And then I'd come back some days or weeks later and I would tear it apart and build something new. I'd build a really cool castle and then forget about it. I one time built a cool bowling alley that actually had an automated ball return. It was neat. And I never played with it. And then I tore it apart. Now imagine for a moment our God being like that. He has created Adam and Eve to fellowship with them, to interact with them, and they turn their backs on him, and you would expect that like me he would tear it apart and start over again. But that's not the image of our God presented in Scripture. He does not tear apart his creation and start over again. He begins to rebuild the relationship. And so we see in Genesis 4 that God is now interacting with Cain and Abel. And he invites them to bring an offering that they might have fellowship with him. But the people grow even further from God, and eventually there comes a point where he does not completely destroy us. Yet he does decide to wipe the earth clean and start over again with the line of Noah And so the flood comes and the world is wiped out, except for Noah and his family, and they're preserved, and God enters into a covenant with them and desires to be their God. He wants to dwell with us despite centuries of neglect, centuries of sin, centuries of our turning our back on him, he is going to reinitiate, restart humanity. So that we might have a relationship with him. And this time we say, oh good. No, we We don't. We say, get away from us, God. We'll figure this out on our own. We don't need you to tell us how to have a relationship with you. And we're going to build this sweet tower, and we're going to climb up this tower of Babel. And we're going to get to the gods ourselves. We don't need you. And at this point, God destroys his Lego creation and starts over again. No He comes to a man, a subset of humanity, he comes to Abram and says, Follow me, I will be your God, and you will be my people. And he initiates a covenant with Abram, the covenant we just read in our Old Testament reading. And God in there, and part of the covenants, if you study the covenants throughout the scriptures, you will see that there is always a geographic component, a land component, a place to dwell. Where God might be among his people. And having been called by God this third time The people begin this relationship with God, and they become his people, and then they end up in Egypt. And they end up as slaves to Pharaoh. And you'll recall what happens. God sends Moses to Pharaoh and says In Exodus 4 we read this, then say to Pharaoh, God's speaking to Moses, then say to Pharaoh, this is what Yahweh says. Israel is my firstborn son, and I told you, let my son go. So he may worship me. God comes to Pharaoh and says, let the people go so that I can reconnect with them. I can establish relationship with them again. They can come into my presence in worship. God is again working to create a relationship with his people. God created us in order to dwell among us and we rejected him. He then comes to Noah and we reject him at Babel. Then he comes to Abram and the family of Abraham and he pulls us out of Egypt and he makes and he says, You're going to be my people and I'm going to be your God. And what do we do? What do the people do? They go, oh good, finally we get to be with God No, it's not what happens. Have you ever thought about biblical prophets? And the nature of prophecy in the Bible, it's an interesting thing. Most scholars agree that the first fully formed prophet, that really the first guy that really has the right to be called a prophet, is Moses. And Moses' initial commissioning, if you remember, is to speak to Pharaoh. Well, that makes sense. Pharaoh has no relationship with Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews. In fact, when Moses comes initially, Pharaoh says, Who is this Yahweh? I do not know him, neither will I let his people go. That there need to be an intermediary between the God and the people who are not his own makes complete sense But have you ever thought about what prophets spend most of their time doing in the scripture? In fact, what did Moses spend most of his prophetic career doing? Speaking to God's enemies? No. Speaking to God's own people. And that's a little strange. That's a little weird. Why does there need to be a go-between between God and his own people? They should have this relationship. There shouldn't need to be an intermediate prophet. Why does that exist? And many of us bemoan that fact, do we not? We say to ourselves, I wish God would just speak to me directly. Something interesting happens when the people are set free from Egypt, as they are in the wilderness, as they come to the mountain. God takes them and he brings them to the Mount Sinai and He gives them the summary of His moral law, what we know as the Ten Commandments. That's Exodus 20, verses 1 through 17. And then something happened, interesting happens in Exodus 20, verses 18 and 19. The people do not rejoice that God has spoken to them directly. They do not pray like you and I sometimes pray. God just talk to me. No, what do they do? We read this. When the people saw the thunder and lightning and heard the trumpet and saw the mountain and spoke, they trembled with fear. They stayed at a distance and said to Moses, Speak to us yourself and we will listen. But do not have God speak to us. We don't want to hear directly from him. We don't ever again want him to come down on the mountain and talk to us like that. And again, the relationship is strained. Three strikes, you're out. At this point, God tears apart the Legos and rebuilds and starts over again. No, he doesn't. What does he do? He institutes the tabernacle. Most of the rest of the book of Exodus is the preparation of a place where God might dwell among his people. And yes, there's a new layer of separation. There are now courtyards and veils and rooms and inner rooms. And yet, what is outside the tabernacle? Three tribes to the north, three tribes to the south, three tribes to the east, three tribes to the west. God dwelling in the midst of his people And when the tabernacle gives way to the temple in Jerusalem, if you look at a map, where is Jerusalem located? Pretty close to the center of the geographic spread of the people of God. God in the midst of his people. They sinned in Eden and he came back and re-established relationship. They sin at Babylon, he comes back and re-established a relationship. They sin at Sinai and he comes back and re-establishes a relationship. He wants to dwell with us. And in the midst of that, reminding the people of that, Zachariah stops and looks at these visions, having considered the vision we saw last week, the two visions we saw last week. Where God is both the offense that is attacking our enemies and the defense against those enemies and wants to be the glory in our midst. Now Zachariah pauses and says, You gotta come be a part of this Get up, flee from Babylon. Come back to Zion and be a part of this. You know, we are not limited like these people were. They were limited to their time and place and did not necessarily fully understand how these things would play out, but we are on this side of the cross. And we get to see not just what led up to Zechariah, but what has come since Zechariah's ministry. And yes, the temple was restored, the physical building in which the presence of God was manifest, but Zechariah and the other prophets began to point to the fact that the temple is only a placeholder. It's only a temporary stopgap measure. And what does John reveal to us in chapter 1? He says, the word became flesh. And the literal translation would be and tabernacled among us. He dwelt among us God no longer is making a temple or a tabernacle. He now comes to be one of us and to dwell among us. He wants to dwell with us. Over and over and over again, this is what we see. How did we respond? Sure, we were we s we sinned in the garden. Okay, you can understand how that would happen. And sure we turned our back at Babel, but but you know, the people back then they were they were they were rubes and you know practically cavemen. We we're we're smarter nowadays. And and and yeah, okay, so the people at Sinai didn't want to hear from God that way, but he was kind of scary amount since you can kind of understand why they didn't want to. But surely when Jesus came, that's when we got it right. That's when we made the whole relationship thing work. Now we get it. Now we can be real in a relationship with God. If I may paraphrase Peter's sermon in Acts 2. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to us by signs and wonders, which God did among us, and as we know ourselves, yet we handed this man over by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and with the help of other wicked men put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But What we intended for evil, God intended for good, for the saving of many lives. So God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. Again, we reject God's dwelling among us. Again, we say, no, thank you, God. We don't want to live with you. You ever considered the resurrection in light of all of this? As we stop and piece together the trajectory of Scripture, now think about the resurrection anew. I wouldn't have come back. Enough. I've had it up to here. I am sick and tired. I have done everything for these people. I am not going back there again. Again. And I would have ascended directly into heaven from the grave. God's power over death would have been displayed in that way. There was no need for him to return to this earth. And yet he does. He comes back to the very ones who killed him and says, Look, I'm alive. And because I'm alive, victory over death is assured. And because I died, you can have that victory over death. And he again declares his desire to dwell among us his people. God loves his own. So much so that no matter how many times we turn our back on him, no matter how many times we reject him, no matter how many times we push him away. He continues to make a way where we might be with him and be his people. And even after Jesus ascended, he promised that he would not leave us. In John 15, he said, if we abide in him and his word abides in us, we will bear the fruit of his presence and prove ourselves to be his disciples. When we continue in his word, when we continue in his body of the church, we dwell in him as he dwells in us. And these things are made real. In creation, on the mountain, in the tabernacle, through the promise of Zechariah, and in Christ, and in the church, God has said Continually made his dwelling among men. In fact, it might be one of the grand meta-narratives of Scripture. God's desire to Dwell with us. Point number two of this text and of this sermon is God's call for us to dwell in Him, to come to Him Through Zechariah, God has reiterated the promise and joined to it a command. He says in verse 10, Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold I come. There it is And I dwell in your midst, declares the Lord. He has given the command, up, up, flee from the land of the north. And to that he has appended these promises and this joy. It's not an invitation of dread. This is not going to the doctor for your flu shot. Oh, something I just gotta do. It's terrible. I hate it. It hurts. It's miserable. I don't want to do it. It's a waste of time of my day. But I just gotta do it. This is not an innocuation against hell There's joy. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion. There's a chance to go meet God. Do we come here with that kind of expectation and that kind of excitement and that kind of hope? That we get to meet with God. That we get to dwell in his presence for a little time. That we get to hear him speak to us and this morning get to hear him declare his love for us and his desire for us and his longing for us. When nobody else seems to want us, when we're desperate in despair, and we don't feel like anybody else wants us, this morning God says, I want to dwell with you And I want to do it so badly that I was willing to send my son to die. You know, verse eleven says, And many nations shall join themselves to the Lord in that day and shall be my people. Zachariah, more than any of the other Old Testament prophets, begins to foreshadow the day when the gospel would go beyond the boundaries of Israel, it would begin to extend to all the nations of the earth. That it would not just, salvation would not be only for the Jew, it would be first to the Jew and first through the Jews. But that it would eventually be to all mankind. And Zechariah begins to show that up in a way that other prophets did not. And we need to recognize that promise. This promise is not limited to you and to me. We need to take this good news out to others and say to them, God wants to dwell with you and he wants you to come dwell in his presence God is not a God, principally of wrath, or principally of vengeance. Yes, he is a wrathful God, and yes, he will avenge one day But he has forestalled those things so that many might come to dwell in his presence, so that many nations would come and be a part of this wonderful thing. So what do we need to do? How do we come live in God's presence? What is the application of this to our lives? Well for starters, make decisions based on Zion. On God's dwelling place, on God's presence. Do not take a job that's going to take you to a place where there is no decent church. Do not move in retirement to a destination where there is not a decent church. Make these decisions first. First, let the dwelling place of God drive you. Do not reside with where it is comfortable. Why is anybody staying behind in Babylon at all? Why does this call even exist? Because Babylon was a comfortable place. The new Persian emperor was pretty easygoing. He let people do what they wanted to do. He kind of left them on their own so long as they paid their taxes and didn't rebel against him. They're pretty good. And so a lot of the Jews living in Babylon kind of scratched their head and said, gosh, we got a well fortified city and There's two or three grocery stores to choose from and the Barista around the corner knows my order. I just walk in and he's got it ready for me and you know, uh kids are in a good school down here though street. There was no reason to move That they could see. Boy, I've heard reports. You know, the people of Mabak in Jerusalem for 16, 17, 18 years now, and I've heard the reports. It's a mess! I mean I saw I got a cousin who went back to Jerusalem and I saw the pictures on their Facebook page and Jerusalem's a mess. You don't want to go and live among the people of God. It's not pretty. And many of us are stuck in the comfortableness of this world. The comfort of the job. Well, if I take that promotion, yeah, I'm yeah, you know, I've had yeah, there's supposed to be a church there, I'm sure there's a church there. But if I take the job, Pastor, I'll be more comfortable. The promotion that comes with it, the in the the the the increased income that comes with it. Well I'm gonna move there because that's you know that's where my children live and I'm retiring now and I'll go live with my children. Yeah, okay, yeah. Maybe there's a church, maybe there's a not. Yeah, my child You know my parents are aging and I gotta go take care of them. He says, flee from that comfort. Don't pursue those things that make you comfortable in this life. Get up and leave Babylon and pursue first and foremost the presence of God in your life. His dwelling place. A church where his word is faithfully proclaimed. Where you can meet with him on a reliable basis. That needs to come first. Up up, flee from Babylon and come to Zion. And you say, well, yeah, but come on, Pastor, you're pushing that a little too far. I mean clearly we've gotta love our children and love our I mean come on, really? I'm not so good to take care of my aging parents How did Jesus say it? Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, This is Jesus speaking. You know, the guy who only ever talks about love. If anyone comes to me and he does not hate his own father and mother, and wife and children, and brothers and sisters, yes and even his own He cannot be my disciple. Zechariah just says, flee from Babylon. Jesus says, Hate the things of this life for the sake of the gospel and for the sake of me. parents to live with you. Maybe there's another retirement destination that does have a good church. Yeah, it's not quite as close to the coast. But what matters? The last fifteen years of your life walking in the sand, or the last fifteen of years of your life walking with the Lord? Flee from Babylon. Run to Zion, the presence of God. And if you think for a moment That it isn't real, that there is Yeah, Pastor you're saying that I'm not sure that's really happening. Look how Zechariah closes the section in verse 13. He says, Be silent all flesh before the Lord, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. When the sin in your life says, yeah, I'm not sure God really wants me to dwell with him, be silent. Be silent, flesh. When you say, I don't think God really cares if I'm nearby a good church, you know, any old church will do, be silent, sinful flesh. For he has come and roused himself from his dwelling. He's come to be among us. And he says, now come and live in my presence. Now come, be one of my children. What a great opportunity. What an exciting invitation Imagine of all of the people on this earth who might you you've you've you've seen that that party game where you talk about, you know, if you could have lunch with any one historical person, who would it be? Now take the joy of that meeting and multiply it by a factor of, I don't know, ten, a hundred, a bazillion times for our God God says, I want you to come dwell with me. I want you to come hang out in my presence. I want you to hear what I have to say, and I want to hear what you have to say to say, and we're gonna you're gonna pray and we're gonna talk and I'm gonna declare my word to you and you're gonna sing my praises back to me and we're gonna build this relationship. It's gonna be a joyous thing And it's going to be your hope for as long as you are separated from my actual physical presence. You realize this is how it all ends, right? One day we're all going to be in the presence of Jesus. A man. You say, well, God is a spirit. I know my catechism. But Jesus is a man. He has a physical body. And we're going to enter into his presence. And by the way, whether you believe it or not, you're still going to enter into his presence. 2 plus 2 is 4, whether you believe it or not. You're going to stand before Jesus, whether you believe it or not. And on that day you will believe it. He says, now. You get to come build that relationship now. So when you come into my presence on that day, you'll already know me. And I'll already know you. picking up the relationship that we began in this life. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for I desire to dwell in your name. Let's pray. God change our sinful hearts. Make us a people who Do not flee from you, who do not try to hide from you, who do not try to make excuses to get away from you, but who long to be in your presence. Through your body, through your word, through the church, who desire to know you now, so that one day we will know you face to face. So that one day we will embrace your mercy and your grace and your kindness to us. And we will never again need to fear your wrath or your your vengeance or your justice. Let us be a people who understand the glory of Emmanuel. A people who understand what it means that God is among us, and who declare this wonderful truth to everyone else we meet. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.