From Isaiah chapter 59. This is the word of God through the prophet Isaiah. Justice is turned back, righteousness stands far away Truth has stumbled in the public squares. Uprightness cannot enter. Truth is lacking. And he who departs from evil makes himself afraid. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. This is his then his own arm brought him salvation And his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, so will he repay wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment. So they shall fear the name of the Lord from the West, and his glory from the rising of the sun For he will come like a rushing stream, which the wind of the Lord drives. And a redeemer will come to Zion. To those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. It is a fundamental assertion of a broad cross-section of Americans. That we human beings can make this world, if not quite a perfect place, a nearly perfect place. We simply need to root out Systemic injustice, eradicate economic unfairness, strengthen the institutions which serve the vulnerable And yet somehow in that assessment we forget that systems are unjust because the people who make them are unjust. Economies are unfair because the individuals in power within them are unfair. And the vulnerable need protection From other people. While systemic and words like economic and institutional, while these words depersonalize the problem. At the root of all of these problems are persons. So much human suffering. is due to humans. Isaiah casts around and finds the same to be true in his day Injustice prevails, and it's because those in power are unjust. And sadly, in his day, there was not even one found who might lead the people out of their moral quadmark. The state of Min was such that hope from within was lost It's been 2,700 years since Isaiah wrote this, and humanity is still casting about for a way to fix itself. Every solution we offer seems to bring new and even greater problems. One cannot help but see the writer's concern That there exists no hope within humanity, such as we are, by which we might right our wrongs and fix our problems. Thankfully, the word of the prophet, the word of the Lord through the Prophet, was not merely a message of dread and despair. But to it was offended. A framework, an outline for the solution. The Lord Himself will raise up a warrior savior, a protector-redeemer. He will establish justice repaying wrongdoers and upholding righteousness. Let's stand together and sing, asking that truth to become a reality. Let's sing together, Ocamu Kam Emmanuel, hymn number 218. I've been back first. I'm going in lonely from you until Praise voice, praise voice, the life shall come to be holy. When it is a colour when it was Emmanuel, it is our prayer that you would come to us in this service. Make yourself known to us. Show us your worthiness so that we would worship you along with the chorus of heaven. We pray this in your precious name. Can you please be seated? You both are on page four. Revelation 5. Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back sealed with seven seals. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? And no one in heaven, or on earth, or under the earth, was able to open the scroll and to look into it. And I began to weep loudly, because no one was found worthy to open the scroll and look into it. It is possible that in the entirety of human history, no one has ever been as disappointed as John was in this moment. God holds forth a scroll. It is in his right hand, the hand symbolic of power and authority. and strength. And it's a scroll. It's what conjures up the prophetic memories of old. Of the prophetic schools fiction in Ezekiel 2 and Daniel 7, documents which contain God's judgments upon the nations. Documents that were of great comfort to God's people. This scroll stands in that symbolic tradition. But given the literary and historical context in which we find it in Revelation, it is not a judgment It is not a plan to deal with a people or a nation. No, this is the plan. To deal with all people and bring human history to its close as we know it here on earth If it is not open, if the things contained in there are not decreed, if they are not read out, and God's will is not executed. Then the wicked will not be judged, nor the righteous vindicated. Those who suffered unduly will never be restored, and all that is rolling upon this earth will never be made right. Human history will simply continue as it always has. What righteous and upright person would not want this scroll opened? Read out and executed. Now, who is to open it? And carry it out. In other words, why is God holding out the scroll? And heaven looking for someone to open it. Why doesn't God simply execute what is in the scroll? Because from the very beginning of human history The execution of God's will, God's plan for the earth, has always been the domain of humanity. God wanted an earth full of people, but he created two and charged us with filling it. He wanted an earth on which there was culture and creativity and beauty, but he charged us with creating those things. It is the authority and the obligation of humanity to carry out God's will on the earth. It was we were to fulfill the plan of God. And we were to keep and protect this earth even as we did so, caring for it, watching over it and watching over. each other. So the scene that John sees is in heaven, but the contents of the scroll are clearly important for the future of Earth If the scroll is to be executed, if plan is to be decreed, if the salvation it contains is to be realized, a human must open it, read it, and do it. Now at this moment we might think to ourselves, well wait a second, Pastor, you just said all of humanity was charged with carrying out the will of God, so anyone present at that time could have walked up and taken the scroll. Any of them could have executed God's will, and yet none does. Why not? To take the scroll From the hand of the Almighty is to enter into the immediate proximity of God Himself. And by virtue of our non-virtue, we could not do that. And even if we could, we we failed to properly execute God's will back in Eden So what hope would there be that we would faithfully and correctly execute this will from this moment forward? Whatever the fiats on that scroll, whatever the decrees of God that it contains, what hope would there be that humanity would carry them out properly? And this is why John weeps. If we'd been there with him, we would have weeped as well. We're going to remain seated and sing, Ah, only Jesus. And it's a song that contemplates. Human stick. Sullaiku vihalaiseen, kohulu siivishenäköön. What is we doing? We continue on page five. And one of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold The lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered so that he can open the throne with his seven seals. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders I saw a lamb. In 1961, Will Chamberlain set a scoring record. The next year, he beat it. In 2006, O'Damian Tomlinson set a scoring record, and the next year he broke it. If in verse 4, John set the record for human disappointment Then right here, he breaks his own record. He was weeping because there was no one found worthy to execute God's plan of redemption. Then there comes this command: stop crying. Why? Because one has been found worthy to open the scroll and carry out God's plan for humanity. Well, how is he worthy? Well, he belongs to the royal tribe of Judah. That's promising. He descends from King David. That's significant. And he is the lion of the tribe of Judah. He is the Lion of Judah. Now that's huge. The king of beasts had long been associated with royalty across the nations, and Israel was no exception. When a dying Jacob blessed his twelve sons, he spoke of Judah as the lion cub from which the king, the line of kings, would arise. Centuries later, God, through the prophet, false prophet Balaam depicts Israel as a lion, the aura surrounding the boy David. was enhanced by him slaying a lion. Solomon had lions carved into his throne and they become a symbol of the Davidic dynasty. Thus it is, by the time that the book of Revelation was written, the Lion of Judah was a well-known, well-established, universally accepted Jewish symbol of God's victorious. Messiah. In the simplest analysis, disappointment Is when reality does not meet expectation. When you expect uh to to see Lynn Manuel Miranda and you get the undersight You're disappointed. The worthy one has been found. He is the Lion of Judah. But when you are expecting a lion, And it'll laugh. Your holy sword losing you are you asked in love yourself. All the all the actually given actually control and I don't know how to figure out how to do it. Continuing in Revelation five. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated. on the throne. There was an experienced naval nuclear engineer, his name was Anatoly Diatinov. He was reassigned to a large civilian reactor. One of the first things he did in his new job was to run that reactor, it was new to him, that new reactor, to run it through a series of tests that he regarded as standard operating procedure in the Navy He did not know that his new reactor was neither as responsive nor as rugged as those aboard ship. He was simply unqualified for the job he had been given. That was 1986, and that civilian reactor was just outside of a place called Chernobyl. The result was history's worst nuclear mishap. It is, as a general rule, arrogance, which makes us think we can do a job for which we are unfit. And the results are often Tragic. So what makes a lamb think he can do a lion's jaw? Why would a meek creature take on the task given to the king of beasts? Is the lamb out of his depth? Is he arrogant? Is everything about to blow up because a lion was called for and a lamb stepped forward? If he strolls up to the throne takes and takes that stroll, will all hell literally break loose? There are hints of hope. There's reason to be optimistic. The Lamb is perfect in power. The meaning of the seven horns And he is perfect in knowledge, the symbol of the seven eyes. And so perhaps this is not arrogance. And so he takes the scroll. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God. From every tribe and language and people and nation, you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Join me. When you know, when we have all the arms, I forgave you. Muy bien, porque este momento está bien, aquí. In the glory of the Lord, the life within a death in the God that we read down. Anyone to break the steel and open the scroll the lion I'll do under the grave is like the truth We can't really make the last time. All the truly know us in all the spirits with all and then we Ever though he loves When I dwell me again. I love when the scroll the diamonds you are the darker gray room and left the night You rest on that night, for any people that try, everything can make a thing and we do not. If they were reality, if they were needed, it they were lovely. Thank you, J, Bolas. In combat, soldiers do not wear ribbons and wards and the like. They wear their rank for obvious reasons. And they wear skill badges, indicators of competency. Why? It's so that a captain or a sergeant, in the heat of battle, in a moment on the field, knows Which man to assign to which task, so that a critical task is carried out by one who is worthy. Why did all heaven seem to know the Lamb would succeed? What insignia marked him? What skill badge did the one who walked to the throne and took the scroll bear? It is precisely because he approached as a lamb and not as a lion. More importantly, as a lamb standing as though it had been slain. It was the thorn marks on his forehead. The lumps of scar tissue on his hands. These were his qualification badges These are what set him apart from everyone else and indicated his worthiness. Why Because for centuries, God had said that there would have to be one who would take to himself the cost of sin. If humanity is to be saved, then a human needed to pay for their sin. Just like those skill badges on a soldier's uniform, the worthiness of the one who would take the scroll had to be earned. It had to be merited and warranted and rooted in past experience. The cost had to be paid. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him as stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was trying for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Let's stand together and sing hymn number 303, stricken smitten at afflicting. Please sing. I saw God. Thread for the story, clothes of his breath, playing now. My world is bad, my week for the summer, for most bad losses. I don't know where you The military's punishment is severe for those who wear unauthorized insignia, first. Obvious reasons. To be emblazoned with a skill badge and entrusted with a task upon which the fate of the whole unit might depend must be earned through blood, sweat, and tears. Even more so the marks of honor and courage, silver stars and the like. No one is worthy of these things except that he had paid the price, the high price. How much more so if one is to stand in God's presence, approach his very throne, take the scroll of history from his hand, and presume the right to execute it Can such a man survive the wrath of God if he has not earned it? Could he endure divine fury? Unless he belonged there. If the centerpiece of God's plan was a perfect sacrifice, then there had better be a record. of the one looking to unseal the scroll having made that payment. So Pilate delivered Jesus over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus, and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of the soul, which in Aramaic is Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote in inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, but the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priest of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather, this man said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier also his tunic But the tunic was seamless, rolled in one piece from top to bottom, so they said to one another, let's not tear it. Let's cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture which says, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cut lots. So the soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister. Mary the wife of Clappus and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved staring nearby standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. And after this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scriptures, I thirst A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a histopranch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Bailey and Boss. And he went, and he took the scroll from the hand of him who was seated on the throne. Then I looked, and I heard around the throne, and the little creatures and the elders, the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. to receive power and wealth and wisdom and and honor and glory and blessing. And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them saying To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever And the four living creatures said Amen, and the elders fell down and worshiped, but stand together and say, Where do you reply? In the home We target now when he cows you train the morning. No, no, no, this is the last one. We crown you now with merely crowded glory. I am with my Well Lord Jesus Christ, you are worthy, worthy of our honor and our all glory that we can bestow upon you, worthy of our lives, worthy of everything we have to offer. You are worthy of worship for all eternity. You are worthy to be praised by even those who deny you in this life. You are worthy. to go to the throne of the ancient of days, to take the scroll from his hand, and to execute the salvation and judgment it contains. We are amazed that you have earned this, that this worthiness comes because of what you did. We worship you in light of this. We crown you now as the king of our lives and acknowledge that you are the king of our lives. of the universe. Remain standing if you're able and think together. Crown him with many crowns Why do you remember? I wish I wanted to. Make my father be so closed to my place.