This mid morning we begin a little mini three-part sermon series today, Good Friday and next Sunday on uh Easter Sunday, looking at Uh-uh, the events of Holy Week, but rather than looking back on them has history, we're going to use the book of Revelation and look forward toward them, how they are fulfilled in the last days and how and what hope we have in that And so we're calling this eschatological Easter. Eschatology is the study of last things. And so we're going to look to Revelation to find the events of Holy Week and their eternal significance. Join me now in reading Revelation 9, sorry, 7, 9 through 17. And in Revelation 7, 9 through 17, if you're using that Pew Bible, it's on page 1223. And I want to remind you that this is the Word of God. And so it is infallible. And so it alone is the reliable source of what the future holds. Believe it. For it is true. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages Standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures And they, the angels, fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might Be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes, and from where have they come? And I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes. And may them whiten the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Let's pray Dear Spirit of God, we ask for your guidance and understanding in this passage. That we would hear what you meant for us to hear, that we would discern the message rightly, that I would Handle it in a way that was consistent with your truth. If I say anything that is wrong, that is out of line, let it be quickly forgotten, so that your truth is known among us. We ask this in the grace of Jesus' name. Amen. The superficial connection of this passage to Palm Sunday is fairly obvious there in verse 9, I think. The great multitudes standing before the throne and before the lamb are clothed in white and they are weaving palm branches Which is what we read about in our New Testament reading, about the triumphal entry. That the the crowd of people in Jerusalem came out and they waved palm branches to meet Jesus as he went in to Jerusalem. Now the waving of polls might be of, I don't know, less significance to us because it's not a part of our culture. But in that culture, in the ancient Mediterranean world, particularly that Roman-ruled world, the waving of palm branches was symbolic of victory and of kingship. On the road to Jerusalem on the first Palm Sunday, 1993 years ago today, the people waved the branches before Christ, before Jesus of Nazareth, in hopes that he was going to be for them a political and military victor, that he was going to throw off Rome and free them into here and now. The the uh uh uh events that we see here in Revelation We see the affirmation that he is in fact the victor, though not of the nature that they had originally hoped. And so we see this connection because of the palm branches between our scripture text, the real Palm Sunday and our New Testament reading the first Palm Sunday. But the connection in these passages is more than merely superficial. It's not limited to the poem branches There are the crowds themselves, the one which gathered on the doorstep of Jerusalem on March 29, A. D. 33, and then this analogous crowd in heaven. Now, some of that connection between these crowds may be lost on us. The revelator is clear. The crown in heaven is from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. But there is no such comment in the Gospel of John. John does not describe the crowd in that way Probably because the original audience to which he wrote would not have needed that. They would have understood it to be true. We may not recognize that truth. Yet we have access to historians. Philo in Alexandria, Egypt, Josephus in Rome were both Jewish historians, both writing in the first century A. D. Both of whom took their own pilgrimage to Jerusalem as Jews during Passover week, both of whom testify to the fact That while they were in Jerusalem, they saw tens of thousands of visitors from all over the known Roman world, the Mediterranean world. There were Jews on that day outside of Jerusalem welcoming Jesus into Jerusalem. Who were from every known nation on the earth. The crowd that day before Jerusalem anticipated the great truth that Paul preaches to us in Philippians. That there will come a day when every knee will bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. But the international flavor of the Passover crowd, though, you know, it was well known to them. The nature of the populace in heaven would not have been well known to John's original audience. After all, in John's day, even among the disciples, many of them imagined that heaven was only for Jews. that only the the biological people of God had any hope of being in this scene in heaven. So the revelator makes clear, no, no, no, that's not just Jews standing there. There will be people from all over the world. Not every individual, but individuals of every kind. It is a picture of snow-white Norwegians standing next to jet-black Sudanese, then surrounded by people of every skin tone, of every hair color, of every eye shade. of every size, of every shape, of every language, of every custom of man, of every conceivable ethnic group. Bound together in the unity of the fact that they belong to Jesus Christ. They are diverse, they are different, they are individuals, and yet they are one. Connected mass. We long for connection. We want to be part of something that's bigger than ourselves, something enduring, something which lasts, something that is transcendent. It's amazing nowadays we will send 3995 and some of our saliva Off to get it analyzed to find out if our great-great-grandfather lived in this village or that one. Why? Because we want to be connected to a place and a people that is bigger than our mere existence in the here and now. If the local sports team wins the championship, we fight traffic, we fight the crowds, we go stand on a curb to watch the parade go by. Why? Because we want to be a part of that. A part of the victory, a part of the sense of accomplishment. We even say crazy things like, we won the championship when you know we didn't actually play. But we want to be a part of that bigger thing. The real Palm Sunday, the day that comes at the end of it all, promises us Participation in the largest human gatherings ever imagined. And with no dividing walls. There will not be boundaries thrown up because of race or language. Those things will not keep us apart. Ethnicity and culture will not pit us against each other. Even politics will not divide us, for there will be one king. Ruling over all the people. One great hope of the real palm someday is real connection. Real participation is something that really matters for all of eternity. It is our hope if our faith is in the one they praise. If we also believe that salvation belongs to the Lamb, then we will be a part of what John saw in this vision. We have the hope of finally being fully connected to our fellow man, even as we are in the presence of our God together. Now, what does it take to be part of the championship celebration parade? I guess technically not much, right? They don't actually do anything to make it be a part of it, but we tend to think there's things you ought to do Like you ought to put on the jersey of the team you're going to go celebrate or at least their colors. You know, if we ever imagine the Ravens getting back to winning a Super Bowl, we're all going to put our purple on, right? We're not going to just go down there in some random color. We want to show our participation, the inward reality of our participation by the outward way we dress. So too these people here. In this scene, they are all wearing the teen color. It's not Raven's purple or aurial orange, but rather it is the white of purity. Verse 14, these are the ones coming out of the Great Tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Now, could not be any clearer that this must necessarily be metaphorical, right? Every mother knows that blood does not make things white The skinned knee, the bloody nose, the busted lip always leads to stained clothes, not clean clothes. Clearly, there's a metaphor going on here. That in the blood of Christ Purity from sin is found. And make no mistake, blood is a euphemism here. This is not like the movie. This is not like the curse of the black pearl that can be lifted with the slicing of a hand and some blood being spilled out. No. Blood here is euphemistic for death. Throughout the scriptures it is clear, it's not merely the spilling of some blood, it is the spilling of enough blood onto death. That the one who would be the Lamb of God must die. And that is what made these people true. That their sin was paid for, that it was purchased by another is why they can be metaphorically shown as white, as pure in that day. They are all united, not by cheering for a common team, but for being redeemed by a common Savior and made pure in Him. Now I know we've parachuted into the middle of this book of Revelation, so you might be forgiven if you were reading this from a purely literary standpoint. You would look at this and go, the Lamb is not identified. Who is the Lamb? I'll give you a little secret. If you step back and widen out and look at all of Revelation, the Lamb has never identified. He is a saint. The imagery is so clear. What he did is so unique that the Lamb can be none other than Jesus of Nazareth. The most ardent skeptic who despises the Bible and argues against its validity does not argue against that fact. They might reject the authenticity of the book of Revelation, but they do not deny that the Lamb on these pages is one person. Jesus Nazareth. And so the lamb here is, it's the blood of the lamb who saves. It is not just Death somewhere along the way. It's not merely your death that's going to somehow free you up to stand in this crowd. No, it is the death of Jesus. It is his blood which makes it possible for anyone to be a part of this great celebration. This is the same writer who once said, who once quoted the Baptist saying, look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. There could be no doubt as to who we are celebrating in this scene. There could be no doubt to what we point. It is the crucifixion of Jesus upon the top of Belgotha. In history past. The image of blood is an image of his death. His death is what makes the payment for sin possible. It is in that that we have the hope of the purity of the white robes. Now the crowds in front of Jerusalem 1993 years ago, they would have waved their palm branches for victory. And it was the hope of most of them, as I've already alluded to, it was the hope of most of them for a victory that was still on the horizon, a victory to come. They were hoping that this Jesus of Galilee was going to come down to Jerusalem and set everything straight. He's not going to fix it all. He was going to overthrow Rome, he was going to take charge and become the king, this descendant descendant of David, and restore the glory to Israel. We see it even in the disciples. Over and over and over again, the 12 saying Jesus, is now the time of the kingdom. They didn't understand either. John, from whom we write in our New Testament, he says, I think it's 14 times in his gospel. He talks about how we didn't get it. We didn't understand what Jesus was telling us until after it was all over and we looked back. The crowds are hoping for a victory And they are disappointed. The week ends not with him overthrowing Rome and taking the throne to himself, but with his death. And yet that is precisely what is being celebrated in this scene in heaven. That his death made these people pure. Now, what is the value of purity? Why is this something to be celebrated? Why do we care that they're wearing a white robe? Why does this elder point this out to the revelator? Well the the the narrator tells us in the next few verses. If you look with me at verses 15 and 16, and I'm going to stop very quickly here, I'm going to read one word. Therefore Right there, in that word therefore, the author is telling us that what I'm about to tell you is directly connected to what I just told you. So I just told you they were pure, I just told you they had white robes, I just told you they've been washed and cleansed by the blood of the Lamb, therefore They are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. Back in Revelation 4, at the beginning of the Revelation, when John was taken up in the Spirit to heaven, the first thing he sees in this vision of Revelation is the throne room of God. And he sees gathered around the throne of God the four living creatures, the same four that we saw in the book of Ezekiel back in September, the four cherubim that gather around the throne of God. And what are they declaring? What are they proclaiming? What is it for all eternity that they are calling out? Our God is kind and sweet and nice. He is all of those things. That's now what they declare for all of eternity. Our God is love. That's what the American Church would declare, but that is not what they declare for all of eternity Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, is Godly, God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. They declare his holiness and they declare it in its eternity, in its eternality, that he has always been holy, he is holy, and he will always be holy. They declare that in the throne room of heaven, the reality is still true that was known on earth back in the day What was the manifest presence of God on earth? It was the most holy place, the holy of holies, in the temple in Jerusalem. The holiness of God has always been our biggest problem. We can't go to God on our own because He's holy and we're not. That has to be fixed. And it's not like he is going to become unholy Holy, holy, holy is Yahweh, God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. That's what John heard in Revelation 4, and that's what he's recognizing is going on here. That these people have been made holy so that they might come into the presence of God, so that they might serve in his temple, so that they might serve him night and day. And yet it is not merely for the sake of service that they are gathered here. It is not merely that they are redeemed to be slaves. The Apostle Paul is very clear on this point. We are not bought back by the blood of Christ so that we might be mere slaves or mere servants in the household of God. And what does he go on to say here to Revelation? They serve him day and night in his temple And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither shall thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorging heat What was their declaration earlier? Salvation belongs to our God and to the Lamb. This is the picture of that salvation. They have been saved from the ravages of this life. Oh, later on, hell would be revealed to John in the book of Revelation. But right here, right now, they have been saved out of this life. They suffered in this life because of their faith in Christ. They were persecuted in the Great Tribulation. They suffered deprivation and hunger and thirst. They paid a huge price for belonging to God. And now they are rewarded. And now they are given great comfort. They have been saved from suffering. And their reward is a life of pleasure and of comfort and of peace, in close proximity to their God. You see, on the first Palm Sunday, the crowds quoted Psalm 118 and they yelled out, Hosanna, which means save us. That's the Hebrew word for save us. This crowd is putting that in the past tense. He has saved us He has fulfilled the hope of the first Palm Sunday. He is the God who brought it all to conclusion and honestly saw it through so that we are saved. It is why they can stand there in heaven and sing with great joy and enthusiasm the praises of the God who saves them. The hope of the first Palm Sunday is profoundly realized at this real palm sundae. Hosanna, save us, becomes salvation belongs to our God and to the Lamb. And the chorus of that phrase of salvation, it's interesting how it overflows in verse 11. You see in verse 11, and the angels who were standing around the throne, around the elders and the four living creatures, uh uh And they, that is the angels, the grammar points back to the subject of the sentence. And they, the angels. Fell on their faces before the throne and worship God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. The salvation of humanity sparks rejoicing among the angels of heaven. This shouldn't really surprise us. After all, Jesus alluded to this in his parable of the prodigal son, right? That the returning of, or of the parable of the lost sheep. You go find one lost sheep, and even the angels of heaven rejoice. So here we see John is seeing this in the vision given to him of heaven. So there is in verse 9 the waving of palms in celebration of victory. That victory provides salvation, which is proclaimed in verse 10. That in turn sparks praise among both man and angels in verses 11 and 12. And then in 13 and 14 we saw that salvation was possible because they had been made pure by the blood of the Lamb. And then in verses 15 and 16, we saw the benefits, the reward of that purity. The multitude is able to stand in God's presence as his servants and under his protection. Thankfully, it does not end in verse 16. I'm sure your marriage is not like this. Your marriages are probably perfect. But every once in a while, Becky will say something to me. She'll say a sentence like, Jane Smith is sick. And I'm thinking to myself, okay, sorry for Jane. Well what she means is we were supposed to have dinner at Olive Garden with the Smiths tonight, and because she's sick they can't meet us there, so you need to pick up burgers on your way home from work. But I never hear that. It doesn't matter how many times she's tried to explain it to me, I don't hear that. I just hear that Jane Smith is sick. If our passage ended in verse 16, we would hear facts and miss their implications. We would all be, like me, sadder for not understanding the message. Thankfully, our passage does not end here. It moves past the bare facts of verses 15 and 16, beyond the objective information. And it draws our attention to the implications. Look with me at verse seventeen. For the lamb is in the midst of the throne. Sorry, for the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Right off the bat, don't miss the amazing reversal which is described right there. Did you catch it? The lamb becomes the shepherd. All three of our boys who served in the Army share a similar observation. Their favorite officers, the captains and colonels they liked the most and respected the most, did not begin their careers as lieutenants They began their careers as privates. Those who were bossing around the grunts were better if they had once done the grunt work. Not a hard concept to wrap our heads around, is it? It is what the book of Hebrews promises us, that our great high priest understands our suffering because he was once one of us. He is best suited to be a shepherd because he is the Lamb of God. Now some will say, wait a second, wait a second, wait a second, wait a second. Even when he was on earth, he was the leader of men. How is he ever a lamb? How is he guided by others? How is he shepherded by any others? And yet on Golgotha that day, he was the Lamb of God. He was attacked by the wolves of this earth. And no one rose up to defend him. The Reverend Thomas Kelly wrote the beautiful song, and we'll sing it this Friday. The beautiful song, Stricken, Smitten, and Afflicted. And it contains this poignant line. Many hands were raised to wound him. None would interpose to save. He was Suffering in a way that no other human being had ever suffered. He who knew no sin had become sin for us And was being slaughtered. And there was no shepherd to protect him. No one there to fight off the evil that was attacking him. No one there could comfort him or to help him through the difficult time. He was the one human in all of history most in need of a shepherd And there was none. And that brings us back around to the tenderness and the beauty of verse 17. For the land in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd. What will be the benefits and consequences of this? He will guide them to springs of living water. We live in one of the most humid places on earth, so it's hard for us to appreciate this. But water was a scarce thing in that place, in that culture, in that time. To have water that was drinkable, even more scarce, and to have a spring of water. It's cold and fresh and refreshing. This is not merely we take it for granted, right? We have refrigeration at our, you know, anytime we want it. We have we we take for granted the fact that we need a refreshing drink, but the imagery here is of the people who are parched. who earlier we saw how they were once exposed to the sun without protection and now they are shaded and sheltered. And there is cold, fresh water to drink The imagery is of complete satisfaction, complete uh uh uh uh uh fulfillment of the deepest-seated desire within us. Warm water doesn't give you that ah that cold spring of living water. Satisfies. And he will take them to God and restore their relationship to the Father. The passage ends with a profound statement. Notice it's the lamb who becomes the shepherd, and the lamb as shepherd is the one that leads us to the springs of living water. But it's not the Lamb who finishes out this passage. And God, almost certainly the Father, is the referent here And the Father will wipe away every tear from their eyes. It's not the lamb come shepherd, though he is a wonderful, kind, wonderful, guiding shepherd. It is he who saves us, it is he who washes us and makes us pure, it is he who restores us to a relationship with the Father so that. The Father can comfort us. The very one we once feared in our sin, the very one who was the greatest threat to us. That he might send us to hell, becomes the one who comforts us and wipes away our tears. The Lamb restores us to full fellowship. And as our shepherd guides us into the very presence of God, who wipes away every tear. The first Palm Sunday was a day of hope. The real Palm Sunday is an eternity of fulfillment, a fulfilled victory over sin and death worthy of palm waving. A purity so thorough it is as if we are all wearing white. A salvation so complete that we never suffer even the slightest want. A lamb shepherd who knows our suffering in a way we could never imagine And so he provides for us in everything we need. And a God who is reconciled to us wipes the tears from our face. We can look back on the first Palm Sunday with nostalgia, I guess, but it is better to see in it the hope of the real Palm Sunday. When we will join the chorus, waving palms and calling out, salvation belongs to our God, who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb. O Lamb of God, thank you for this amazing hope. This is a stunning picture of celebration, of comfort, of relaxation, of restoration, of the fullness of community, of our community and relationship with you and with the Father through you. Thank you for this profound picture of the real Palm Sunday and the hope of victory that it contains. Let us take great comfort in this. Let us live with the certainty of its truth. We pray this in your precious name.