Look in your Bibles, if you would please, at the second map of Ezekiel 37, if you're using that right Q Bibles, on page 861. Ezekiel 37, we're going to pick up in just a moment here in verse. 15, Ezekiel 37, 15. In my lifetime, there have been a whole bunch of candidates. You have run for office on the promise of ending the partisan divide, of uniting the country, of bringing Americans together. And none has succeeded. Imagine for a moment the reputation of the one who did. If we had eight years of general unity of of general goodwill, of broad coalitions of agreements. And even when we didn't have agreement, we would have amiacable compromise. Eight years without argument, without 19, without partisan divide. Such a leader would run on opposed And I imagine we would name schools and highways and airports after him or her. In other words, I'm essentially describing George Washington. The last time I checked, there was some glory accrued to his name. Now no matter what you might think of the political uh uh uh divide in this country, no matter how much the right might detest the left and vice versa, it pales, it pales in comparison to the historic hatred Of some Christians toward other Christians. By some estimates, Christians have killed upwards of 20 million Christians in the history of the church. Let me say that again. In the history of the Christian church, it is estimated that as many as 20 million Christians were killed by other Christians. And I'm not talking about world wars. I'm talking about conflicts that rose more or less out of issues of faith and squabbling. That comes down to 15 Christians per day, on average, being killed by other Christians in the history of the church. Now, if the leader who could unite Americans would be praised, then what would we say about the leader who could unite the church? What we say about the one who could unify the people of God. Yet this is exactly Ezekiel's hope. Following the vision of the dry bones coming to life, the very next thing he sees and hopes for. It's here in Ezekiel 37 and 15. Follow along with me. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, take a stick and write on it for Judah, and the people of Israel associated with him. Then take another stick and write on it. For Joseph, that is to say, the stick of Ephraim, and all the house of Israel associated with him. and join them one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand. And when your people say to you, will you not tell us what you mean by these? Say to them, thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am about to take the stick of Joseph, that is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel associate with him, and I will join with them the stick of Judah and make them one stick that they may be one in my hand. When the six, which you write, are in your hand before their eyes, then say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will take the people of Israel from the nation from which they have gone, and will gather them. Well, sorry. My apologies. And will gather them from all around and bring them to their own land. And I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel, and one king shall be king over them all, and they shall be no longer two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms. They shall not defile themselves anymore with their idols and their detestable things, or with any of their transgressions But I will save them from all the backslidings in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statutes. They shall dwell in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob, where your fathers lived. They and their children and their children's children shall dwell there forever, and David, my servant, shall be their prince forever. I will make a covenant of peace with them, and it shall be an everlasting covenant with them. And I will set them in their land and multiply them, and I will set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore. My dwelling place shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord who sanctifies Israel. When my sanctuary is in their midst, forevermore, let's pray Lord, give us great blessing as we delve into this passage. As we consider this vision that you gave to the prophet is each, you'll let it be our vision as well. But his longing for unity in the people of God be our longing for unity in the people of God. Give us the wisdom to work rightfully toward that goal. Until such time as this is realized among us, we pray for your hand of humility upon us that we would walk carefully among our brothers and sisters. that we would walk lovingly among those with whom we disagree, and that we would be guided by your desire for unity among your people. We pray this in Christ's day. Amen. Last week we saw in the first half of Ezekiel 37 how God set forth the promise of life in so much dramatic way that he raised up dry bones The moment, well I guess not the moment, but in the aftermath of the Word of God being preached faithfully to them, that God's Spirit went to work when God's word was preached. And in the continuation of this passage, the prophet articulates what is for him the most prominent benefit of that life-giving work. It's really interesting that the first thing, once life comes upon the dry bones of Israel, Ezekiel does not imagine their restoration to the land. Oh, that will come He does not even imagine the rebuilding of the temple, though that will come. The first thing that Ezekiel sees among the people who have been Neoli Is unity. That they would be held together as one people, under one king, with one covenant of peace, bound together in unity. The reunification of God's people. Is the most important thing for the prophet Ezekiel in the aftermath of the restoration and life? So take this passage apart and take a look at it in its original context and consider what it meant for them and therefore what it might mean for us today. So first let's briefly consider the very sign act itself. It's uh uh Ezekiel by now you probably realize Ezekiel is like the king of the sine act. He has uh uh painted on rocks, he has laid on his side He has shaved his head, he has starved himself, even one time packed his bags, dug a hole in the wall, and climbed through it for all to see. He also was the guy who could not, was not allowed to mourn the death of his own wife. Ezekiel has been the prophet of the sign act. Something acted out in front of the people that had some kind of meaning. And here he does the same. But this one's a little clearer, a little easier to see. He is to take two sticks, and he is to write on these sticks. Essentially, he is to write on one of them, Judah, and the uh the name the part of Israel associated with her. That is the southern half of the people of God. And on the other side he used to write Israel or something, I guess Joseph and Ephraim and the people associated with him. That is the northern half of the people of God. And then he is to take the sticks and bring them together and make them one. It's not clear if this was a miraculous thing that actually happened. Most scholars think that probably he simply tied them together. We don't really think there's a miracle being worked here, though it's possible. Okay? For sure it points to a miracle. So he binds these two sticks to one, and he basically is making the point that the two halves of the people of God are going to become united. They're going to become one stick. And all of the people of God will be represented in that one way. Now to fully understand this, we probably need to step a little further back. Many of us are aware of the division of the nation of Israel and the people of God, but some of us might not know this, and it bears being refreshed in our head. Can't do the math real quickly, it might have you about 1400 years before Ezekiel. God gave a promise to Abraham and said that I'm going to make you, God said Abraham, I'm going to make you the father of a great Now almost immediately in the aftermath of that promise, we don't you know it does take remember it takes a couple generations before that even remotely resembles everything in reality for Abraham has but the one son who is the son of the promise. He himself has just the one son who is the son of the promise. But Jacob has twelve sons. And we begin to see the multiplication of the people of God into twelve. the eventual twelve tribes of Israel. But what do we see even in that family, in that third generation? There's division. The sons, the brothers, they gang up with each other against others. Those who were from this mom formed a little clique, and those who were from that mom formed a little clique, and already in the third generation after Abraham. There was tension among the people of God. And this tension continues throughout the history. We sometimes forget there was a civil war in the period of the judges. And it was a north-south civil war in the nation of Israel. Then Saul becomes king and he rules over all of Israel. For a time of relative peace and stability. But immediately upon his death, there's division. We just think automatically the throne went to David. No, it didn't automatically go to David. The northern nations they wanted Ishbuch. Ishbuch. I knew I wouldn't be able to say his name. Ishbookshef, they wanted him to be king. And Judah in the south wanted David to be king. God selected David and made him king. But if you read the books of Samuel carefully, you'll see that even through David's reign, there was constant north-south tension in Israel. And following the death of David's son Solomon, the nation split, the tensions erupted, and there was a division that lasted down through the time even of Ezekiel. That goes around 936 BC. Ezekiel was writing somewhere around 560 BC. So we're talking about a period approaching 400 years. The two nations have been split into two paths. It would be pretty simple at this point. To say to the prophet Ezekiel, it's been 400 years, give it up. They're not going to reunify, they're not going to come back together, there's simply no chance they are two distinct nations Can you imagine anybody in this year of our 250th anniversary saying, hey, what if we reunited with England? It's just not going to happen. And that's the vision Ezekiel has. That the North and the South that have been divided for all these years are going to reunite. Why does he imagine this? Why does he open this? The prophets never accept the division of God's people. Isaiah was never okay with the two halves of the nation. Hosea was never okay with the two halves of the nation The prophets are never okay with God's people being divided. Now the next thing so so we see here that oh by the way Also, what you see in the reunification, notice the two become one stick. Whether or not the vision was of two tying together, the imagery was to be that they become one. This is really in a lot of ways a manifestation of the principle of Genesis 2 Remember God said it is not good for the man to be alone. Now by that he did not mean, therefore I'm going to create woman and the two of them should just coexist as individuals. No. It was that they would become one The people of God are not simply merely to coexist alongside of each other, but rather they are to be One, a true unity. And that's Ezekiel's hope, that it would be realized one day. The next thing we notice about Ezekiel's vision for the future is that it is still in the future. It was not just in his future, it was still in our future. How do we know that? Where do we see that? Let's kind of walk through some of the places where we get a glimpse of the fact that this is still out in the future. So it would be easy to say, well, Israel is one nation now. There is no longer a nation of Judah in the south and Israel in the north. It is one nation, and we would be inclined to say, see, the prophecy of Ezekiel has been fulfilled. But it does not. Let me show you where the clues are here. Verses 23 and 24, he speaks of a people who no longer defile themselves. who walk in my rules and are careful to obey my statutes. The tenor of the tone there is not suggesting something occasional or once in a while they walk in a good way. No, it's the sense of they have fully accomplished it. It is a fully realized sanctification among the people of God, that they are glorified in the view that Ezekiel has of them here. And there is nobody who's prepared to suggest that is so. That we, the people of God, do not somehow walk uh. This is still the best of sin We see then in 24-25 that the people would be governed by a single Davidic ruler, my servant, David shall be king over there, over them. Now there is an interpretive tradition that sees the resurrected David David's going to be resurrected from the dead. There is an interpretive tradition that sees the resurrected David as fulfilling this and reigning over the people. As most traditions, most interpretive traditions, and I would agree with the second view, is that rather than seeing David proper, it's pointing to the son of David, the Messiah But which regardless of whatever view you take there, here's the key issue. It's that this is not merely applying to a rule over Israel. Rather we see consistently in the New Testament that the church is attached to and becomes part and partisan with Israel. It is clearest in Romans 11, where the Gentiles are the wild olive branch that is grafted onto the stump of the olive tree that is Israel, and they become one tree. And there is certainly no sense in which that could possibly have happened yet. There has been no Davidic king in the history of Israel since the end of the dynasty at the time of Ezekiel. Nor would we argue that that king reigns directly now. So we see it's still not fulfilled. Then we see here that the Davidic king will administer a covenant of peace with them, and it shall be an everlasting covenant. And again, we would argue that Christ initiates this at the Lord's Supper, that at the Last Supper, his death inaugurates this new covenant that becomes this covenant of peace. Yet, we see in all of the New Testament that it is not imagined as a fulfilled thing. It's inaugurated, it is not consummated. And in fact, we see the confirmation in Revelation 21, where it says explicitly, I will be their God, and they will be my being. And it's phrased in that still future tense as something that has not yet come to pass. We keep uh uh uh as we keep stepping through Ezekiel's vision, we see in verses 26 and 28, I uh there we go, I just said that, I will be their vow and they shall be my people. And Revelation quotes that very directly. And then we see God say, My sanctuary is in their midst. Forever. And again, I would argue that this was inaugurated in the church. Many times the New Testament points to the church and says, it is the temple of God. It is the temple of God. We are, to be sure, God's the manifestation of God's presence on earth. And yet I would still argue that it is not fully realized. That whatever to whatever degree we do manifest God, we do not manifest him fully. It is not, we cannot possibly say, that having the church is the same as having God Himself here. And so we still await Ezekiel's fulfillment of Ezekiel's vision. There are a couple of other nuances to the text, but we will not bring those take those up right now. Now for all of this, though, I've kind of omitted one of the more important aspects of what he says here. And I want you to look back with me now at verse 22. They shall no longer be two nations, never again divided. Again, I've already touched on this, but it's worth it bears repeating. Whatever view you might have of a future Davidic king, whatever in-times eschatological millennial view you hold, What is indisputable is that this must necessarily apply to both Israel and the Church, for we are one in the New Testament framing up of things. And there is nobody who imagines that somehow the church today is one. I'm gonna stop right there. Even talking about this requires a degree of care. We have to be a little you'll say, wait a second, Pastor, we we just last week or two weeks or whatever ago, we we just uh uh uh spent together, we professed together the Nicene Creed. And it says one holy and apostolic church, we confess one church. Pastor, how can you say the church is not one? Well, I would point to Ezekiel's own language on this issue. Throughout his entire book, he has been speaking overwhelmingly of Israel as a single entity. He has used the term Judah a few times, but literally, I did the math, I checked it out, literally. The term Israel outnumbers the term Judah 15 to 1 Israel is his predominant view of the people of God, even though Israel didn't technically exist in the day that Ezekiel was living and writing. But it's his way of saying, I don't want to talk about Judah as though it's the fullness of the people of God. No, Israel, the whole, the two back together, you find that's the people of God Not just half the people of God, all of them. So he has talked throughout for 36 chapters, he has talked about one people of God. And then he stops here and says, there are two peoples of God and they need to be united. That's the reality of the church. There is one church, and there is not one church It is both and. It's not an either-or situation. There is a definite church with boundaries known to God. He knows who is in, who is not. He knows who is part of it and who is not. It is from his side of things a single entity, a unity, a oneness, but it is not that from our side of things, to be sure. And so Ezekiel imagines the manifestation of that spiritual reality on this plane, on the earth, that here, now, in this world. We would see the church in the way that God sees it as a single unity, a single entity. And that's what he's forming into. That's what he's hoping for. That it would play out that way. And to be sure, we do it does play out that way in small ways, right? This is one of the little subtle things that we do, that we don't restrict our communion table to only Presbyterians. For we recognize that the Church of God is one, that there is a unity here, that all those who hope in Jesus Christ, whose faith is in him, belong to the family of God and therefore have a right to the dinner table of the family of God. And yet we recognize that the unity isn't fully realized. I want us to look then now and stop and think about this question of Why is the church so splintered? What is God going to do about the splintered church? And why does it matter? Why is it church so what is God going to do about this butter, church, and why does it matter? Now, first of all, in dealing with this, why are we so splitgered? Let's just first recognize how splitred we are. In our little tiny town. Did you realize, are you aware that besides the fact that there are Methodists and Baptists and Catholics and etc. , that within each of those groups there are subdivisions? There are two Presbyterian churches in town. There are two Anglican churches in town. There are three Baptist churches that go by that name and a bunch of others that are Baptist but don't call themselves Baptists. There are three Methodist churches in town. And the list goes on and on. This little tiny time. We as Christians are a splintered group. Now to be sure much of that splintering is a function of our sin. Rehabal was a terrible king. The son of Solomon was a terrible king. Yet he was the legitimate heir of God's throne He was the legitimate heir of David. And the people of the North should have submitted to his rule, even though it was a bad rule. Their rebellion was simple, it was rooted in their pride, and it spelled spiritual devastation for the people of the North for generations to come. And we are not that different It is amazing how often we cannot stay under a rule we don't like. And sometimes it's not even as bad as brigabots. One of the interesting phenomena within Presbyterianism. Many large Presbyterian churches cannot stay Presbyterian, or they will not. They grow to a certain size and it becomes burdensome on them. They don't understand how it is that they should have to answer to a court that's made up a bunch of pastors and elements from a bunch of little tiny churches I mean, come on. I'm the pastor of a church of 12,000 members. Your church has got 52 members. How on earth are you telling me how to be church? And in their pride, they have to go independent. They can't bring themselves to do it. By the way, almost every time those churches collapse, they might survive that pastorage. And they collapse under the next one. The inability to submit ourselves to authority creates all manner of sin in the church and all manner of division. And expells spiritual harm for generations to come. And yet, not all of our division is simple Yes, a lot of it is, but I don't want us to imagine that it all is. There are a lot of diversity, there's a lot of diversity, a lot of diverse groups within the Christian church that have nothing to do with anybody's sin. Whether they arose organically and logically along geographic or language lines. The historic Coptic Church and the historic Chaldean Church They never divided from each other. They never split over doctrine. They didn't have any arguments. No, one arose in ancient Egypt and one arose in what is modern-day Iraq and they had no communication with each other, no interaction with each other. And they were two separate churches, and they say two separate churches. Not because they divided, but because the church sprang up in different places. That is not that different from some denominations today. Do you understand the history of our own Presbyterian denomination and our Reformed brothers? We didn't divide from them. The Reformed churches in America are not distinct from Presbyterianism because of some split. No, we arose in Scotland, they arose in Holland. Geography and language kept us apart. That's it. And in fact, we share a great deal of doctrine and policy with them. So don't imagine that every distinction, every division within the church is somehow a function of sin. They are not all that. Now there are some divisions that are a little more complex. They arise from a mix of sin and righteousness. I'm a Protestant for a reason. We are Protestants and Protestantism must necessarily exist. It rises from a mix of both sin and righteousness. Some of this is lost on us today. Because we look at the Catholic Church and God today and say, is it really that bad? They wouldn't admit it, but they have benefited from the Protestant Reformation. Their church is much healthier today. Because back in 1500, they were literally selling tickets to heaven for money. It was that bad and that corrupt. And men like Luther and all the other great reformers, they had no option but to stand up and say, enough The gospel was being lost. That division, that split among Christians, was an absolutely necessary thing. And yet it fostered even more splits. And so we see in the aftermath of the Protestant Reformation attempts to unify the different branches. Because of the nature of the world back then and communication being slow and everything else, as the Reformation happened, it tended to happen in these isolated geographic pockets around Europe And one would develop differently than another. And there were attempts as early as 1536, in case you don't remember the date. That's just 19 years after Luther put the 95 pieces on the Wittenberg church door. Just nineteen years. They got together and tried to unify the different branches of the Protestant movement. And they couldn't do so. You might think to yourself, well, it's got to be sin, right? They couldn't bring it together because of sin. I don't know. I'm sure sin, at least in this underlying sense that we are all broken because of our sinfulness, I'm sure that does play a factor. But that's not the same thing as a particular sin and a particular meaning. For what it came down to, here's what kept them apart. Convictions with regard to the Lord's table. Now that is not a small thing. That is an essential element of the worship of God's people. We're not talking about the color of the carpet or which hymnal to use. We're talking about the Lord's table. And one side had its scriptures and came to this conclusion, and the other side had its scriptures and came to this conclusion. And they could not convince one another. It wasn't for a lock of trouble. Now, what are they to do? Do we really want one side or the other to say, it's no big deal, the Lord's Supper, that's another issue. Why are we fighting with the Lord's Supper? No. That's a big deal. Do I really want brothers and sisters to give up their convictions before the Word of God? By the way, they weren't dealing with this was not a time of dealing with tradition. It was 19, the Protestant movement was 19 years old. They had no traditions yet. This was a conviction before the Word of God. That the Lord's suffer must be done this way that means these things, or the Lord's Supper must be done this way that means these things. And I don't think I would want my brothers and sisters to abandon their convictions before the Word of God. And by the way, Paul says to do so is sin. Paul says if you have a conviction before the Word of God, not a preference, not a tradition, but you can make a biblical argument. For why something is to be the way it is, to go against that conviction is sin So there are times when the churches are divided. There are times when we cannot come together. Not because one side is sinning or the other side is sinning. I will argue that at least one side is wrong with regard to their conclusions, but we don't know which side yet, do we? And so there is a place for division to continue among us. But somehow we've got to tolerate and allow that division Without there being discord. Without there being dislike. Without putting them down. without belittling them, without calling them names, without imagining them to be lesser than us. There are times when churches Must necessarily go their separate ways for the sake of their conviction before God's Word. That's not a light thing. That's not a small thing. We can't imagine we would not give up our convictions and our conscience on these matters. Why would we expect them to do so? I know why, because we're right and it's wrong. Isn't that always how it works? So we've got to find ways to respect on brothers and sisters, even when we differ with them. It is one of the reasons over the last several years we have taken up reading the ecumenical creeds, we're studying the ecumenical creeds more regularly than we used to. It is a little way to remind ourselves that the Church of Jesus Christ is so much bigger than us. That there is one holy and apostolic church and we are but one small part of it. And we may not be right about all of our distinctions. So let's hold together. the essential things that we believe and agree on, that Christ came down for us and for our salvation, as the Nicene Creed says. And rejoice with others who cling to that same hope, even as we disagree with them about certain important doctrines. So there's becomes a question then of how on earth By the way, literally, on earth, because this is talking about the new earth here, how on earth is God going to unite his people? You see, there's confusion here about how things are going to work in the newer. And I think we need to clarify some of that. Look back with me at verses 23, 24, and then also 25, or 23 and 24. No longer will they defile themselves. Okay? We're going to be perfected in the new earth. We're going to be fully sanctified, glorified in the new earth. And then what is verse 25 put forward? There will be a king. I think some of us imagine that people who are sinless don't need government governments. They don't need a government If there is no sin, if none of us do anything wrong, why on earth do you need a police force if nobody ever steals anything? Well let's be really clear about this. Let's just start with the simplest things that there are to be. Somebody is going to have to tell England they've been driving on the wrong side of the road all these years. Right? Governance is necessary even among perfected people, for there will be chaos without it. Decisions have got to be made about how it's going to be done this way or that way. Not because one is right and the other is wrong, but because you can't function if you don't agree. And someone must hand down that decision. And so the first thing we recognize is that part of our perfection, part of our glorification, part of our Full sanctification is going to be the humble, willing acceptance of governance. That I, for the first time in my life, am going to be willing and joyfully obeying the speech of it. And every other law. Part of the glory of Christ is going to be the change in me and in you. That I'm going to submit to those who are in authority over me. That there is going to be this By the way, you sit people and say, well, yeah, but wait a second, Pastor, the governance is going to be Christ. No, at least twice Paul tells, oh, I'm sorry, not Paul, the New Testament, once in Timothy, 2 Timothy, and once in Revelation We are twice told that Christians will reign on the new earth. It's going to be human beings who will rule on the new earth There will be human government upon the new earth. And I will readily submit. I will accept the counsel of the elders. I will hear them and obey them. Because it will be a place where my sin is no longer a part of it. Now I don't want to imagine, don't imagine that somehow we're going to just know everything. That there will be no doctrinal disputes. We don't become omniscient on the new earth. It is a profound mistake to stand at that coffin and say, now I know that grandma is looking down on us. Rama did not become omniscient by virtue of dying. She is still merely a human being. And we will continue to be merely human beings of the new earth in eternity. So we will not know everything, even everything doctrinal. There might be things that we will know and say we can't understand because we can't wrap our head around who God is. And we will need to be governed. We will submit to that governance And we will listen to our elders, and our elders will say it's this or it's that or it's the other thing, and here's how it plays out. And we there might be a question about did the elders get it right And that is where we do see here that ultimately there is one who will be reigning that they can turn to. This is the Sividic king that Ezekiel foresees. Jesus will be reigning as the one human being who always got it right. who was so perfectly in tune with the Holy Spirit that he earned the right to govern the people of earth. It's interesting that while Ezekiel is writing this, his contemporary Daniel, probably not at the same time, Daniel's probably a little few years later, but they're roughly the same period of history. Daniel is having a vision where he sees one he describes as one like a son of man. Who walks into the very throne room of God rather than being struck dead for his insolence He's rewarded. He's given power and dominion and authority. He's given a kingdom that he will reign over forever and ever. And Daniel cannot make any sense of this. How can a human being possibly Walk up to the ancient of days and get rewarded for it. And of course, Jesus takes that title, Son of Man. Applies it to himself. He says, I am the Son of Man. I am the one who will live out perfectly the way human beings were supposed to live out their lives, and by doing so will earn the right. We're so quick to talk about grace, we forget the fact that our grace is given to us because Jesus earned it. He will earn the right. To take up his throne in heaven and one day come to the new earth and rule over it. And in that new earth. All of the humans who reign alongside of him will freely go to him. and have all things judged by him. It's easy to forget. King's, we, the place where King's throne is located and where the king sits on the throne, is called a court. It's the court of the king. Why is it called a court? Because it was a place of judgment. The king was the final appeal. He was the la the highest court in the land. He was the last right of appeal and we will go to King Jesus and he will make decisions, but we will not be sinners and so we will readily receive them. And live according to them. You see, that's what Ezekiel saw here. They will no longer defile themselves with their idols. The idol that most of us worship is the one in the mirror. And we have a hard time letting go of it. We have a heart. Oh, we will say in the abstract, I'm not perfect. I know I'm not perfect. But when the brother is the room, actually accepting that we are not perfect. It's incredibly difficult to do. Because we worship that one in the mirror. But in the new on the new birth, That simpleness will be taken away. We will no longer defile ourselves idols. We will no longer bow down to the one in the mirror. And we will readily accept the governance of King Jesus and of all those he puts over us. How is the union of the church, the unity of the church going to be accomplished? It's going to be accomplished because we will be directly under Jesus. And he will rule us with such skill. He will be so gracious and so wonderful in his rule. That we will bestow on him all acclaim, all glory All majesty, all honor. We will have many reasons, perhaps an infinite number of reasons, to sing the praises of Jesus in eternity. The scars on his hands, not the least among them. But one of the reasons that we will sing his praises is that he will give all of us cats just marching a parade. He will get all of us who dispute and disagree and can everybody to line up and to agree with each other And there will be real unity. There will be real uh comradeship, there will be real friendships, we will be able to have real discussions and real debates, and our sin won't get in the way, and we will learn from each other, we will grow, and we will understand one another better, and we will respect each other. respect our fellow man. And there won't be this issue of whether the man or a woman said it or a Jew or a gentile or black or a white. It'll just be that we are brothers and sisters in the Lord and He reigns over us and where we can't agree, He will settle it. And we will finally have the relationship with one another that we so desperately want now. Are we going to get rid of all divisions in the church on this earth? I don't think so, and I'm not even sure that we should. But there is coming a day where Christ will remove them. And we will be one grind. to one king, one Lord. It's why, by the way, the passage makes reference to the covenant of peace, a covenant in which we will not only be at peace with our God, but peace with one another. That there will be true rest, true relaxation, true peace. Because Christ is the king over us. Let's pray. Lord, this is a glorious wonderful vision, Ezekiel Shaw. Give us the same hope. Let us long for this same thing. And help us to bear with this life graciously and patiently. To bear with those with whom we disagree in a way that honors you. We recognize that we will not settle all these things this side of heaven, yet if we look forward to heaven. We look forward to this sort of unity. Help us get there. Make it happen soon, Lord. Come today. We pray this in your precious name. Amen.