Look in your Bibles with me, if you would please, at Ezekiel chapters 12, 13, and 14, page 830 in the Pew Bible. We'll begin in a moment at Ezekiel 12, verse 21, page 830 of the Pew Bible. You really don't need medical training to understand this one basic diagnostic. Is he breathing? If not, there's no life. In our New Testament reading, James took that and applied it spiritually. Faith without works is dead. Good works are the breath of the Christian life, a diagnostic tool by which we might analyze someone's spiritual life Ezekiel has already pointed us to certain good works, or the lack thereof. He has warned about the injustice and the violence in Jerusalem as signs of spiritual death among God's But today in these two and a half chapters, Ezekiel is going to offer us a deeper diagnostic. Not of individual Christians, but of the spiritual health of a people claiming to belong to God. This is, if you will, an EKG for the church, an Ezekiel cardiogram. Come on. When a cardiologist, when she takes a cardio or an EKG, when a cardiologist looks at this information She's looking at the peaks, the shape of them, the spreading, their distance apart, and analyzing these things to deduce things about your heart and its condition. We're going to look at these materials and see that Ezekiel tells us how to look at the spiritual life of a church and analyze its spiritual condition. Join me in beginning at chapter 12, verse 21. And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, what is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel, saying, The days grow low, every vision comes to nothing. Tell them, therefore, thus says the Lord Yahweh, I will put an end to this proverb. And they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel, but say to them, the days are near, and the fulfillment of every vision For there shall be no more any false vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel. For I am the Lord. I will speak the word that I will speak, and it will be performed. It will no longer be delayed, but in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and perform it, declares the Lord Yahweh. And the word of the Lord came to me, son of man. Behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he sees is for many days from now, and he prophesies of things that are far off. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God, none of my words will be delayed any longer, for the word that I speak will be performed, declares the Lord. This is Ezekiel's first diagnostic criterion. I would sum it up this way: it's a question of reality versus revelation. Reality versus revelation. Does the church believe what it sees? Reality. Or what God says. Revelation. Ezekiel, you prophesy and prophesy, and nothing ever happens. What they see trumps their faith in the Word of God. But walking by faith and not by sight requires exactly the opposite. That we must uphold what we hear over our eyes. You've heard me use this illustration again, but it's an important one. This is, folks, quite honestly, the only reason I am not an advocate for a women elders. My eyes tell me the women of this church are as biblical, as wise, as godly, as concerned for the church as any man. Reality as I see it, says ordained women. Revelation says otherwise. Reality versus revelation. Which determines what you believe? This is the first diagnostic tool that Ezekiel sets before us. Let's keep reading, picking up in chapter 13, as he looks at a second diagnostic of the church. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who are prophesying. And say to those who prophesy from their own hearts Hear the word of the Lord. I'm going to stop right here. We have a tendency to think that the only prophets in Israel at this time were Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah. Because they're the ones that are preserved for us. But the reality is the streets were full of prophets. The churches were full of preachers. Only those four spoke the word of God. Back to it. Verse three. Thus says the Lord God. Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing. Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel. You have not gone up into the breaches. Or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the Lord. They have seen false visions and lying divinations, they say, declares the Lord. When the Lord has not sent them. And yet they expect Him to fulfill their word. Have you not false vision and uttered a lime divination whenever you have said, declares the Lord, although I have not spoken? Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have uttered falsehood and seen lying visions, therefore, behold, I am against you, declares the Lord God. God against his own people, God against the church. My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions. and who give lying divinations. They shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord God. Precisely because they have misled my people saying, peace, when there is no peace. And because when the people build a wall, these prophets smear it with whitewash, and say to those who smear it with whitewash, that it shall never fail. There will be a deluge of rain, and you, and you, oh great hailstones, will fall, and a stormy wind break out. And when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, where is the coating with which you smeared it Basically, that's a long way of saying they make what looks like good spiritual fortifications, but in the end they're nothing, and they will collapse. Therefore, thus says verse thirteen Therefore thus says the Lord God, I will make a stormy wind break out in my wrath, and there shall be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones and wrath to make a full end, and I will break down the wall that you have smeared with whitewash. And bring it down to the ground so that its foundation will be laid bare. When it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am the Lord. Thus will I spend my wrath upon the wall, and upon those who have smeared it with whitewash. And I will say to you, the wall is no more, nor those who smeared it, the prophets of Israel who prophesied concerning Jerusalem, and who saw visions of peace for her. When there was no peace, declares the Lord. And you, Son of Man, set your face against the daughters of your people. Who prophesy out of their own hearts, prophesy against them, and say, Thus says Yahweh, who is God Woe to the women who sew magic bands upon all wrists and make veils for the heads of persons of every statue. Statue. And in the h and in the hunt for souls. Will you hunt down souls belonging to my people and keep your own souls alive? These magic bands were bracelets and necklaces and f and things that would go around the veil that had amulets on them, charms on them, to ward off evil spirits, to honor false gods. These are outward manifestations of an inward paganism. That their God is not the only God is their view. Verse 19, you have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread. Basically, you've sold these amulets to make a few bucks. Putting to death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live by your lying to my people who listen to lies. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, I am against your magic bands with which you hunt the souls like birds, and I will tear them from your arms, and I will let the souls whom you hunt go free, the souls like birds. Your veils also I will tear off and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand as prey, and you shall know that I am the Lord. Because you have dis because you have disheartened the righteous falsely, although I have not grieved him, and you have encouraged the wicked that he should not turn from his evil way to save his life, therefore You shall no more see false visions nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand, and you shall know that I am the Lord. Chapter 13 kind of boils down to this one question. It's a question of heart versus heaven. Heart versus heaven. Is the message of the preacher from his heart? Or from gods. Years back, mom relocated a few weeks ahead of dad, and she began church hunting. And she found what seemed like a vibrant and lively church, yet in time she realized that the pastor did not preach a passage of the Bible. He quoted the Bible, but always in service of the point he wanted to make, and only those verses which supported his point. He was preaching with passion and with energy and with enthusiasm, and it was wrapped in a veneer of Christianity. But it arose out of his heart and not, and did not come down from heaven. That's the problem in Ezekiel's day. Back in verse 2, say to those who prophesy from their own hearts. You see, the people were deeply religious. There was religion all around them. And much of it claimed to be Christian. Look at verse 6. They say, declares Yahweh. They're speaking in the name of the true God. They preach from their heart in the name of God, but it's all baloney. Because it is not ultimately and finally the word which came down from heaven. In the second half of chapter 12, Ezekiel's diagnostic guidance is a question of reality versus revelation. Do you believe what you see or what God says? In short, the church which walks by sight is sick. The one walking by faith is sick. In chapter 13, it's heart versus heaven. Warning against the preacher who, out of his heart's perhaps very sincere desire, Preaches all good news, all happy, happy, all the time. Peace, the chapter told us, because that is ultimately so much easier to preach. Chapter 14 offers one more diagnostic test in the first few verses, and then it gets into a warning. So it begins with one more aspect of the EKG, looking at a church's heart. Then certain of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me, and the word of the Lord came to me: Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their hearts. And set the stumbling block of their iniquity before their faces. Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord God. Anyone of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart, and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to the prophet, I, the Lord, will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols. That I may lay hold of the hearts of the house of Israel, who are all estranged from me through their idols. This third diagnostic is to realize that heart is heart. Heart is heart. If you want to diagnose the heart of a church, diagnose the heart of its elders. You see, the elders were chosen by and reflect the congregation. These are the people they honor and regard highly. So it tells you something about the people of the church. But you also have to recognize that in the elders' hearts is the direction of the future of the church. As they guide it, as they lead it. If there's problems in the church, it's going to be out of the elders' hearts that those problems are addressed If the word from the pulpit is false, it is going to be the elders who have to say something. If our Sunday school, women's ministries, if our marriages, if any of these things are not as they ought to be It is going to be the heart of our elders who have to address it. And so the heart of the elders matter. God looked into the heart of the elders in Ezekiel's living room that day, and he concluded their hearts were full of idolatry. So that there was no hope for the nation to get things right, for her spiritual leadership wasn't right. And so we have three ways to evaluate the health of a church. Does it care more about its reality or revelation, what it sees or what it hears from the Word of God? Does it care more about the heart of the pastor preaching with enthusiasm or a word from heaven? Heart or heaven. And in the end, heart is heart. What the elders have in their hearts will be what the congregation has in its. So what happens to a church when all and where all of these diagnostics point to sickness? What happens to a church which is unhealthy in these ways? Picking up in verse 6. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations, for any one of the house of Israel Excuse me, sorry. For anyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, who separates himself from me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face And yet comes to a prophet to control me through him, I, the Lord, will answer him myself. And I will set my face against that man. There it is again. I will make him a sign and a byword and cut him off from the midst of my people, and you shall know that I am the Lord. And if the prophet is deceived and speaks a word, I the Lord have deceived that prophet. And I will stretch out my hand against him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel, and they shall bear their punishment The punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the inquirer shall be alike. Both the one who goes to the false prophet and the false prophet himself will suffer the same penalty. That the house of Israel may no more go astray from me, nor defile themselves anymore with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people, and I may be their God. declares the Lord who is God. Let's pray Dear Spirit of God, I ask that you would protect us from me That my words would be in line with your message that what I say is actually what's here That we would hear these warnings, these diagnostic tools, and we use them, learn to use them correctly. That we would never become like these people in Ezekiel's day That by the power of your word, by the warning that you preserved from your prophet Ezekiel, that we would learn, that we would stay on the right path, that we would be a church who is faithful and healthy. Who is in line with what you want for us? If I say anything that is contrary to that, let it be quickly forgotten. So that you stand out and you alone. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You might look at this sermon, you might look at what I've just summarized of these three chapters and ask yourself, why do I need to know this? Isn't this the prerogative of the pastor and the elders? Isn't it their job to keep an eye on the health of a church? In one sense, you're kind of right, right? None of us goes to a cardiologist and expects them to hand us the EKG and expects us to read it for ourselves. No, we expect them as the expert to look at it, diagnose it, and tell us what's wrong. So, isn't the reading of the spiritual health of the church kind of a matter for the pastors and the elders, the other elders? And it is. But here's the thing. You choose your church. And I don't mean that simply in the sense that you choose to attend this or that church. Even if you reside for a long time in the same church, you call its elders You put pressure on the sermon, on the pulpit. You say, Pastor, I don't like when you talk about that. Pastor, I like a lot when you talk about this over here. You choose your church. The day will come, maybe sooner, hopefully later, where you'll have to pick a new pastor. How are you going to do that? How are you going to diagnose the spiritual health of that man? The day may come that the Lord moves you away from Easton and you have to pick a new church. How are you going to do that? How are you going to diagnose that church? Yes, the spiritual well-being of a church is the domain, the prerogative, the responsibility of its elders, but each of us ought to know some basic diagnostic tools. to evaluate the s the health of a church, its spiritual well-being. The three that I have summarized as we read through Or this question of reality in air quotes, if you will, reality versus revelation. Do you believe what you see or what the Word of God says? The question of heart versus heaven. Where does the message come from? Out of the man himself or out of the Word of God? And finally, this question of heart is heart. The heart of the elders reflects the heart of the people, and vice versa. So the three diagnostic tools when it come down to this, are they walking by faith or by sight? Are they preaching from the word or from their own opinions? And what are the elders really like? If you want to judge it, those are your tools for doing so. So let's look at this question of reality versus revelation in a bit more detail. It sounds a bit like a false dichotomy. After all, shouldn't reality align with revelation? In other words, shouldn't the real world align with what God has said? And of course it will. And of course it does. But that's not always how it plays out. There's a subtlety to this we have to be aware of. Spiritual poison never comes to us with a strolling stolen crossbones on the label. Rather, it comes to us with the discovery of something new. We have come to understand That teaching only applied in that church at that time in history. And we are now freed from that. And with that gain of wisdom, doesn't that sound appealing? We've gained wisdom. We're smarter now. And we gradually move away from the Word of God. I used the illustration earlier of ordaining women, but that's really kind of the tip of the sickness spear. It's not the only place this happens. You see, everything in the world, everything in our human experience screams out to us the logic of living together before marriage. And yet the crazy word of God says not to. Which will we follow? All the logic of the world, all the reasoning why you oughta kick the tires and test drive that marriage completely before you jump in You can decide if it's the man or the woman that's the tiger getting kicked. We the church have got to obey the Word of God on these sorts of issues. Everything about the world around us says that our mission as a church, whether it be local in outreach or overseas in our world missions, that the mission of the church ought to be first and foremost about the temporal physical lives of the men and women right in front of us. That full bellies soften hearts so they can hear sermons. Jesus said, what does it profit a man to gain the whole world but forfeit his soul? If you want some insight into the health of the church, does its outreach and missions prioritize well-being in this life or in the next? Closely related to that. What do we prioritize for ourselves? You want to talk about a uh daunting reality? It's been two thousand years. More than a few of us have got to be asking, is Jesus really coming back? And what gradually happens is we turn the church into making it about this life because we've kind of given up the hope on the next one. Pastor, tell me how to live this life comfortably. Pastor, tell me how to be at ease in this life. Because I don't really think there's a next one. The church which holds to the reality of what it sees has ceased to live by faith. Ezekiel warns the people to ignore that proverbial wisdom that nothing ever happens, you prophesy, you preach, nothing ever comes true. And to cling to their hope in the Word of their God. You see, that's the heart of a healthy church, according to this spiritual EKG from Ezekiel. We must cling to revelation over reality, to what we hear from God over what we see with our eyes. The second diagnostic tool is this question of heart versus heaven. And in one sense, it kind of presents the same problem. I mean, for sure, we want our pastors to preach from the heart. Preaching from the heart is a good thing, and in fact, it's a required thing. Back in Ezekiel 3, God said to him, Son of man All my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart. An effective preacher cannot uh a preacher cannot be effective. if the Word of God is not flowing out of his heart. So the question here is not should he be preaching from the heart, but what is coming out of his heart? What is the issue? Is it nearly his heart? Or does it reflect heaven's word? It's not enough for the pastor to preach from the heart as Enduring, as endearing as that might be, as charismatic as that might seem, when you go visit that church, you're like, wow, that passion was so powerful, so profound, it was so good. Was there biblical content Did it come from heaven or his heart? Ezekiel shows us one way to distinguish preaching from a man's heart versus preaching which is from heaven, and what he says is really quite striking. First, in Ezekiel 13, 5, you have not, speaking to the false prophets, the false preachers, you have not gone up into the breaches. This is a battle metaphor, a war metaphor. In any battle, the greatest immediate danger is always the place where the enemy breaks through. The breach in the wall of the city. The breach in the defensive line of the infantry A good and godly preacher, Ezekiel is arguing, is going to address those spiritual breaches. Where sin is breaking through the defenses of the church, where false doctrine is making its way through the people of the church, the faithful preacher must call it out. The godly man of God must speak the truth into those situations. So why don't we? I mean, this is self-evident, right? This is what preachers ought to do? Doctors, after all, focus on what ails us. Generals focus on what threatens the troops. Why don't preachers do a better job of this? I was about, I think I was 25 years old, and I was talking to the pastor of our church, and he made a comment that has stuck with me all these years later. He said, Scott, there has never been a time in history where sinners like to be called sinners Think about that. Sinners do not like to be told they are sinners Preachers don't address the spiritual breaches in the church because nobody wants to be told to stop sinning. Nobody wants to be told that their doctrine is all messed up. In seminary, we had to write a paper, just a little short two-page thing. I had to write a paper on the leadership of Jesus, and tongue-in-cheek, I describe Jesus as a leadership failure. I pointed to John chapter 6. That at the beginning of John 6, he's feeding the 5,000 men, plus women and children, John tells us, probably something in the neighborhood of 12 to 15,000 people. He had a megachurch. And by the end of John 6, everybody is gone, except for the twelve. And he's worried about them. He says, Will you also leave me? He took this huge, beautiful church, and instead of building on the momentum, instead of giving them more of what they wanted, instead of keeping them coming, he went and preached doctrine to them. I mean that's how you kill a church in a hurry. And they went away, not wanting to hear that he was the bread of life. In last week's sermon, I broached the dicey topic, one that can get a pastor in a whole lot of trouble. In fact, a preacher in our presbytery estimates that he's lost about a third of his congregation because he spoke up on that same issue. So just in case you haven't noticed, I'm not Jesus. I'd like to think I would have that kind of boldness and bravery to speak the truth even if everybody walked out. But preachers are human beings. Fallen, flawed, broken human beings. And it terrifies us as pastors that what we say might alienate the congregation. So you want a brave and faithful pastor, either the next one in this pulpit or perhaps the next church you have to go to? Stop using the terminology of liking. Don't visit a church and talk to your spouse in the car afterwards and say, I liked that. You don't judge a doctor on whether or not you like the diagnosis of cancer. Your spiritual well-being ought to be in the hands of men who speak the truth, even when you don't like it. Stop using that verbiage. It's not a question of like or dislike. It's a question of true or false, the word of God or not the word of God. I'm reading this biography of Martin Luther, and boy, nobody liked Martin Luther. He was not a particularly likable guy. But he was profoundly committed to the truth. We must be as well. Ezekiel has made this point as well, and he continues to address this theme. In 1310, he says, They have misled my people saying, peace when there is no peace. We are on the cusp of that time of year where every pulpit preaches peace. Peace on earth, goodwill to men. And who doesn't like that sermon, right? It goes down easy. It's all good with you. Jesus loves you. There's peace. Frankly, of all the things that Ezekiel addresses in this section, this might be the one in my judgment, and I may be wrong here. This might be the one of my judgment that we in our denomination are most at risk of falling victim to. That was a horribly constructive sentence, sorry. Of all the things where we can go wrong, this clamoring to preach happy, happy, good, good. Joy joy all the time. Just rest in Christ. Just know that Jesus died for you. Know that's all you got. And by the way, that's the good news, right? That we get to rest in Christ? That is the gospel, and we must proclaim it. But our Constitution says there's two things we have to proclaim. That the Bible tells us what we must believe about God. Jesus died for us. And what duty God requires of us. And boy, we don't always want to preach that second one. Nobody wants a kick in the pass. Nobody wants to be told that they've got to get off their spiritual backside and work out their salvation in fear and trembling. And so a message of just everything's all right is so much easier to preach and so much easier to hear. It's easy to preach sermons of peace, of reconciliation, of having been reunited to our God, and we must preach those, and the Word of God proclaims those. But it's a sign of an unhealthy church if that's the only thing we ever preach. If every cancer screening at the local hospital came back negative, you would not conclude that the whole community was that healthy and that cancer-free. No, you would conclude that there was something wrong with that hospital. If every sermon is always positive. Always joy, peace, you're all okay. Do you really want to conclude that everybody in that church is that sanctified? Or could it be that they just don't like being told they're sinners? Yes, we are the redeemed, the elect, the saved, but we are not the perfected, not the completed, not the glorified. We are saints. We are not yet sanctified. The prophets of Ezekiel's day, they wouldn't step into the spiritual breach. They just proclaimed peace and God calls them out for it. Reality versus revelation. A healthy church believes God's word over the things they see around them. Heart versus heaven. The preacher of the healthy church proclaims the word of God, not just the things that are happy or easy for him that flow out of his own heart. Finally, this question of heart is heart. Since the elders lead the congregation, reflect the congregation, their heart gives you some knowledge of the heart of that church. So how do you judge the heart of an elder? It's actually a lot easier than you might think. Jesus gives it to us in Luke 6. 45. The mouth speaks what the heart is full of. The mouth speaks what the heart is full of. Different church years ago, there was a man nominated to be an elder. And the nominating committee at the church was a little uneasy and in the end did not put his name forward to the session or to the congregation. And this went on a couple of times for a few years. And behind the scenes, those members of the nominating committee would just say things like, There's a little something. I don't want the how do I tell you, but his humor is just a little too off-color. There's a little I don't know what it is. Ten years later it came to light. That he had a child with a woman that was not his wife. The mouth speaks out of the overflow of the heart. This man's constant sexual joking revealed what was really in his heart. Does your elder, does the potential elder or the elder talk about forgiveness, about grace, about the love of God, about the gospel? Does he talk about Jesus Christ? Does he talk about obedience? Does he talk about the Ten Commandments? Does he talk about these things? Or does he not? Are these things a part of who he is, or are they not? If all he can talk about is hockey, ever. That may reveal a heart that's not really overflowing with the Word of God. Does the truth of Jesus Christ and His gospel and his word ooze out of the man? The mouth speaks from the overflow of the heart, Jesus says The elders in Ezekiel's day had hearts full of idolatry, the passage tells us. Jesus said that whatever your heart was full of, that's what you talk about. These men are not fit to lead God's people Because their hearts are full of what is unhealthy. And the church they lead will be unhealthy. Every believer has to choose a church. It has to help choose the church that its church is beer his or her church is becoming, and they one day have to just choose an entirely new church. And Ezekiel equips us with three diagnostic tools. Do they trust revelation over reality? Do they does the preacher preach from heaven and not just his heart? And are the elders' hearts aligned with the gods or the word of God That's how we tell the church is healthy or not. That's how we evaluate the situation. And how we strategize how to move forward and become healthy. Or how we know to run away and find a different church. It's not a question of what we like. It's not a question of what goes down easy. It's not a question of what we wanted to hear that day. It's a question of the heart of the church given over to the Word of God. Let's pray. For this is a difficult thing to hear. We can be a little full of ourselves, sure that what we like must be the right thing So give us corporate humility and individual humility. That we would ponder this word from Ezekiel, that we would pour back over this passage. that we would test what has been said here this morning and see if it actually aligns with this text. And if it does, let us submit to it and follow it. Uphold it, celebrate it, and use it to guide this church into ever greater health, And pray this grace in Christ's name. Amen.