We turned this morning to the beginning of the end of Ezekiel. Ezekiel is traditionally divided into three broad parts, and this is the first chapter in that third and final portion of his book. Ezekiel 33, if you're using that Pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 856. Ezekiel 33, page 856. Please turn there if you would. Let me pray before we jump into this. Lord, we ask that you would help us to understand the message of the prophet Ezekiel. He lived in a time and a place that is so radically different from our own. We do need your guidance into unraveling the text, making sense of how it fitted in his time, and then rightly applying it to ours. And as we hear the warning, let us see your mercy in it. And as we hear Ezekiel talk to his people, your people Let us hear you talking to us. Speak, O Lord, through this your word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Sermons from Ezekiel are pretty rare. I did a little calculation this week. I've heard easily north of 5,000 sermons in my life. And I may have heard one or two out of the book of Ezekiel. But if you heard a sermon from Ezekiel, there's a reasonably good chance this is one of the two chapters it came from. Ezekiel 33 is one of the better-known chapters of this rather obscure book of the Bible. The reason for it is pretty simple As we're going to see here in a few minutes, the reason we are willing to preach out of Ezekiel 33 is exactly the reason he put it here As the prophet is nearing the end of his life and his ministry, as he's assembling his papers, gathering up the sermons he preached, thinking back over what the Lord has had him to do, as he's arranging his book in the way that we have it now. There is a reason he put this chapter right here at the opening of this final portion of the book. And his reason is one that we can appreciate I'm fond of saying that we here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for life. Ezekiel believed that as well, and we hear him preach it here in Ezekiel 33. Join me now in reading the Word of God. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of man, speak to your people and say to them, If I bring the sword upon the land of the people of the land, take a man from among them and make in their watchman, and if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people, then if anyone who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away. His blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and he did not take warning. His blood shall be upon himself. But if he had taken warning, he would have saved his life. But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not below the trumpet, so that the people are not born, and the sword comes and takes any one of them, that person is taken away in his iniquity. But his blood I will require at the watchman's hand So, you, son of man, I have made a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked person will die in his iniquity. But his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked to turn from his way, and he does not turn from his way, that person shall die in his iniquity But you will have delivered your soul. We pause there for a moment. The canoe livery instructed each boy to wear his life jacket, but two boys did not. The chaperones directed all the boys to take their canoes downstream, but these same two boys slipped away and paddled upstream. Finally, gigantic yellow, and I do mean gigantic yellow signs were on each side of the river and suspended from cables over the river and they warned of the danger ahead, and yet the boys paddled on. And eventually they got too close to the dam, and their canoe flipped into churning water below the dam, and at just 16 years old, both of them drowned. And there were lawsuits, as you can imagine. Their parents sued the canoe liberty, the supervising organization, even the county In the passage before us, God says plainly that if you, like these boys, flout life's warnings and ignore the watchmen that God ordains If you disregard the preaching of the elders, their discipline, their godly example in your life, they will not be held accountable. There will be no suing them. God will hold the watchmen guiltless if they call out against your sin, against your unbelief, against the stubbornness of your hard heart. I mentioned a few weeks back that there was a pastor who once said to me that there has never been a time when sinners like to be called sinners. It was true in Ezekiel's day as well, and it is still true today. Like those boys, we don't want to heed the warnings. Those boys did not want to be told what to do or which way to go. They wanted to be in control of their own destiny. But if they had heeded the warnings of those who were watching over them, their lives would have been saved. There was that day a man on the bank of that river. Imagine for a moment that you were he. What would you do if you saw those boys caught in the undertow of that dam? As they cried out for help, would you yell back, nah, your fault, you didn't wear your wife jacket? Would you say to them, sorry, you ignored the signs? That man that day, he ignored the danger, and in compassion he jumped in. Surely the compassion of that man, surely our compassion does not exceed that of God's. And we resume in verse 10. And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, thus have you said Surely our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we rot away because of them. How then can we live? They're crying out, we're lost in our own sin. Verse 11, say to them, As I live, declares the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil ways. For why will you die, O House of Israel? Sadly, the man of the bank that day, he drowned along with those teenage boys. God, however, is able to save. And it is the longing of his heart to do so. For all the judgmental tone that we've seen in the book of Ezekiel, and there is a lot of judgment in Ezekiel. That is not the inner desire of God. Judgment is forced by our sin, but the heart of God is toward mercy. When we are caught in the consequences of our sin, our defiance, our rebellion, when we, like those boys, are at risk of eternal death rather than physical death Because we have ignored the watchmen of God. It is never too late. If we cry out to Him, He will save. And yet God does not play games. Imagine if that man, that day, had saved those boys. And the next Halloween they ate in his house. God will not be trifled with. He desires to be merciful, but he will not be used. He's not a genie that you can call upon in your time of need and then make him go back into his bottle. And so we pick up at verse 12. And you, son of man, say to your people: the righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him when he transgresses. And as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall by it when he turns from his wickedness. And the righteous shall not be able to live by his righteousness when he sins. Though I say the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he trusts, In his own righteousness and does injustice, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that in his injustice that he has done, he shall die. Again, though I say the wicked, you shall surely die, yet if he turns from his sin and does what is just and right, if the wicked restores the pledge, gives back what he has taken by robbery, and walks in the statutes of life, not doing injustice, He shall surely live. He shall not die. None of the sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him. He has done what is just and right. He shall surely live. In theological lingo, we speak of the pressure of the perseverance of the saints. That is the doctrine that Ezekiel is espousing here. But Ezekiel puts it really in some ways more simpler. He simply says where you end up is what matters. You cannot walk in faith for a time and then abandon God. And yet still imagine that he will save you. The life of faith is one of continuous faith, ongoing, enduring repentance The faith that took Peter a few steps out onto the water did not uphold him once he took his eyes off Jesus. We must persist in faith and in repentance. And yet, what does Ezekiel also say here? A life of wickedness does not disqualify. We can disbelieve for a long time, deny Jesus, reject God, be a pagan, be an atheist, it doesn't matter if we hear the warning of the watchman when he preaches. When he calls out, if we turn to God, all our hard-heartedness is not held against us. We will not die in our sins. God takes no pleasure, we're told, in the death of the wicked, but would rather that the wicked person turn to him. Now some will object. How can it be some will say that God would condemn to hell those who are mostly good? Verse 17 Yet your people say the way of the Lord is not just. Our objections to God's righteousness are not new. Our objections to God's justice, we did not invent them. It is not as if the people in biblical times were too stupid to think of the arguments we thought of. No, they had exactly the same objections. They accused God of injustice just as we do. God's response to them is simply this, as we're going to see in a moment. I'm God. You're not. This is the quiet arrogance and pride of most people. That there can only be there can only be one supreme being and deep inside of us it infuriates us that it isn't. Me. It is your way which is unjust, God continues in verse seventeen, and then he explains in verse eighteen. When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does him justice, he shall die for it. But how can that be? We're still asking. That a mostly good person is condemned for a little wickedness. And God says, how can it be otherwise? To leave that unpunched, to say, well, the person was mostly good for most of their life. But they refuse God is to accept that God is somehow less. You may recall if you were here back in September at the beginning of the book of Ezekiel, that Ezekiel's call for the ministry was one of a revelation of the glory of God to him. In order to carry out his work, Ezekiel had to understand who God was. And we need that same understanding. We need to see the glory of God. That's why we draw these sorts of conclusions because we don't understand who God really is. We cannot imagine the genuine purity and glory of God. And so we we imagine that he ought to tolerate a little sin. That he should be okay with mostly good. Most of you know that for a time I worked part-time with a local construction company. They specialize in high-end remodeling. Now imagine That I was asked to set 15 interior doors. We worked on some big houses, they had more than 15 doors. Imagine that I was asked to set 15 interior doors, and 14 of them are perfect. But the 15th one, well so what? So what if the jam and the door are parallel to each other? I got 14 of them right. That's 93%. That's an A. Isn't that good enough? And all of you understand that most of my work was hidden behind the drywall. My boss was not going to accept that 14 out of 15 doors was okay. And our customers were not going to accept that 14 out of 15 doors was okay. I laugh at my college students every semester because they would never go to a dentist that drilled close to the correct tooth. They would never fly with a pilot who landed near the runway, but they imagined that I should cut them flat when I read their papers. We understand, we believe that the customer is justified in wanting all 15 doors to be right. We understand that an airline passenger, it's justified that they expect the pilot to get on the runway, not just close to it. But somehow we imagine that the Almighty should have a lower standard with regard to morality. That he should be okay with our efforts to be kind of close. That's not how it works. The Almighty does not have a lower standard than you and I have. And he's talking about morality. Not whether the door opens or closes properly. And the prophet is saying to the people who are objecting to God. Stop. He's gone. He gets to be in judgment of you, not the other way around. And yet, what have we already heard? Despite all of that, He takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked. And so we keep reading in verse 18. Sorry, verse 19. And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live. And yet you still say the way of the Lord is not just. Oh house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to this same way. We really expect God to live up to our ideas of who He ought to be. It's going to be a real awakening when he holds us even to that bare minimum standard. We are not even going to live up to our own expectations, let alone his. If you're sitting here this morning, and you have been bad-mouthing God for 30 plus years, you've lived a mostly morally repugnant life, the hope here is this, what we're told here is this. If you repent, even now, even at this late date, even after all of this wickedness, you will be saved The thief don't next to Jesus lived his whole life badly, but he repented and he believed, and in those few minutes Of being right with God, Jesus said to him, Today you will be with me in paradise Now, if you've been with us throughout the book of Ezekiel, you've probably by now felt the weight of the judgment and the condemnation, which are kind of thematic to this book. I hope you also see now that it's beginning to lift. That in these next few chapters, we're going to see more hope, more light, more joy. Even here and next week, there is still harshness, there is still warning, but it is just that. Warning. Condemnation is final. Warning comes with hope. Warning says there's a way out. Warning says, turn and be saved. Repent, and God will forget your wickedness. That has not been a theme so far. It will be moving forward. Why the difference? What has changed in the life of the prophet or those to whom he ministers? You pick up again in verse 21. In the twelfth year of our exile, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, a fugitive from Jerusalem came to me and said, The city has been struck down. Ezekiel had then, for what going on, well, almost 12 years now, Ezekiel has been explaining why Jerusalem was going to fall Hence all the condemnation and judgmental tone. But now it has fallen. It actually fell sometime earlier, but word is now, an eyewitness has now gotten back to Ezekiel and confirmed. That Jerusalem is gone. So it's time to turn the page and to begin the process of rebuilding. The church, not the building. Ezekiel will take no part in the later reconstruction of the temple proper. His job is to lay the spiritual foundation For the rebuilding of God's people, the true church. And after preaching against their sin for all of those years, what better place to begin than with the hope of restoration? God does not rejoice in the death of the wicked. No matter how wicked your life has been, repent and you will be saved. That's the message to which Ezekiel is turning now. And yet he will need to disabuse them of some lingering flawed understandings, and we see him begin to do this in verse 23. The word of the Lord came to me, son of man. The inhabitants of these waste places of the land of Israel keep saying Abraham was only one man, yet he got possession of the land, but we are many, the land is surely given us to possess Basically that the that though the king of in j in Jerusalem has fallen, though the temple has been raised, though the city has been burned, there are these uh uh men uh little minor warlords kind of running around in the and the aftermath as Nebuchadnezzar's armies have left the scene. turn their attention to other rebel nations around. Some of them have said, well, surely if God could give this land to Abraham, who is just one man Clearly, we are now, as his descendants, the rightful inheritors of Jerusalem, and he's going to rebuild through us. And Ezekiel is going to say no. Verse 25. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God, You eat flesh with the blood. And lift your eyes to your idols, and you shed blood. In other words, you break all my covenant rules. Shall you then possess the land? You rely on the sword. Remember, this is the mistake we saw before. They were trusting in the strength of Egypt, the strength of man. He said, you're still making the same mistake. You're still relying on your strength. You rely on the sword. You think you can take care of your problems. You commit abominations, and each of you defiles his neighbor's wife. You are religiously impure, you are sexually impure. Shall you then possess the land? Now again, he's not disqualifying them from salvation. Ezekiel has already said, those who will repent and turn to God will be forgiven. God does not long for the death of the wicked. But these men aren't repenting. They're continuing the same mistakes and imagining that they are going to be honored by God. Say this to them, verse 27. Say this to them, the says uh the Lord Yahweh As I live, surely those who are in the wasteplaces shall fall by the sword, and whoever is in the open field I will give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in the strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence And I will make the land a desolation and a waste, and her proud might shall come to an end. And the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through then they will know that I am the Lord, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste because of their abominations that they have committed. The prophet is saying, listen, yes, Jerusalem has fallen. There's still something enough work to do. There are still some who think that the way to rebuild is just to return to our old way of doing things. There are some of us who today will make the mistake of thinking, okay, I get it, I was wrong, I'm a sinner, I'm a bad person, I gotta get it right, and we turn right back around to try to fix it ourselves. I'm going to do a better job. We treat our religious life, our spiritual life, as some kind of series of New Year's resolutions. I just got to fussle down and do a better job. And the Prophet is saying to them no. Stop going back to the way you used to do things Stop imagining that your religion is rooted in your descendant, the fact that your descendants of Abraham. Stop imagining that your religion is rooted in your uh outward practices. That's what got you into this trouble and is not going to get you out of it. Strength, the strength of men, power in numbers, that is not going to fix the problem. There is nothing we can do in this life to fix our problems. If there were, somebody would have written the definitive self-help book and it would be the end of all self-help books. Oh no. We cannot make this life right. We cannot fix it. We cannot be happy in any effort that we're going to put forth. It's one of the reasons that the true Christian faith is constantly forward-looking. We admit that this life stinks And we turn right around and go, but our God has promised us the next life. Ezekiel's going to begin to turn that direction. To those who will hope in God, those who will believe in his mercy, to those who will say to him, Save me, he's where to begin to lay out a picture of the next life. Of the salvation of God that is found in the world to come. The close of this chapter leads kind of sort of into next week's chapter, but I'm going to go ahead and address it this week It is very interesting. As noted, Ezekiel has been preaching the downfall of Jerusalem for years, and now it has come to pass. In other words, he's been calling the shots And the shock has gone in. His credibility as a prophet is about to soar. And there is a danger in that. Look at verse 30. As for you, son of man, your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses say to one another, each to his brother, Come and hear what the word that the word that comes from the Lord. Basically, look at Ezekiel. He's been calling this and now he's right. Let's go talk to Ezekiel. And they come to you, verse 31, as people come. And they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say, but they will not. Do it. For with lustful talk in their mouths, they act, their heart is set on their gain. And behold, you are to them like one who sings lustful songs with a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument For they hear what you say, but they will not do it. When this comes, and come it will, then they will know that a prophet has been among them. Ezekiel, your popularity is about to go through the roof. Everyone is going to be buying your books, listening to your podcast. They're all going to want a piece of what you have to say That is not success, dear minister. For your message will not have gotten into who they are. It will not penetrate their hearts. They will hear what they will not do. Ezekiel 33 is an interesting chapter. It is a profound chapter. It is full of a lot of amazing truth. And it turns really on this question. How do you rebuild the church? That's the question that faces the prophet at this point in his ministry. Jerusalem is gone. The temple is gone. The priesthood is gone. There are no outward trappings any longer of the religion in which he grew up, in which he was trained to be a priest, of which he was a prophet. How do you rebuild the church? And it is God who has torn it down. God who has destroyed every visible marker of Israel's religious life But it is God who is saying how to begin again, how to start anew. Not with the outward trappings, but with the heart. With where you point your affections. Even saying, well, we want to hear a true preacher like Ezekiel If that is aimed at personal gain, as God warns the prophet, some will, even then it's still a false thing. We're called to repent, to admit before God, we're flawed. We're sinners. We're people who don't listen to him, who don't do what he's telling us, who don't obey, and yet we still go to him. The prophet doesn't spell out the details by which that happens, but he's opening the door to restoration here in chapter 33. Before God confronts his people, he confronts them, sorry, before God restores his people, he confronts them with the truth. He appoints the watchman, Ezekiel. He exposes their sin. He reminds them. that righteousness is not merely some past possession, it is a present posture. You cannot sit in the facts that you once did or once said, or you raised your hand here, or you said this prayer, or you did this magic thing. You must persist in faith and repentance. And then into all of that heaviness, God speaks the words we've already emphasized several times. I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Whether that he would come and live. God warns because he wants to save. At this point in the life of his ancient people, he would be absolutely justified to obliterate them, to wipe them off the planet, to save none in this life and none to the next. But he doesn't do that. He doesn't simply wipe them out. He sends them Ezekiel. It says, Will you the warning? My preference would be to save Many of us here hear that warning over and over again by the grace of God. And we're reminded again and again to turn back to him in faith and repentance. Some of you may have been in the church like these men and women were for your whole life. You're kind of sort of hearing the warning for the first time. But the offer is still the same. God does not delight in judgment. He does not look forward to your eternal death. He delights in showing mercy. He delights that when the wicked turn to him, he will forgive them. And that's why we go now to the Lord's table, where the prophet does not necessarily spell out every detail, where he does not necessarily lay out that it's going to be Jesus of Nazareth through whom these things will be recognized, where he does not tell us exactly how. He does set the stage to say, If you will come to God, you'll be okay with God. Not because you understand, not because you can get it right, not because you can articulate the doctrine But because he knows how it works. Because he's the God that makes these decisions. The one who take took no pleasure in the death of the wicked Was willing to stave off that reality through the death of his own son. The one who would prefer that you heed the warning sent Jesus to war. If you believe the popular myth that Jesus was merely this nice guy who went around healing everything, then you've missed the real Jesus of the Bible. He was, as we heard in the New Testament reading, a man who warned, who said, judgment is coming, who actually said, I am the judge. and will be the one who will condemn all who do not believe. And then he turned right around and laid down his life. To die in our place, so long as we're willing to receive it. This table, oops, sorry, this table is the answer to Ezekiel's question. How do you rebuild the church? How do you rebuild a people? Not upon their own resolve, but upon God's grace. Not upon their righteousness, but upon his righteousness. Not upon their efforts, but upon what he has done. Not upon you taming your body, but upon him giving his. And so as we come now to the Lord's Supper, we come as those who have heard the watchman's warning. We come as those who believe in the ultimate watchman's sacrifice. We come in repentance and we come in faith. We come to one who says even today, turn and be saved. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this table and for the one to whom it points us. That at this table we are visually reminded of what Jesus did on our behalf. And that while we understand that neither the bread before us nor the juice before us have any ultimate magical power, nevertheless They nourish us. They nourish our souls in the reality of what Christ has done for us. That he heard the warning of Ezekiel and stood in the gap to protect us. And that if we hear the warning and run to him, we are saved. We ask now that you bless this to us. Not just to our bodies, but to our souls. Not just to us individually, but to us as a church, that we would receive at this table the blessing of our Savior. In whom we pray. Amen