Open your Bibles if you would please to Ezekiel chapter 4. We'll be looking at Ezekiel 4 and 5 this morning. Ezekiel chapter 4. If you would turn there now, please As you're doing so, let's pray and ask God's help with His Word. Lord God, as we come to these Passages that are mysterious, that are difficult to read, that are confusing. We ask your aid in understanding them. And as we understand them, as we get a picture of what was happening back in Ezekiel's day, we ask your help in finding the message to us today. This is your word. You have preserved it throughout the centuries. Recognize its value, its importance in our lives. And help us to heed what it teaches us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You'll recall from last week that Ezekiel is mute. After revealing himself to this would-be priest and then calling him into the prophetic ministry, God Rather bizarrely, bound him metaphorically and muted him literally. Ezekiel cannot speak Now I've peeked ahead into the book of Ezekiel, and this muteness is going to be lifted from him, but that's still a ways out in the future. He is currently unable to speak to the people. So how does one share the Word of God if mute? I had my own experience with this. Some years back, a small church reached out to me and asked me to help fill their pulpit while they were looking for a new pastor, and the church where I was employed graciously allowed me to go help them. The very first Sunday I was supposed to be there On the Saturday before, our son Caleb had an all-day wrestling tournament. And I screamed and I hollered and I egged on our wrestlers. I even was asked to coach at the side of one mat for one meet, um, and I yelled my lungs out. And woke up Sunday morning with no voice. And I was supposed to preach. I had a urgence, an urgent clinic, or uh what do they call it? Am I calling it urgent urgent care. There we go, an urgent care clinic. And they had steroids, and they shot me full of steroids, they got me back a little bit of voice, and with modern microphones I was able to get through the sermon. Ezekiel has none of that How do you preach the Word of God when you are mute? Join me now in looking at Ezekiel 4 and 5. This is the Word of God. It is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. Thus, knowledge of this book is the ultimate corrective on anything else we ever think we might know. So we have to know this book Ezekiel 4, beginning in verse 1. And you, Son of Man, take a brick and lay it before you and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem. and put siege works against it, and build a siege wall around it, and cast up a mound against it, set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around. And you take an iron griddle and place it as an iron wall between you and the city, and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege, and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel. Our first full summer here in Maryland, we decided to do the classic Maryland vacation and we went to Ocean City. And Ocean City, while I was there, that was the first time I can remember encountering street artists, I guess technically boardwalk artists. And they were fascinating. People would gather around them and speculate. What is it? What is she painting? What is he making? And people would begin to look out and go, oh, I think she's painting that couple out there on the beach. And eventually the picture would come into view, and we would all be in awe of the talent, of the gift, of the amazing ability of those artists to make something that once was blank into something we recognized. The people of Ezekiel's day were not in awe of his artistry. There is to suggest that he was particularly gifted. But nevertheless, what he did was going to garner some attention. We said that he was bound metaphorically, and we see now the support for that. For these signs to be meaningful in any way, he must have been outside of his own house. So the binding we saw last week was a metaphorical binding. I think it was pointing to the fact that he wasn't going to be able to talk. He goes out in public and he enacts these things, these signs that God has given him First, let's deal with you some of the technicalities here. When it says brick, do not picture these little two by six things that you know that we have on the front of our building. Brick was more likely to be something significantly larger, and probably dry but unfired clay. So hard, but not completely hardened. So that with a tool, with an iron tool, he could easily carve it away. And that seems to be what's going on, is that he has taken this you know, mid-sized brick and has set it on the ground and he is sitting there carving at it And you can picture the people. That's a gate. That's a city gate. He's carving a city. There's a wall. He's carving it a fortified city. He's a prophet of our God. He's probably carving Babylon, and this is going to be an omen against our enemies. That is our inclination, is it not? To always assume that our God has got something bad to say to those people out there But as he continues to carve this brick on the ground in front of all the people, as the crowds begin to form around him, somebody recognize it. Isn't that Solomon's temple? Isn't that the roof line of the Jerusalem temple? Sure. Oh, and that's that gate in Jerusalem. They begin to recognize Jerusalem. I don't know how far he got on day one, but he goes back home and he comes back out, and each day the crowds begin to form, and each day he adds a little something more to it. He puts tents around the outside of it. He builds little model battering rams. He builds siege ramps. And he begins to lay all of these around the city of Jerusalem, and it begins to become a picture of siege. Now to this point in history, Jerusalem had been attacked a few times, but never truly been under that kind of siege, where there would be battering ramps and permanent camps. of the opposing army and siegeworks. So this is something prophetic in the sense that it looks forward to what will come. And then the prophet takes an iron griddle, an iron skillet, if you will, and he sets it between himself and this besieged model of Jerusalem. And the people are forced to speculate. What is that all about? What is going on with that? I don't know if you had this experience. I can remember in my uh my art appreciation class and some of my literature classes, I was never a big fan of this process. of trying to unravel what some artist meant by something. But nevertheless, the people are going to do this because this was a far more common, you know, the Written word as we're used to it was incredibly expensive back then. This sort of thing was far more common. And so the people begin to speculate. What does the iron mean? Well iron is hard, it's impenetrable, it's the toughest material known to man Something there's something between the prophet and Jerusalem that is impenetrable. And they begin to realize, well wait a minute, he was training to be a priest, and now he's been called to be a prophet. He's the representative of God on earth. Something has come between God and the city of Jerusalem. And the theologically inclined among them begin to say to themselves, well, now wait a second here, it can't be that something is keeping God from getting to Jerusalem and helping her amidst this siege. Our God cannot be thwarted. So there must be something that is keeping our prayers from getting to God. For some reason, those people that besieged Jerusalem are not going to be heard by their God. And he is going to sit and watch what befalls them. You have to imagine then that the people began to turn to the prophet himself. Ezekiel, what is this all about? And very quickly their frustration becomes anger. Knock it off. You could talk if you wanted to. Tell us what's going on. Explain this to us. And their anger becomes curses, and their curses become insults, and they spit on him. This is why we saw last week that God said to him, I will make your head harder than theirs. I will make you more stubborn than they are. So that you can endure all of this. But instead of comfort or even an explanation, what happens next Can only be imagined to have infuriated the people even more. Look at verse 4, as God continues to speak to the prophet, giving him instruction. Then lie on your left side and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of the days that you lie on it, you shall bear their punishment. For I assigned you a number of days, 390 days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment. Punishment, so long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel. And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and bear the punishment of the house of Judah. Forty days I assign you, 40 days I assign you, a day for each year, and you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem. with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against the city. And behold, I will place cords upon you, so that you cannot turn from one side to the other, till you have completed the days of your siege. So the model he built of Jerusalem seems to have been something that was at least semi-permanent, remaining for over a year, 390 days at least. And every day, for 390 days, Ezekiel would lie on the ground on his side, facing the model Jerusalem. Now to get a picture of what's going on here, it's easy to imagine that symbol since all of this is symbols, It's easy to imagine that symbolically he would have laid on the ground in such a way that his head was pointed east toward Jerusalem, toward the real Jerusalem. Now, if he lays east to west with his head facing east, I know that's not east, let's pretend for a moment. If he lays on his left side facing the model of Jerusalem, this pulpit, he is going to be facing north. into Israel, the divided of the divided kingdom. And hence for 390 days he lays on his left side, faces the model of Jerusalem, he is facing north, and this is symbolically talking about the punishment of Israel, the northern half of the country, of people of God. And I'll just tell you right now, nobody knows what the 390 days are about. Each commentary has its own idea. They all speculate. None of them are particularly convincing, and they most of them admit that. And rather than getting into all that speculation, which I think is a diversion anyway, I'm going to argue that not one of those that I read would make any difference to our understanding of the passage. And so we're going to skip over the meaning of the 390 days and get at what it really means to us. At the end of those, or near the end of those 390 days, on day 350 He actually does the same thing, but on two different sides of the model Jerusalem. If we take the 390 and add the 40 afterwards, we get 430 days. Ezekiel, unlike most of the Old Testament writers, gives us very specific dates for when things happen. There simply is not enough time between the date in Ezekiel 1 and the date in Ezekiel 8 to make all of this fit in And so scholars are generally agreed that for 350 days he would come. Oh, by the way, it's not 24-7. He's not lying out there all day long, as we'll see in a moment, he had other things to do. He would come out for a time each day, lay on his side, face north. What exactly it means to have the punishment of Israel laid on him, nobody knows. Nobody knows what that looked like. Was there some part of the model that was placed on him? Did he lay on some part of the model? We don't know. Okay? But on day 351, he did it on his left side for a time, then he got up, went to the other side, put his head facing east, and faced, laid on his right side so that he would have been facing south. The indication of the symbolism toward pointing toward Judah, the southern half of the people of God. By the way, Ezekiel is a lot easier to study than it is to read. You're just reading through this? That makes no sense at all, does it? I like studying it a whole lot more than I like reading it So this is what's going on. This is the meaning of verse six. That he would do it on one side, and then then when that was done for that day, he'd get up and move to the other side. And so this is the picture of what's happening. But like I said, we don't know for sure what the meaning of the 390 years of punishment and the 40 years of punishment for Judah, what they all point toward. So picking up again in verse 9, having established this picture of punishment. And you take wheat and barley, beans, and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them in a single vessel and make your bread from them. Here we have the evidence that he did not spend all day laying on his side Okay. During the number of days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat this. And your food that you eat shall be by weight Twenty shekels a day, from day to day you shall eat it, and water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hen, from day to day you shall drink it, and you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung. And the Lord said, Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations where I will drive them. Then I said Ah, Lord God, behold, I have never defiled myself from my youth up until now. Nor have I eaten what has died by itself or was torn by beasts, nor has tainted meat come into my mouth. Then he said to me, see, I assign to you cow's dung instead of human dung. Not sure how that's that much better. On which ye may prepare your bread. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, behold I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay. I will do this that they may lack bread and water and look at one another in dismay and rot away because of their punishment. This section is explained to us and it doesn't require much in the way of speculation. As part of his public demonstrations, in addition to lying on his side, Ezekiel was to cook a very specific meal and it was to be weighed out carefully. And then, you know, slow smoked over mesquite. Uh. Over dung. The total food was to weigh about every about the equivalent of eight ounces of bread. And he's drinking just a hair over a pint of water. And the symbolism is crystal clear. During the siege, the people will lack food. How does God say it? They will measure out their food with anxiety. Even rationing things, there's not going to be enough. Even if we are careful about how much we eat, we are going to run out. It's hard to imagine. Most scholars agree that this eight ounces of bread and this pint of water would not have been enough to sustain Ezekiel for 390 days. But it's this was the public demonstration. We don't doubt for a moment that in the privacy of his own home he had other food to eat and other water to drink That God ordered the bread prepared over human excrement and then immediately rescinded that order at Ezekiel's objection is something of a mystery We're not sure what's going on there. It seems likely that it may have been a test of the prophet himself. In a an exilic setting, like they were in Babylon, ritual purity was A sacrifice to stay ritually clean was difficult. Finding the foods that you could actually eat and to prepare them the proper way was hard to do in that setting of exile, but apparently Ezekiel had done it. He had made the personal sacrifice to keep his cleanliness ritually speaking before the Lord. And God seems to honor that and respect that and free him from the requirement to cook over human dung. The pictures of judgment are not ended. We have seen a picture of siege, of the period of the punishment, though we're not sure why it's 390 years. And of the brutal conditions during the siege. They're going to run out of food and water. Now the prophet details the impact all of this is going to have on the people themselves. Picking up in chapter 5. And you, O son of man, take a sharp sword. Use it as a barber's razor, and pass it over your head and your beard. In 1984, A. D. 1984, the Gillette Company offered Billy Gibbons and Dusty Hill one million dollars each to shave for a commercial. If you don't recognize those names individually, perhaps you will recognize them together. They were the rock duo ZZ Top. Z Z Top was as well known for their beards as they were for their music. And the two of them turned down the offer, saying that they were just too ugly without their beards. As shocking as that would have been, to see those two men shave those beards, and we're talking beards. To see those two men shave those beards on television for a Gillette commercial. What Ezekiel did was even more stunning. You see, in Ezekiel's culture, in Ezekiel's time and place, To be for a man to be shaved was either a sign of tremendous grief. Or of utter shame. One of the things that would happen when armies won battles and took prisoners is they would go through and shave all the prisoners. It did double duty. It embarrassed them, it humiliated them that they lost their beards and their hair. And it was the ancient equivalent of an orange jumpsuit. It was pretty easy to know who was a prisoner because they were shaved This was a humiliating act. Hence its connection to mourning Your grief is so extreme that you don't even care about the humiliation of being clean-shaven. In all likelihood, both shame and grief, humiliation and mourning, are both to be depicted here. Ezekiel has shaved himself out in the public square. But the symbol doesn't stop with the mere act of his shaving. We read on. Then, take balances for weighing and divide the hair. A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city when the days of the siege are completed. So apparently this brick that's been carved to look like Jerusalem, a fire has been set on it. He grabs a little kindling, a little dry grass. and lit it up. There's a fire burning, and he takes a third of the hair that he has shaved from his beard and off from his head, and he throws it into that fire. And it sparkles and it floats and it burns. And it is dramatic. And a third part of your hair you shall take and strike with the sword all around the city. So having burned a third in the fire, he takes another third and sprinkles it around his model Jerusalem, and then takes that sword that he used for shaving, and he chops up all of that hair. All around the city of Jerusalem. And the third part, you shall scatter to the wind, and I will unsheath the sword against them. So that last party just throws in the breeze, and the wind takes it and scatters it over the sand. Verse 3, and you shall take from these, that third part that went to the wind, a small number and bind them in the s of your robe. So he goes, and those that have been scattered to the wind, he goes over and he picks up some of them, picks them up off the ground, and he takes them in his robe and he tucks his robe up in his belt and it creates a pouch. This was a common way for carrying things. And he puts those in there and tucks it in his belt, so he has this little protected pouch of a few of his hairs that have been saved. Verse 4. And of these, those that you have put into your robe, again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire. and uh and burn them in the fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel The symbolic meaning of all of this is pretty clear. A portion of the people in Jerusalem, and by the way, don't go back and read the text and try to figure out if it's exactly a third The ancient Easterners didn't care about precision of numbers in the way that we Westerners do in this day and age. A third and a proportion of the people were going to die because of the siege directly They were going to die in the fires, in the battle, in the starvation, in the city itself. A third would die right outside of the city. That they would try to escape and be cut down by the sword of their enemy. And a third would get away. They would escape from Jerusalem. They'd be scattered to the wind. But even some of those would end up dying, would end up being brought back into the fire. And so that only a very few are saved in Ezekiel's robe and protected. Verse 5. God now explains the why behind this. He begins to justify himself to the prophet Ezekiel. Thus says the Lord God. This is Jerusalem I have set her in the center of the nations with countries all around her, and she has rebelled against my rules by doing wickedness more than the nations. and against my statutes more than the countries all around her, for they have rejected my rules, that is, Jerusalem, and have not walked in my statutes. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you are more turbulent than the nations that are all around you, and have not walked in my statutes, or obeyed my rules, have not even acted according to the rules of the nations that are all around you Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold I, even I am against you And I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations, and because of all your abominations I will do with you what I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again The verse 10 is difficult. Therefore, fathers shall eat their sons in your midst, and sons shall eat their fathers. If you read the Book of Lamentations, which was written in the aftermath of the Siege of Jerusalem, If you read the Book of Lamentations, the writer there notes how mothers would not lay down their dead babies for fear that somebody would eat them. This is the wrath of God poured out on his own people. And I will execute judgments on you In any of you who survive, I will scatter to all the winds, therefore as I live, declares the Lord God, surely, because you have def Filed my sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, and we're going to learn more about the details of that in weeks to come. Therefore, I will withdraw. My I will not spare, and I will have no pity. Our interpretation of the iron skillet appears to have been correct. A third part of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed with famine in your midst. A third part of you shall fall by the sword all around. And a third part I will scatter to all the winds and will unsheath the sword after them, as we have already noted. Verse 13, Thus shall my anger spend itself, and I will vent my fury upon them and satisfy myself. Pent up emotion, if it is bottled up for a long time, if it stays within us It often burst forth with extraordinary violence, with extraordinary intensity. That emotion which is held back for so long when it comes out comes out with pronounced energy. That's kind of the sense of the Hebrew behind all of these words in verse 13. That this is something of a cathartic moment for God, if you will. That God has been patient for so long that when he finally unleashes his fury against Jerusalem, it will be this emotional catharsis, this emotional outpouring. And right now I want to say to you, silence the theologian within. Don't overly theologicalize this and miss the point. Do not say to yourself, Well, yeah, but God is impassable, He does not have human emotions. This is God talking about Himself. Your theology is not going to be better than this. And he is trying to make the dramatic point of his attitude toward his people. And they shall know that I am Yahweh, that I have spoken in my jealousy when I spend my fury upon them. Moreover, I will make you a desolation and an object of reproach among the nations all around you in the sight of all who pass by. This is the absolute inversion of the covenant God's covenant with Israel was that they were to be a kingdom of priests. That they were to be those who Reveal God to the nations and who were the manifestation of love and peace and kindness upon the earth. And now they are going to be objects of horror. You shall be a reproach and a A warning and a horror to all the nations all around you when I execute judgments on you in anger and fury, and with furious rebukes, I am Yahweh, I have spoken. When I send against you the deadly arrows of famine, arrows of destruction, which I will send to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you, and break your supply of bread I will send famine and wild beasts against you, and they will rob you of your children. Pestilence and blood shall pass through you. And I will bring the sword upon you. I am the Lord, I have spoken The Old Testament God, we hear people say, the Old Testament God is a spiteful and angry God who rains down vengeance upon his enemies, who throws lightning bolts against anyone whom he hates. That's not true. Or at least it's not true of this passage. The God described here is not vengeful and angry against his enemies No, God is vengeful, vengeful and angry against his own people His wrath is a kindle is kindled against those whom he loved, those whom he called to himself in Jacob, those who were of the house of Israel, those who were the church before the church. This is whom this judgment will fall on Ezekiel's audience lived in exile. They were deported to a faraway place to live among a strange people, to have to learn a new language, learn to eat new foods, not have the customs they were accustomed to, not have the culture of which they were a part It's easy to imagine that if they still believed in their God at all, and in the aftermath of the catastrophe that has taken them to Babylon, it's easy to imagine that some of them have given up on their God But if they still believe in their God at all, if they have any residual notion of a deity who might be for them, then they would have certainly seen him as necessarily working for their freedom, working against their captors. But along comes this prophet, this Ezekiel, this man who is supposed to speak on behalf of their God, or at least enact his signs on behalf of their God. And his message is not the destruction of Babylon, nor the fall of Nebuchadnezzar. Rather, he prophesies the utter destruction of Jerusalem and the brutal, forced starvation of her people. God is outraged at those whom he called his own So to whom do we imagine this might apply today? We are generally most comfortable when God's anger is directed at, you know, those people out there, the others. But this storyline couldn't be much clearer God's anger is at Israel and Jerusalem. So who is that today? Is it America? Boy, we better get this country back on track. We better get back course, or God will be coming for us the way He did for them in Ezekiel's day. Is that the 21st century application of this? Is America today's equivalent of ancient Jerusalem? You know, according to the New Testament. She's not. The New Testament knows nothing of America. Rather, it is the church which is the inheritor of the promises of Israel. It is the church who walks within the covenant that God gave to Israel. The Gospels and the Epistles, they know nothing of America, but instead they see the church as the continuation of the true Israel, the people of God Like a butterfly coming from a caterpillar, the church on the day of Pentecost sprang out of Israel. We are the descendants of God's covenant and of his promises. We have the spiritual DNA that ran through those people in that day. Though we look a little different from them. So it is we who are the recipients of these warnings. It is the church, and not the nation, which must heed what is said here You see, it is the selection of our elders and not of our elected officials that ultimately matters And while no newspaper would ever write this and we struggle to believe it, it's who we choose as our pastor, not our president. That is going to have eternal consequence. And if that is so, and clearly it is Then we would do well to ponder this warning and its accompanying explanation. Why? Why is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob so outraged at the children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? In what did they fail? And how do we avoid it? Verse six. They have rejected my rules and have not walked in my statutes. Oh, Pastor, I love God's rules. I don't have a problem with that. In fact, just last week, just last week, Pastor, I told a co-worker that homosexuality was a sin Well, okay, I didn't so much say that it was a sin, only that I didn't like it. Think about that. It comes down to what you like or don't like. Then isn't that your rule and your statute, not God's? Verse 7. Because you are more turbulent than the nations, than all those around you, and have not walked in my statutes or obeyed my rules, and have not even acted according to the rules of the nations that are all around you. The people of God, when they fail to live up even to the standard of morality in the world, it is a tremendous abomination. This is reminiscent of Paul's warning to the Corinthians. You allow a form of sexual immorality which even the pagans would not tolerate. In the name of forgiveness, of course. In the name of forgiveness, we put up with sin. Somehow the pagans knew that it doesn't matter how much you love that pastor. Doesn't matter how long he's been your pastor. Doesn't matter that he married you and baptized your children If he molested a child, if he had sex with a teenager, he must not be your pastor. Can the victims forgive? Yes, they can. And if he is penitent, they ought to do so. But that does not remove the consequences. We as the church must walk with a purity that at least meets that of the world, according to this text, and ought to exceed it We must hold ourselves to a standard But I loved that pastor. But he was a gifted preacher. I really liked the way he did things. When I was a child, I was bewildered by Jesus' statement. As I live longer, I get it. He who does not hate his father and mother. His son or daughter, his brother, his sister, his wife, or even his own life is not worthy to be my disciple. When your affection for that person exceeds your passion for the righteousness of God, when we as a church protect our reputation and shield Those who do evil. Verse 8, Therefore thus says the Lord God, Behold, I even I am against you, and I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations. And because of all your abominations, I will do with you whatever what I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again. God is against the church when the church does not abide by his statutes In 1950, the population of America was 151 million. The Presbyterian Church numbered around 6 million. America's population has since doubled. Today the Presbyterian Church USA has 1. 1 million members. God has been against the church. Of all the mainline Protestant denominations, there was one and one only which stood up. To the wave of liberalism. You know those mainline churches, the ones that occupy the best street corners in the small towns those that have the most beautiful buildings because they had all the money back in the day. Among all of the mainline denominations, only the Southern Baptist Convention. Steered clear of the disease of modernity and enlightenment. And only the Southern Baptists held to the authority and inerrancy of the Bible. We do as well, but we're not considered a mainline denomination. Stunningly, well all of the other mainline denominations have largely collapsed and shrunk. Nobody talks about this. The press only is consumed with the way that the conservatives hate this group or hate that group. But only the Southern Baptist Convention has grown over the last forty years It is the church which must hear the warning of Ezekiel. We must see in his demonstrations a warning from God. This is what he does to those whom he calls, but who then abandon his word. It's interesting, Jesus never once called a prostitute a whitewashed tomb. He did not say to any mere tax collector, get behind me, Satan! Jesus' harshest judgments were always, his most stinging rebukes were always toward those who ought to know better Those to whom his father's word had been entrusted, those who had been called to serve God's people. The unbelieving Pharisees and the believing apostles. The testimony across the pages of Scripture is consistent with this understanding. That to those whom God has given His word, they are going to be held to a higher standard. God's sovereign grace in calling to himself a people is not a license to sin Rather, it brings with it a tremendous weight, an enormous obligation that we live lives consistent with our election to be saints How did Peter say it? That we make our election sure. And this begins, and frankly it ends, with our view of the Bible, the Word of God. It must be continue, it must we must continue to uphold it among us as the only infallible rule for faith and full practice. And no matter how clever some argument of some future pastor is, regardless of his intellectual We must always demand of our pastors, now and for as long as the Lord tarries, that they hold to the inerrancy and authority of Scripture. We must demand that of them. And each of us must uphold its authority in our own lives. When the man of God, the watchman, as we saw last week, when God's appointed watchman brings God's word to us, we must submit to it. We should not sit there hoping that the person at the other end of the pew is hearing what the pastor is saying. No, we must be asking God to make sure we are hearing what it's saying. We need the Spirit to show us how it applies to us. You see, whatever wrath or anger God might have for his enemies, and Ezekiel is going to reveal some of that to us, whatever that might be, those whom he calls his friends Those whom he loves, those for whom he died, to whom his word is entrusted, it is always these who incur the greatest measure of judgment when they betray the trust given them When they walk away from God's word, denying its power for their lives, whether they do it collectively as a church or individually among themselves, when it's authority over them No longer has any impact. That is when the church becomes this ancient Israel Now we understand that we cannot find life in the law of God. That's found only in Christ. But the sting of death still resides there if we do not keep it. If we do not live according to it. The profound message of Ezekiel is that while our God is long-suffering, his patience does not last forever. And when his very own people, whom he called, when they transgress his word, his fury will not be withheld just because they are the church. Rather, it will be doubly applied. Jesus himself warned us, if you love me, you will keep my commands. And he warned the leaders, that is to say, the church officers, Bible study leaders, Sunday school teachers He warned them, whoever causes one of these to sin, it would be better for him if a millstone was tied around his neck. And he was thrown into the sea. We have been entrusted with the very Word of God, and to whom much is given, much will be required. We must never take that lightly. Let us never disregard the importance of this book or its authority over us. Let's pray. Lord, by your grace, keep us in your word. Let us abide in it, so that we will never face the kind of fury that you once unleashed against Judah. Let us be a church who collectively and individually uphold your word, who admit its authority, who bow to its commands. Not because we find life in them, but because we have found life in Christ. And we wish not to forfeit it. Let us do this through the power of his spirit to the glory of his name. Amen.