If you would turn in your Bibles, please, to Ezekiel chapter 3. Ezekiel 3 will begin in a moment in verse 16. Ezekiel 3 beginning in verse 16. You'll recall that last week, following the vision of God that the prophet Ezekiel saw, that he was called into the prophetic ministry. But that God implied, suggested, uh seemed to indicate that his ministry was going to be a fruitless 1. That the people were not going to listen, at least not by and large going to listen to the prophet Ezekiel And yet, interestingly enough, if you go back to chapter 2, verse 5, God said to Ezekiel, whether they hear or refuse to hear, they will know that a prophet has been among them. Interestingly enough, Ezekiel may not convert that many of his fellow exiles. And yet when all is said and done Everyone will know that he was a true prophet of God. Isn't it interesting that of all the people, all the men who were preaching at that time and place, Here we are all these centuries later, and we have Ezekiel's book preserved, not the others, because they knew he was a true prophet. When we left Ezekiel, you'll recall last week, he was sitting on the ground. He was stunned by the call that God had placed on his life. And for seven days he sat stunned, talking to no one else, um and finally God, having given him time to digest that call into the ministry, returns now and has more to say to him, picking up in Ezekiel 3, verse 16 And at the end of seven days, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. If I say to the wicked, you shall surely die. And you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity. But his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, He shall die for his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul. Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. Because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin, and his righteous deeds that he had done that he has done shall not be remembered. But his blood I'll require at your hand But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he took the warning, and you will have delivered your soul. And the hand of the Lord was upon me there, and he said to me, Arise, go out into the valley, and there I will speak with you. So I arose and went out into the valley, and behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, like the glory that I had seen by the Chebar Canal, and I fell on my face. But the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and he spoke with me and said to me, Go, shut yourself within your house. And you, O Son of Man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people. And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute and unable to reprove them, for they are a rebellious house. But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, thus says Yahweh God. He who will hear, let him hear. And he who will refuse to hear, let him refuse, for they are a rebellious house. Let's pray and ask God's leading and understanding this passage. Spirit of God, you who spoke to Ezekiel all those centuries ago, we ask that you would speak to us this morning. That like your servant Ezekiel, my words would be yours, and that if I say anything that is out of accord with your message, Let it be immediately forgotten. So that we go forth knowing what you have to say to us and that alone. Let us be attentive to your message to us. Let us have the humility to receive it and the faith to obey it, that we might be saved by the warning found here. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Watchers, in whatever capacity, are protectors. Those who warn us guard us. And we ignore them at our peril. Boys Brigade is an entity kind of like Boy Scouts, it actually predates Boy Scouts, and it's a church-based group. And some years back, the Boys Brigade, the church Becky and I were attending, the Boys Brigade, together with about a dozen other Boys Brigade churches from that region, got together for a weekend retreat. All the usual thing you'd expect from a bunch of teenager and pre-teenage boys. Campfires and s'mores and and uh hiking and canoeing and swimming and all those sorts of activities. And on the Saturday afternoon, they all went down to the river to the canoe rental, and they were given instruction by the regional head of the boys brigade, gave them some guidance about what they could and could not do on the river. And the woman who owned the canoe rental, she came out and gave them instructions on how to canoe and how not to canoe and how to be safe and all of those sorts of things. And some 30-odd canoes, you know, two men, two uh men or boys to a canoe, headed out onto the river for a good time. Sadly, two of those boys who were together in the same canoe ignored all of the warnings. They canoed upstream instead of down as instructed. And as soon as they were around the bend and out of sight of the leadership, they removed the life jackets they had been told to wear. And despite the fact that there were enormous bright yellow signs hanging above the river and on either side of the river, still they canoed up to the dam. And they got caught in the turbulent water of the spillway of that small dam. The canoe capsized, and both boys drowned. 15 and 16 years old. Because they did not heed the warnings. Those who warn us, who watch over us, who protect us, they keep us from harm if we will listen. They save us. Had the boys listened to their leaders, they would have lived. Had they listened to the canoe rental agent, they would have lived. Had they heeded the warning signs along the river, they would have lived. But in hubris, in defiance, and in their own imagined wisdom, they did what they were told not to do, and it cost them both their lives. The idea of watching, of seeing, of warning, the idea of a watchman, of a watchtower is prominent in the scriptures. We find it all over the place. The parable from the Isaiah reading and the parable that Jesus gave in our New Testament reading both talk about A God as the vintner, creating a vineyard, which are his people, and putting a tower in the midst of it. That God spared no expense to protect his people. That he put in the midst of his people a watchtower. What is the presumption that there's a watchman in the watchtower? And that he would see the danger and call out, and we would be protected. Habakkuk wants to place himself, I think metaphorically, but nevertheless place himself upon a watchtower. So that he might hear the word of God. And Ezekiel is made a watchman. Ezekiel is appointed by God to stand upon the tower and warn the people of danger. Yet strangely, God turns right around and says he is going to be bound and gagged, unable to go out and mute. So what's going on? What's happening in this bizarre passage? We're first going to look at what was going on in Ezekiel's life, what was actually what does all this mean for Ezekiel? And then I want us to consider what it ought to mean for us. First, what did it mean for Ezekiel in his time and place? Secondly, what does it mean for us? The meaning of the very first part of this, verses 16 to 21, is actually fairly clear. It's not that cryptic or that hard to figure out. Ezekiel is appointed a watchman. He is to stand guard, he is to pay attention to what's going on, and he is to warn the people of Israel. Specifically of what Of whatever warning God gives him. He is to warn the sinner to repent, and he is to warn the righteous man not to stray from his righteousness. And in each case, Ezekiel is accountable to God if he fails to do so. The message to Ezekiel couldn't be any simpler He had better warn the people loud and clear of the danger which approached. If he does not, his own life hangs in the balance. Now, if we were reading Ezekiel apart from any knowledge of the rest of Scriptures, we would stand here and have no sense of what that danger is. What is Ezekiel warning them against? What's the risk? For crying out loud, they're already in exile. What danger remains. But anyone who has been paying attention to the scriptures, anybody who understands the wider prophets Understands the tradition in which Ezekiel stands. You see, Isaiah, Amos, Micah, Jeremiah, Habakkuk, and countless unnamed prophets Had all been saying the same thing. The danger to Israel, the threat to the people of Judah is their God. It's Yahweh. He's the one they have to fear. He is the one who is putting them at risk. This is a deeply underappreciated fact in the Christian life today in the 21st century America. God is far and away the most dangerous thing. You will ever confront. Jesus said it this way. He said, do not fear those who can kill the body. Rather, fear him who can destroy, actually fear the one who can destroy both body and soul in hell. Now, sometime later, Jesus turns right around and preaches that he is the Son of Man is going to be the one who sits on the judgment throne and condemns people to hell. He is saying, fear me, fear God. For it is in my hands, Jesus says, that your eternal destiny rests. We must fear God. He is the threat to us. He is the one angry at our sin. He is the one who must uphold justice and will either hold us accountable or Jesus accountable on our behalf. But there is no escaping that accountability. This is why Ezekiel's ministry begins with that profound vision of God, so that the prophet himself. Has the due respect and fear of the Lord, so that he can execute the ministry to which he's been called. So the first thing in this passage, the first part of this passage is meant so that Ezekiel will understand that he had a life and death obligation to warn the people of the coming danger of God's judgment. Now, having been given that commission to be God's watchman over Israel, by the way, real quick comment here: the book of Ezekiel uses almost exclusively the term Israel Technically, politically, Israel ceased to exist some 135 years, but Ezekiel lived? What's being talked about here is not the political entity or the nation of Israel. What's being talked about is the children of Israel, the people of God. They would be the political entity known as Judah at this point. But Israel is the name God gave them back in the covenant days of Abraham, and it is the name he uses here. So having been given the commission to be God's watchman over Israel, something rather bizarre then happens. Now, I don't know what your experience has been, but in all of my experiences, watchers, watchmen, lifeguards, that category of people that look out for us, they always communicate the threat, the danger. By calling out to us. As a kid at the summer pool, what did they yell at me? Stop running. There's no running on the deck of the city pool. When our son Caleb was a private, a sentry, and a guard tower in a forward base in Syria, what was his job if he saw any threat to the base? To call it in, to communicate with words that there was an attack imminent. Strangely And there's some uncertainty exactly to the timing of all of this in Ezekiel, but strangely, part and parcel with God's call of Ezekiel is the message that he's not going to be able to call out the warning. He's not going to be just free to roam among the people, and he's not going to be free to just talk whenever he wants to. We have to wrestle with this. We must come to some sense of understanding this. So look again at verses 25 and 26. You, O son of man, and by the way, Jesus uses that term son of man a lot. Jesus and Ezekiel use it in radically different ways. The insert in the bulletin tries to develop some of that. If you want to take a look at that later You, O Son of Man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people, and I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute, and unable to reprove them, for they are rebellious. House. Commentators are split on the meaning of this binding There are many commentators who take it literally. They would argue that some of the exiles were opposed to the message of Ezekiel. And that they literally bound him. They arrested him, placed him under house arrest, and kept him from preaching. I don't see that Let me explain why not. I don't think this is a literal binding, I think it's a metaphorical binding. Let me explain. First of all, first off, there has been no indication in the text that he has preached at all yet. That he has been out in public in any way, shape, or form. How can anybody be opposed to his message yet because he hasn't preached it yet? There's simply no record of him having delivered any message yet, nor does there seem to be any place in the text for him to have done so. Secondly, verse 26, verse 25 is the binding of chords. Verse 26 is never taken literally by any commentator. You see, if one's tongue literally stuck to the roof of one's mouth, not only would speaking be precluded, but so would eating. And he would have died a few days later. Nobody takes that verse seriously. Sorry, they all take it seriously. Nobody takes it literally. Why then would we go back and take verse 25 literally? I think there's understanding here that there's metaphor in play, there's symbolism in play. Finally, back up in chapter 2, verse 5, as we already saw, the Lord promises Ezekiel that the people will know that a prophet has been among them. That seems to require that he be among them, that he be out there So what's going on here? If Ezekiel is not literally bound, but figuratively bound, if he's not literally mute, but figuratively mute, what's happening? Well, Ezekiel is not, first of all, bound by human opponents, but by God. The sense of verse 26. You know, and I will make your tongue stick the roof of your mouth. Clearly the idea here is that God is responsible for verse 25 and also verse 26. You will be bound. And by the way, this is the passive voice in Scripture. When there is no subject, when the subject is kept from us. The vast majority of the time in Scripture, it's God who is the subject acting. Bible scholars refer to this as the divine passive So when it says you will be bound, what it means is you will be bound by God. And I will also make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth. God is responsible for both of these things in Ezekiel's life. So we have to ask ourselves two questions. Why? Why is God doing this? And how? How is Ezekiel supposed to carry out his commission if he's bound and gagged, even metaphorically? If his movements are limited and his voice taken from him, how is Ezekiel to be an effective minister and prophet? I want to take that second question first. The how question, how is Ezekiel to minister if he's mute? The answer is twofold. First, as we shall see next week, Ezekiel is going to enact a whole series of demonstrative prophecies. He is going to communicate through the things he does rather than the words he says. He's going to lay on his side and eat a highly restricted diet and make a model of Jerusalem and do a whole bunch of other things. He's going to shave his hair and burn his hair and a bunch of weird stuff. That's going to be his ministry to them. So, first of all, we see that his ministry is going to be an enacted ministry. Second, a careful reading of the text shows that his muteness is not absolute. This is not like Zacharias, the father of John the Baptizer. Rather, Ezekiel's muteness is going to be intermittent. But when I speak with you, verse 27, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, Thus says Yahweh God. Ezekiel is going to, I say he's going to be intermittently mute. Probably the better way to think about it is he's going to be intermittently able to speak. That he's going to be mute for long stretches of time, and all of a sudden he's going to preach. And then he's going to be mute and then he's going to preach. So that briefly answers the question of how. How is Ezekiel going to minister if he's mute? Through an act of demonstrations and intermittent preaching. But why? Why would God do this to his prophet? I want us to get at that by considering what this would be like for Ezekiel What would this mean, practically speaking, for the man himself? I think a lot of us, when we consider the Old Testament prophets, we err in how we think of them. We imagine them to be some class of superhuman, extraordinarily committed to being these men of God. Who within themselves have this deep desire to serve. But that's not the case I don't think that's a fair assessment at all of these prophets. Keep your finger in Ezekiel and flip back a few pages to Jeremiah 20. Before Ezekiel, you have the book of Lamentations, before that is the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter 20. I'm going to pick up in a moment in verse 14. Jeremiah 20, beginning in verse 14. Listen now to the words of the prophet Jeremiah I still hear a few pages turning, so I will wait. Once everybody goes to electronic bibles, I'm never going to know when you're there. I'm not going to hear the pages turn Verse 14. Jeremiah 20, verse 14. Cursed be the day on which I was born. The day a mother bore me, let it not be blessed. Don't ever sing happy birthday to Jeremiah. Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father. A son is born to you, making him very glad. Let that man be like the cities that the Lord overthrew without pity. Let him hear a cry in the morning, an alarm at noon. Because he did not kill me in the womb. So my mother would have been my grave and her womb forever great. Why did I come out from the womb to see toil and sorrow and spend my days in shame? Jeremiah does not sound like a man who's happy to be a prophet. Elijah, you'll recall, was despondent over his life of loneliness. Habakkuk was deeply distraught over God's message to him. Moses, remember the scene at the burning bush? Moses wanted no part of being God's prophet. To the point that his whining and complaining becomes embarrassing at the burning bush Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zachariah, Micah, Amos, Hosea, and Malachi All ten of them at some point in their ministry refer to the Word of God in their lives as a burden. A burden. A weight that must be borne, a shackle on them that just drags them down, a wearisome obligation. Do not imagine Ezekiel to be going around town happily moot. This is not the magic show. You know, Penn and Teller, those magicians, where Teller is silent during his act, but he can speak when he wants to. No, this is the other way around. This is absolutely the opposite. This is a man who cannot speak anytime he wants to, and can only speak when the Lord moves in him. And so this is a man who stands frustrated at the market and smashes his pomegranates on the ground. Who sweeps all the onions off the shelf in anger? This is a man who's not free to discuss politics or sports or the weather. He couldn't order a pizza. He couldn't ask for help at Lowe's or make a hotel reservation. He couldn't confide in a friend. Or talk to his wife, we do find out later he is married. He cannot function in society So don't imagine he's enjoying this. Don't picture Ezekiel as gladly mute. He's only able to speak when God empowers him to do so. This view of Ezekiel as an ordinary man, frustrated by this limitation God has put upon him, I think is actually reinforced by God's moniker of him. Son of man, literally in Hebrew, Ben Adam, son of Adam. It is a reminder to Ezekiel. It would be as if God called Ezekiel mortal. Listen, mortal man. Listen, mere man. The point is simple. Ezekiel's not all that. He's just one of us. Given to all the inherent weakness of fallen humanity. He has exactly the essence, the nature of Adam and every human being sense He is not pleasantly mute. He is at times frustrated, at other times angry And almost certainly at times, just lonely and isolated. Now this muteness will eventually be lifted as we're going to see, but it lasts for years. Not days or months. Years. So what does it need? It's got to do with the question of why. Well think about it. Imagine yourself living in the same village as Ezekiel. Here's a man who on one day is crying in the marketplace in utter frustration. And the next day he's preaching in that same marketplace. So we're going to see next week. He's going to show up to that market in one day and he's going to be cooking the most bizarre meal. I don't want to give anyway details. And he's going to be eating it, lying on his side, day after day for 390 days. The man is going to become, for sure, something of a spectacle in the village. And yet, interestingly enough, he's not a pitiable spectacle. He's not imagined to be insane. People don't think he's lost his mind. In fact, in chapter 8, verse 1, we read that the elders of the village come to Ezekiel's house. to confer with him. Even if he can't speak to them, they want to be there to get his input on things. And perhaps be there when a vision does come to him. He is going to be someone who by very the very fact that he is mute most of the time and then opens up and preaches, he is going to be someone notable. Some of you are old enough, I'm sorry, wise enough to remember the brokerage firm in their advertising pitch when E. F. Hutton speaks People listen. I'm that old. Ezekiel is going to gain something of that sort of reputation. He seems not to have much to say. But when he says it, listen up. And I think this is part of the message By the time Ezekiel's mutinous is lifted, everyone is going to associate this man with prophecy and only prophecy. His reputation is going to be that the only thing that ever comes out of his mouth is the word of God. The very limitations on his activity and his speech are going to work to make it clear that this guy is all about. One thing and one thing only. And that's going to be attention grabbing. That's going to make people sit up and listen. So, God solemnly charges Ezekiel to be a faithful, reliable watchman, warning Israel of the coming danger, or it'll be his life if he doesn't. And then God binds Ezekiel, limiting his activities, more on that in the weeks to come, and mutes him, limiting his speech to only the message that God gives him. And all of this serves to create a man with a reputation for preaching, a man known as the undisputed mouthpiece of God. That's what this would have all meant, Ezekiel, in his day. Now, our second goal was to flesh out what it means to us today. And what I think we should take from this is the seriousness of God's watchmen and warnings. The wise child of God does not ignore the warnings of God's watchers. I cannot tell you the number of times that an elder has sat down with a member of the church, mind you. With somebody who has taken the vow that we just heard Kenny take, that we've all taken, to submit ourselves to the governance of the church. And an elder sits down with that person. And says, you've got to stop living with your boyfriend. You've got to move out. You've got to stop golfing on Sunday morning and be in church. You've got to stop this affair going on with your secretary, whatever it might be, and almost without fail. That person digs their heels in and refuses to listen. And almost without fail. They begin to talk about their rights. And the fact that the elder has no right But that isn't the sense of the book of Ezekiel, is it? It's not that Ezekiel has a right to warn the people of God of their sin. The sense is clear, he has an obligation to do so. His own life hangs in the balance. And the Bible does not talk about our right to sin or right to privacy or the our right to not have the elders butt in our lives? In Sunday school, we spent a week, a couple weeks ago, we spent a morning considering the third question of our shorter catechism. What does the Bible primarily teach? Here's the answer. The Bible primarily teaches what man must believe about God and what rights God has given to man. No, that is not the answer. The Bible primarily teaches what man must believe about God and what duties God requires of man. God places watchmen over us, elders in our lives, to warn us of danger. That danger is almost always in the form of God's judgment on the sin within us. And the way out is almost always to relinquish our sin and to walk in faithful obedience. So the message to us, dear friends, is to consider the lengths to which God went, the suffering he inflicted on Ezekiel. And to see the importance of heeding the watchmen he puts in our lives You know, this morning in Sunday school, and I did not plan for these two things to be on the same Sunday, but by God's grace, this morning in Sunday school we reviewed the fifth commandment. And the fifth commandment's requirement that we honor all those who God has put in our lives as authorities over us. That we heed them, that we listen to them, that we uh uh uh give them proper obedience and honor. Why? So that it'll go well with us. So that we will live happy, pleasant, contented lives. In the moment that affair feels like the more joyous path, the elder is warning you because in the long run it will be destruction. In the moment that that desire for money, that pursuit of things, feels like what's going to bring happiness. The elder is ordained as one steeped in the wisdom of God to warn us of the consequences in the long run. Heeding God's authority figures in our lives is the path of wisdom. It's the path of a long and enjoyable life. The fool is like those boys in the canoe. Too proud to heed the warning, too full of themselves to listen to those watching over them. The wise man submits and is saved. What do the elders say to do? Do it. What have the elders warned against? Stop it! These watchers. What does Paul call the elders? He calls them overseers. Watchers. They are God's grace to us. Warning us to save us. To ignore them is to imagine ourselves better judges than they are. As if God should have made us an elder. It is to swim in an unsafe ocean like the lifeguard doesn't know what's going on. It's to walk down a dangerous alley as if the policeman isn't aware of what's really happening. And it's to canoe into the turbulent spillway of a dam And be drowned. We must give thanks for those whom God has placed as watchmen over us. We must listen to them attentively. Heed the warnings Even if they don't make sense to us in the moment. And have the wisdom to live the lives God has called us to live. Amen. Lord, this is a difficult passage for us, for we are proud. We are full of ourselves. We are sure that we know what is best. And you are calling us to listen to the watchmen you place over us. Give us the humility to do so, the The wisdom to realize that we are wrong. And that you have placed in us Those who guard us against ourselves, who keep us from the path of sin and protect us from your wrath against it. Who wish for us to walk in the way of purity and of peace and of communion with you We ask this grace in our lives, this humility in our lives, for the sake of our good and the glory of Christ in whom we pray. Amen.