Turn your Bibles to Ezekiel chapter 18. Ezekiel 18. If you're using that red pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 837. Ezekiel 18, page 837. Turning there, I will remind you we are not skipping or omitting Ezekiel 17. Rather, we took that up a few weeks ago together with Ezekiel 12 and 15. So we're jumping now to Ezekiel 18. Every once in a while there is a text that a preacher feels strongly about. It's a good text. It's a powerful text. It has a great deal to say to us. And yet, the preacher struggles to pull together a sermon worthy of the text. This has happened to me this week with this text. I love these evils. eighteen. There is some great stuff in here. I was having a really hard time figuring out how to weave it together. I share that with you to say this. Be praying for me and for us over the next few minutes, because I'm not going to preach. the sermon that's here in front of me. Instead, we're going to rest on the Holy Spirit to guide us through this test in a way that will perhaps bring it out better than I had hoped to do so. Let's ask his leadership in that right now. Lord, ultimately it is you who speak to who speaks to hearts, who opens minds, who softens wills, and so we rest on you this morning for your guidance and additional word. What I say next. Let it be consistent with, representative of your truth. And if I go astray, let my words be quickly forgotten. So that is you whom we see. So as we come away from this Text, understanding your heart in the way Ezekiel wants us to. The way you want us to. We ask for this help in Christ's name. Amen. Let's start in at verse 1. Ezekiel 18, the word of the Lord came to me. What do you mean by repeating this proverb concerning the land of Israel? The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. This may not be an adage or a proverb that we use. I don't think it ever showed up in poor Richard's Almanac, but it was in common use back then, and we know so, because Jeremiah also quotes this same proverb. Straightforward. The fathers have eaten sour grapes. And yet the children's teeth are set on edge. The actions of one generation impact the next generation. That's the simple meaning of this ad. We pick up now in verse 3. As I live, declares the Lord God, this proverb shall no more be used by you in Israel. We might have wish he had said, misused by you in Israel, as we will see shortly. Behold, all souls are mine. The word soul here is not addressing the duality of human nature, rather, it's being used the way that we might speak of a plane rather. or a ship going down, and speaking of all the souls that were lost in that accident. That's how this is being used. The whole all souls are mine. The soul of the Father as well as the soul of the Son is mine. The soul who sinned Shall die. Now, if man is righteous and does what is just and right, and now he explains what he means by that, if he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of menstrual impurity, does not oppose, sorry, does not oppress anyone, but restores to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread to the hungry, and covers the naked. into the garment, does not lend an interest or take any profit, withholds his hand from injustice, executes true justice between man and man, walks in my statutes and keeps my rules by acting faithfully. He He is righteous. He shall surely live, declares the Lord God. Now, if he fathers a son who is violent, a shedder of blood, who does any of these things, though he himself to none of them, who even eats upon the mountains, defiles his neighbor's wife, oppresses the poor and needy, commits robbery, does not restore the pledge, lifts up his eyes to the idol, commits abomination, lends that interest and takes profit? Shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these abominations, he shall surely die. His blood shall be upon himself. The wicked child of a righteous parent is not saved by the virtue of his parent. We continue in verse 14. Now suppose this man, that is the wicked son, fathers the son, Who sees all the sins that his father has done, he sees and does not do likewise. He does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eye on the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife, does not oppress anyone, exacts no pledge, commits no robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry, and covers the naked with a garment, withholds his hand from iniquity, takes no interest or profit, obeys my rules, and walks in my statues. He shall not die for his He shall surely live. As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what is not good among his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity. As the wicked son was not saved by the Father's righteousness, neither is the righteous son condemned for his parents' sin. Verse 19. Yet you say, Why should not the son suffer for the iniquity of the father? When the son has done what is just and right and has been careful to observe all by statutes, he shall surely live. The soul who sin shall die. The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father for the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. This is an emphatic statement. Sorry, my own notes there. This is an emphatic statement of personal and individual responsibility before our God. The prophet now addresses himself to a slightly different but related topic. If a wicked person turns away from all his sins that he has committed, and keeps all my statutes and does what is just and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die. None of the transgressions that he has committed. Shall be remembered against him, for the righteousness that he has done, he shall live. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked? declares the Lord God. Enough rather that he should turn from his way and live? But when a Righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice and does the same abominations that the wicked person does, shall he live? None of the righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered. For the treachery of Which he is guilty of the sin he has committed, for then he shall die. Yet you say, the way of the Lord is unjust. Hear now, O house of Israel, is my way not just? Is it not your ways that are unjust? When a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it. For the injustice that he has done, he shall die. Again, when a wicked person turns away from the wickedness he has committed and does What is just and right, ye shall save his life. Because he considered and turned away all the transgressions that he had committed. He shall surely live, he shall not die. Yet the house of Israel says, the way of the Lord is not. Just. O House of Israel, are my ways not just? Is it not your ways that are unjust? Therefore I will judge you, O House of Israel, every one according to his ways. declare as the Lord God. Repent and turn from all your transgressions. Lest iniquity be your ruin Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. Why will you die, O house of Israel? For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone. declares the Lord God, so turn and live. It's a powerful text that has a great deal of truth that we must understand. We're going to go back and walk through this and consider Consider what it is teaching us at each stop along the way. We see right at the beginning how it opens up with this Ancient proverb about the sins of the Father, the choices of one generation impacting the next generation. And we can't imagine that the people of Israel, that the ancient church, just made this up on their own. This was embedded in the law of God. We heard the Second Commandment read as part of our Old Testament reading earlier, and it said very explicitly That God will visit the sins of the Father to the third and fourth generation. It is embedded in the Council of God, the law of God, that there is a corporate nature to his people. We celebrate this every Sunday at the communion table. We remind ourselves that at this table we commune not only with our Lord, but also with one another. We are united In this faith. To be absolutely clear. And by the way, Ezekiel, back in chapter 15, he preached this very same idea: that Israel, Judah, was being judged because of her corporate sins. what she had done as a whole. So there can be no denying that there is some aspect of corporate responsibility, corporate accountability. before God. And the people of Israel, the people of Ezekiel's day, probably those who are already in captivity in Babylon, are complaining that that's not fair, that that's not just, that that's not right, that God ought not punish them for the sin. of the generations before them. Now of course that assumes that they're not themselves guilty And therein lies the key part of the problem. Ezekiel is trying, he is not setting aside the idea of the corporate nature of the people of God. Rather, he is bringing alongside of that, an expanded understanding of the individual self and the accountability we have before God. And he says, do you not understand that God is truly just? He will not punish anyone in a way they do not deserve. He will not treat anyone in a way that is unjust. Now it's not at all clear that the people would have understand, understood, the complexities of that. For we know, for example The prophet Jeremiah was regarded by God as a righteous and upright man. But against his will, against his desires, he was dragged to Egypt when the Babylonian invasion came, so that his life could be saved. It's not what he wanted. He didn't want to go to Egypt. And so we struggle a little bit with this. We look at the reality of our lives, we look at good people around us who who come down with diseases, who have troubles at work, who We have family issues and we think to ourselves, what is God thinking? What is he doing? How is it that he can be can call himself just when these things are playing out? the way they play out. And some of the people of Ezekiel's day were having that same concern. But Ezekiel says you must trust God. You must believe that he can see the end. From the beginning, that he knows how these things will unravel. It is not unlike the New Testament writers who would speak of the goodness of God, how God works all things together for the Good of those who love him. That was penned by a man who would die for his faith. Peter says to Jesus, To whom else shall we turn? For you alone have the words of life. Peter is not about to abandon. Jesus. And he dies for his faith. It is easy to look at how things play out in this life and doubt the justice of God. And Ezekiel comes in the Midst of that it says, Don't do it. Don't get sucked into that trap. God is just, and He will judge each person according to His own deeds. Whatever the nature of corporate responsibility is, ultimately we will stand individually before God. I will not be able to stand before the judgment and say to God, well yeah, I preached that way, but that's the reformed way. That's what Presbyterians preach. I will have to be accountable for every word that I say from this book. Apart from any corporate responsibility. That we may have for any error we hold. So the first thing we see here is that there is individual accountability, individual responsibility. You will not decide. Despite what American psychologists want to tell you, you will not be able to blame your parents on Joseph Death. It's not how it works. Now he also warns the other way. Don't imagine that you're somehow going to be saved by your parents. Now some of us think, well, I I wouldn't imagine that, but you'd be amazed. Over the years, I'm now going on twenty-three years as an elder in Presbyterian churches. And I have sat in many membership interviews. Now, thankfully, these aren't common, but I have heard more than one person who sat down with the elders and said, Well, my grandmother. Was a Sunday school teacher, my mom is a Sunday school teacher, my dad sings in the choir. I guess I was just born to be a Christian. Do you believe that Jesus died for your sins? Are you hoping? In him personally, or are you resting on the fact that your parents and grandparents were believers? We must understand that We are not going to be saved in and through our parents. And again, Ezekiel has, he's not trying to set aside the Abrahamic covenant. There's no question that God worked through family. There's no question that God works in tribes and clans and peoples and groups and churches. But don't imagine that that alone is enough to say. This tension, this almost apparent contradiction, we see it in our own sacrament of baptism. We baptize a baby, we apply to the baby the sin. Of God's covenant, of his washing, of his saving act to a child because that baby is born to a Christian parent or two. And we turn right around and say It does not save the baby. The baptism is not salvific. We charge the parents to raise the child in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And while this is not a passage about parenting, I do think Parents, all of us, whether we are current parents of young children or anticipate maybe having children in the near future, we ought to look at this text and recognize the weight it has on us as parents. That our children's salvation must not be taken. In forbred. Just because you and your spouse are believers does not automatically mean your children will be. Raise them in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Talk about the things of Jesus in your home. Talk about the fact that you're making a decision with regard to, I don't know, you're not buying that car because of the wisdom of God. when it comes to finances. Talk about that with them, about why they are you're not letting them go to that party. Explain to them the things of the Lord so that they will come to trust in his you do. Now when Kern White on say there's a grace to parents in this passage also. For we see in the passage a righteous father has a wicked son. Neither Ezekiel nor the Holy Spirit throw any shade at that body. The presumption is that he is truly a righteous man and that he raised his son in the Lord, and yet the son walks in wickedness. And so while I do say there's a charge here to the But you young parents of young children, I'll turn right around and say there's a grace here to any of us who are parents of adult children. That your child has walked away from the Lord This text is not implying that's your fault. And in fact, just the opposite. Find the grace that's here for parents. Having established, in Hebrew, having established that God's just This is individually applied, even in the midst of the corporate judgment of Israel. He begins to explain what righteousness, what true faith looks like. Verses uh is it six through nine, five through nine I guess it is, he he takes up this question of, okay, so God is just So now you want to be righteous, what does righteousness look like? And in verse 6 he says, this man does not eat upon the mountains. What is that? Does that mean if you're out for a long hike and you get caught on the mountain, you can't stop for lunch? That's not what that means. On the mountains means to participate in the pagan rituals, uh sacrificial rituals on the high places. That these people do not these righteous people that he's describing do not partake of the sacrificial meals at the pagan shrines. And then he says He doesn't eat the lungs or lift up his eyes to the idols. He doesn't pray. Lifting up, we pray with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. But the ancient Hebrews would pray with their eyes open and their heads lifted up toward the heaven. And he's simply saying that they do not lift their eyes to false gods. They're not praying to gods that are not God. So the first element here of righteousness, according to Ezekiel 18, is true really. Religion, true religion. That you walk in the faith of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob. Of Peter and Paul and all of the other saints of the scriptures. That's the first mark. Our own confession of faith captures it this way. It says that outside of the church, there there's no ordinary Means of salvation outside of the church. Now many of us are bothered by that. We think to ourselves, well, wait a second, Norman Church doesn't save you. That's correct. But that doesn't mean That not going to church guarantees you're saved. In fact, quite the opposite. Anyone who does not desire to be in the presence of God once a week is not going to be annoyed by God's presence for all of eternity. It's really that token. Ezekiel says that the truly righteous person longs to be with the true God. That he goes to a good faithful church on Sunday. As often as he is able. And then he turns right around and speaks of other characteristics. Does not defile his neighbor's wife or approach a woman in her time of menstrual. purity. Those are kind of bookends on the issue of sexual purity. Does not oppress anyone but restores the debtor to the debtor his pledge, commits no robbery, gives his bread to the hungry, and covers the naked with a garment. He treats his fellow He treats his fellow human being with respect and dignity. But he would not take a cloak from a poor person, but give it, uh, restore the pledge, uh, clothing items, outer clothes were often given as a pledge that you owe money. And he's saying basically here, even if the guy can't repay the money, you're given his cloak back so he has the dignity of clothing. Does not lend an interest or take a profit. Can't get into all the details here. This is talking about something which would be called usury, excessive interest, excessive profit. There it's to unfold all of that is kind of complex. But it's this idea that the man acts justly in his business feelings, not just in his interpersonal things, that he conducts all of his life. with respect for God and his fellow man. He withholds his hand from injustice, executes true justice between man and man The reason that follows after the business profit and the personal profit is because it's basically this idea that he prefers, he loves what is right over what is profitable. That he's not willing to sell. soul to make another buck, that he wants to stand up for what is true, even if it costs him. Finally, verse 90 walks in my statutes and keeps my rules. Acting faithfully. He is righteous. The next paragraph just is the counter to all of that. We won't go through it verse by verse. It just says in contrast the unrighteous man does the opposite of all these things. And so the picture here of the saved person, of the one who will live, who will get life from God, is a picture of someone who goes to church on Sunday and acts like it on Sunday. Monday. Who goes to church on Sunday and acts like it on Monday? Through Saturday, by the way, you don't get too technical there. It's a little literary license there. It's the issue of having faith and walking by faith Sometimes as Protestants we can get a little squeamish around the subject of good works. At the heart of the Protestant Reformation was the doctrine of salvation by faith alone. And we must cling to that, but we must also recognize that the same preacher, Martin Luther, who brought back the doctrine of salvation by faith alone, who pulled that out of the scripture and brought it back to the forefront of preaching. He also said, while we know that salvation is by faith alone, we know also that saving faith is never alone. While we know that salvation is by faith alone, we know that saving faith is never alone. Martin Luther wasn't sweetish about the importance of good works. They are the diagnostic tool for your faith. Why? Why is it that good works accompany true faith It really comes down to this, I think. If we are not willing to trust God with the here and now, we probably aren't really trusting him with the eternity. If we say to God, you don't know how to conduct business, you don't understand how I should act this way or that way. I'm not going to follow your wisdom. I'm going to conduct the things of this world according to my wisdom but but I'll trust you for eternity. Let's just don't add up. Eternity is the big ball wax. That's the one that matters. When we can't trust God with today, it's almost certain we're not trusting Him with tomorrow. Now you can act like and walk like and look like a Christian and still not be saved, that's true, because you're hoping in your own good works. But if you are hoping in the good work of Jesus Christ, you will act like it and walk like it. Not perfectly, not without fail, not without ever making a mistake, which is what takes us to that next section where he talks about the idea that if you walk in wickedness and repent, you will be saved. Ezekiel acknowledges that we're not looking for perfection in this life. We're not going to get it 100% right. And in fact, he shows us that God forgives sins. Not only does he not hold us accountable for the sins of our parents, He does not hold us accountable for the sins of our caste if we come to him in faith and repentance So we see here in the text this idea of the justice of God being applied individually to each person. We are all willing to stand accountable before God. We see here in the text the idea that true righteousness, saving faith, is found in the true religion, holding firmly to historic Christianity. It's why a little while here we are going to read together the Creed, it opens and closes with a simple statement that all who desire to be saved must believe this. True salvation is found in the true religion. And true true salvation and true religion are manifest in an upright life. We have seen something of the fact That we are not born into Christianity. That we get there through faith and repentance. We've seen something of the fact that what that's going to look like if we have true faith and repentance. Perhaps The most profound part of this passage are the last three verses. Look with me at verse thirty, thirty-one, and thirty-two. The paragraph that came before verse thirty, there in verse 29, is about God is speaking, but he's speaking on behalf of both himself and Israel, and there's a debate about who truly upholds justice, and the conclusion is that God is truly just and Israel is not And then verse 30, therefore I will judge you. That's a pointed statement in the middle of that context You don't get to judge me, Israel. You don't get to hold me accountable. You don't get to decide what I ought to be like and how I ought to act. I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways. There is a reinforcement of the personal responsibility. Repent and turns of all your transgressions, lest iniquity before. Your ruin. Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. There's a call for repentance again It's been said before, and now it's being said more plainly and clearly. Yes, God is going to judge. Yes, he is holy. Yes, he is just, and yes, he will hold sinners accountable. Way back at the beginning, the soul who sins. dies. There is an absolute accountability for this. Do not imagine for a moment that our God has is reduced to the God of 21st century America mainstream religiosity. He is all All love all the time and only as we define love. That is not the God of the Bible. The true God is a God of righteousness, of justice, of uprightness, of holiness. If you want to reduce God to a single attribute, then it has to be his holiness. That's the attribute the scripture harts on. That's the drumbeat of the Bible. That our God is holy, holy, holy. Fully set apart, fully other. fully different, fully untouched by the corruption of human sin. And His Holiness dictates that that sin be addressed. He will judge. Do not imagine that he is going to sweep history under the rug as if it did not happen. By the way, that's just that's not just what a holy God does, that's what a good father does. Can you imagine the insult to Jesus Christ, if the Father were to say history isn't time. Can you imagine the insult to the life and death of Jesus Christ? Is that the judgment the father were to say history doesn't affect But we keep reading. Picking up in verse 31 to get a running start into verse 32. Cast away from you all the transgressions that you have committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. Let there be repentance, he says. Why will you die? O house of Israel, for I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God So turn and live. Many of us are of an age where we can remember certain hated leaders dying. We can remember President Obama getting on the television set and telling us all that Osama bin Laden had been found, killed, and buried at sea. Many of us can remember the fall of Muam Gaddafi. of certain leaders in the Soviet Union. And we can remember that there was almost a sense of joy. There was it was almost celebratory, the celebratory mood that this person had died. Not so with God. God does not take joy in the death of anyone. Ezekiel says. That is a profound insight into the heart of our God. That is an amazing thing. To turn to say, he will judge, and the soul that's in will die It's not because he enjoys it. It's because he's holding the host to it. He's bound by his own nature and character to be just. What is absolute preference is repentance. If you have ever wondered Does God really forgive? Does he truly receive us? After the terrible things, Ai we done. Look at this verse again He doesn't want you to die. His desire is that you would turn and come to him. And again, this This is just the heart of a good father. None of us. Well I shouldn't say it that way. Maybe you guys were better out at this. As a general rule, I didn't take pleasure in spanking my children. Every once in a while I probably did. But I should not have. Not these two. These two never did anything. No, good father doesn't take joy in disciplining a child. A good father takes joy when his discipline produces obedience, when it produces respect and honor, when it produces a person They enjoy being around. One of the principles that Becky and I tried to follow in parenting was simply to raise kids we wanted to be around that we liked. That's the purpose of your Heavenly Father. He created you to be with you. He was so overflowing with love that he wanted objects to love. He doesn't want to withhold that. That's not his preference. His desire is to be restored in a relationship with him. That's the message. Ezekiel 18. For all of the bad press the prophets get. Oh, the prophets are always just preaching hellfire and brimstone, they're just preaching condemnation all the time. We're not reading closely enough. The heart of God is a heart that longs for us to come back to him, to repent. to fall into his arms and say, I trust you with my eternal life. Let's pray. Lord, help us hear the message of this passage. Let us see in it the good news of salvation. That we have in Jesus Christ a way to run to you. to be accepted by you, to belong to you. As we head to your table, help us to see this in a new and fresh way. Restore our faith, renew our hope. Let us be a people who walk in light of disgust. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.