In the thirtieth year, in the fourth year, the first year. Month on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the Chebar Canal, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God. Visions not merely from God, for many have seen those. No, I saw visions of God. As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud with brightness around. And fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire, as it were, gleaming metal. And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures, and this was their appearance. They had a human Likeness, but each had four faces, and each of them had four wings. Their legs were straight, and the sole of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot, and they sparkled like burnished bronze. Under their wings, each of the four Four had at their sides human hands. And the four had their faces and their wings thus. Their wings touched one another. Each one of them went straight forward without turning as they went. As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face. The four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle. Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies. And each went straight forward. Wherever the spirit would go, they went. without turning as they went. As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches moving to and fro among the living creatures. And the fire was bright. And out of the fire went forth lightning, and the living creatures darted to and fro like the appearance of a flash of lightning. Now, as I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the earth beside the living creatures. One for each of the four of them. As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction, their appearance was like the gleaming of an emerald. And the four had the same likeness. Their appearance and construction being being, as it were, a wheel within a wheel. When these wheels went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went. And their rims were tall and awesome. And the rims of of all four were full of eyes all around. And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them. And when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose. Wherever the spirit wanted to go, they went. And the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. When those went, these went. And when those stood, these stood. And when those rose from the earth, the wheels rose along with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was even in the wheels. Over the heads of the living creatures there was the lightness of the expanse of the sky, shining like awe-inspiring crystal. Spread out above their heads, and under the expanse their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another. And each creature had two wings covering its body. And when they went, I heard the sound. of their wings, like the sound of many waters, like the sound of the Almighty, a sound of tumult, like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they let down their wings, and there was Silence. There came a voice from above the expanse over their heads. And above the expanse over their heads, there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like Sapphire, and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance, and upward, from what looked like his waist, I saw, as it were, gleaming metal, like the appearance of fire. enclosed all around. Downward from what looked like his ways, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him, like the appearance of the rainbow that is In the cloud on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the brightness all around him, full of every color. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Yahweh. And when I saw it, I fell on my face. Let's stand in Will you please be seated? Sermons are to be preached, right? If there's one thing we know, sermons should be preached. Yes, they should be engaging, and they might even be dramatic, but they should not be drama. God's Word and the sermons which flow from it are meant to engage our minds, not move our emotions, and drama is all about the emotions. It is by the renewing of our minds that we are transformed, the Bible says. So clearly, drama is just right out. And as weak as our minds might be, they are more stable, more reliable than our emotions or any other aspect of our non-physical being. The emotions in particular are tricky business. They are too easily fooled, too easily manipulated, too easily led astray. No, the mind is the place to address if we are to walk in truth. And so God ordains preachers not playwrights, elders not actors. But God did not ordain preaching because he lacked imagination, nor is he bound by the norms he set in place. And to be sure, our Lord does, from time to time, come to us, not with syllogisms and proofs, but in great drama. One of the lines which jumped out at me during my seminary training was when my homilytics professor argued that the tone and tenor of a sermon should match the text of the sermon. In other words, a sermon on love should not be harsh in its delivery. A sermon on forgiveness should not scold the congregation. By that standard, would it not be a great sin for a sermon on Ezekiel 1 to be boring or forgettable? God does not come to Ezekiel in a dream nor with words, but in a most dramatic and unforgettable fashion. Shouldn't the sermon about that reflect that? But here's the difficult thing about trying to preach dramatically. Drama has, if you'll allow me, its own drama. Never mind the pitfall of the temptation for the preacher to be dramatic for its own sake. Never mind the risk that we would try to one-up ourselves week after week after week. No, there's another aspect to drama that is problematic. Aside from that temptation of the preacher to be melodramatic Drama itself as a literature form isn't necessarily the most efficient way to convey information Just this past Monday, an unbeliever expressed his consternation at the Bible's stories. His argument was something like this. If you say that the Bible's content is of the utmost importance, then why is it set forward in stories? Stories can be misunderstood, they can be misinterpreted, stories might have multiple layers of uh uh of meaning to them and somebody might miss a deeper meaning. Uh stories aren't particularly efficient or direct. So why would God put his truth in something that is so vague, so opaque, so amorphous as dramas? Let's be honest. His argument is not that bad. There's something to it If we're honest about Ezekiel 1, for example, we don't really know what it's all about. Or at least not at a first glance. We're not sure what to do with Ezekiel 1. We're not sure how to handle it. Many of the Bible stories leave us scratching our heads. But will you ever forget Ezekiel 1? From the very first time you read it, have you ever stopped Remembering at least some the wheels within wheels which have eyes all over them. Even if you didn't understand it, it stuck with you. So why does God come to us in stories, in poetry, in drama? Because textbooks are boring. Who can recall a single line from any textbook? Yet who can forget that a rose by any other name would smell as sweet? Stories may be indirect and they may be messy, but they are memorable And within the warp and woof of literature is drama which is most particularly memorable. We were recently looking, uh my family and I, we were recently looking at a list of the all-time greatest movies. And there wasn't a comedy or a musical anywhere near the top. In fact, I think all of the top 50 were dramas of one kind or another. You see, drama brings the tension. Drama makes us sit up in our seats and hang on every word. If we're reading, it's drama which makes us turn the page and keep reading. Ezekiel 1 is dramatic, profoundly so. What's going on? Why is God overwhelming and terrifying this poor man? He's practically beside himself with fright. And he's completely unnerved. What did he do to desert this? That's how drama draws us in and how it gets us to keep exploring. We have to know what happens next. Does he die? Has Ezekiel angered the Almighty that he should descend on him like this and kill him? And if not, if this is God coming to one who has not enraged him, why would anyone want to risk pleasing God and have this happen to them? It's drama that makes us ask those questions. For sure, whatever else Ezekiel's future might hold He has a profound new appreciation for the greatness of God. Let's stand and together sing how great thou art. It might be feeding So now we ask ourselves, what is going on in this scene in Ezekiel 1? What is happening here? And let's be clear, it's not clear. Did you catch Ezekiel's language? Twenty-three times he uses like or likeness. In fact, linguists call this the language of likeness. He doesn't actually tell us what is. but what it is sort of like. Besides the like and the likeness words, there are another 18 times he uses the word appear or appearance. And four times he says, as it were. He's doing his absolute best to convey to us that which he saw. But there simply are no words for it. Even as he writes so many years later, he cannot say what it was. Only that it looks sort of something like this. So in truth, we're not exactly sure. What Ezekiel saw, at least not in detail. So what does he say he saw, and what was it sort of like? Well, Israel sees something like a man sitting, interestingly not on, but above something like a throne. He sits on the throne, sits on the sky, which is really the best understanding of that Hebrew word, expanse. Is something like a man is above something like a throne, which is it sitting on something like the sky That sky is brilliantly lit with a dazzling array of colors, hence the rainbow reference we saw in the text. The most stunning chapel I ever saw was white. The pews, the walls, the tile, even the piano, all white But around the tops of the walls, in abstract art, in stained glass, was a depiction of the days of creation. So that as the sun moved around the sky, different colors would stream into that white chapel at different times of the day. So that at one time it would be red, another time it would be orange or purple or blue. It was stunning. But compared to what Ezekiel saw, it might as well have been painted with drab and had no windows at all. So the man-like being is on something throne-esque, which rests on a sky of sorts. Now, this sky, for its parts, he says, moves about on casters. That's the effect of a wheel within a wheel. We've got these two wheels, so they can spin this way or it can spin that way, and you don't have to reorient it. These devices, if he had our ver vocabulary today, he would call them casters. Like those on your desk chair. Oh, there's one little detail, one little difference. These castors were alive. They had eyes so that they could see where they were going in the very spirit The breath of God, the breath of these living creatures at least, was also in the wheels. That's the sense of that word, breath or spirit. So this brilliantly lit sky sits upon four living casters. And the whole of it was upheld and moved and powered by four living creatures. Later in chapter 10, Ezekiel will Look back at this vision and he will call these cherubim. And we saw a couple of weeks ago, that's a very fitting thing. Cherubim tend to be the guardians of God, as it were, the bodyguards of Who protect his holiness and glory. And so these whore-litting creatures are in close proximity to the throne of God. In fact, the throne of God appears to rest upon them. They carry it about. These living creatures seem intended to represent certain life forms. Do you recall the wording of the creation days? Which spoke of how the uh uh spoke of all the living creatures which moved upon the ground. You remember that language? And all the birds of the air. You remember that verbiage from Genesis 1? This is, I think, what's being echoed here. One face is an eagle, the chief of the birds of the air. One face was a lion, king of the wild beasts which move upon the earth One face was an ox, the most important of the domesticated beasts which move upon the earth. And one face was of a man, the pinnacle of God's created life. And by the way, I should insert here, despite the efforts of today's speech police, man in Hebrew in a context like this does not mean male. It means human being. Man, Adam, was the name that God not only gave to the first human, but to which he gave to all humans. I am a male. We are man. Suppose we could change the verbiage to align with our cultural sensitivities. And perhaps when we're talking to the world we should, but in here maybe we should modify our sensitivities to align with the Word of God. He calls all of us man, and Ezekiel will use that term a lot. Now it is notable that these living creatures do not, they do not include a depiction of either the creatures which moved on the earth, not along it, but on it. Such as worms and insects and the other low animal forms, nor is any reference to the fish of the sea, which we see in the creation account. No one is sure why not. But these living creatures do not depict them. Anyway, the living creatures animate and move, they pull, if you will, this throne platform, this sky throne platform in any and every direction, and they do so with ease, darting to and fro as if it were nothing, and with a speed which Ezekiel can only compare to lightning. So that's kind of a recap of the sort of language he uses, the as it were, or it appeared to be language. Now we could delve into the symbolism of all of those things and the meaning of them, and many have tried to do so, but I don't think it's worthwhile. Because we've already admitted that we're not even sure what these details are. I don't think the point is to dive into the exact symbolism of a wheel within a wheel. Or the meaning of the four living creatures. Rather, I think there is tremendous value in us paying attention To the one concrete thing Ezekiel tells us. He doesn't use the language of likeness nor of ambiguity. Now, Ezekiel tells us plainly that this is a vision of God. This is a theophany God descended to the earth and revealed himself to the prophet Ezekiel. That manifestation, Ezekiel says, was accompanied by a deafening noise. Let's add our voices to the cacophony of sound around the throne of God. Let's stand and sing. Holy, holy, holy. Lord God Almighty. You please be seated. Ezekiel saw God. That's the one clear, definite thing he says. It's not a like or an appearance of or a maybe sort of. He saw God. To what end? For what purpose? Why did God reveal Himself to Ezekiel? And why did God reveal Himself in this profound manner? Now, if I had intentionally tried to pick a sermon as a prologue to Ezekiel, I would have botched it. But by the grace of God, we looked at the angel of the Lord last week. And we saw this manifestation of God's presence, this appearance of the Lord, in the form of the angel of the Lord. And that's what we have here. Given Ezekiel's description of this one that he sees having the appearance, the likeness of a man And yet the glory of God, most Bible scholars look at this and say, he's seeing Jesus He is seeing the pre-incarnate Christ. He is seeing God the Son manifest before him. And we saw that one of the blessings of the angel of the Lord was that he manifested the presence of God in a, I don't know how else to say it, a digestible way, a manageable way, a way we could handle. If God revealed Himself in all of the fullness of His glory, we sinners would be struck dead. But in the angel of the Lord, in the preincarnate Jesus, in the manifestation of God to Ezekiel in chapter 1, we have God, but cloaked a little bit. Shrouded just a hair. The danger removed so that we might actually experience his presence. Now, to be sure, Ezekiel gets a fuller picture than some of the others did, right? This is very different than the angel of the Lord that Hagar saw in the desert. But even this is not the fullness of God's unmuted glory. Now, before we get go any further down that path, and we will kind of do so in the weeks to come, I want to get back to the original question. To what end, for what purpose, does God reveal himself in this way? To Ezekiel. To get at that, let's answer the bigger question. Rather than just looking at why does he appear to Ezekiel this way, let's answer the bigger question: why does God reveal himself at all, ever? I think in that we will find the answer to why he comes to Ezekiel this way. So, what are the more general reasons in the Bible for Theophanes? Theophanies, an appearance of God, Theo, Fanny, Fanny appearance or showing up, Theo meaning God. All of these, however you there are multiple ways to state the reasons, but they seem to all come down to more or less This set of five reasons. Five reasons, God appears to people as a theophany. Theophanies often mark significant turning points in redemptive history. Theophanies often mark significant turning points in redemptive history. We saw how the miracles, well, how miracles are rare even in Scripture, and they serve to mark times of new revelation from God. A Theophany works similarly. God's appearances among us tend to coincide with turning points in the story of redemption. So when God, when there's a covenant made with Abraham, God manifests Himself. When that covenant was about to be shattered with the death of Isaac, God manifests himself. When the people, the descendants of Abraham, were being taken into slavery and everything looked confusing, God manifests Himself. And he appeared to Moses. When they were coming out of slavery, coming out of Egypt, going, what now? What's next? God manifest his presence among them. Theophanes marked key turning points in redemptive history. Sadly, Ezekiel lived at one of those key turning points Ezekiel lived at one of the most difficult times in redemptive history, as we're going to see in the weeks to come. God steps in and says, Do not fear. I am here. I am with you. A second reason for Theophanies is that they accompany times of need. You can see how that flows out of the last one. When the people needed a judge like Gideon or Samson, the angel of the Lord appeared. At the Red Sea, when the people needed protection from the armies of Pharaoh, the pillar of fire appeared. When Hagar, the first Greek record of the angel of the Lord, when Hagar was in the wilderness and in need, God came to her. Theophanies accompany times of need. We will see the scene more fully in the weeks to come. But Ezekiel says that he saw this vision while among the exiles by the Chebar Canal Now, whatever you might know or not know about the where or the what of the Chebar Canal, you know this. Being an exile is not good. Being in exile is a rough time. Time of great need. And the people of God are in a profound time of need. God comes to Ezekiel. Theophanies mark changes in redemptive history. They mark times of need. They accompany times of need. And Theophanes often bring guidance and instruction. The Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai, to name one notable one. God appeared and there was instruction and guidance. And for sure, while it's not going to be a second Ten Commandments, God is going to give great instruction and guidance to his people, through the prophet Ezekiel. So there were five, those are three of them. The next two, I think, are particularly important for our study of Ezekiel. Theophanies often reveal God's power and glory. Theophanies often reveal God's power and glory. This was Ezekiel's take on the whole vision, right? How did he summarize at the close of this? Such was the glory of Yahweh. And I fell on my face. Whatever other reasons there might be rolled up together in this appearance of God, Glory is foremost in the mind of Ezekiel. The glory of God is the thing that struck him the most. It is what he summed, how he summed this all up. I was knocked off my feet by the glory of God. In response to that glory, that awe, that wonder, and that fear which it induced God's prophet and servant Ezekiel is going to be called to a task, to a ministry. It is reminiscent of the prophet Isaiah 140, 150 years earlier, when Isaiah was also called to a difficult task. And he was knocked off his feet by the appearance of God in the temple. These men have a difficult job ahead of them. They have a tough calling. God does not merely impress himself, he overwhelms them. With who he is. They are struck by the profound glory of God. And they are struck by the intense fear of God. Isaiah is convinced he's going to die. Ezekiel has been knocked off his feet, knocked to the ground. He doesn't know what's going to happen next. Is terrifying. And I think sometimes we underestimate, undervalue A profound fear of the Lord. I was blessed with parents. Who did not hesitate to strike a little fearing. Because let's face it, being a teenager in this time and place is not easy. It's there are so many missteps, so many pressures, so many things that could lead you astray, so many places to sin and to fall into uh uh pitfalls, to to make decisions that have lifelong consequences. I did not navigate those because I had profound wisdom as a fifteen. Not true, most of them, because of a fear of my parents. Ezekiel is going to face all manner of difficult situations All kinds of pressure from his peers. Every other prophet is going to be saying the opposite of what he is saying. And if he is going to stay the course, He had better have a legitimate fear of God. And in a profound way God appears to him. In this unimaginable vision, God comes to him. It is dramatic. It is unique. It changed the prophet forever. Whatever we might think about a dramatized sermon If this sermon was going to harmonize with its biblical source material, it needed to knock us off our feet. To confound our expectations, to shake our preconceived notions, and to make us look at God and His Word differently than we have before. And I don't know, perhaps none of us will ever remember anything specific from this sermon, and that's probably okay. But by God's grace, perhaps down the road some years, you'll have a conversation something like this. You and a friend or a family member sitting around talking about the weirdest sermons you ever heard. About the most unconventional and bizarre things ever done in a worship service And at the top of that list will be the Easter Sunday that you went to the megachurch and uh they they lowered the resurrected Jesus by cables from the ceiling and there were laser beams coming out of his fingertips. I did not make that up. That happened at a Metro Detroit church about twelve years ago. What's the point of that? Oh, that's right. The glory of God. Oh, that's right. God's glory is something other than what I'm used to. It's something more than I can wrap my head around. It knocks Ezekiel off his feet and changes the course of the man's life. And through him, people of God are ministered to and cared for, and the truth of God upheld. I have no expectation that we will remember a single line said here. But we must walk out of here, thinking in a new, fresh, different way. About who our God is, His profound glory, the way that it is manifest There were five reasons for Theophanes, and I've actually only given you four if you're keeping track. Other reason for theophany, noted by many Bible scholars, is communion. Many of them note that often when God manifests his presence, it is so he can be with us. It was for communion that God came down and walked with Adam in the garden. It was for communion That the pre-incarnate Jesus met the elders of Israel on the top of Mount Sinai. It was for communion that the word became flesh. David captures both the awe of God and the nearness of him in Psalm 103. Psalm 103. Listen as I read it. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good, that your youth is renewed like the evil. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquity. For as high as the heavens are above the earth So great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. Far is the East from the West. So far does he remove our transgressions from us. The Father shows compassion to children, though the Lord shows compassion to those For he knows our frame, he remembers that we are dust. As for man his days are like grass, he flourishes like a flower of the field, for the wind passes over and it is gone. Place no. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children, to those who keep his covenant and remember to do his commandments. Thus far in the Psalm, all of this could be thought of as communion, God's closeness to us, his nearness in our distress, his caring for us, his fatherlike treatment of us. The communion the believer has with God. But that communion, that everlasting steadfast love of the Lord, is possible It's rooted in his awesome power. Here how David closes Yahweh has established his throne in the heaven, and his kingdom rules over all Bless the Lord, oh you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, who obey the voice of his word. Bless the Lord, all his hosts, his ministers who do his will. Bless the Lord all his works in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my If it's desire this morning, if it is the longing of your heart, bless the Lord because of what He has done for you, how He has revealed Himself and made Himself known, and how He wishes to commune with you. And if you are fond of all his benefits found in Jesus Christ, then know the benefit of communion, of nearness to God, of intimate fellowship with him. This, too, is a theophany of sorts, a manifestation of God's presence among us. So by his spirit, since Jesus is truly human, he cannot be in every church at one time, but by his spirit makes himself present. Manifest at the table for your strengthening and your benefit Thank you, God, for making yourself known to us, for revealing yourself to us, for the profound, unforgettable way you have revealed yourself to us. Thank you that you have also presented yourself at this table in an approachable way, telling us to come partake of these Praise you for this. Offer up thanks in Christ's name.