In your Bibles, please find Ezekiel 44, Ezekiel chapter 44. It's on page 869, if you're using the Bible in the pew rack in front of you there. Ezekiel 44. We'll be reading all of the chapter here in just a moment. So we return this morning to Ezekiel's great temple vision. It's a vision that stretches from chapter 40 through 48. It's a vision not merely of architecture, but of theology. It is eschatological. It is deeply symbolic. It is a vision of holiness, a vision of God's presence among his people. It is a vision of a world reordered around the glory of the Lord. As we come this morning to chapter 44, we stand at the threshold of the inner court, and we watch as God Himself instructs Ezekiel. About the nature of the priesthood that would serve under such conditions in such a temple. Its lessons this week reinforce those we have already learned. In other words, this is yet another testimony to the holiness of our God. This is the Word of God. As such, it is the only inerrant rule for faith and for practice. It is by this that we must think and we must live For here are the words of life. Join me now as I read Ezekiel 44. Then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east, and it was shut. And the Lord said to me, This gate shall remain shut. It shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut. Only the prince may sit in it to eat bread before the Lord. He shall enter by the way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way. Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple of the Lord, and I fell on my face. And the Lord said to me, Son of man, mark well. See with your eyes and hear with your ears all that I shall tell you concerning all the statutes of the temple of the Lord and all its laws. And mark well the entrance to the temple, and all the exits from the sanctuary. And say to the rebellious house, to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God. O House of Israel, enough of all your abominations in admitting foreigners uncircumcised in heart and flesh To be in my sanctuary, profaning my temple, when you offer to me my food, the fat, and the blood, you have broken my covenant, in addition to all your abominations. You have not kept charge of my holy things, but you have set others to keep my charge for you in my sanctuary Thus says Yahweh God. No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the people of Israel shall enter my sanctuary. But the Levites who went far from me, going astray from me after their idols when Israel went astray, shall bear their punishment. They shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having oversight at the gates of the temple and ministering in my temple. They shall slaughter the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before the people to minister to them. Because they ministered to them before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, therefore I have sworn concerning them, declares the Lord God, and they shall bear their punishment. They shall not come near to me to serve me as priest, nor come near any of my holy things, and the things that are most holy. But they shall bear their shame and the abominations that they have committed. Yet I will appoint them to keep charge of the temple, to do all its service, and all that is to be done in it. But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the people of Israel went astray from me, shall come near to me to minister to me. And they shall stand before me to offer me the fat and the blood, declares the Lord God. They shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge. When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments. They shall have nothing of wool on them, while they minister at the gates of the inner court and within. They shall have linen turbans on their heads and linen undergarments around their waist. They shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat. And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they have been ministering, and lay them in the holy chambers. And they shall put on other garments, lest they transmit holiness to the people with their garments. But they shall not shave their heads or let their locks grow long. They shall surely trim the hair of their heads. No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court. They shall not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only virgins of the offspring of the house of Israel, or a widow who is in the w uh uh I'm sorry, or a widow who is the widow of a priest. They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the common. and show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean. In a dispute they shall act as judges, and they shall judge judge it according to my judgment. They shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbath holy. They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person. However, for father or mother, for son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister, they may defile themselves. After he has become clean, they shall count seven days for him. And on the day that he goes into the holy place, into the inner court, to minister the holy place, he shall offer his sin offering, declares the Lord God. This shall be their inheritance. I am their inheritance. And you shall give them no possession in Israel. I am their possession They shall eat the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, and every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs. And the first of all the first fruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds, from all your offerings, shall belong to the priests. You shall also give to the priest the first of your dough, that a blessing may rest on your house. The priest shall not eat of anything. whether bird or beast that has died of itself or is torn by wild animals. Let's pray. Lord, this is a strange and mysterious chapter. It's full of rules and regulations that befuddle us. We don't we don't live in that world. We don't uh we we've never been to this temple. We have not seen these things in action. And so it can be a bit of a mystery to us. Unveil the mystery. Show us the message. Teach us this morning from this passage that we might better comprehend the weight of your holy glory. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. To understand chapter 44, I suspect we need to at least go back and briefly remember where things ended last week. Where we left off in chapter 43. You'll recall last time that Ezekiel was led step by step through, figuratively in a vision, led through this temple that was defined by all the various boundaries. There were outer courts and inner courts, there were outer gates and inner gates, there were thresholds and steps and chambers, there were walls, there were curtains. Everywhere there were these boundaries. Every measurement, every barrier, every elevation was preaching the same sermon. God is holy. And access to him is barred and controlled and limited. And you'll recall the center of it all was the altar. Access to God is costly. And the closer one moves toward the center of that temple, the more intense the requirements became. The architecture itself was teaching that God is not approached casually Holiness is not a mood or a feeling or an emotion. It is the reality that structures the world when the world is structured rightly. This world knows nothing of the holiness, but the world to come will. This is the world Ezekiel had been walking through, a world of ordered holiness. But the temple is not holy because it is impressive. It's not holy because of its grandeur, its style, its size, its architecture. It was holy, as you'll recall, because of what happened in 43, 1 through 5. The glory of the Lord, that same glory that had departed the temple, back in chapters 10 and 11, returned to the temple in this vision. And it returned from the east. and entered through the east gate and went back in and filled the temple. So that's the quick review of last week. And it leaves us, and it allows us to pick up where we are this week. This return of the glory of the Lord to the temple is what precipitates the events. we find in chapter 44. And so we look back, look, look back with me in the first two verses, though he then he brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east And it was shut. And the Lord said to me, This gate shall remain shut. It shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it. For the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut. We see here that it is the presence of God which matters, which upins the order of things, which changes the dynamics. When the glory enters the temple, the east gate is shut. Not because God is absent, but because he has passed through. The closed gate, now remember the north and south gates will remain open. But the closed East Gate becomes a permanent reminder that this place is made holy by the presence of God, and no one else may enter it in the way that He did. No one else is allowed to go into that temple by the path that God took. That path belongs to him and him alone. He is unique in all of the universe, and he alone may enter on his own terms. All the rest of us will come in through some other path. You may recall from the diagram last week that when one stood at the east gate, you could see past the altar into the temple building proper. And yet now that gate is shut. Everyone else who will enter this temple, when they look in, will see only the altar. And then, after they approach that altar, after the sacrifice is made on their behalf, then and only then And they turn and see the temple and the glory of God. Verse 4. Then he brought me by the way of the north gate to the front of the temple, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple of the Lord, and I fell. on my face. This too continues to be a teaching, a symbolic lesson for us. This is always the response of any mortal who comes in contact with the divine, with the holy, with God. He is thrown to the ground. It's not a punishment. It's an acknowledgement. Just as the temple is a physical depiction of God's holiness, So, whether it's Ezekiel here, or Isaiah, and when he went into the temple, or Peter when he meets Jesus by the Sea of Galilee, or John when he gets his vision and enters into heaven. When any of them comes in contact with God, comes in contact with the holiness of God, the falling to the ground becomes the apt demonstration of the opposite. of the commonality and ordinariness of their existence. Just as the barriers in the temple set God's holiness apart from us So being knocked off your feet, being thrown to the ground, falling to the ground in the presence of His Holiness demonstrates that same thing. We are not. We cannot stand next to God. We are not in the same category as God. We belong to a different kind altogether. A likeness, yes. A duplication, no. Interestingly, there is in this passage a reference to one who is not ordinarily associated with any discussion of the temple. Look back at verse 3 with me for a moment. Only the prince may sit in it, that's the portico of the east gate. He doesn't pass through it, but he may sit in that gate, to eat bread before the Lord. He shall enter by the way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way. This is really interesting. Before God takes up the question of the priesthood in this new temple, he first mentions briefly the prince. He represents righteous governance under God's rule. It's a reminder that upon the new earth There will still need to be human institutions. There will still be governance, even on the new earth The removal of sin does not take from us the reality of our lives and the need for oversight. Too often in pop culture, and this seeps into the church, there is this view of eternity, this view of heaven, as though we sit on clouds and strum harps, and that's all there is to the everlasting life. But that's not the picture of the Bible. Rather, the Bible is a picture of the earth restored to what it was supposed to be at creation, and us living on it and enjoying it as we were intended to do. And so in that setting, we're still going to need to have some organization. Are we going to use the North American Electrical Standard or the European Electrical Standard? Or are our plugs going to work? There needs to be governance so those things can be standardized. Which side of the road are we going to drive on? There needs to be governance so those things without governance, it's not a question of sin, it's just a question of orderliness. And we see here the prince, who was allowed to sit in the gate that God used, indicating his holiness. This is an upright governance. This is an upright Prince. The prince is the reset representative figurehead of ordered leadership in a holy community, and that's why he sits where he does. And in that sense, he is, of course, the very fact that this prince is being discussed in the context of the temple points forward to something that would actually be taken up uh Later by the by the prophet Zechariah, Zachariah's going to expand on this idea of the of the of the the government, the prince or the king, and the priesthood being united in one figure. And of course we know who that is is. We look to Christ as the perfect king, the perfect ruler, and the perfect priest. And so we see the union of these human, of the governance and worship leadership brought together in Jesus. All right, to fully understand the the the long the middle section of this chapter, this long body of the chapter about the Levites and the Zadokites, we need a little bit of history. I don't think we need them very much, but there are probably two tidbits that that we should uh know to make sense of this. First, a careful reading of the books of Samuel and Kings. If you pick out up the right passages and put them together, there are these little comments that can easily, when you're just kind of reading through, they can easily be missed But when you start to piece them together, you begin to realize that for centuries it appears that the kings of Israel and J's sorry, the kings of uh Judah. Initially, it begins actually with David, but then it continues in the kings of Judah. They were hiring mercenary guards from outside of the nation of Israel To be the bodyguard of the king. And when the king went into the temple to worship, they went with him. And over time, they became standard figures in the temple. And this was a violation of the covenant of God. That these people were outside of the community of Israel. By the way, you'll notice I didn't note the verse, but you go back in 44 here and read carefully. Notice he talks about the fact that they are not Israelites by flesh or by heart. It's not that you had to be biologically connected to Abraham. It's that you had to be connected to Abraham by faith. Those who would have been proselytes to Judaism would have been welcome in the temple. But that's not what was happening. So one little thing from history we need to know that there has been this pollution. These Gentiles, these unbelieving, uncircumcised Gentiles have been brought into the temple. and used in its service. The second historical tidbit that's going to help us understand Ezekiel 44 is this little refrain that occurs over and over and over again in the book of Kings. Whenever a good king died, the author of kings, perhaps the prophet Jeremiah, would write the following. He, the dead king, did what was right in the eyes of the Lord according to all that David his father had done. That's the common refrain to indicate to us a good king. And yet almost all of the good kings have the next sentence after that one. Yet the high places were not removed. Now to us that just seems like, okay, so what? And yet this is an issue for the author of Kings over and over and over again. Yet the high places were not removed. So what's going on there? Well, there was only supposed to be one place of worship in the temple in Jerusalem. The tabernacle initially and then the temple were the to be the only place of worship. These high places were little outposts of worship, a hill, a mountain, in that village or in that corner of the nation. where people could go without having to travel all the way down to Jerusalem, and they could go and worship there. And it became a source of income for the priests, for the Levites. The offerings that were brought were used by the Levites, and they lived off from that. Now the Levites were supposed to be serving down in Jerusalem at the temple But if they had all gathered down there, then I think a lot of them realize in their own selfishness and their own pride. If I go down to Jerusalem, I'm a small fish in a big pond. But if I stay out here in this village, I'm the only priest. I have more power, I have more influence, I am going to have more wealth. I am a big fish in a small pond out here And many of them we know from history stayed and worshipped and led worship in these places that were forbidden by God. And inevitably that led to a degradation of the quality of worship. Almost always, these places became outposts of idolatry. They were not worship of the true God. So those are the little bits of history that we need to understand this. The worship in the temple was corrupted by the presence of Gentiles. And the worship at the high places was corrupted by pro-prophet motive and ego and all the sorts of things that humans do. So now with that synopsis, let's turn back to this text and take a look at what's going on here. First, we're going to look at the Levites. These were the ones who went astray. um with Israel. They served at the idolaters' shrines. They led the people into sin. And though they are restored, notice they're not banned from the temple. They're God's people. He redeems them. He restores them. Nevertheless, even in their restoration, they are restricted. They may serve in the temple, but only in the outer court of the temple. They may not approach the altar. They may not go into the Holy of Holies. Second, we see the sons of Zadok. These remain faithful, and there's not a lot said about them in the Old Testament, but we can find little snippets here and there. This is a strain within the Levitical tribe of men who remained faithful to the true call of worship as set forward by Moses in the book of Exodus. These are granted access to the altar. They're allowed in the inner court of the temple in the vision of Ezekiel. They bear the high priestly responsibilities. And this visionary kind of reordering of the priesthood serves the same symbolic purpose as the temple itself. It conveys holiness. Holiness requires faithful mediators. Just as holiness required certain ceremonial rites, just as holiness required the crossing of certain barriers, so holiness requires faithful mediators. The closer one draws to God, the more faithful one must be. Ezekiel's portrayal of the Levites really does demonstrate that sin takes its toll even on believers. It leaves its mark. God restores his people fully, but he does not treat our disobedience as inconsequential. Now this lesson is not limited to Ezekiel alone, is it? Moses, we do we have any doubt? I mean, if we've ever been sure of anybody being in heaven, we can be pretty sure of Moses since he's on the modern transfiguration with Jesus Okay? We know Moses is in heaven. Was he allowed to enter the promised land? He wasn't. His sins still had consequences in this life Despite the fact that he was forgiven. We know David is a saved man. But that child that he bore with Bathsheba still died. As a consequence of his sin. Our sin has consequences. Christ pays the eternal cost for that, but that doesn't remove the the natural consequences that occur from sin. We are no longer under the wrath of God, but there's still an order to the universe and the nature that He's created, and it still plays out. I had a pastor friend some years ago who liked to say it this way, sin splatters. It makes a mess. It gets on you. And it does have an impact. Sin does not cast us out of God's presence. Uh nor does it disqualify us from serving him. Notice the Levites are still serving him. But it does distort our fellowship with him, and it can diminish the fruitfulness and the joy of our service. God's holiness means that our lives There's a reason the Bible says about a half dozen times, be holy, for I am holy. If Ezekiel's portrayal of the Levites warns us of the personal consequences of sin, even as we walk in faith, Ezekiel's portrayal of the Zadekites is something more. It's the gospel, it's the flip side, it's this blessing. It teaches us of the benefits of a faithful priesthood. And here is where this becomes so meaningful for us. The ordinary Israelite, the ordinary Israelite, could not approach the altar. He could not enter the inner court. He could not offer sacrifices himself. Now, in the scheme of religion of the Old Testament, if there was no sacrifice, if you could not offer a sacrifice, then there was no way to go to God. By the way, that doesn't really change in the New Testament. The book of Hebrews is clear, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. So the ordinary Israelite does not despair despite the fact that he cannot go to the altar himself. For they understood the corporate identity, their standing as part of the community. They belonged to the nation of Israel, and by virtue of belonging to the nation of Israel, they were represented. Represented in the priesthood. When the priest stood at the altar, Israel stood there in him. When the priest offered the sacrifice, Israel was represented in that offering. By faith. If that was their hope, if they believed what God said about this system, if they bought into it and were resting upon it and it alone. His hope was not, the true Israelite, the good Israelite, his the faithful Israelite, his hope was not in personal access, but in corporate identity. The priest stood for the people, and the people were represented him. Represented in the priest. And that right there is the gospel. Christ is the faithful priest, the true Zatekite, the one who never failed, the one who draws near on our behalf. And we are united to him, not by church membership, and surely not by personal merit. We can never Be good enough. We can never do all that is required of us if we are striving to be worthy to enter. We will be left out. It is by union with Christ that we can enter into the Holy of Holies, that there is a sacrifice made on our behalf. When Christ stands before the Father, we stand in him. When Christ offers himself, we are represented in his offering. When Christ enters the heavenly sanctuary, we enter with him. How does Paul say in Ephesians that we are already seated in the heavenly places? Present tense. Ezekiel's corporate identity is fulfilled and intensified in Christ. And then amazingly, the New Testament goes further In our New Testament reading this morning, Peter takes this one step beyond. Because we are united to Christ, we share in his priestly identity We are a holy priesthood. We are a royal priesthood. We are a people of God's own possession. Think about what that means. Think about the implications of that. The day will come where we will enjoy the direct, the immediate presence of God. We will be there because we are in Christ, but we will no longer be left outside. And in Christ, and Christ going in on our behalf and leaving us out there. Rather, we will be allowed to accompany him. By virtue of Christ's ministry, by virtue of his perfected priesthood. We become priests. Not in our own goodness, but in his. Not in acquired holiness, but imputed holiness. And we will one day be made perfect and be able to enter in Ezekiel shows a world where faithful priests draw near. Peter shows a world where Christ draws near and he brings his people with him. You see, your identity is not as a Levite or a Zatekite. It is not as a sinful or faithful Christian. Your identity is in Christ. And therefore you are part of his priestly people. It is an encouragement to prayer. It is encouragement to holy living. And in fact, it's an encouragement to remember several application points. First, we worship with reverence. If Ezekiel fell on his face before the glory of the Lord, then our worship should not be casual or careless. God is holy, his presence is weighty, and access to it is costly. Nothing less than the life of Jesus Now, in godly worship, our heart is lifted because Christ was lifted. He was raised. And there is joy, but it's not a flippant joy. We exalt in the presence of holiness because the Holy One of Israel was steeped in our sin. Reverent worship remembers that our celebration was bought through sacrifice. It doesn't mean we're somber. It doesn't mean we're sad. It doesn't mean there are no smiles, no laughter, no joy. But it does mean that it does not become about us. It's not what we like, it's not what we enjoy. It's not the song that speaks to us that matters. Is it a song that's speaking to Christ or about Christ? Is it a song that is declaring the holiness of our God? Is it a song that rejoices in the access we have to Him through the sacrifice of Jesus? These are the things that we must offer in worship. And these are the things that we must learn to enjoy. If we find no joy in those songs, if we can't celebrate in those declarations. Now we need to reconsider these things, even as we're doing this morning. A second lesson of this passage is that leadership requires faithfulness. Ezekiel 44 is a sombre reminder that God cares deeply about the character of those who lead his people. And again, this is not unique. To Ezekiel. Isaiah is hard on the shepherds of Israel. Zachariah is tough on the shepherds of Israel. Jesus was brutal to the shepherds of Israel. Do a little analysis sometime of Jesus on a scale of niceness. He is really patient and nice and gracious with those who knew the least. He's pretty tough on his disciples. Get behind me, Satan? That's not exactly a kind thing to say Okay? Ye of little faith, not a sweet thing to say. But they should have known better. But upon whom is he harshest? The Pharisees. The priests. Those who were steeped in the Word of God and should have understood the most. He demands the most of. If you aspire to leadership in the church, that's a noble thing, Paul tells Timothy. It's a good thing. But it comes with a burden. Those who would be teachers, those who would be leaders, will be judged more strictly, the Bible tells us. Ezekiel paints a picture of that here. that the Levites pay a price for their faithless leadership. There's a third application point that comes out of this text It's just a call to live our lives as though we really are priests, to live in our priestly identity, to offer spiritual sacrifices, to offer up praise, to offer up obedience. to show mercy, even as we've been shown, to be intercessors for one another. That's what priests are intercessors. Are we offering up intercessory prayer on behalf of each other? And to live in holiness. For sure, there is a fourth application of this text, and we perhaps find it Best here. Ezekiel's worshipper stood at the altar in the priest. We stand at this table in Christ. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10 that the cup of blessing is a participation in the blood of Christ, and that the bread we break is a participation in the body of Christ. We who are many are one body, for we partake of one bread, and are united to each other and to him in it. Here at this table, we do not come in our own name But we come nevertheless. We come in the name of Christ. We can draw near to God. We can eat with God. Because Christ Because Christ had every right to go into his presence and he brings us in him. We come because he has brought us near. And so here we participate in Christ. Here we are nourished by Christ. And here we are united to Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we ask your blessing on this table today. We thank you for it. Not because it is of nourishing physical value to us, but because of it is inestimable, because of its inestimable spiritual value to us. We praise you for sending your son to be the sacrifice on the altar so that we could come into your presence, so that we could be a kingdom of priests. We thank you now for this reminder, this sign, this seal, this thing that cements our confidence in Jesus, our Savior. And we pray this in His name. Amen. On the night that he was betrayed, Jesus took bread and, breaking it in front of his disciples, he said, This is my body broken for you. Do this in remembrance. In the same way, after supper, he took the cup, and pouring it out, he said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. It is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins. Just as Ezekiel's temple was a vision, was to be a concrete representation of holiness. So our table this morning is going to demonstrate the access we have in Christ. We will come this morning physically to this table. We'll assist anybody nearby us who may need it. Let the whole family come, though only those who profess faith may partake of the bread and cup. All who trust in Christ for access to God We are all going to get up and walk from our seats and come in the name of our Zatekite priest, Jesus, and partake in the fellowship with God at this table. You may take your bread and eat, step to either side and take a cup and drink. And as you reflect on what you have done, please return to your seats. There's a place to disposit the to deposit the cups on either side. Come now, with reverence and with joy. Come now in the name of Christ your high priest.