We are in the middle sermon of a of the middle section of the book of Ezekiel. In this section There's a series of prophecies against the nations which surrounded Israel and Judah, those nations around the people of God. We saw last week that these prophecies served several functions. They vindicated Yahweh's holiness. He did not merely hold Judah to account, but all nations. They served as a mirror, a literary mirror of sorts in which God's people should see their own sin in the nations around them. And they warned of God's universal judgment. They warned all of us of God's universal judgment. We also saw that if we Put ourselves in Judah's shoes if we imagined how they, as a small nation, would have a vested interest in the fate of the nations around them, that these prophecies made a bit more sense. And finally, we saw that these prophecies exalt our God as the God over all nations. Jesus, we said, was not merely the Christian God, but God of gods, King of kings, and Lord of Lords. There was another reason we gave last week for these prophecies, and we're going to look into that reason more fully, more completely, and more detail this week. It was the folly of trusting in human glory, the folly of trusting in human glory. Here at the Short Harvest Presbyterian Church. We know the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice, meaning that what it holds as true, we must hold as true. Whatever it commands for life, we must live. And always we must submit ourselves to it, which means we must know it. So hear now the Word of God, beginning in Ezekiel 27 verse 1. As we've done the last several weeks, I will read portions of it. And then summarize the parts that we omit and then move on. Please follow along, beginning in Ezekiel 27, verse 1. The word of the Lord came to me. Now you, son of man, raise up lamentation over Tyre, and say to Tyre, who dwells at the entrances to the sea, merchant of the peoples to many coastlands, Thus says the Lord God. O Tyre, you have said, I am perfect in beauty. Your borders are in the heart of the sea. Your builders made perfect your beauty. Because of Tyre's place on the coast and her key role in seafaring trade, the prophet now depicts Tyre as this magnificent ship Crafted from the finest material, piloted by the most skillful mariners, and guarded by the world's fiercest warriors. And so we pick up now in verse 12 Tarshish did business with you. Tarshish is believed to have been an ancient trading post on the southern coast of Spain. And in the Old Testament, it is routinely used to symbolically point to the far-flung reaches of the earth. one of the farthest known places. Tarshish did business with you because of your great wealth of every kind. Silver, iron, tin, and lead they exchanged for your wares. Jabon, Tubul, and Meshach traded with you. They exchanged human beings and vessels of bronze for your merchandise. From Bathogoma, they exchange horses, war horses, and mules for your wares. The men of Dan traded with you. Many coastlands were your own special markets. They brought you in payment ivory tusks and ebony. Syria did business with you because of your abundant goods. They exchanged for your wares emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and a ruby. Judah and the land of Israel traded with you. They exchanged for your merchandise, wheat of minnow, meal, oil, and balm. Damascus did business with you for your abundant goods, because of your great wealth of every kind, wine of Halban and wool of Sahar. And casks of wine from Uzal they exchanged for your wares. Wrought iron, Cassia, and Talamus were bartered for your merchandise. Dan traded with you in the saddle claws for riding. Arabia and all the princes of Qadar were your favorite dealers in lambs, rams, and goats. In these they did business with you The traders of Sheba and Ramah traded with you. They exchanged for your wares the best of all kinds of spices and all precious stones and gold. Haran, Cana, Eden, traders of Sheba, Asher, and Shemad traded with you. In your market these traded with you in choice garments. In cloths of blue, in embroidered work, in carpets of colored material bound with cords and made secure. The ships of Tarshish traveled for you with your merchandise So you were filled and heavily laden in the hearts of the sea. In the next section, an east wind, symbolizing divine judgment, wrecks the magnificent metaphorical ship of Tyre. And symbolically, every sailor takes note, because if the ship of Tyre could go down, then no ship is safe on the marketplaces and the trade routes of the world. And every merchant will mourn the wealth they lose because Tyre is gone. And we pick up in verse 31 The nations which traded with Tyre make themselves bald for you and put sackcloth on their waist, and they weep over you in bitterness of soul with bitter mourning. In their wailing they raise a lamentation for you and lament over you Who is like tired? Like one destroyed in the midst of the sea, when your war wares came from the seas You satisfied many peoples. With your abundant wealth and merchandise, you enriched the kings of the earth. Now you are wrecked by the seas. In the depths of the waters, your merchandise and all your crew in your midst have sunk with you. All the inhabitants of the coastlands are appalled at you, and the hair of their kings bristles with horror. Their faces are convulsed. Their merchants among the peoples hiss at you You have come to be come to a dreadful end, and shall be no more forever. In chapter 28, Ezekiel turns his attention to Tyre's leaders, her prince and her king. They are not really the key focus here, rather they are the personification of the spirit of the people of Tyre. So while these read personally they're addressed to all the people of Tyre, picking up in chapter 28, verse 1. The word of the Lord came to me, son of man, saying to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord Yahweh. Because your heart is proud, and you have said, I am a God, I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas, yet you are but a man and no God, though you make your heart like the hearts of a God. You are indeed wiser than Daniel. No secret is hidden from you. By your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries. By your great wisdom in your trade, you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud in your wealth. The frightful young prince of Tyre might think himself divine, but his mere humanity will be revealed when God sends foes against the proud nation, Babylon, Alexander, and others. In verse 11, we pick up a lament for the king of Tyre. Whatever glory gave rise to the pride of the prince, the glory of the king far exceeds it. Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord God. You were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering. Sardias, topaz and diamond, barrel, onyx and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbon gold, and cracked it in gold were your settings and your engravings On the day that you were created, they were prepared. You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God. In the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created till our righteousness was found in you The exalted language of these last few verses has been a reason for many interpreters, not all, many interpreters to point beyond the king of Tyre and to see in these verses the origin of Satan. We are not going to take that up in today's sermon, but it is in the insert that's in the bulletin if you wish to read more about that later. Picking up in verse 19. All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you. You have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever. Chapter 28 closes, returning to the format of chapters 25 and 26, making a pronouncement of doom upon the small nation of Sidon, just north of Israel. Let's pray. Spirit of God, give us wisdom, give us insight, give us understanding that we might see why Tyre receives this extended attention. That in seeing it, we might understand how it applies to us. And that we might most of all see your heart and intent behind this. If there is anything keeping us from listening, please remove it. If I were to say anything that is out of accord with the truth of your word, let us quickly forget it. And let us this morning come to understand who you are through this, your word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. These laments over Tyre, her prince, and her king are far away Ezekiel's finest literary work. They are poetic. They are evocative. They are filled with glorious imagery, but also subtle sadness. And so they stand out among his prophecies against the nations. The rest of those prophecies, the two chapters last week and the four chapters next week, the rest of those prophecies are blunt. They're sharp, they're prosecutorial. These are not like that. And it begs the question why? Why are these different? Why is Tyre treated differently from all of the surrounding nations? We're going to take a look at that this morning. We're going to ask that question, why is tire treated more fully? We're going to ask and hopefully answer the question, what lessons are there here for us to learn? What warnings should we see? And finally, we're going to ask, why is it that God offers a lament over the downfall of Tyre rather than the mocking that we saw some of the other nations? Why is Tyre treated differently from the other nations? What lessons should we learn? And why is there this sadness, this lament to the downfall of Tyre? Why is tire that's not easy to say? Why is Tire treated more extensively than the other nations? Well, the ancient city of Tyre was beautiful. It was profoundly glorious, a gleaming citadel of commerce and wealth. The leading city of Phoenicia, Tyre, sat just offshore on a rock outcropping in the Mediterranean Sea, a key factor in her glorious history. Businesses like predictability. Economies thrive amid stability. And Tyre had the C defending it. It was, if you will, a moat dug by God. Tire was stable. In the same millennium that saw Jerusalem change hands almost once a century, Tyre was essentially unconquered. Every hundred years, Jerusalem had to deal with somebody new invading it. Tyre did not. Tyre stood because of her natural defenses on the sea And when you are not constantly rebuilding your city, it is a lot easier to accumulate wealth. Tiger's place on the sea not only protected its economy, it kickstarted that economy. The muricide snail, family of snails, that live in Tyrian waters yielded a fabulous dye that came to be known as Tyrian purple. This shade was so rare and so beautiful that it became associated with royalty because it commanded this extremely high price. A premium was paid for Tyrion Purple. You may recall in Acts 16, Lydia was a wealthy businesswoman. Why? She traded in purple. Tyrion Purple helped build Tyre. But Purple Die was not, well it was only the beginning of the story of the wealth of Tyre. Just as Amazon began by selling books but now takes a tiny little slice of the enormous amount of commerce that occurs upon its site So ancient Tyre became the hub of commerce. It was, if you will, the ancient Amazon. These nations, those nations which initially came to Tiger for Purple Dye, soon found that its location and its stability made it an ideal trading post for everything else. You could store goods on the island city of Tyre without worrying about tribal raiding parties breaking in and stealing. And from that post on the sea, your goods could be shipped anywhere in the world. And so Tyre became the center of commerce and of trade, and it took the little cut of all of it. And became fabulously wealthy. Yet the Tyrians were not the Beverly Hillbillies or the Duck Dynasty of their day, wealthy but uncultured. No, they were quite the opposite. You see, Tyre's central place in trade meant it was always abreast of every human achievement and advancement. Whatever was new, the inventor wanted to sell. And whatever was up for sale, it passed through tire. So wealthy Tyrians could bask in the most beautiful art, the fanciest fabrics, the finest woodwork, the most exquisite metalwork. Tyrion Purple initiated trade. Security and stability fueled it. Know-how found a home in Tiger. And Tyre was a shiny example of what humanity could accomplish. And this is a large part of the answer to our question, why does Ezekiel give Tyre extra attention? It was because Tyre was this gleaming illustration of human excellence. But that begs the question, why would God destroy it? It's not a sin to be wealthy, to be good at business, to have a thriving economy. It really isn't So far, we haven't described anything akin to sin. It's not wrong to have nice things. Listen carefully to this sentence. Glory is not wrong. Human glory is not a sin. If it were, we wouldn't be bound for glory. If it were, glorification wouldn't be the pinnacle of the golden chain in Romans 8. It is not the glory of Tyre that is a sin. So is God unjust? Of course not. So if Tyra is condemned, then there is something to her that was sinful. What was it? Well look back at 27. 3. Looking back at chapter 27, verse 3, Tyre boasts, I am perfect in beauty. 2817 captures a similar sentiment. Now, it's not wrong for society to produce great beauty. In fact, arguably, it would be a sin not to do so. However, when we produce something wonderful, it is a sin to imagine it is perfect. To achieve perfection is to achieve a state which cannot be improved. Now, for as awesome as Tyre was, they'd have killed to have window screens. Body soap. Indoor plumbing. They couldn't start a fire with a simple flick of a wrist in a match. They could not take a note by simply putting a ballpoint pen on paper. Tyler imagined themselves to be perfect, not to simply be the pinnacle of what humanity had achieved so far. But to be the pinnacle of what humanity could ever achieve. And when you imagine yourself to be beyond improvement, when you think of yourself as not able to get better. then you have thought of yourself as being in the place of God. One of the things God cannot do. A couple years ago we had a forming series, The Things God Can't Do, one of those things is improve. God cannot improve. Because he is perfect. And this is the seed of the entire judgment against Tyre. It is pride rooted in her wealth, her success, and her global admiration. Now the connection between perfection and the divine is made explicit in 28. 2. Look at 28. 2. Tiger's prince, personifying the whole of the culture, says, I am a god. I sit in the seat of the god. It's interesting. It is a sin, of course, it is a sin to worship a false God. It's not the greatest sin. Think about that for a moment. When you worship a false god, the worshipper of a false god, at least he or she imagines that there is a being greater than themselves. The Tyrians committed the greater sin. They imagined they could not be surpassed, and that they must be gods. This is the culmination of the sin of pride. Imagining that you are the pinnacle of existence. Ezekiel 28. 5 makes the point again and links it directly to their success. Your heart has become proud in your wealth. Jesus warned that it is difficult for the wealthy to enter the kingdom of heaven. And Tyre illustrates why. Wealth brings a grand sense of self. And in that it is genuinely difficult to imagine oneself being neat and even harder. To trust another to meet that need. Tyre couldn't see any reason to be humble. How many Americans cannot repent at the foot of the cross for the same reason? Ezekiel gives Tyre special attention because it was such a shining example of human achievement, and the lessons we must learn flow directly from that reality. So, what lessons must we learn? Though the through the first 24 chapters of Ezekiel, I was careful. To note that the prophecies contained there, those first 24 chapters, were best applied to the church and not to the state Why? Because they were prophecies against to and for Israel and Judah, the people of God. They were therefore relevant to the people of God, to the church. These prophecies in this middle section of Ezekiel are not to the people of God. They are to nation-states. And therefore may be more applicable to America rather than just the church. Whatever lessons Israel was to learn, the church must learn. Whatever lessons Tyre was to learn, we as Americans must learn So what are those lessons? First is how choices change when we no longer imagine we are answerable to anyone. Ezekiel 28,16 illustrates this. In the abundance of your trade, you were filled with violence and you sinned. When one thinks himself God, when he imagines there is no one above him to whom he is answerable. He begins to imagine that he can dispatch life for his own good pleasure. Well, good doesn't longer for his own pleasure. The Tyrians were filled with violence because they were filled with themselves and didn't imagine that they would have to answer to anyone. America is a nation of tremendous prosperity, who now seems to imagine that violence is justified whenever we feel like it. Don't like who lives here? Violence is the answer. Don't like who rules that nation, violence is the answer. Don't like where the borders are drawn, violence is the answer. We are fast becoming a nation who believes it can do whatever it wants to whomever it wants, whenever it wants. That is a hallmark of those who are so filled with pride. That whatever their lips might claim about acknowledging God, their actions betray hearts which see themselves as beyond his reach. And not answerable to him. And like the Tyrians, we see ourselves as the ground for our own success. The 19th-century German leader Otto von Bismarck once said, The Americans are a lucky people. To the north and south they are bordered by weak nations, and to the east and west by fish. Tyre's problem was that it imagined itself responsible for its wealth. Are we not at rest of the same? Most of us in this road would get thanks for our jobs, for our incomes, our homes, our food, our family. Do we, as a nation, or even as the men and women in this room, do we give thanks to the providence which put us in a place where all that was possible? God gave Tyre a privileged geographical place. God has given America a privileged geographical place. When was the last time you or I, or a national leader for that matter, took a step back and acknowledged the grace of God? in our collective lives simply through the place we occupy on the globe. When we act like gods, deciding that we can dispose uh depose rulers, uh redraw international boundaries, name bodies of water are after ourselves. And when we do all of this because we've made America great, that cuts awfully close to the sin of Tiger. being profoundly blessed by God, but crediting ourselves. Despite its beauty and stability, Tyre was eventually obliterated. When Alexander the Great built a causeway to the island, raised it to the ground. Any nation wishing to avoid such a fate must avoid such a sin. Doing justice, loving mercy, and walking humbly with God. Leaves us with our third question. Why is Tyre treated with a moment and not a taunt? Why is there this hint of sadness and melancholy in these chapters? Tyre was quite nearly everything humanity was meant to be. The city was cultured, it was creative, it was prosperous, it was beautiful, merely fulfilling the creation mandates God gave to Adam and Eve. To be caretakers and developers and cultivators of all the world's wealth, shaping them into glory. That's why Ezekiel sings a lament rather than a taunt. God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked He's told that to Ezekiel back in chapter 18. He's going to tell it to Ezekiel again in chapter 33. God doesn't enjoy destroying human culture. He finds no pleasure in destroying the very thing we are supposed to be. That Ezekiel wrote, even a lament, was because Tyre had grasped her glory as if she were its source. Human glory was never meant to be something we seized. It was meant to be received. We were created to bear beauty as stewards. not as God himself, to rule under God's hand, not in place of him. Tyre fell because she imagined her greatness proved she was divine, because she confused borrowed glory. For inherited glory. And this is where the gospel breaks in and reminds us of the hope we have as believers. The glory that Tyre tried to snatch is the very glory Christ freely gave up. The prince and king of Tyre exalted themselves and were cast down. The Prince of Heaven humbled himself and was exalted. And now the risen Lord prepares a place. He told his disciples, I go to prepare a place of true beauty and of lasting glory for all who will belong to him by faith. So we don't chase glory on our own terms, rather we give thanks for every gift. We walk humbly with our God, and we entrust our eternal selves to the one who delights. Not in judgment, but in bringing his people to the pinnacle of what they were intended to be. We are bound for glory. We will be glorified. But it must be by faith in Christ and awaiting his terms, not by grabbing it for ourselves. Let's pray. Lord, our hearts naturally gravitate toward pride. So this is a difficult lesson for us. Help us to humbly receive it, to hear the warnings that are here and to take heed of them. To be members of the church and of the society in a way that we guide the larger corporate body. Toward a right understanding of these things. That we do our small part to stand up for the truth of the glory that is found in Christ and in Him alone. We pray this in his name. Amen.