The fitting song for the sermon that is before us. If you open your Bibles, please to Ezekiel 29. If you're using that Red Pew Bible, it's on page 851. Ezekiel 29. We'll be looking at chapters 29, 30, 31, and 32. this morning. They're giving you page 851. A little review, I'll remind you that Ezekiel chapters 1, 2, and 3 were the prophets call into the ministry. And then chapters 4 through 20. primarily looked at the downfall of Jerusalem, prophecies foretelling the downfall of the city of Jerusalem and God's reason behind that downfall. In the section we're at here, 25 through 32 that we're concluding this morning. This is a series of prophecies against the surrounding nations, those nations around Israel and Judah. The first sermon in this section, we saw how Ezekiel He still prophesied the downfall of the small nations around Israel and Judah. And we said that one of the primary reasons, or quite a few reasons, but one of the primary reasons for this was that it cleared the landscape and opened the way so that the people of God God might imagine a day of glory for themselves, for their nation. Last week we looked at how the, well, sorry, not last week, technically, two weeks ago, last time we met, we looked at how the prophet took the city of Tyre. And Haurium was an exemplar of the glory of mankind. You'll recall, however, that Tyre's wealth was gathered through commerce. Through commerce. Her land was actually very meager. Tyre could not support a large population, which meant it could not field a large army, and it could not extend its reach much beyond itself. So while Tyre's glory would have been the envy of the ancient world, her strength was not. And that's where our prophet turns his attention this week. Egypt is a is quite the opposite in terms of its natural resources. Egypt lived on the most productive farmland in the entire ancient world. And it sustained a sizable population. And because of that, Egypt could muster a large army and cede that army. And with seized and sands on every other side, Egypt could safely send that army beyond her borders to inflict her will on the surrounding nations. Egypt was the archetype of the strength of mayor. And in times of trouble, we tend to look to human strength to find hope. Politics, you know, only our candidate gets Selected, then all will be well. The military, well our armies are navies, they couldn't possibly be defeated by anyone. From technological fixes to medical interventions, we hope in the strength. Of man. Such was also the tendencies of ancient Israel, and Ezekiel knew this. And that's why he is uh uh uh sorry before before the first Babylonian invasion, some uh uh almost 20 years earlier than these prophecies are given, uh Jeremiah had warned Judah and her kings against trusting in Egypt, and they had ignored Jeremiah and turned to Egypt for help. And Ezekiel was afraid that there might That as the armies of Babylon march against Jerusalem and its final destruction is on the horizon, its utter destruction is on the horizon, that they are going to turn again in the aftermath to the strength of man rather than trusting in their God. And so Ezekiel's closing prophecies in these chapters are intended to show the folly of trusting in the strength of man. For even the strongest, most enduring nation the world had ever known at that point could not stand under the weight of the glory, strength, and judgment of God. As we have passed. few weeks, I will be taking a sampling of verses from these chapters and I will try to let you know where I am moving to. Beginning in chapter 29 and in verse 3, we see here a sense of God's Anger and of Egypt's offense. God says in verse 3 in Ezekiel, speak and say, Thus says the Lord Yahweh, behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt. The great dragon that lies in the midst of the streams. Although certainly crocodile would be a better translation there. I'm not sure why our congregation or our translation used a dragon. Pharaoh imagines himself to be a great Nile crocodile, an apex predator at the top of all things. Pharaoh King of Egypt, the great crocodile of the lies in the midst of the streams, that says, My Nile is my own. I made it for myself. To this in verse 4, God says, I will put hooks in your jaws. And in verse 5, I will cast you out into the wilderness. The rest of this chapter expresses God's anger at Egypt and promises that he will bring a sword against Egypt, scattering her people among the nations, leaving the land desolate for forty years. Will be done by Babylon. A fact, interestingly enough, that was rejected by archaeologists for some 200 years. Until in the 20th century, they begin to uncover archaeological evidence that Babylon. did in fact go against Egypt and conquer it at this time period. Chapter 30, verses 1 to 19, they uh they warn about the day of the Lord, a day of judgment. That will come to Egypt and all her allies. And so we begin here in verse 2, the second half of verse 2. Wail, alas, for the day. For the day is near, the day of the Lord is near, it'll be a day of cloud. time of doom for the nations, a sword shall come upon Egypt. And in verse 5, the other nations, Cush, and Put and Lud, and all Arabia and Libya, and the people of the land that is in Leeds, shall full with them by the sword. You know, the prophets in the Old Testament often warned Israel of the coming day of the Lord, but we see here that the day of the Lord is a day of judgment for all nations. Not just for God's people. The remainder of this chapter says that God is going to break Egypt's pride, destroy her cities, and hand her over to Nebuchadnezzar. I want us to look particularly. verses 22 and 24. Verse 22. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold I am against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and will break his arms, both the strong arm and the one that was broken, and I will make the sword fall from his ears. Verse 24. And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand. wicked pagan nations, neither of whom acknowledges the true God, yet God is going to break the arms of one and strengthen the arms of the other. We need to remember that. We will come back around to that shortly. Chapter 31 is a poem about the beauty and power of Assyria. It's portrayed as a towering fear, unmatched in strength and beauty and reach, yet it was cut down. By God because of its pride. Now, in this series of prophecies against Egypt, what is Assyria doing here? Well, uh the prophet is pointing toward the fall of Assyria as a warning to the nation of Egypt and Egypt. even more so to the people of God. If Assyria can fall, Egypt can fall. And if they can fall, you should not hope in the strength of man. Chapter 32. This returns to the crocodile motion. teeth when we pick up in verse 3. Thus says the Lord God, I will throw my net over you and a host of many peoples, and they will haul you up in my dragnet, and I will cast you on the ground, on the open field, I will fling you. and will cause all the birds of the heavens to settle on you, and I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you. The picture here is really quite gruesome of a crocodile out in the sun, away from water. shriveling up, withering, dying, and becoming food for the vultures at the hyena. That is the future of Egypt, the prophet says. This gory devastation is explained further through verse 8. And then verses 9 through 16 of this chapter are a lament. And it's a their lament that the dependent nations around Egypt are going to sing over the fall of their protector, Egypt. The chapter sees Pharaoh descending into the realm of the den, into Sheol, and it really is the climactic conclusion of all of these middle chapters against the nations. Look with me at verse 17. In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, wail over the multitude of Egypt and send them down, her and the daughters of the Jesse nations, to the world below. To those who You have gone down to the pit. Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down and be laid to rest with the uncircumcised. They shall fall amid those who are slain by the slaughter. Sword. Egypt is delivered to the sword. Drag her away and all her multitudes. The mighty chiefs shall speak of them with their helpers. Out of the midst of Sheol, they have come down. They lie still, beyond circumcised, slain by the sword. In verses 22 through 30, Pharaoh in Sheol meets the dead warriors of Assyria, of Elam, and all the other great empires. and nations, and he's meeting all the princes of the earth, and comes to recognize that no matter how strong anyone is, death is the great equalizer. Death brings all mankind down. Death instituted by God. Picking up in verse thirty one. When Pharaoh sees them, he will be comforted for all his multitude. It's not a comfort in the sense of, Oh, I feel good. It's a comfort of, well At least I'm no worse off than all the rest of these. He'll be comforted for all his multitude. Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, declares the Lord God, for I spread terror in the land of the living, and he shall be laid to rest. Among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude declares the Lord Yahweh. Let's pray. We have seen several texts now that tell us of your strength, that war against the fate of those who would try to stand against you, that proclaim that you Are the one who will conquer all your enemies. By your grace, let us not be among them. Through Christ, draw us closer to yourself. Give us great confidence that We are his, and by virtue of being his, we are not among your enemies. Let us hear the warnings that are here, so that we don't fall into the trap of trusting human strength. Give us the courage to faith to cling to Christ and Him alone in all the midst of our troubles of this life. We pray this in His name. Amen. You've heard this saying The enemy of my enemy is my friend. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Israel, like many of the small nations around her, she lay in a place of relatively relative weakness. And so she often looked for friends and found them among of her enemy's enemies. And in Ezekiel's day, Babylon was the captor and tormentor. And so as a result, Egypt could often look like a friend, the enemy of my enemy. This is why the final seven oracles in this middle uh portion of the book of Ezekiel are all directed in various ways at Egypt. But we must remind ourselves, they were never delivered to Egypt. They were never reading. in Egypt. They are directed at Egypt. They are for the people of God. Why are their prophecies directed at Egypt for the people of God? Because Egypt was the the archetype of human strength. Egypt was the strength of man. These oracles, and the sample that we've read from them, describe how that strength is going to fall before God. Now last week we articulated some of the reasons Tyre was singled out for attention. I don't imagine I need to go into much detail this week. I suspect you may have heard of Egypt in a history class somewhere along the way. And that you know that the strength of Egypt lay in the Nile River. That because of that great river, she was a great nation. There was stability and there was prosperity in ancient Egypt. By far the longest surviving civilization in the history of the world. Tyre, though stable and beautiful, was not particularly strong. But for 3,500 years, Egypt was not Only internally strong for the most part, but also able to extend its strength beyond its borders. As a rule, if Egypt had weakness, it was internal. She rarely fell to an overwhelming Force from the outside. If she fell, it was because there was dynastic drama or some other internal strife that tended to weaken her. And so Egypt imagined that as long as they kept their house in order, as long as they Kept control of their own fate that they were undefeated. That they could not be beaten. That they were the strength of man that could not be toppled. Yes, Assyria might have fallen. Yes, the other great nations. might fall, but we're different. We're Egypt. And in fact, Egypt did imagine not only were they so strong and so powerful that they could withstand whatever other the other nations could not, they imagined themselves To be the makers of their own strength. Rather than recognizing their dependence on the Nile, they must have said, look what we've done with the Nile. We've dug canals and irrigation ditches and we've built dams and we've rerouted it. We have mastered the Nile River and used it to our own purposes. And it's why Ezekiel can picture Pharaoh saying in 29:3, My Nile is my own, I made it for my Self. This really brings us to the first main point of our sermon this morning. The idea of self-made strength is an illusion. The idea that any human being being individually or society of humans collectively can make for themselves their own strength is an illusion. Human strength is real, but it is never inherent. There is no such thing as a self-made man or is there any such thing as a society of man which has ever built its own self? One does not smelt iron unless God first puts hematite into the ground under your feet. Egypt was not strong and so it made the Nile. No, there was the Nile and that made Egypt strong. And because strength is received, its benefactor can take it away. Egypt sees itself as a monster, a giant crocodile arising out of the Nile River, fiercer than anything around it. God says, I am against you. I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will cast you. into the wilderness. For in this imagination of itself, Egypt has forgotten the crocodile still needs the nail. It needs the food supply, it needs the water, it needs the nesting grounds that are found in the reeds. A crocodile out in the desert is as good as dead. And that's the picture here. And God is going to take this monstrous crocodile of the Nile and toss it out into the wilderness. The point is clear that the strength of mankind, even a great nation like ancient Egypt, is not in itself, but it comes from where it is and what God has given. This prophecy again about Egypt was not for Egypt, but it is for the people of God. It was for the Jews in Ezekiel's day, and it is for the church today. We must not fall Into the trap of believing in hoping in the strength of man. Here, Christian, you must never imagine that whatever strength you have, whatever power your wealth can buy, do not in your heart to ever believe that it was accumulated by you yourself. There is in your life somewhere a Nile River from God giving you what you have, providing you The strength, the wealth, the glory that is part of your life. The richest person I have ever known tells the story of when he sold his business, had he waited another year. year, he would have lost hundreds of millions of dollars. And he says readily, it was not because I had some market insight that I sold. I was old, I was tired, I wanted to retire, I sold the business. And then the market collapsed a year later. Only by the grace of God did I sell when I sold, and only by the grace of God that I avert the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars. There is a niche River given by God in your life. It sustains you, it provides for you, it gives you your strength. Think about the things that have affected you. Did you choose that fourth-grade teacher? Who was so impactful in your life? Did you pick the coach that pushed you to new heights? Did you pick the boss who helped you get the promotion? There are so many things. things like that in our lives. Sent by God, often unnoticed by us. If we stand where we are and imagine that we are the architect of our own strength, we are Egypt. And we will fall. Human strength is a real strength, but it is not an independent strength. If we recognize and honor the God behind it, then all is well. When we imagine, like Pharaoh, that the Nile is mine and I made it for myself, then we like Egypt will incur divine wrath. The idea of the self-made man, of the self-made nation of men, is an illusion. Secondly, humans for will not survive God's judgment. There's a classic line on one of my all-time favorite family television shows. The parent says to the child, I brought you into this world and I can take you out. It's a great line. I think my body is in over the woods. Egypt is going to learn that lesson. The hard way. Chapter 30, verses 3 and following, the prophet says, wail! What are we flipped to wail? Alas for the day. For the day is near, the day of the Lord is near. It will be a day of clouds, a cloud of doom for the nations. A sword shall come upon Egypt. God has brought Egypt. Egypt into this world, then God can take Egypt out. We tend to think of the day of the Lord as a single climactic event in the future, but the prophets had a more complex understanding of the day of the Lord. speak of it not as a single event in the future, but as a localized event in the near future in time and space. The 20th-century theologian Meredith Klein talked about intrusion ethics. This idea that every once in a while the final judgment ethic of God intrudes our present experiences. Egypt is going to experience that. Egypt is going to see the day of the The Lord on a small scale, day with a lowercase D, if you will. But the reason the prophet tells us about this is so that we will learn the lesson. So that we will understand that no one stands against the judgment of God. That we will fear the Lord and hope for our salvation in Christ Jesus, and not in the strength of man. So do not imagine that any strength you own can prevent. Such things. No amount of money individually, no accumulation of power collectively can thwart God's judgment if in your pride you invite his anger. Human strength cannot survive God's judgment. Justice. Before we leave this point behind, I told you to make a note of those two verses, 22 and 24, in chapter 30. I want to go back and revisit those for a moment and think about those. It's interesting what is said there. That God is going to break the arms of Pharaoh, that is to say, Egypt, but strengthen the arm of Nebuchadnezzar, that is to say Babylon, and to put into his hand a sword. God is going to give I think many of us can't imagine God using wickedness in this way. Do not make a mistake. Do not think to yourself. That somehow Babylon and Nebuchadnezzar were somehow more righteous than Egypt and Pharaoh. Remember the book of Daniel? Who is it that built the golden statue of himself and made Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed to go bow? for it. Well, he didn't make them, he tried to make them. That was Nebuchadnezzar. He's a wicked man. He thinks he should be worshipped as a god. And yet God is strengthening him and giving him power. I suspect that we Christians sometimes miss the correcting hand of God. As Christians, there is now no condemnation. Romans 8:1, the words we heard earlier. But that does not mean there isn't correction. something that comes into our lives. And we sometimes imagine that the thing that's happening to us at work can't possibly be our fault. It can't possibly be, you know, the j the the the the the hand of God correcting me. That woman is a god. She is mean-spirited, she is a backbinder. It's her problem, not mine. God used Babula. Do you not imagine that God can use a corrupt, wicked? coworker to get your attention, to shape you, to mold you. Don't miss the sanctification in that moment, or it's going to be repeated. Now that doesn't mean everything back up in your life is sanctification. Work from God. Ask Job. He will tell you not everything is God's correcting hand of sanctification. But every time it comes, you want to at least do like Job and examine your life. And go, what am I doing to invite this? Is there a sin in my life that needs to be addressed because of what is happening. Do not dismiss the things going on in your life simply because they come from a wicked person. Never was a wicked person, he was the hand of God. God at work on this earth. The idea that there is a self-made man or group of men is an illusion. Man's strength rests on God. And we must recognize the lesson that the strength of man, if it is prideful, will not survive God's just judgment any more than Egypt did. Thirdly, we must take more in From those who are mightier than we who have fallen before us. We must pay attention to history and learn from it. One of the great deceptions in studying history is that we take ourselves out of our current context and put it into the historical context we're studying. And so weird things happen like this. We see, we read about the fall of the Roman Empire and we say, well that could never happen to America. I mean look at our case. I mean we've got air aircraft carriers. A single aircraft carrier battle group who's got more firepower than many asked a nation to have it in their entirety. I mean, come on. And we forget. That's exactly who Rome was in their day. The strongest military on the planet. Probably stronger than most of the other militaries combined. And they still fell. And that's the lesson here of Assyria. God says, look at Assyria. Assyria was the 800-pound guerrilla. In the ancient Near East. Assyria ruled with an iron fist. They were up on the Tigris Euphrates, the Fertile Crescent, so they were north and east of Egypt. But they were there, and from there they ruled for uh hundreds of years. And yet they're down Occurred in the span of less than 20 years. From the time that the last strong king died, in right around 622, 623 BC, until the time the capital city of Nineveh fell. In 612. It's just 20 years. That's nothing. To go from the biggest, greatest power on the earth to a non-existent entity in a span of 20 years. And is he was ten years old when Nineveh fell, living back in Jerusalem. He knew about it. He was alive when this happened. Many of his readers would have been, his hearers. And he is saying to them, You all saw how God took down Assyria. He can take down Egypt. Don't trust in Egypt. They say to us, don't trust anything that looks strong. Whatever it might be. Don't imagine that it can withstand God. We've got to keep reminding ourselves of these messages. Whatever the Egypt is in our lives, whatever the thing that looks like is strong and can withstand, that can't be where our hope is. Our politics will not save us, no leader can keep us safe, no army or fleet can protect a nation which angers God through pride. Come on, the start of America was that we toppled the greatest military strength on the planet. Great Britain, we all people should have the humility to understand that it can happen to us. We must take warning from those powers which have fallen in the past, and we must trust in God. And walk with him. Drew shares about a conversation, a repeated conversation he's had with a friend of his who is constantly disappointed in this life. Constantly disappointed with the things of this life, how they let him down. They do not meet what he wants. We we we get this, we feel this. All of us have experienced this disappointment with life. It's why our faith tells us to look to the next life. To put our hope in the That our God has promised. Everything in this world is going to let you down, including the church. We're broken. And we are going to disappoint. Your hope is not in me or your elders or this church. It is in Christ Jesus. And in him we have that hope of the world that will be strong, that will not disappoint us. Kingdoms of men will no longer fall because they will no longer exist in pride. But they will be set up properly. Ezekiel's final point of this section is really quite profound. It basically makes the argument That death is the great equalizer. Every strength of man fails. In the last half of 32, he shows how even Pharaoh descends the shield, how Pharaoh goes down into the grave, that his fate Despite all of his strength, despite all of his army, despite all of his wealth, he goes to the grave just like everyone else. The prophet notice ironically that Pharaoh comfort is that everybody else before him is there. This is a universal wisdom. Even in the foolishness of our paganism, in the blindness of our atheism, we know that Death is the undefeatable enemy. There's an African proverb that says a rich man's money cannot buy him another sunrise. There's an ancient European proverb that says shrouds have no pockets. Can't take it with you. Now from Asia, they say gold cannot thrive the grave. We know that our efforts in this life cannot save us. from the great equalizer of death. Penguin Man knows that. Yet what do we do? We keep trying. Google is dropping a gazillion dollars trying to find immortality. The most po one of the most powerful, one of the wealthiest corporations on the planet, that people are hoping can Google. That it will figure out how to rob the grave, that it will figure out how to circumvent this mechanism of aging and death, and then we'll extend our lives perhaps in perpetuity. But it will not. For even if your body does not break down and fail, You still run the risk of being hit by a car, getting a disease, and dying. Google cannot conquer death. Your hope cannot be in the strength of man. Because death finds all men. And again, while these chapters are to and about Egypt, they're for us, that we must learn the lesson that Pharaoh learned the hard way. that we will face the grave. Ezekiel doesn't want his listeners to trust in Egypt. He doesn't want his listeners, his audience to to cling to the strength of man. Rather, he wants them to trust in God. He wants for them what I want for you and I. Jesus said, I in the resurrection and the life. You know that's a profound statement. A lot of religious leaders have said, follow me, I will show you the way to life. Only Jesus said, I am the life. Google will not save you. The strength of our armies will not protect us. Getting our politics straight will not save us. There is no strength on this earth which can stand against our God. must hope in him. There's a great irony to the Christian faith. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And in our fear we must run to the very one we're afraid of. For if he is that strong and that awesome and that fearsome, then where else will we turn? Where else shall we go? It is only in throwing ourselves on the mercy of the court. And saying, Lord, please forgive me. I'm hoping you will for Jesus' sake. That's the only place where there is strength to withstand the judgment of God. Let's pray. Lord, it is a a fearful thing to face death. about the failures of all human institutions to be constantly disappointed with all that falls and fails on this earth until we're reminded that we have you. And as we run into the arms of Jesus, as we hope in him, as our trust is toward him and in him, we ask that you would give us comfort. That we will still experience the difficulties of this life, but they will not rock our fundamental view of the world. We ask for this great comfort and this great reassurance. We ask it in hand and we ask it through him. Amen