Open your Bibles if you would please to Ezekiel chapter 16. Ezekiel 16. If you're using the Pew Bible, I think it's on page 833. It might be in 834. I didn't look closely. Ezekiel chapter 16. As you're turning there, I want to expound briefly on Ezekiel 15, which was our Old Testament reading earlier. In it, Israel is portrayed as a vine. Now, vines turn out to be utterly worthless except for the fruit they produce. Apart from the grapes that are on the vine, the vine itself has no other value. And Israel, bearing no spiritual fruit, should just be burrowed. According to Ezekiel 15. It really is a start, and it ought to be a terrifying message. It is meant to grab hold of its hearings. I hope it grabs hold of us and warns us. But as shocking, as stark, as difficult as Ezekiel 15 might be, Ezekiel 16 is infinitely hard. It is also intended to shock. And shock it does. Yet it is the Word of God. And so it is the infallible rule for faith and for practice. We must believe what it teaches. And we must live accordingly. So hear now the word of the Almighty from Ezekiel 16. Again, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations, and say, Thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem, Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanite. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite. That passed as an insult back then. And as for your birth, on the day you were born, your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in cludling cloths. No, I pitied you to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you, but you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred on the day that you were born. And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you, in your blood, live. I said to you in your blood, live. I mean you flourished like a plant over the field. And you grew up and became tall and arrived at full adornment Your breasts were foiled, and your hair had grown, yet you were naked and barren. When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love. And I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness. I made my vow to you and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord God, and you became mine. Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil. I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shard you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk. And I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrist and a chain on your neck. And I put a ring on your nose and earrings in your ears and a crown on your head. Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty. For it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord God. And he paused there. This is not historical in any of the usual senses of that word. It is allegory. It is presented as history. The shocking and vivid reality it portrays is spiritual, not geopolitical. Thus Israel's origin is depicted as ignoble. She is born, supposedly, of despised peoples, the Hittites and the Amorites. And she is despised even by them. She was left to die on clothes, unwashed, cord, uncut. She was, in a word, unlocked. Yet God intervened, giving her life. By verses eight and nine, many years have passed, and the blood depicted is almost certainly that of her menstruation, not her birth. She knows not how to tender herself. And no one cares enough to show her she is naked and motherless in a cruel world. It is the most pitiable picture. Yet Yahweh takes pity on her. And Yahweh alone. Yahweh's pity extends beyond merely cleaning her up. He is lavish, making her a princess, covering her with the finest clothes and exquisite jewelry. There are nutrition and skincare plans so that she becomes stunningly beautiful, probably an allusion to the time of David and Solomon in Israel's history. Picking up now again in verse 15. But you trusted in your beauty and played the whore because of your renown and lavished your whorings on any passerby. Your beauty became his. You took some of your garments and made for yourself colorful shrines and on them played the whore. The like has never been nor ever shall be. You also took your beautiful jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I have given you, and made for yourself images of men. And with them played the whore. And you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and my incense before them. Also, my bread that I gave you, I said you would find flour and oil and honey. You set before them for a pleasing aroma. And so it was, declares the Lord God. And you took your sons and your daughters, whom you had borne to me, and these you sacrificed to them to be devour. Were your whorings so small a matter that you slaughtered children and delivered them as an offering by fire to them? And all your abominations and your horrors, you did not remember the days of your youth when you were naked and bare, wallowing in your blood. And after all your wickedness, woe, woe to you, declares the Lord God. You built yourself a vaulted chamber and made yourself a lofty place in every square. At the head of every street you built your lofty place and made your beauty an abomination, offering yourselves any passer by and multiplying your whoring. You also played the whore with the Egyptians, your lustful neighbors, multiplying your whoring to provoke me to anger. Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you, and diminished your allotted portion, and delivered you to the greed of your enemies, the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior. You played the whore also with the Assyrians because you were not satisfied. Yes, you played the whore with them and you still were not satisfied. You multiplied your whorings also with the trading land of Chaldea, and even with this you were not satisfied. How sick is your heart! declares the Lord God. Because you did all these things, the deeds of a brazen prostitute, building your faulty chamber at the head of every street, and making your lofty place in every square Yet you were not like a prostitute because you were scoring payment. Adulterous wife who receives strangers instead of her husband Men give gifts to all prostitutes, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from every side with your whorings, so you were different from other women in your whorings. No one solicited you to play the whore. You gave payment, while no payment was given to you. Therefore you were different. Israel's blessings became a trap. All the surrounding pagan nations wanted a piece of her, and that attention went to her head. Verses 15 to 22 suggest, at least initially, some spiritual naivete. If I may extend Ezekiel's metaphor, you might look at it this way. In the utter blackness of the anxious night, she was just foolishly intimate with anyone in her religious state. Yet the second portion, verses twenty-three to twenty-nine, show that even when the truth came to light, she was just having too much fun to close the dead flap. Israel plays a spiritual whore. Pointedly, Ezekiel notes that properly speaking, whore gives her too much credit. Horrors at least get paid. Egypt and Assyria used her for their desires and gave her nothing in return. Spiritually speaking, Ezekiel is saying Israel would be what we today Would call us what? Spiritually promiscuous and uncompensated. Picking up in verse 35. Therefore, O prostitute, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, because your lust was poured out and your nakedness uncovered in your hoarings with your lovers, and with all your abominable idols, and because of the blast. blood of your children that you gave to them, therefore, behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you took pleasure. All those you loved and all those you hated, I will gather them against you from every side And will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness And I will judge you as a woman as as as women who commit adultery and shed blood are judged. And bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy. And I will give you into their hands. And they shall throw down your vaulted chamber and break down your lofty places. They shall strip you of your clothes and take your beautiful jewels and leave you naked and bare. They shall bring up a crowd against you, and they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords, and they shall burn your houses and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women. I will make you stop playing the whore And you shall also give payment no more. So I will satisfy my wrath on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be calm and will no more be angry. Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have enraged me with all of these things, therefore, behold, I have returned your deeds upon your head, declares the Lord God. Have you not committed lewdness in addition to your abominations? Behold, everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb about you, like mother, like daughter. a reference to the pagan peoples of which she was born at the beginning of the section. You are the daughter of your mother who loathed her husband and her children And you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite. And your elder sister is Samaria, who lives with her daughters to the north of you. And your younger sister who lived at the south of you is Sodom with her daughters. Not only did you walk in their ways and do according to their abominations, within a very little time you were more corrupt than they in all your ways. As I live, declares the Lord God, your sister Sodom and your daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done. Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom. She and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy. They were haughty and did an abomination before me, so I removed them when I saw it Samaria has not committed half your sins. You have committed more abominations than they, and have made your sisters appear righteous by all the abominations that you have committed. Bear your disgrace, you also, for you have intervened on behalf of your sisters, because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they. They are more in the right than you So be ashamed, you also, and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous. I will restore their fortunes Both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in their midst. That you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done, become a consolation to them As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former state, and you and your daughters shall return to your former state Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in a day of your pride before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become an object of reproach for the daughters of Syria, and all those around her, and for the daughters of the Philistines, those all around who despise you, you bear the penalty of your lewdness. and your abominations declares the Lord. You must keep in mind the symbolic allegorical nature of this. It is not historical. Jerusalem predated Samaria by centuries, and Sodom predated Jerusalem, so that this order of sisters has nothing to do with geopolitical history. and everything to do with the picture he's trying to paint here. It's a tale of sin, not of history After that, the rest of the section is not particularly hard to comprehend. Israel is going to get what it asked for and what it deserves. She will be exposed to the very nations with whom she had previously been a whore. Picking up verse 59, going through the end. For thus says the Lord God, I will deal with you as you have done. You who have despised the oath of breaking the covenant, yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth And I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your elder and your younger. And I give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the Lord. That you may remember and be confounded and never open your mouth again. Because of your shame. But I atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord God. Let's pray. Spirit of God, help us. This is a difficult passage. It is shocking in what it has to say. Help us to move beyond any offense we might find in this text. And help us to hear and heed the warning that Ezekiel was so desperate to communicate to you. people. We ask this because you have told us you want us to know your Lord. So now we progress, we move forward in confidence that you will reveal it to us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I don't think this will be a shock to you, but one does not go to seminary with grand visions of saying these sorts of things from the public. Love? Sure. Forgiveness, you bet. But whore? Menstrual blood? Talking about the breast and nakedness of a young woman, these are not the sorts of things that one imagines preaching. And I would think the same was true for Ezekiel as he was trained to be a priest. For all of the prayers he learned to recite, for all of the glorious rituals he memorized Nothing prepared him to preach this sermon. There's a reason no one hears sermons from Ezekiel 16. And yet it is arguably perhaps the most evangelical chapter in all the book. It really is, in its own shocking way. The gospel according to St. Ezekiel. The good news, the gospel comes clearly right there at the end. In verse 60, I will remember my covenant. with you. Verse 62, I will establish my covenant with you. Verse 63, I will atone for you in all that you have done. For as bleak and difficult as this chapter is, it is with clear and profound hope that at the end of all things God will restore his people. Verse 53 expounds on that in a most bizarre and glorious way. Even today, the city of Sodom stands for moral corruption of the uttermost. Yet Ezekiel declares that God will restore that city. It's a shocking literary way of portraying the immense grace of God. It is a bold way of saying that God offers redemption to the very worst of the worst. And so I say to you right now, before we go any further, dear friend, I don't know what you've done. What sins you've committed, what evil you have devised, what you had thought about, what you have actually executed. But through Ezekiel's preaching, I know this. You can be forgiven. You can have the hope that one day you will prosper upon the new earth. For if God can and will redeem can and will redeem Sodom. No one is beyond his reach. The hope of the gospel, which was born at Christmas, truly extends even to the vilest sinner. It is hard for us to imagine this. But even if someone like Hitler or Mao had repented and believed in Jesus, this hope would be theirs. Now that conclusion begs this question. Why all the awkward and uncomfortable imagery over the first 75% of the chapter? If the story is the restoration even of the worst of humanity, if the outcome is the glorious renewal even of any person, why not just say so? And skip all that other stuff. The answer is relatively simple. For while the gospel is the good news of restoration and renewal offered to all people, It is not realized by every person. While every sin can be forgiven, not every sin will be forgiven. And the divide between those two is not arbitrary. It turns on the question of repentance. Amos and Isaiah called for repentance. Peter at Pentecost, John and Solomon in Portico, Philip in Samaria, and Paul in Athens all called for repentance. And Mark tells us Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God, saying the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the good news. Across all the pages of Scripture, repentance is part and parcel with salvation. And Ezekiel is no exception. Look back at verse 52. Be ashamed, you also, and bear your disgrace. Look at verses 53 and 54. They're shockingly explicit on this matter. I will restore your fortunes in their midst, that you may bear your disgrace and be ashamed of all that you have done. There's a call here to shame and disgrace. But what are shame and disgrace? They are admissions of wrongdoing. They're an acknowledgement of guilt. And what is it to acknowledge guilt except repentance? Admitting that one was wrong and turning to God. So why is this the case? Why is repentance a necessary step in salvation? Is it not possible that God could simply save those, even those who refuse to repent? Yes, but only if God had no respect for man's will. Let me say that again. That's not something we hear in a perfection church very often. For God to save unrepentant men, he would have to ignore their free will You see, it would be like Mr. Incredible with that opening scene. God might get sued for saving the life of the jumper who didn't want to be saved. You see, heaven will not be filled with men and women who didn't want to be there. For all of the heat that Calvinism takes. It maintains that the enemies of God are his enemies of their own free will. There will be none in hell who wanted to love Jesus, and none in heaven who were dragged there kicking and screaming against their will. And so only the penitent will be saved, for only they were willing to accept what God offers. Repentance is a necessary part of the process of salvation. Now this brief brief discussion of repentance So far, it feels like humility. And it is. But Ezekiel 15 and 16 don't really feel like humility, they feel like humiliation. What is described in there is not Israel being humble, but God humiliating them. There is a difference. And the difference is critical and it's important. Humility is the proper recognition of our rightful standing. Humility is the proper recognition of our rightful standing. Humiliation is what comes when we don't. Humiliation flows out of our failure to recognize our proper standing. Our son Caleb tells the amusing story. He was, I think he was 19, he was a corporal. He was at a black tie dinner at the American Embassy in Kuwait. I may not be getting every detail right, but the essence is here. Black tie dinner, the emb the American embassy in Kuwait City. That's kind of heavy stuff for a 19-year-old, right? And a civilian, maybe in his mid-sixties, sat down next to Caleb and over dinner began to ask Caleb about his ribbons and about his army experience. Now Caleb had been doing very well in the army and loved it and was very excited and he's still doing well in the army. I didn't mean to apply it otherwise Um, Caleb Azure was very well in the army and he was excited to talk about his 18 months he had spent serving his country. Caleb was genuinely successful and the man genuinely listened until the moment came when he had to excuse himself from the table. You see, he needed to get ready. To go on stage as the keynote speaker, a retired four-star general and commander of CETCOM. Caleb felt pretty silly at that point, talking about his army experiences. But he was silly, not humiliating. The difference is this. Imagine that Caleb had berated the Army's failure to see in him his grand leadership skills. Imagine if he had said to that man, I should be the chief of staff of the U. S. Army. That would have been humiliating. That's exactly what the unrepentants do toward God. They imagine that they could run the universe better than he does. They say things like this: what kind of God sends people to hell? As if they would know better. What kind of God would say that Jesus is the only way to be saved, as if they had more wisdom on this front? Every such statement is a fist in the face of God. Now in this life, not every braggart meets with his saluppas. Not every Leroy Brown, you remember, the baddest man in the whole day town. Not every one of them hits on the wife of a jealous man and gets what he deserves. Nor does everyone who tugs on Superman's cape eventually mess around with Slim. Sometimes in this life, the Bangalore is die still thinking they're all that Not so much when the immortal one is involved. Every man, woman, and child is on a collision course with the Almighty. One day we will all stand before him. Now the one who refused to repent, who refused to turn to God, who shook his face in the uh fist in the face of God, refusing to admit that God is in fact God. What can he expect on that day? Do we imagine the Almighty is going to say, oh, no problem? You were right all along, Jesus wasn't the only way, just one of many. I just found one welcome, let's be bowed. That would be the humiliation of God. That was wrong all along. In any such confrontation, either one humbles himself. Or one of them is humility. Ezekiel knows this, and it's why he preaches this chapter. Imagine if I talked smack and then I got in the ring and stood toe-to-toe with, I don't know, Canelo Alvarez or Tyson Fury. For that matter, it could be the 473rd ranked female Federalist. If I get in the ring and I don't back down, I'm going to be humiliated and maybe killed. And if you care at all about me, you're going to do whatever it takes to get my attention. You're going to yell things while I'm headed to that ring. You're going to pick whatever imagery, whatever picture, whatever example, whatever illustration you can possibly think of to grab my attention. And you're not going to worry about how nice it is or how polite it is. Because you're trying to save my life. And no one would question your method. Like an old-fashioned Hellfire and Brimstone sermon, the shock value of Ezekiel 15 and especially Ezekiel 16 is for our salvation. It is for the instilling of the fear of the Lord, for the preservation of those who would humble themselves rather than be humiliated. It is the gospel Wherein those who humble themselves before God and trust in His mercy find the hope of the restoration and reconciliation, which this chapter concludes. Ezekiel 16 is profoundly evangelical. That gospel set forth in Ezekiel 16 finds its fulfillment in Jesus of Nazareth. Who, in order to be our righteousness, had to walk the path which was required of us. He had to be humble before God. And in order to bear the penalty for our sin, Jesus had to suffer the humiliation we deserved. And to uphold God's perfect justice, he had to bear the full weight of God's wrath. Now there is only one who can bear the full weight of God's wrath, and that is God Himself. Hence the God man, hence Christmas, hence the incarnation. That he, God the Son, became one of us to walk the life that we were supposed to walk, yet retained his deity so that he could bear under the wrath of God on our behalf. Hence Christmas, wherein the Son, being in very nature God, did not preserve equality with God, something could be grasped, but made himself nothing. the beginning of the humiliation of the Christ. Taking the very nature of a servant being made in human likeness and being found in appearance of the man, he humbled himself. That's the humility required of humanity. How does that play out? He became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Again, the humiliation. Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. On that day and for the rest of eternity everyone will acknowledge who Jesus is. Those who by his grace humble themselves in this life will do so with joyous praises to the glory of his grace. Those who do not do so until the next life will forever declare the glory of his justice. But we will all praise him for who he is. Those who humble themselves, who repent, who admit their sin, and seek refuge in the blood of Jesus. Will be lifted up, James 4 says. They will be exalted, according to Matthew 23 and 1 Peter 5. And that's the goal of Ezekiel 16. That God's people would avoid humiliation. by being humble. It's easy to imagine that he was influenced by the prophet Micah, who preached a century and a half earlier. What did Micah say? What does God require of you, O man, but to do kindness and to love justice and to walk humbly with your God? Lord, by your grace we need humility. We do not want to experience the humiliation that awaited Israel. We do not want to be so stiff-necked, so proud, so full of ourselves that we cannot admit that you are in fact God and that we owe you obedience. And so we thank you that Jesus did this in our place. That He came to this earth and obeyed. He humbled himself even to the humiliation of death on a cross. So that in him we find not only the righteousness to which we are obligated, but also the debt and the payment that covers our sin. And we humbly admit that we cannot find these things apart from him. And that our hope is fully in his work, in his life, in his death, in his resurrection, his ascension, his ruling power over all things. And we await the day that He comes back, restores and revives and renews us, and is our King on this earth forevermore. We pray this in him. Amen.