Please open your Bibles to Ezekiel 45. We're going to be reading portions of chapters 45 and 46. Ezekiel 45, it's on page 870 if you're using that pew Bible in front of you. We are coming very near the end of Ezekiel, and as we do so, we see that he continues to describe this lengthy vision that he received. of Israel reconstituted under God's direct rule. He is in essence seeing a theocracy, God ruling. But he is seeing it as an apocalyptic vision. And so we understand this not to be describing some literal time in his future or ours, but rather to be illustrating after a fashion Kind of the essence of God living among us. He's describing the theological realities, if you will, of Emmanuel. Of God being among us, but this time no longer veiled in the flesh of Jesus. That theological symbolic vision begin back in chapter uh 40 and 41, 42, 43, with a fairly detailed description of the temple um of a new temple, one that was never built and according to John's uh vision of Revelation will never be built. Again, it was a symbolic vision of what this would look like. We saw that that temple, had it been built, would have been, for lack of a better term, a labyrinth of holiness. That it's the description of all the barriers and all the gates and all the steps and all the passageways were just a reminder that God is walled off. from a sinful people, and that he must be approached with great care. We saw two weeks ago in chapter 45 kind of Ezekiel's vision of the ideal priesthood. of those who would minister before God in true righteousness. And we saw that even the idealized priest of his vision needed the righteousness of Christ to make that a reality. It was like the temple a reminder that God is not approached casually or lightly. This morning we will see the new ritual, those the description of the idealized religion. And again, we'll find in it not some literal, not some formula for some literal future exercise of religion, but rather the theological elements of what is key to our faith and for the eternity to come as we worship God. So I'll begin at 45. 1 and I'll move along with some comment to select verses. This is the Word of God, and as such, it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So if we want to understand how to worship God rightly, you must understand His Word. So hear it with me now. When you allot the land as an inheritance, this is the God speaking to Ezekiel through the angel guide that he had. When you allot the land as an inheritance, you shall set apart for the Lord a portion of the land as a holy district. And the six verses that follow kind of describe in some detail the size and the shape of that uh uh temple district. So we saw the temple in it with its wall portion. What we find out here is that there's a great deal of land outside of those walls that are set apart. for God. Picking up in verse 7. And to the prince shall belong the land on both sides of the holy district. and the property of the city, alongside the Holy District and the property of the city, on the west and on the east, corresponding in length to one of the tribal portions. and extending from the western to the eastern boundary of the land, it is to be his property in Israel And my princes shall no more oppress my people, and they shall let the house of Israel have the land according to their tribes Thus says the Lord God, Enough, O princes of Israel, put away violence and oppression, and execute justice and righteousness. Cease your evictions of my people, declares the Lord. We briefly considered the role of human government a couple of weeks back when we were introduced to the priest. We will take a little closer look as we continue later today in the sermon. Picking up in verse 13, we get into kind of the heart of this week's passage. This is the offering that you shall make. One sixth of an etha from each homer of wheat, and one sixth of an ether from each homer of barley. And as the fixed portion of oil measured in baths, one tenth of a bath from each core, and one sheep from every flock of two hundred From the watering places of Israel for grain offering, burnt offering, and peace offerings, to make atonement for them, declares the Lord God. All the people of the land shall be obliged to give this offering to the prince in Israel. It shall be the prince's duty to furnish the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and drink offerings at the feast. the new moons and the Sabbath, all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall provide the sin offerings, grain offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings to make atonement on behalf of the house of Israel. Now much of the remainder of these two chapters is going to be similar to this in that it's going to outline a great amount a tremendous amount of detail with regard to these various sacrifices and offerings. And we're not going to read every bit of this. That portion we've read there kind of suffices to give the flavor of it. And so we're going to pick up now. In verse 18. Thus says the Lord God, In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a bull from the herd without blemish and purify the sanctuary. The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering, and put it on the doorpost of the temple, the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the post of the gate of the inner court. Verse 20, there's some confusion about how it should read. There's two different versions of the Old Testament. The Septuagint, the Greek, the pre-Christian Greek version of the Old Testament. probably captures the better reading. It says you shall do the same on the first day of the seventh month, six months later, for anyone who has sinned through error or ignorance. So you shall make a point- uh atonement for the temple. We pick up now in uh verse 21. In the first month, on the 14th day of the month, you shall celebrate the feast of the Passover, and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten. In chapter 46, we see even more details about the festivals and the sacrifices. The first eight verses kind of detail how the prince is to lead the people, and we're going to come back to those in a few minutes here. He's going to lead them into worship on each Sabbath day and on every new moon. And there's details there about the sacrifices that should be made. Now we pick up in 46, 9. When the people of the land come before the Lord at the appointed feast, he who enters by the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate And he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate. No one shall return the way of the gate, shall return by way of the gate by which he entered, but each shall go straight ahead This is an interesting sentence. This idea that God would prescribe how the people walk through the temple It is these sorts of things that we find instructive as we consider how we organize our worship, how we create order in our worship services. We find here a model for that. God does not want chaos in his presence. The focus is not to be If the people are bumping into each other and they're banging into each other and they can't figure out how to get back out of the temple because the crowds are going this way and that, that becomes the discussion point over the roast beef dinner that afternoon. Right? Instead, it's to be about the worship. It's to be about the Lord. These, the orderliness of their worship was so that the disorder didn't distract from the worship. And we see that example set before them here. Uh we're going to take a little sampling of some of the verses that follow. So verse 11. Um at the feast and the appointed festivals, the grain offering with a young bull shall be uh Shall be an uh ethaf, and with a ram an ethaf, and with the lambs as much as one is able to give. Verse thirteen. You shall provide a lamb, a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering to the Lord daily. And that also is going to be accompanied by grain offerings. And picking up in verse 19 of 46. Then he brought me through the entrance, which was at the side of the gate. to the north row of the holy chambers for the priests, and behold, a place was there at the extreme western end of them. And he said to me, This is note this. This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall make the grain of bake the grain offering in order not to bring them out into the outer court. And so transmit holiness to the people. What an interesting sense. That holiness should not be transmitted to us. We'll consider that more in a moment. Let's now pray and ask God's help in understanding all of this Lord, chapters like this are just steeped in mystery. We don't live in that time, in that place. We're not accustomed to the sorts of sacrifices that were required. We find this sort of ritual bewildering. And it is tempting to read through these passages quickly. And to dismiss them as nothing more than something that was for them and really not for us. Yet, Lord, we do recognize that all of your word was preserved for us. And so we ask your help that we would understand it rightly, that we would that that I would interpret it and apply it correctly, and that all of us would receive it as authoritative in our lives. And we pray this in Christ's name and for his glory. Amen. All right, begin with me if you would please in verse 18, back up in chapter 45. There are six verses there describing the temple, sorry, the first six verses there are describing the temple district, the land upon which the building was to be constructed. And then it's followed in 7 through 17 by commands to the prince. And like I said, we'll consider those more closely in a moment. Oops, went turned the wrong direction, sorry. But in verse 18, we find Ezekiel has entered into the the Temple Court, as you will, within the walls, the temple complex proper. So he's moved from that district of Lanset aside and into the uh a complex proper, and the first thing he's told is really interesting. You shall take a bull from uh from the herd without blemish, and purify yourself so that you can be here The people? No. Purify the sanctuary. That's a really interesting thing. That as he begins to enter into this symbolic place of worship, the first thing he's told, and the first thing he conveys to his readers is that of the necessity of purifying the temple. Now that ought to bewilder us a little bit. For what is the temple? It is the place of God's residence upon the earth among his people. It is the meeting place of God with man And one would imagine that by virtue of God being there, it would be pure. It would be holy. It would already be ready. So why is it necessary to sanctify the sanctuary? To set it apart with this ceremonial cleanness, purification. And the simple answer is because it is the place where God meets with us. It's not simply the place where God resides. If it were merely God's presence there, Then it would in fact be an absolutely pure place. But we are sinners Even the redeemed of the Lord, even those of us who are in the family of God, even those of us who have the righteousness of Christ upon us, continue to be sinners. Who continue to need the cleansing of Christ as a routine part of our lives. We find Jesus teaching this, correct? When he washes his disciples' feet. They say, well, no, you shouldn't be washing our feet, we should be washing yours. And he says, if I don't wash you, then you have no part of me. And of course, Peter, being the mouth that he was, says, Well, then wash all of me. And Jesus says, you have been washed. But walking in this life continues to dirty you. And so I wash your feet. We see here that same idea, that by virtue of us coming into the temple, we bring with us our impurity. That there has to be this ceremonial cleansing. And it's not that we are going to defile God. That's not the picture here. That's not even possible. But rather it is just this visual reminder. Remember, all of this is an illustration. This never did become a reality. This temple vision never was instituted or built on the earth, and my understanding of eschatology never will be. But rather it was meant to convey what was going on when we worship God. And so we see here this cleansing of the temple is this idea that Our presence, when we come into the presence of God, our presence there needs to be atoned for. By the way, it is where the misunderstanding of some churches will refer to the front of their sanctuary as an altar. They they take this and they misapply it in the sense that there continues to be a sacrifice. We are going to find out otherwise. We understand that's not quite how it works, but they do have a key understanding there That we cannot just stroll casually into God's presence. And our passage closes with a similar point It's almost like holiness bookends on this section. If you go to 4620, this is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the grain offering in order not to bring them out into the outer court and so transmit. holiness to the people. You see, if a bowl in the sanctuary was find to found to have an imperfection in it, this golden bowl has a crack. It was destroyed. It could not then be used for common purposes because it had been set apart for the Lord. But it was imperfect and therefore could not be used in the service of his house. And so it was destroyed. If the bronze labor had been made with perfection, the bronze was completely pure, and the craftsman had exceptional skill But it was not properly blessed before being brought into the sanctuary. It had to be destroyed. The objects in the house of God, in the temple, had to be perfect in themselves, but they also had to be ceremonially Perfected, ceremonially sanctified, sanctuarified, made ready for the service of God. That's why this statement is here If the holiness of God were to inadvertently accidentally come in contact with one of us while we were in that temple, we would have to be destroyed. We would have to be killed. For we had not, we were not perfect in and of ourselves, nor had we been ceremonially prepared to deal with these things. Again, not a reality, a picture of the theological issues at play here. That we cannot come in contact with the holiness of God apart from some preparation. Some atonement for our sin, some blessing upon us that readies us. So the first thing we see in this vision of the new ritual, this new religious practice that Ezekiel is imagining in a perfected state, is that there is a An emphasis upon the purity of the place and of the people who enter that place. Now we continue, the next thing to note. And this would easily escape our reading. If we were reading this, I've made the comment before to you as we've been going through the series. Ezekiel is a book that's much easier to study than it is to read. When you simply read it, things like what comes next can be easily missed, for we are not ancient Jews. Some of the details of their worship are just lost on us But the next thing we note in this passage is the reordering of the calendar, kind of the retooling of the festivals. There were three great festivals in the life of a Palestinian Jew back in the day. There was the Passover, the Pentecost. And the tabernacles, sometimes called the Feast of Tabernacles, sometimes called the Feast of Booze, sometimes called the Feast of Tents, sometimes just called the F All four of those are the same festival. Passover in the spring, uh, tabernacles in the fall, Pentecost coming in early summer Those were the festival. Pentecost is left out. Ezekiel doesn't say anything against it, but Ezekiel likes his symmetry. We've seen this before in the description of the temple, how it's perfectly symmetrical. And he has applied that same vision of symmetry to the feast of God. And so he pictures a feast of Passover on the first day of the first month And for continuing for seven days, and any picture of the feast, by the way, their first month would be our roughly our April. And then the first day of the seventh month, roughly our September or October. And that's the Feast of Booze, and those are and each of these in his view becomes sacrifice focused. Okay, now there'd always been a sacrificial element to the Passover, but the Feast of Tabernacles had largely been a harvest festival. Through most of Jewish history, through most of Israel's history, tabernacles was equivalent to our thanksgiving, a time to praise God for his provision. He now sees it as being also accompanied by a significant sacrifice. He is envisioning a world in which On a semi-annual basis, the people of God will offer sacrifices for the atonement of them as a group. And again, it's this rhythm, this life, this pattern of being constantly reminded of our sin and of God's holiness through these constant sacrifices. And I don't know that Ezekiel necessarily wants to take the celebratory element out of tabernacles, but he for sure wants to interject into it a sense of reverence. Celebration in light of what God has done. Now look at me in verse chapter 46, verse 1. I don't think we read this earlier, but we're going to go back now and kind of look at it more closely. Thus says the Lord Yahweh, the gate of the inner court that faces east. shall be shut on the six working days, but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall be opened. You'll recall that the outer gate that faced east was permanently shut, for that is the path that the Lord took when he entered the temple. But this is the inner gate. That faces east. It's shut for six days. But on the Sabbath, on that day of worship, the g those who were gathered in the outer court could see through that gate. You may recall, see through that gate to the altar, and beyond it to the door of the temple proper. They could see in past sacrifice to the presence of God. And it was to be open for that vision on the Sabbath of each week. And on the new moon. That would be the first day of their lunar month. That was also to be a day of worship. And so what we see here is something really interesting. There's this pattern, six days of work. And a day of worship. Six days of work and a day of worship. Six days of work and a day of worship. It is to be the heartbeat of the people of God. That constant thum thump, th thump, th-thump, th thump, work work, worship, work, work, worship. This was to be the pattern of the people. This was to be the the the framework around which their lives were centered. But it was to be an interrupted framework. You see, the new moon would not fall within that pattern Every seventh day was to be a Sabbath, but that adds up to 28 days. The lunar calendar is either 29 or 30 days, depending on the phase, how the phase of the moon falls And so the the new moon day would move around in the week. Sometimes on a Monday, sometimes on a Thursday, sometimes it would coincide with a Saturday, Saturday, Sabbath. It would move from time to time. The heartbeat of the people, the pattern of the people, was to be this pattern built around worship. But it was not to become a pattern that was a scale. It was not to become merely a ritual. Rather, the worship of God was to interrupt their lives at other times that did not fit this pattern. There's a lesson right there, is there not? That as important as it is to come to church, as essential as it is to have our lives centered around this pattern of work and rest, work and worship, We must not imagine that that is the only time God ever interposes Himself in our lives. Are you open to the worship of God apart from this hour and a half on Sunday morning? Do you turn your attention to Him When intervals, uh when other things happen and break that interval cycle. From things as simple as a beautiful sunrise, do you appreciate the creator of that sunrise in that moment? For things as frustrating as the loss of a job or just disruption at work that creates no end of aggravation, do you stop and recognize that your God is sovereignly in control of those things? Do not give up the pattern, as our Hebrews passage says, do not give up the pattern of meeting together regularly, but don't let that pattern limit. Your view of God. Let the new moons of their cycle intervene in yours and in mine. So we see here, and we then finally we see these semi-annual festivals. So we see this kind of this structure: weekly, monthly, annually. There was going to be these festivals and sacrifices that would be constantly reminding the people of their need for cleansing, of their need for a sacrifice, and of their duty, their call to worship God. So the attention has been given to purifying the sanctuary that was made impure by our presence, ceremonially pure ceremonially pure I was leaving a syllable out of there, sorry. Ceremonially purified. Um and then and then also now this cycle of this w rest and worship that was to keep the people in constant contact with their God. There are two more matters that are of some symbolic weight in this passage. The first of those is the prince Mentioned only briefly a couple of weeks ago in that first passage, he now takes on a more prominent role here in this passage. And his role is twofold, and these two parts of his role kind of are intertwined with each other. They're connected to each other. We see, first of all, the description of his governance. If you read through this passage, there's a great deal of stress put on his justice. That he is not to oppress the people, that he is not to steal their lands from them, that he is not to uh burden them unjustly or inappropriately, that he is to be a good governor a good uh uh superintendent of the people of God. And it's interesting, one of the things that Ezekiel, and we didn't read this, one of the things that Ezekiel chooses to bring out in this passage is the prince's role in setting uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh upright weights and measures. It's an interesting thing to be reading through and to see that and kind of go, okay But it matters. The daily life of the people was commerce. They go to the market. They didn't have refrigerators. They go to the market every day. They'd have to go to the market and they'd have to buy whatever. That was weighed out. And if the weights and measures aren't just, if they aren't right, if they aren't true, then people are constantly being ripped off. In other words, in the everyday details of their lives. The government was to uphold justice. That the government God put over his people was to be one of purity even in the smallest daily activities. And then closely related to that, kind of the complement of it, is the prince's other duty. He is to bring the sacrifices on behalf of of the people. The people are to bring their tithes and offerings to the prince. He's to accumulate them, and then he's to turn around and make sacrifices to God on behalf of all the people. It's as if he's to uphold righteousness, as if he's the picture is one of a governance that upholds righteousness positively and then accounts for unrighteousness. practically and purposefully, through sacrifice, fostering what is right, accommodating the fact that we will never live up to it. Uh uh it's really interesting the the picture that's set uh before us here is this priest, we've got to keep straight, the priest is to bring the offering I'm sorry. The prince is to bring the offering. He's not to actually make the sacrifice. He doesn't become a priest. Rather, he is the lead worshiper He brings the offering on behalf of all the people. And then the priest would take it from him, sacrifice it, spread its blood as necessary, do all the blessings that were necessary as a part of it. We see here not a the government taking to itself the right of religion, but rather the government fostering religion among its people. So the sanctuary must be purified against human contamination and done so through sacrifice. The rhythm of the week, the month, and the year were to be dominated by worship, and all of those accompanied by sacrifice. And including the daily sacrifice that we read of briefly. And thirdly, the prince was to protect the purity of the people through sacrifice and make atonement for their impurity. And that really brings us to our final element of this vision, of this portion of Ezekiel's vision, the prominence of sacrifice. When you read through these two chapters, sacrifice is on each page in practically every verse, and it really jumps out at us. And it would be easy. If you look at you see the sacrifices for the sanctuary in 45, 18, 19, and 20, the sacrifices for the festivals in 22 through 25, the sacrifices for the prince and the people in 46, 13 through 15. And it would be easy for those of us who are living some 2600 years later, who are removed from Ezekiel in the world in which he lived, it would be easy for us to miss the significance of this. You see, we might think this way. Well, it's just the Old Testament. Sacrifice is what they did, it's how they worshiped. It's just the way it was. That's where their salvation was, was in the sacrifice. But that assessment does not take into account the reality of Ezekiel, his time and his place. Let's look more closely. The timing of Ezekiel's final vision, which began back in chapter 40, is really quite striking. In fact, he tells us back in chapter 40, verse 1 When this vision began. And it can't be a mere coincidence. So, first of all, Ezekiel has told us this vision is occurring exactly 14 years almost to the day Since the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. Now remember, he's in Babylon with the exiles out there. But the temple back in Jerusalem was destroyed almost exactly 14 years earlier. Why does that matter? Well, we got to think like an ancient Palestinian Jew. There was an entire generation of young men and women who were becoming adults. Fourteen, they were becoming adults, and they had never seen the temple. The temple was for them something merely of folklore Something their grandparents told them about. Now, do we imagine that they were not worshiping? Do we imagine that there was no worship among that new generation of up-and-coming adults? But more than that, it's 25 years since the exile began. Ezekiel and those with him have been removed for half a lifetime From Jerusalem and its worship. And again, do we imagine that there was no worship happening among the exiles in Babylon? We've met Ezekiel well enough now. We know Ezekiel well enough to know that he cares about spiritual things. He cares about the glory of God and its honor among the people of God. It's impossible to imagine that because there was no temple among these people, there was no worship among these people. And in fact, we're almost certain that this is where the synagogue system arose was in this time in this place, probably under Ezekiel's oversight. And it is the synagogue Where the Word of God was read and hymns were sung and sermons were preached. Sound familiar? It is the synagogue that was the foundation for the New Testament worship, not the temple. Oh, the New Testament writers allude to the temple and they use things from the temple, but it is the synagogue which was the root of the spiritual worship of the New Testament church. And that's what was going on here. So if we imagine that Ezekiel is describing these sacrifices in great detail because he's just steeped in sacrifice, he's not. This is not the world he lived in. And add to that this fact. Ezekiel is a man of the Word of God. He is steeped in the Bible that came before him. And twelve times Before the day of Ezekiel, I'm not counting all those who come after him. Twelve times in the scriptures, before the day of Ezekiel, we are told that sacrifices were not the heart of worship. The most notable of those is our new our Old Testament reading from Micah chapter 6. Shall I multiply offerings? Is that what God wants of me? Does He want me to just keep keeping up more and more slaughter? And what does the prophet Micah conclude? No. That's not what God wants. God wants my heart to be focused on Him, to be toward Him, to be in obedience to Him. Some 250 years before Micah's about 150 years before Ezekiel. Some 250 years before Micah, what do we have with King David when he uh turns back to God in repentance? What does David say in Psalm 51? You do not delight in sacrifice. The sacrifices of God are a broken and contrite heart. And some 400 years before David, did the sacrifice of the Passover bring about the Exodus? Were the people saved because they slaughtered that lamb? And the answer, of course, is no. God was freeing them from Egypt, He was saving them, and the Passover was established as a commemoration of these things. If we are not careful, we could read the Old Testament scriptures as those sacrificed safe. But it never did. The slaughter of the animals at the temple was never the means of salvation, even under the previous administration of God's covenant of grace. So what's going on here? Let's revisit what we just commented on a moment ago. That the Passover was established to look back. And forward. That's what we find in the sacrifices that Ezekiel is detailing here. It's the same thing we find in our sacrament at the table here Something that looks back to what has been done. It has a historical component. But it also looks forward to what will be done because it has a hope component. We find here that we remember Christ's death until he comes. Our sacrament stands in a parallel place to their sacrifice. That it looks back to what God has done and forward to what He would do. Why is that? Why is it that there's this retroactive and forward-looking aspect to our sacraments and to their sacrifices? It's easy to lose sight of that because so much of contemporary American Christianity is here and now focused. And to some degree that's understandable. We Americans have it pretty good in this life And as a result of having it pretty good, we don't always imagine that it might be better. That there might be a world where things would be even more perfect Jesus warned his followers not to focus on the here and now. In fact, he warns his followers that by virtue of following him, you will have troubles. If they hated me, they're going to hate you. If you follow me, you're going to have trials in this life. There are going to be difficulties precisely because you are a Christian. Friday night, we went to a concert. It was my Christmas gift from Drew and Mary Beth. And the four of us went to this concert. And the the first group, the first, the the the what do you call it, the opening act. was very much this element in his music of how Jesus is the solution for whatever ails you now. For whatever is difficult now, he's going to fix it. And certainly there is a component of comfort we find in the present tense with Jesus. But I really appreciated the main act. For largely their music looked back to the glory of God and what he has accomplished and how he has behaved in the past and why we should uphold him for those reasons. And it looked forward. One of their songs was very uh blatant. There's coming a judgment, and the only hope you have is to have faith in Jesus. Those are the ways that they treated their songs. That second group better captures the sense of these sacrifices and these sacraments. If we imagine, if we tell ourselves and everyone else that Jesus is the answer for the here and now of everything that is difficult in your life then we inevitably are going to have some difficulty and be a little frustrated that isn't taken care of. Sooner or later our spouse is going to hurt our feelings. Sooner or later our job is going to go south. Sooner or later our children and parents are going to disappoint us. Sooner or later our church is going to let us down. Sooner or later your pastor is going to forget to wish you Happy Mother's Day That was actually not in the sermon notes, but you know, as it happened, I could add it. This life will always disappoint. The sacrificial system was inherently, by design, hollow. It did point back to the salvation of God. Passover did look back to God freeing them from Egypt. It did point back to his past Salvation. But it did not say, in this sacrifice you now have salvation. That was never the teaching. It was always to be a bit empty. To create longing, to create forward looking, to create a desire for the fulfillment of the promise that was attached. To the sacrifice. We have that same element of our worship, that there is this promise attached to our sacrament. That there will come a day when Christ will return, when the promise of the life that we think He's offering us now will actually become a reality on this earth for all of eternity. We live with a forward-looking set of eyes even as we rest on the past. And that was the function of the sacrificial Ezekiel is not teaching salvation by sacrifice. Ezekiel has already railed against empty ritual. He is teaching ritual not for its salvific effect. But so that it'll constantly point us to the one who really does save. This is the reminder we have every week at this table. That if you are hoping in the table, if you think your participation at the table is the thing that matters, you're missing the point. It's the one to whom the table points. That's who saves us. That's where our hope is found. It's in his death, it's upon his death that we are built, and in the hope of his return that we are energized and motivated. It is in Christ, not the things that point to him, that our salvation is found.