So we are this morning in Ezekiel chapter 36. Ezekiel 36, I encourage you to turn there in your Bibles. And I forgot to note what page it's on, but it's in the bulletin if you're using the Pew Bible. You can find it that way. Ezekiel chapter 36 will begin here in a moment in verse 16. This is the Word of God, and as such, it is infallible. which means it has no errors. And it is authoritative, which means we must obey it. And so I remind us often that we find in the Word of God the rule for faith and for practice what we ought to believe and how we are to live. Let's together now hear the Word of God, beginning in Ezekiel 36, verse 16. The word of the Lord came to me, son of man. When the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman and her menstrual impurity. So I poured out my wrath upon them for the blood that they had shed in the land, for the idols with which they had defiled it I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries. In accordance with their ways and their deeds, I judged them. But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, and that people said of them, These are the people of Yahweh, and yet they had to go out of his land. But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Master Yahweh, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act. But for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am Yahweh, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncle unclean cleannesses. And from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people. And I will be your God. And I will deliver you from all your uncleannesses. And I will summon the grain and make it abundant, and lay no famine upon you I will make the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations. Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good. And you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations. It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord God. Let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord God, On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt. And the land that was desolate shall be tilled instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all those who pass by. And they will say, This land that was desolate has become like the Garden of Eden. And the wastes and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited. Then the nations that are left all around you shall know that I am the Lord. I have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted that which was desolate. I am the Lord, I have spoken, and I will do it. Thus says the Lord God, this also will I let the house of Israel ask me to do for them, to increase their people like a flock, like the flock for sacrifices, like the flock at Jerusalem during her appointed feast. So shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of people, then they will know that I am the Lord. Let's pray. Help us to know this morning that you are the Lord, that you have spoken these things and that you will do them. And let it be known to us the reason why And in that let us find great confidence. We ask this in Christ's precious name. Amen. Frankly, both the explanation of this text and the application of this text are perhaps a little more straightforward than much of what we've encountered in the book of Ezekiel. Ezekiel has been a daunting book in many ways But here we find what is a relatively straightforward text. And to be sure there is a key passage in the middle here that talks about the fact that God will give to his people a new heart and a new spirit, a heart of flesh in place of the heart of stone. And to be absolutely clear, many a wonderful sermon has been preached on that. And it is a wonderful passage. But I was struck by that phrase that comes later. We'll come back around to it in a moment. that talks about something else that was to be known among God's people. Where God said through the prophet Ezekiel, let this be known to you. And so this morning I want us to unpack this passage. And learn that lesson. And to see what is there and why it matters and why God puts stress upon it. As we go through this text, the first four verses, 16, 17, 18, and 19, are really pretty straightforward. In them, the prophet merely simply summarizes Frankly, what he articulated over the first 24 chapters of the book. He gives us the reasons behind the exile. The exile is the fault of the people of God. They have been run off the land precisely because while they were in it, they did not honor the God who gave it to them. They did not honor him in their man-to-man relationships. Verse 18 speaks of the bloodshed. in the land. In other words, this is what sometimes we would refer to as our horizontal relationships, the dimension of our lives that is between one another, brothers and sisters in the Lord. They did not treat those relationships properly. And because they did not honor one another, because we do not honor one another, they did not value one another. And because they did not devalue one another, because they devalued each other's lives, it was easy to be unjust and to be biased. Which is why he was able to just summarize all of that in the word bloodshed. The dishonor of the image of God in our brothers and sisters Leads ultimately to violence of one sort or another. And they did not honor one another because they did not honor God in their relationship to Him. Their idols show not only that they had no regard for each other, but that they had no regard for God. That they would feel free to carve him in whatever way they wanted to carve him, to shape him in whatever way they wanted to shape him Because they did not respect how he revealed himself. They thought they knew better And once you dishonor God, once you create idols and imagine God to be what he is not, when you have dishonored his person in himself, it becomes very easy to dishonor his image in one another. And so their idols led to the bloodshed. And in those two words, bloodshed and idols, Ezekiel summarizes all that he has detailed for 24 chapters. And in verse 20, he shifts his attention to, he looks not so much at what led up to the exile, but what happened during the exile. They profane God's name in the four lands to which they were sent. But it's interesting to notice the nature of this profaning. He does not say it's because they continue to worship idols. He does not say it's because they continue to be violent toward one another. And in fact, there is no evidence that that was the case. The overwhelming evidence from history is that they learned their lesson and they turned from their idols during the exile. So how are they profaning the name of God? Look at verse 20 with me. They profaned the sorry they profaned my holy name in that people said of them. God's name was profaned in the judgments of the pagans. When the pagans looked at what happened to the people of God and drew conclusions from it, that profaned the name of God. It brought disgrace upon Israel's God when the pagan peoples came to all the wrong conclusions based on the exile. And what was that? Still in verse 20, we're going to finish it out this time. They profane my holy name, in that the people said of them, These are the people of Yahweh. And yet they had to go out of his land. So what's going on here? Well, the gods in the ancient Near East. were conceived as regional parochial deities. This god was the god of this land. Baal was the god of Sidon. Kemosh the god of Edom Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Dagon was the god of Philistia. And Yahweh was the god of Israel and Judah. And that link to territory, that link to geography was strong. So strong, in fact, that your God was judged based on how you thrived or did not In that given land. So if your land had famine, your God was weak. If your land was rich, and your crops were plentiful, and your flocks were healthy. Then your God was strong. And so the people of Ezekiel's day are looking at the people of Israel, going, you're not even in your land anymore. What does that say of your God, except that he is no God at all? The name of God is profane because the pagan peoples around them are misinterpreting What's going on? And make no mistake, we still do this today. When People like Joel Osteen or Joyce Myers or a host of others that we could name, when they make millions and millions of dollars. From a prosperity gospel, from a gospel that says, your well-being now is the evidence of God's love for you. And of course, these people I've named did not invent this. It's been around a long time The disciples themselves assumed that God's love was expressed in our wealth. They were stunned. Peter was aghast when Jesus said that it was difficult for a wealthy person to enter the kingdom of heaven. If God doesn't love the rich, then who does he love? And this, of course, is why James had to preach against favoritism. Do not show partiality to the wealthy when they come into your church. What was going on there? Well the rich person comes in, clearly God loves them more, clearly they're nearer to God, and so they ought to sit nearer to God in the best spots. In the by the way, they used to think the front row was best. Just say it. Just say it. Clearly, God loves the wealthy person more. And James said, no, you don't get to make that judgment. You don't get to look at their outward and decide whether or not they are loved by God. But that is the mistake of the ancient people back in Ezekiel's time, back in Judah and ancient Israel. The Jews did not merely experience a famine They didn't merely have a bad harvest. They were completely overrun. The upper echelon of their society taken in chains to faraway Babylon. It's as if they had no God at all to protect them. And that is the assumption being made by the nations around them. These are the people of Yahweh. And yet they had to go out of his land. This really is the scandal of holiness The exile was not a sign of Yahweh's weakness, rather it was a sign of his strength in defending his holiness. God is holy and sin must be admonished, corrected, punished, and finally one day judged. It was for this reason they were in exile, not because their God was weak, but because he was holy. But human beings cannot conceive of that. We cannot wrap our heads around that. We are so acclimated to the sin in which we live that we cannot Imagine a purity that would go to the lengths of driving his own people out of the land And so the very act of God vindicating his holiness obscures for them and for us his omnipotence. That which was a step along the way of revealing the fullness of God's character is misinterpreted as the death knell of his very existence. There must be no God in Israel. Look, his people are now my neighbors. They live right here among us. The scandal of God's holiness continues today. Look, America says. The church is dying. Sunday morning attendance is at an all-time low. There is nothing there. There is no power in her religion, no strength in her God. Christianity might have been a good pacifier for an unscientific time, but that is past, and Christianity is dead. The world today, like the people back then, look at an instant, a moment in time, and not seeing the big picture of redemption. They draw all the wrong conclusions about our God. It is truly the scandal of God's holiness. that the very circumstances wrought by him to remove sin from us are deduced to be evidence that he does not even exist. Now, the point of chastising sin, of punishing it and correcting it so that we might be, so that we might be sorry, the point is so that we might be with a holy God. The whole reason Israel had to go through the exile was so that they could be restored and reunited. To a holy God. And so he also works in his people to redeem and restore them. Look at verse 24. I will bring you back. Whatever wilderness wandering there might be in the church, whatever time of exile into theological craziness. Whatever period of drought we might suffer, all of this is toward a time of redemption and restoration. I will bring you back. In verse 25, I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean. Dirtiness cannot be fixed from dirtiness You cannot get clean dishes with a dish, a dirty dish rag, nor does driving through a mud puddle wash your car. Something, if we are filthy, if we are polluted, if we are corrupt, and to be reunited to a holy God, then there must be a cleanness that comes from outside of ourselves and washes us. And God says, I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean. Salvation is necessarily theocentric, God-centered. It must be. It cannot possibly be salvation otherwise. For we cannot make ourselves clean, and if we are not clean, we cannot be reunited to a holy God. There is no hope of restoration. The hope of eternal life is the hope of God being our God and we being his people upon a new a renewed earth. But if we have to clean ourselves up, then that hope is lost. But God says, I will do it. And true purification from sin has to move from the inside out. Not from the outside in. The symbols and outward trappings of religion are meant to be just that symbols and outward trappings. They are not the things that actually make us clean. Rather, we see in verse 26 how that happens. God says again, notice the pronoun, I, God is the speaker, I will give you a new heart and a new spirit. And again, it is a God-centered, God-driven salvation. We would not expect a liver transplant patient to insert her own liver. Well, spiritually speaking, we cannot fix our own hearts. We cannot do this for ourselves. God must give us the new heart. And in verse 27, that heart is made to be in line with God's word by the Spirit given to us at Pentecost, foretold in Ezekiel, fulfilled in Acts chapter 2. The church has, both collectively and individually, the very Spirit of God living in us, among us, and with us. And it's important that we note how that was said, both collectively and individually We tend in the American Church, we tend to focus on the individual aspect. I have the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit lives in me. That's true. But the pronoun that's here in verse 27, in the original Hebrew, is plural. I will put my spirit within y'all. Or as my friends in Pennsylvania used to say, within all y'all. It's a plural pronoun. It is critical not to miss this. It's a fatal flaw to imagine ourselves to be able to go it alone. You know, just me and the Holy Spirit, that's all it takes. Let me see if I can't illustrate this. Each log in a pit is ablaze. Each log in the pit has the right to say, I am on fire. And yet the fire belongs not to each log, but to them collectively as a whole. And a log taken out of the pit will quickly grow cold and go out and be extinguished. And those left behind will not burn as brightly. The Spirit of God among us is something like that. We each have Him, but He is in us collectively as a part of the church. The only way that we have him individually is if we have him corporately, if we are a part of the body of Christ. We have him, but he is in us, plural. If Israel was the caterpillar and the church is the butterfly, The transformation to the more beautiful occurred at Pentecost when the Spirit of God came and dwelt among us. It's because of the Spirit of God that we have an advantage in our obedience to the Word of God We are not yet perfect. We are far from the fullness of what we are supposed to be. But we walk in a way that the saints before could not. Because of God's presence among us in his spirit. In verse 31 Then you will remember your evil ways and your deeds that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations. Now, this is not saying that that will be the only emotion the redeemed experience Nor does it mean that this is the state in which they will exist forevermore. For in fact, we know that one day he will wipe every tear from their eyes. But repentance, true repentance, true repentance unto life necessarily involves a measure of disdain for one's own sin. Those who love Christ most are those who have most fully faith. their own sin, who have come to grips with it, who have mourned over it, who have grieved their sin. And in fully appreciating their own wickedness, they newly appreciate the profound grace of God in Jesus Christ. Now, Ezekiel goes on. Yes, prosperity. I was ripping on the prosperity gospel a few minutes ago. But make no mistake, prosperity is a part of the gospel. It is part and parcel with redemption. Look at verse 33. On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, and that's key, that right there is incredibly important, and we miss it way too often On the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited and the wasteplaces. shall be rebuilt and the land, continuing in verse 34, that was desolate shall be tilled. You see the flaw of the prosperity gospel is not its prosperity, but its tiny The true gospel does not stand against prosperity. Poverty is not God's goal for us. But all in the time. All things in their proper places. The golden streets, the mansions built for us, the river of life The lion laying down with the lamb, all of the goodness that is promised to the gospel awaits us. In the day we are glorified. When all of our iniquities have been removed, it cannot be otherwise. To be in that perfectly restored place without that, without the fullness of our glorification, without the consummation of our sanctification, then we would simply pollute it and be right back to where we started. The fullness of the restoration of the creation requires the fullness of the restoration of us as perfect beings. Is there a wealth that awaits us in God? Absolutely there is. But it awaits the time of our full restoration to righteousness. are full glorification and purification. This chapter is beautiful In what it has said? A new heart promised by God, sustained by his very spirit within us? That's a wow. That's an amen. That's a sermon unto itself. It's three or four sermons. And many great sermons have been preached on those verses. God redeeming us, bringing us back from the places we were driven, and bringing us back to Himself. That's another wow, another amen, and another series of great sermons. All of this is beautiful. It is the gospel. Yet this chapter, perhaps uniquely in Scripture so far as I know, this chapter offers a different perspective on the gospel than we generally hear. If you ask the average Christian, or at least the average American Christian, because those are the ones with whom I interact, if you ask the average American Christian, why did Jesus die on the cross I guarantee their answer will not be Ezekiel's answer. But we need it to be. There is great value in knowing how Ezekiel answers that question. So let's go back through the text and take a look. We spent some time on verse 20. Now look at verse 21 But I had concern for my holy name. Ezekiel goes on to describe the scope and nature of redemption, and we've just kind of summarized that. But make no mistake. The basis for salvation, the basis for redemption, is God's concern for God. What is the achievement of man? It is to glorify God. What is the achievement of God? It is to glorify God. Now I want to pause here. We have to understand this simple truth. There aren't very many simple truths. Questions like this, questions of why, will almost always have multiple layers of answers. Why is the water boiling in the tea kettle? But uh because there was something in the microwave. Okay, but why is there water boiling at all? Because I didn't want a cold drink. Why did there and you can see how it goes on? I was cold, I have a cold, I you know, whatever the answer there was nothing else, all there was was tea, whatever the answer might be When you ask the question why, by the way, anybody who's ever had a four-year-old in their house knows this, the question why never ends. There's always layers of complexity to it And our New Testament reading affirms the answer most of us give. We're not wrong in that answer. Why did why does God save? Well, out of his love for us, out of his goodness and his loving kindness. But if we have looked at Exodus 2, we'd have found there he saved Israel from Egypt because of the promises he had made to Abraham. If we looked at Galatians and Colossians and Corinthians, we'd find Paul arguing that God is saving humanity so that he might restore everything else to himself. To reconcile all things to himself. And the list of reasons for salvation go on and on and on. But our faith is impoverished if we miss this reason, what Ezekiel gives us here. Verses 22 and 23 are even more emphatic. It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act. Do not think that salvation is because of you or even for you, he tells Israel. It couldn't be clearer. I see that it's not for your sake that I am about to act Verse 23. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name. Why did Jesus die on the cross? Because God loved us. That's a true and correct and accurate answer. Why did Jesus die on the cross? To pay for our sins. Another true and correct and accurate answer. But notice how us-centered those answers are. As are most of our answers to that question. It's always all about us. Try this one on for size. Why did Jesus die on the cross? To save the name of God To save the name of God. To save it from ridicule, from mocking, from being a punchline and a joke. It is for my great name. It is for the holiness of my name that I am acting. How can that be? Well, you see, if nothing is done about sin, then God is not just. If God condemns all mankind, he is just but not merciful. If he lets all mankind into heaven, he's merciful, but not particularly upright or righteous or holy. And you can see the problem. If God is to be fully God, there has to be a way that every aspect of his nature is honored. You see, the problem of sin is a problem for who God is and how he is known to us. This is of course the error of every man-made religion. In those religions, nothing is ever done about sin. And so God's holiness is never acquitted. If you uphold the five pillars of Islam, Allah is satisfied and you enter paradise. But what about your sin? Is never addressed. It's swept under the rug, as if it didn't happen. And Allah is not Our God. For our God is holy, and he will not ignore sin. In Jesus we find the perfect union of God's mercy and justice, his holiness and his loving-kindness, his righteousness and his goodness. All of these attributes of God are met together in Christ Jesus. In his death, sin was punished. It was addressed. It was dealt with. God was upright and just Yet by his substitutionary representative federal headship, it counts for us, who are his by faith. And so God is found to be merciful. Justice and mercy meet in perfect harmony at Christ's death. But it is not his death alone which matters. Jesus' life must also factor in to this equation. So try this one on precise. If not for Jesus of Nazareth, we would say stupid things like to err as human We do say that, don't we? We shouldn't. We really should not. We should not imagine that inherent in being human is the sin. For Jesus of Nazareth proves otherwise. In his humanity He fully kept the law of God. Do not imagine that somehow his deity slipped in and helped him along the way. The Spirit of God living in him, the same Spirit we have residing in us Was absolutely critical to that. But it was necessary for a human to keep the covenant of works and offer salvation po make salvation possible. His deity was a necessity so that he could bear the wrath of God. But it is his humanity which kept the law. Why does that matter? Because it vindicates the holiness of God. For apart from that, we would be inclined to think: well, God is unreasonable. Sinning, making mistakes, that's just part of being human, and God is unreasonable to hold us to that account. Nobody can keep God's law. Nobody can possibly do what he expects. And God is mean and he is overbearing and he demands too much of us. And the name of God is mocked, if not for Jesus' matter. Who lived the life perfectly, who proved that God's standard can be met, that His holiness is a way to live. And it gives us the assurance that we will one day be enabled to do the same. That we will enter into the new earth Able, willing, and ready to live in perfect righteousness for all of the eternity that comes after that. In the death of Jesus, we find the justice and mercy of God beautifully woven together. In the life of Jesus, the holiness of God is vindicated And we see in the salvation of God that his name is redeemed, that his holy name is vindicated and protected You see, after outlining the shape and scope of redemption, as we summarized earlier, God returns to this theocentric reason for redemption, stressing as we saw, it is not for your sake that I will act. Let that verse 32, let that be known to you. Why is it important that we notice? In addition to the answer to the question, you know, why did Jesus die on the cross because of God's love for us? Why did Jesus die on the cross to pay the price for our sins? Why did Jesus die on the cross to vindicate the name of God, to protect the holiness of God, to protect the reputation of God. Why is it important to add that one to our repertoire of answers? Why does God say through Ezekiel, let that be known to you? Because the man-centered, me-centered version of salvation that we so often quote As happy as it sounds at first, as wonderful as it feels to have it be all about us, it inevitably chips away at our confidence. Because we know us. We look in the mirror and go, that can't be worth saving. Or worse yet, we think to ourselves, do I really believe enough? Is my faith really safe enough? And the me-centered version of salvation. becomes a me-centered reason to doubt and to fear and to wonder But the God-centered version of all of this says that there is a God who cares about his reputation. who cares about his name, who will one day bring to fullness all that he has promised, who will bring the church into what it's supposed to be, who will redeem us collectively and individually, restore us to full fellowship with him. enable us to live out the lives we're supposed to live, precisely so that he is no longer mine. On the contrary, for all eternity, all humanity will glorify him. God must redeem and restore the church Or else he will be the laughing stock of the universe. If you cannot rest If you cannot rest in confidence because of the shakiness of your theology Then rest in this simple fact. God will save you. He will save us. He will redeem and restore us. For the glory of his holy name. Let's fright. Lord, this is a wonderful truth. It gives us great confidence, great assurance. That your promises will be fulfilled. Not because I believe enough or I've done enough or I've understood enough, but because you care about your reputation. You love me and so I am incorporated in this. You love us, and so we are incorporated in this. You you uh uh paid the price for our sins so that we could be a part of this, but in the end This is driven by who you are. Your character, your glory, your reputation. That is a wonderful hope. Help us to cling to it in our dark times. Help us to know the joy that it offers. And we offer this up in your great name. Amen.