Open your Bibles, if you would, please, to Ezekiel 22. Ezekiel chapter 22, if you're using that pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 842. Broadly speaking, the prophecies of Ezekiel can be broken into three groups There are those which predict the fall of Jerusalem, those which are against the surrounding nations, and those which offer the hope of restoration. We are coming to the, this is the penultimate sermon in that first set, the prophecies of the fall of Jerusalem. Ezekiel 22, 1 through 4. I'm going to read actually as we do not uncommon in these longer passages. I'm going to read a little bit, make some comments. We're going to transition to some other parts, and I'll give you the verse numbers. You can follow along, and we'll come back and look at some of what we've skipped over in the meat of the sermon. So join me now in reading and kind of scanning over Ezekiel 22 and 23. 1. And the word of the Lord came to me saying And you, son of man, will you judge the bloody city? Then declare to her all her abominations You have become guilty by the blood that you have shed, and defiled by the idols that you have made. You have brought your days near. The appointed time of your years has come. Therefore, I have made you a reproach to the nations and a mockery to all the countries Ezekiel now lists the corruption of the leaders and the priests and the prophets, the violence, the oppression, the profaning of the holy things. And then we skip down to verse 29, and we see that it's not just the leadership. that's at fault. The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have oppressed the poor and needy and have extorted from the sojourner without justice. And I sought for a man among them, who should build up the wall and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none Chapter 23 returns to a metaphor that Ezekiel's used before, that of a of a whorish woman, in this case, sisters. Who prostitute themselves in the pursuit of earthly gain at the expense of spiritual uprightness? Ezekiel 23, we'll pick up in verse 2. Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother. They played the whore in Egypt. They played the whore in their youth. Ohola was Samaria. That was the capital of the northern nation of Israel after the division. And Olibah was Jerusalem, of course the capital of Judah, the southern nation. In verses 5 through 10, the prophet describes in pretty graphic detail the shameful way that Israel and Judah lusted after the military power. of the uh bigger, more powerful nations around them. It was to lure these military powers that they worshipped their gods and adopted their practices Rather than remaining faithful to Yahweh, Israel and Judah did what was necessary to entice the earthly superpowers. We pick up in verse 11. Her sister Oholabah, that is Jerusalem, saw this, and she became more corrupt than her sister in her lust and in her whoring. Which was worse than that of her sister. She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and command. I'm sorry. She lost it after the Assyrians, governors and commanders, warriors clothed in full armor, horsemen riding on horses. That Jerusalem was worse than Assyria might at first throw us, worse than Samaria, might at first throw us a little off Because Jerusalem had a host of good kings throughout her history. Samaria and Israel had none. But what we find alluded to here and explained more fully in the prophet Jeremiah, is the very fact that Samaria, some 150 years earlier, had suffered the consequences of their apostasy, should have been a warning to Jerusalem not to go down that same path. In other words, the one who knows more, more is expected. And Jerusalem should have learned from the others. And yet King Manasseh, uh-uh, uh was a profoundly wicked king a couple generations before Ezekiel. He was responsible almost certainly for the brutal murder of the prophet Isaiah. He was so enamored by the Assyrians and all of their military might that he reversed the religious reforms of his father Hezekiah And he even introduced pagan worship in the Jerusalem temple, the temple of Yahweh. It was a most profound abomination. And it was all because of his lust for Assyria. And that's what Ezekiel is talking about here. Then in verses 13 to 34. Jerusalem's unfaithfulness is again portrayed in these shocking and shameless terms of prostitution, of sexual promiscuity. And described as being much worse even than Samaria's. Much of the omitted verbiage is really very graphic, and it's meant to shock It's meant to cause the listener to sit up and pay attention. And then finally, in verse 35, we see this conclusion to this section. Therefore, thus says the Lord Yahweh, because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, you yourself must bear the consequences of your lewdness. And whoring. Let's pray. Heavenly Father We ask that your hand would be upon us, that our hearts would be softened to receive the warnings that are here in Ezekiel. That we would be enlightened to see how they should be applied to us and to your church, and that we would heed the warnings and learn from their lessons. Not to be like Jerusalem, which ignored the warnings in Samaria, but rather that we would desire always. To be constantly purifying and reforming your church, purifying and reforming ourselves so that your glory might shine through us. We pray this in Christ's name and for his sake. Amen. These two chapters are extremely difficult. If you were to preach in a kind of a cherry-picking manner, pick a favorite text, preach it now and then, pick whatever you wanted to, whatever you were led to preach, you would probably never preach these two chapters. It's one of the reasons that we do mix topical preaching with this lectio continuo, the idea of just going straight through a book, because it forces us to deal with passages like this. These difficult passages, they speak of a time and a place that is just foreign to us. It's unlike anything that we're used to. And so the lessons are obscure and they can be lost pretty easily. And yet we need to wrestle with them and wrestle through them. And if we properly tease out of the text, the lessons, we're going to find them surprisingly applicable So, how do we draw these lessons out? And how do we properly apply them? And the key is this: we must see Israel and her sister nation Judah not as nations. But as the people of God. That is to say that when we read this, we need to read it as though it applies to the church and not to America. Yes, they were nations. But it's as the people of God that they are being addressed. And that's who we are. So if we read this and we think, oh, there are warnings here for Appolis or for DC, we miss the point. We must read this and see how it applies to the church and to me and you as individual members of that church. So this is the church and the image of her in the 6th century B. C. And it is an ugly situation. And we might be tempted to say that, well, Pastor, we are nowhere near as bad as what is described here. And so it doesn't really apply to us. And yet what we find here are symptoms in chapter 22 of a sickness, and the root of the sickness is chapter 23. And when we look at these symptoms individually and begin to think about the principles behind them, we begin to realize that this is always creeping into who we are. These warnings are for us. And so we're going to look at these symptoms, not every verse all the way through, but the big broad concepts. And we're going to see how they might apply to the church So let's go back and consider some of the verses, some of the symptoms of this religious illness, and looking at some of the passages that we omitted earlier. Pick up with me in chapter 22 at verse 6. Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding blood. Bloodshed and violence, Ezekiel says, should not be the hallmarks of the church. And note the connection to power, how it was the princes, those who held the power among the people of God, who were guilty of this. Now some of us will say, hey, Pastor, the church, we have no direct hand in the shedding of blood today. We're not directly involved with that. And I agree. Yet the question becomes, to what degree do we support those who do? Are our favorite politicians Those who are looking for brutal, violent solutions to the problem. Or are those, are our favorite politicians the one looking for a peaceable Way to bring about resolution. To be sure, the Bible does not call us to pacifism But there is a reason that our founding fathers of this nation, many of them steeped in the Bible, did not grant to a single man the power to go to war, but gave it to Congress. So that the decision would be made out of wisdom, would be the counsel of many, not to feed an ego Why do some princes go to war? Because they can. Because they want to show off their might. They want to show off their chariots and their horses and all of their strength. They want to feed their ego. They want to give a sense. Of power. That theme of power is going to come back to us frequently in this passage. And Ezekiel says that should not be the people of God. There should not be bloodshed, or at least that should not be the first place that we turn. It's not just a question of the military. But of our interest in politics in general. Do we advocate, advocate, as a church, do we advocate for peaceable solutions? Or do we rally around those who enforce the law brutally? Where do we stand on the way that the law is enforced? Again, while this is not directly in our hands, we live in a democracy. We hold some accountability for those whom we elect, for those around whom we rally. For those whom we give our vote and our money to. And so we ought not be marked by bloodshed. Violence should not be the hallmark of the politicians that we support. And it should not be the way, the place the church turns. We pick up in verse 7. Father and mother are treated with contempt. The church must not be marked by ill-behaved children. It's a profound thing to see this here You know, it's easy to forget that the first commandment that deals with loving your neighbor is honoring your father and mother. Why? Because the child who grows up with an understanding of authority is going to fit better into society. Is going to be able to submit him or herself to the authority of God, as it is executed by the Word of God, as it is executed by the Church of God. And yes, as it is executed by this which God ordains to be over us. You know, the New Testament stresses that elders and deacons must have well-behaved children. But remember, the characteristics of the elders and deacons aren't unique to them. They are what Christians are supposed to be in general. They are to be exemplars of all of us. Is the church, broadly speaking, marked by well-behaved children who do what they're told, who honor their father and mother, who will listen to authority. And we as the children of God, adults, biologically, are we marked by that? Are we submissive to authority? Continuing in verse 7. The sojourner suffers extortion in your midst. I'll just say this. It kind of makes you wonder, should we really stick the offering plate in front of a visitor? Continuing, the fatherless and the widow are roamed by you We must take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. You have despised, verse 8, you have despised my holy things and profaned my Sabbaths. Two weeks ago we looked at this issue in a little more depth, but here it is again. I would encourage us individually, we need to be praying and studying and reading about this question of how we should honor the Lord's day. It was one of the symptoms of spiritual illness in the ancient church. And I wonder to what degree it expresses our spiritual weakness today. Picking up in verse 10 and 11. In you, among Judah, in you men uncover their father's nakedness. In you they violate women who are unclean to their menstrual impurity One commits abomination with his neighbor's wife, another lewdly defiles his daughter-in-law, another in you violates his sister, his father's daughter. These are just different ways of getting at this question of sexual purity. Is the church attentive to the question of sexual purity. I don't know if data exists for how many men in the church are sleeping with their sisters or daughters-in-law. But a fairly recent survey among self-identified evangelical Christians our brothers and sisters, at least in name. 54% of those surveyed admitted to living together before marriage. And believing it to be the right thing to do. We are losing this battle of sexual purity. It's amazing how prominent it is in the Old Testament law and how often the New Testament epistles allude to it. We are not to be those who are given to every instinct of our bodies, but rather to God's orderly way of handling that precious gift. I sometimes wonder if the difficulty of this issue, of the struggle over sexual purity, causes some of us to throw up our hands and say, what's the point? We can't win the losing battle. Why bother trying? But that is to imagine that the power of God cannot defeat sin in our lives. Ezekiel says that sexual impurity marks a wicked people, not a godly people. Verse 12 If in you they take bribes to shed blood, you take interest and profit and make gain of your neighbors by extortion But me you have forgotten, declares the Lord God. To sum up, the wickedness described here in chapter 22, so far, in chapter 22, Is summed up as forgetting who God is. It marks that people who are not really the church, who are not really Christ's followers, but are something else altogether Moving down to verse 25. The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring line tearing the prey. They have devoured human lives. They have taken treasure and precious things. They have made many widows in her midst. If you look carefully and critically at the religion shelf in any bookstore You're going to see title after title after title, which at best is just fluff And at worst, is outline lies. Most of all passes for spiritual literature in this country is garbage. It's this right here. It's profits claiming treasure, selling books, taking your money and lying to get it, and misleading us in the path. By the way, you're ever standing in front of a bookshelf and you're not sure? Call me, text me, reach out to me. Several of you have, and I appreciate it. It's my calling. I'm a shepherd. I'm supposed to help with these things. I'm happy to try to guide you into better reading for your devotional life. Verse 26. Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things. They have made no distinction between the holy and the common Neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have disregarded my Sabbath so that I am profaned among them. Profaning the holy Confusing the holy and the common. Clown communion. It really exists. This one you're probably a little more familiar with. Weddings officiated by anybody who spends $25 in 10 minutes online. That's profaning what is sacred. That's not honoring the fact that God ordained marriage and his ministers to institute it. We profane the holy things because we would like a friend to officiate at our wedding, if it can be called that. Verse 27. For princes in her midst are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain. Listen to this next verse. And her prophets have smeared whitewash for them, seeing false visions and dividing lies for them, saying, Thus says the Lord God, when in fact the Lord has not spoken. The political leaders in Judah are evil, Ezekiel is saying, but his concern here Is that rather than calling them out, rather than holding them to account, the religious voices in Judah are covering for them are whitewashing them, are pretending to see visions that justify them. Again, it's not a question of the nation, it's a question of the church. But think about how many religious leaders in America. are telling you to vote for this person or that person and getting you all the justification why you have to Why you must, why it is God's will that you vote the way I want you to vote when the preferred person is profoundly wicked I can't believe how many Christian brothers and sisters I have heard who have said, well, it's the lesser of two evils. That's still evil. We cannot be a people who get behind wicked politicians, who support them, who act like we owe them our vote. Ezekiel is disgusted with the religious presence in Judah and the way it provides cover for the wicked politicians. The church is certainly doing that in America today. If it was a symptom of religious illness then It certainly is for us. Now, verse 29 is incredibly important. The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery, oppressed the poor and needy, and extorted the sojourner without justice. Keeping in mind that the nation he's looking at here is in fact the church, this verse reminds us that there's a profound link between the leaders and those led. I've said this before, and I'll say it again, your ruling elders are the key to the long-term health of this church. Inasmuch as you seek out godly men, you reflect your desire for a godly church. These leaders weren't being held to account because the people were just as wicked. The whole beast. Deserve to die. Insomuch as we Apply the biblical principles for picking our officers in so much as we seek out those men and only those men who meet those qualifications. We will minimize the impact of this. It's one of the reasons I was willing to serve here at Shore Harvest that I was excited to serve. Because by God's grace you have chosen godly ruling elders. Let's continue to do so that we don't fall into this situation. Ezekiel 22 paints a bleak picture of spiritual illness in pretty graphic terms. And it ought to concern us that Just a quick few minutes back going through it, we find any number of ways that it applies to the church today. Some more so, some less so. And it ought to make us ask what was behind it? What's the illness that caused all of these problems? And that's where chapter 23 comes in. Ezekiel 23 gets at the question of the why. Why was Judah like this? Why were the people of God so contaminated with all of this evil? Power. It comes down to power. Except for a few small places, a few small pockets in the Western world today. Throughout the rest of the world and throughout the rest of human history, power has belonged to those who were strong enough and big enough to take it, which meant men. But along the way, any number of women have learned how to sidle up next to those powerful men. How to let themselves be used by them so that they could be in proximity to that power. That prostituting of oneself In order to be near power is the metaphor being used in Ezekiel 23. That Israel and Judah were willing to Make nice with the Swing Nations, flirt with them, be attract them, because they couldn't see themselves as holding on to any power They knew they were a small nation. They knew they didn't have the natural resources, the human resources, to compete with the Egypts and Assyrias and Babylons of the world. But rather than trust in their God, they flirted with those other powers in hopes of saving themselves. The church has always had a messy relationship with power. In the eastern half of the early church Political power was garnered by letting the politicians have a say in the church. So the local governors got to sign off on who was a bishop in the city. And of course it polluted and corrupted the church. Also that we would be close to power. In the Western Latin-speaking church, once Christianity was legalized under Constantine, it quickly gained influence. And leading bishops, and for a time it was a good influence. Leading bishops were brought in to be moral counselors, spiritual counselors to the emperors and to the governors. But very quickly that was contaminated Wealth and property were given to these bishops. They began to like that and pursue it. And very quickly the church went from being this spiritual organization to being this landholding, power-wielding instrument in the West. And when the Roman Empire fell The church was a stable entity that people were familiar with, and they turned to it, and it quickly took power to itself. And it was every bit as corrupt as the Eastern Church. The moment we become entangled with power, we become corrupt. It is, of course, why God has from the earliest days always ordained elders in the plural, never in the singular. We must not have power unto ourselves, or we will be corrupted. And the church, down through the ages, continued to struggle with its relationship to power. And today what do we do? We fear for the church's influence in the culture. We fear for the church's power in society. We think to ourselves, if we don't vote for the right candidate, we're going to lose our influence. And so if a candidate talks our language, whether or not he lives our lifestyle, if a candidate promises us something good Whether or not that's really something we should be pursuing, we support that candidate. We rally to them. We give them our money and our vote And we sell ourselves to power. What lies behind that is a fear that our God cannot bring about what He's promised us. That we can't wait for God, for Christ to return and make this place right We can't wait because maybe he won't come back. Or maybe it won't be in my lifetime. Or maybe I won't. And so we pursue power and influence. Now, even if it means partnering with those who are phenomenally wicked And Ezekiel says that's what Israel did. That's what Judah did. They sold themselves to Assyria, to Egypt, to Babylon, in order to have power in the world. We must walk by faith. What did our New Testament reading warn us? Do you not know that friendship with the world is enity with God? We cannot be friends with wicked politicians and with a holy God. We must choose Christ. Faith in Him. Confidence that He will come back and make it all right. And then pursue an effort to live like Hilvet. I can't say for certain how that plays out in the political realm of a democracy, We will each have to wrestle with that question and vote accordingly and participate accordingly. But when the church eagerly rushes to support those who are wicked, We are on the pages of Ezekiel 22 and 23. So what do we do about it? How does this wrap up? Where does this conclude? Where does this go? Especially us. We look at ourselves and go, we're this tiny little church, what influence can we possibly have? What difference can we possibly make? Look again with me. We already read it, but look again with me. At chapter 22, verse 30. Chapter 22, verse 30. God is speaking here through the prophet Ezekiel. And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach. Some versions stand in the gap. It's a little catchier. Would stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. What does that mean? What does it mean to stand in the gap, to stand in the breach? What does that look like? Well, it was our Old Testament reading. That's what it looks like. The people of God have just worshiped the golden image, and Moses knows that God is furious. And he goes to God and says, If you will not forgive them, then bless them. Blame me. Block me out. But please spare them Daniel, the younger contemporary of the prophet Ezekiel, in chapter 9 of Daniel, what does he do? He prays this lengthy prayer of confession. But if you look closely, the pronouns are all plural. We have sinned. We have done this. He prays for his people Moses prayed for his people. Paul prays for church after church. Are we praying for the church? Not just the church as a whole. For the last year or so we've been doing that, and what a blessing, what blessings we've received. It's been a wonderful time. But we also need to be praying for one another individually. Standing in the gap. Taking our brother and sister to the Lord and praying for them. As we continue to pray for the church. As we have started praying for our sister churches. In the lobby there is a tree, by the way, this was not coordinated. In the lobby there is a tree. On the tree are ornaments, those ornaments, uh the sheep, the angels, and the shepherds, not the other ornaments. There are names of those of us who are attending in the church. On Christmas Eve or next Sunday, if you can't be with us Christmas Eve, we're going to ask you to take one of those ornaments And to pray for the name that's on there. You might sit there and go, I don't even know this person. Well, get to know them. Find out something about them. Tell them you have their name and you don't know how to pray for them. That won't be an insult. It'll be a blessing. And stand in the gap. Reach out to the Lord on their behalf. Continue to pray for the church as a corporate entity, but pray for one another as individual members of the church. And God looked down at Jerusalem. That's not what he saw. And he destroyed that ancient church. We don't want to be the church destroyed. We want to learn the lessons of Ezekiel 22 and 23. Not pursue earthly power, but trust in our God. And then stand in the gap for one another. Let's pray. Lord, help us to heed this wisdom, to heed these lessons, to learn from this difficult passage. That we would be a people who believe that you have power and that one day you will make all things right And that will free us to live holy, upright lives here and now. As we wait for you and uphold one another. Of each of us, be men and women who stand in the gap, who fill the breach. Who become those who go to you on behalf of another, asking for your patience, for your guidance, for your provision. For your hand of strength on us. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.