So January fifteenth, five eighty-eight BC. January fifteenth, five eighty eight BC might possibly be the coolest day. Not the coolest, the coolest day in the history of ordained ministry. I am not aware that God has ever emotionally wrung out any of his servants the way he did his equal on that day. That morning, the prophet was commanded to announce that the siege of Jerusalem was underway. And it was God's doing that he was not going to intervene to save. And that evening His wife died at God's command. And he was not permitted to mourn her. January 15, 588 B. C. was indeed a harsh day to be Ezekiel, the prophet of God. As you open your Bibles to Ezekiel chapter 24, as page 845, if you're using the Red Pew Bible, As you turn to Ezekiel 24, let's pray and ask God's help in understanding this difficult and somewhat disturbing passage. Lord, we do ask your blessing on our time and your word this morning, that we would hear what you mean for us to hear. That I would draw out of it the proper lessons for our congregation. And that if I say anything that is out of accord with your word and your message, let it be immediately forgotten. So that you and your word are what ring in our ears as we leave here this morning. We ask your blessing on this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Join me in reading in Ezekiel 24. As my habit from these longer readings, I will stop and comment as we go through the text. In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day. And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh. Set on the pot, set it on, pour in water, put in it the pieces of meat, all the good pieces, the thigh, the shoulder, fill it with choice bones. Take the choicest one on the flock, pile the logs under it, boil it well, seathe also its bones in it. For Ezekiel and all those to whom he ministered, this meant the loss of the nation. Of their homes, and of any family that was still living back in Jerusalem. I can only imagine that if perhaps on August 9, 1945 If a Japanese news anchor with family living in Nagasaki was forced to go on the air and announce Japan's surrender, maybe he could understand Ezekiel's pain. Let's honor the prophet's pain by taking something from this. We first notice that the wording is ironic. A few years earlier, back in Ezekiel chapter 11, the people were complaining about God's justice, and they said, the city is a cauldron, and we are the meat. And here clearly this parable is a play on that. It's a painful twist of irony, for God now accepts their conclusion. They are in fact the meat that's about to be cooked in the cauldron of Jerusalem. But he rejects their premise. He says, Yes, in fact, you are cooked But it's not injustice. It is justice way overdue. It is wrath finally coming to a boil. God says, because it has been stoked to epic proportions by your sin. And therefore, what is about to come upon them is going to be terrible. It's going to be brutal. It's going to be horrible for those who have to go through it. But it is going to be just. Continuing in verse 6. Therefore, thus says the Lord God Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose corrosion is in it, and whose corrosion has not gone out of it. The parable here originally referred to various cuts of meat, the shoulders of thighs, all of that. Now God goes on to say this, take out of it, that is Jerusalem, piece after piece without making any choice. Don't sort through the people of Jerusalem. Don't pick through them and be selective. They're all going to end up in the same pot to boil in God's justice. Why? Verse 7. For the blood she has shed is in her midst. She put it on the bare rock. She did not pour it out on the ground to cover it with dust. The violence in the city is blatant. They don't even try to hide it. They don't even bury the victims they murder. They are so seared in their conscience. Therefore, in verse 8, to rouse my wrath, to take vengeance I have set on the bare rock the blood she has shed, that it may not be covered. I have put their guilt before my eyes so that I will not forget What they have done, he says. Therefore, verse nine, thus says the Lord God, Woe to the bloody city Now God takes that metaphor of the pot and he turns it a bit. I also will make the pile great Keep on the logs, kindle the fire, boil the meat well, mix in the spices, and let the bones be burned up. Now to get at the severity of the problem, the prophet is going to tweak the metaphor yet another time. His current concern is going to be no longer with the contents of the pot, the cauldron of wrath, but rather the pot itself, which is Jerusalem. Verse eleven Then set it empty upon the coals What happens if you leave an empty pot on coals? That it may become hot? That its copper may burn That its uncleanness may be melted in it, its corrosion consumed. She has wearied herself with toil, its abundant corrosion does not go out of it. Into the fire with its corrosion. And so what was a cooking metaphor? It's become a smelting metaphor. That Jerusalem is going to be subjected to extreme conditions. In order to purify her. Verse 13, on account of your unclean lewdness, because I would have cleansed you. And you were not cleansed from your uncleanness. You shall not be cleansed anymore, so I have satisfied my fury upon you. Here we see again, God is bringing up his past efforts. If you've been with us through this series in Ezekiel, know that repeatedly the prophet has pointed to God's efforts to refine and to restore and to reform Judah. But Judah refused. The word of God has been preached among her From Obadiah in Israel back in the day to Isaiah to Jeremiah to Habakkuk and on and on the list goes. God had tried to purify his people, but they would not be clean. And when King Josiah enacted the greatest reform, that side of Martin Luther It gained no traction. In fact, it was met with phenomenal resistance. The people hated what he did in purifying their religion. Now in verse fourteen we have the conclusion of Ezekiel's morning of miserable ministry. I am the Lord. I have spoken. It shall come to pass. I will do it. I will not go back. I will not spare. I will not relent. According to your ways and your deeds, you will be judged, declares the Lord. There may not be a more terrifying sentence in all of the Bible than to be subject to what you deserve. To be given what is rightfully owed you for your actions We have commented that several places in the New Testament there is that glorious contrastative conjunction You were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked when you followed the ways of this world. But God, being rich in mercy, that but it spins everything around. You don't get what you deserve is the glorious good news of the gospel. But for those who will not repent, who will not respond, who will not come back to God, this is what they face. Justice. The due consequences of their actions. Many of the warnings among the prophets are just that, they're warnings. Danger can be averted. If the people will repent and turn to the Lord, he will not bring about what he has said. Not so this time. God could not have been more emphatic in this sentence. This is no longer a warning, but a pronouncement. And while it is not a warning for them, it must be one for us. It would be foolish on our part to not see the warning that's here You know those pretty stones? You go to a souvenir shop and they have those pretty stones you can buy, they're all polished, they're all glassy and gorgeous. Do you know how they get that way? They spend weeks in a rock tumbler just turning over and over and crashing into each other and chipping each other's sharp edges off. And hitting each other for weeks on end until they are ground smooth. And then they're put in with a little finer grid and then a finer grid until they are finally polished and ready for sale. The life of a Christian is a rock tumbler. We are crashing into things that are meant to sh to knock off our sharp edges, to round us off, to shape us into what God wants us to. The people of Jerusalem missed that truth. They did not see the previous two incursions of Babylon into their midst as warning shots from God They did not submit to him. They hardened themselves. Do you know what happens to the hard rocks in a rock tumbler? They stay in longer. It is the soft minerals that are polished first and can come out. But those which are hard and will not be shaped continue to be subject to life's corruptions. That is, in fact, if you are a Christian, if you belong to God. For those who are his, he disciplines. It's easy to look at the wicked and go, well, they're not suffering like that because they're not God's children. He's not refining them. He's not reshaping them. When we harden ourselves against life's lessons, we simply subject ourselves to more time and the tumbler. Are you butting heads with your spouse? Is it because of your sin? Are you learning from that? Are you being refined and remade and polished through it? Troubles at work. Is it something you have done? Are you looking at yourself and saying, Lord, what lesson do I need to learn? Let me learn it and move on. Life as a Christian is a life of being polished by God at work in our lives. Israel missed that fact. Judah refused that. Jerusalem hardened herself, and the consequence was that they were obliterated. We must not make that same mistake. We need to heed God's voice in our lives. We need to be soft. to his correction, letting him reshape us easily. To use God's own metaphor here in this passage, we need to be a pot that is easily cleaned with a little scouring. Not one that is so stained by sin that it requires the fires of a smelting furnace. If you are God's child, and these were his children. He is going to refine you, discipline you, sanctify you. To resist it is only to make it worse. If we read this passage and do not glean at least That warning we have read in vain. But it begs the question: why is it that we are so entrenched in our sin? Why do we disobey? Why is it we cannot Submit ourselves to God. Why do we refuse to listen and to keep His word? And why are we hard to like shaping blows? Pride is certainly a part of it, isn't it? Self-centeredness. There's a fairly long list. But it's interesting as we go on in this passage. One of the issues that comes out. Continue with me down in verse 15. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man. Behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke. It's easy to look at marriages back then and think, oh, they're arranged, there are marriages of functionality, they're there are marriages of convenience. But that's not the case here Ezekiel loved his wife. She was the delight of his eyes. And God is taking her. On the very night Jerusalem was besieged. Keep reading Yet you shall not mourn or weep, nor shall your tears run down. Sigh, but not aloud Make no mourning for the dead. Bind on your turban and put your shoes on your feet. Do not cover your lips. Do not eat the bread of men. So I spoke to the people in the morning, that is, I told them about the siege of Jerusalem, and at evening my wife died. And on the next morning, I did as I was commanded. When I started in the ministry I could get away with the occasional mother-in-law joke. And it's because his mom attended that church. They all knew her. They all knew I had one of the world's best mothers-in-law. And they knew full well that if I teased her, it was just that. A little loving tease, because there couldn't have been an ounce of truth. To the joke I made. So when it came time to deliver her eulogy, it was the easiest public address I have ever written. And flat out the hardest I've ever delivered. I cannot imagine withholding my emotions in the midst of that. And Ezekiel lost his wife closer than any mother-in-law could ever be. The delight of his eyes. God says to him, Do not mourn. Do not shed a tear. And so Ezekiel gets up the next day, he brushes his hair, he combs out his beard, he adjusts his turban just so, and presents himself in public as though nothing has happened. You know, the bereaved, they can't find in themselves the motivation to do the most basic tasks, like feeding themselves. It's why we take food to a house in mourning. Yet Ezekiel is prohibited from eating the bread of men. He's to make his own meals, as if nothing has happened, as if life just goes on. Prophet is not allowed any normal, natural expression of emotion. And it makes us want to scream out, why? What is going on? Is God really that cruel? And it's what the people asked in verse 19. And the people said to me, Will you not what these things mean for us? That you are acting like this? Then I said to them, The Lord of the Lord came to me, said to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power. the delight of your eyes, and the yearning of your soul. And your sons and your daughters whom you left behind shall fall by the sword. And you shall do as I have done. You shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men. Your turban shall be on your head. and your shoes on your feet. You shall not mourn or weep, but you shall rock away in your iniquities and groan to one another. Thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign, according to all that he has done, you shall do, when this comes, then you will know that I am the Lord God As for you, son of man, surely on the day when I take from them their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes and their soul's desire, and also their sons and daughters, on that day a fugitive Will come to you to report to you the news on that day. Your mouth will be opened to the fugitive, and you shall speak and be no longer mute So you will be assigned to them and they will know that I am the Lord. You will recall that Ezekiel was muted back when he's allowed to speak The prophecies that God gives him, but he's not allowed to conduct any normal conversations in life. He's allowed only to speak on behalf of God, never on behalf of himself. And when Jerusalem falls to the King of Babylon, he will be freed from that binding. There's a great irony to that, is there not? In one way he'll be delighted to have back his voice, but at what a cost. Let's take a look at this last section. The message to the people, Ezekiel, the message to those in exile to whom Ezekiel is ministering, is essentially boils down to this, for hundreds of years now You have done what feels right, what feels good. The gods of the surrounding nations, they make sense. Don't they? A God for this, a goddess for that. It's all kind of logical. And you enjoy it To the point that you lost the book of the law, which remember that King Josiah found it in cleaning out the temple. It's been gone for generations. They didn't care about the Word of God. They cared about what felt good to them. They cared about what they liked and their emotions. And those pagans, they know how to party Sorry. I just lost my place, my apologies. Those pagans know how to party. They know how to throw a new moon festival. And get plastered drunk. They know how to eat till they're sick at the next New Moon festival. I mean, and the pagans, they get to pay the occasional visit to a temple prostitute, you know, so the crops will grow. And that feels pretty good as well, doesn't it? You changed everything that felt right And didn't bother with anything that didn't serve your desires and your pleasures, your emotions. And God is trying to show Judah and us. That there is something bigger than our feelings, larger than our emotions You ask me, he says, as he goes, you ask me what I'm doing. He says, I'm obeying, even though I don't feel like it. I understand that Yahweh is Yahweh, that He is the creator and I am the creature. I understand that He is Lord and I am servant. I understand that He is sovereign and I am subject. Most importantly, I understand that I don't have to understand Ezekiel Subs. God said to do this and I'm doing it. Not because it feels good, not because I want to, not because it's something I like. My emotions, my feelings are beside the point, Ezekiel says. And he says, you all are going to come to understand. The importance of that. The day is coming when your life will be so head over heels, so unimaginably discombobulated, that you too will be flabbergasted, flamux, speechless. In the face of what God has done. And in that emotionless state, you're going to realize that for centuries you've been serving your emotions. And it's taking you away from God. I'm not sure that there's ever been a more emotion-driven Feelings-driven society than 21st century America But as much as we want this to be a feeling-driven world, it is in fact God's world. And it is therefore a commandment-driven world. The stars follow the laws of nature that God ordained Gravity obeys the rules he's set up. And we are to do the same. As much as we might want this to be a feelings-driven place The universe works on his terms and not ours. It's ironic, isn't it? That we will go so far as to say if you don't feel Like the sex with which you were born, then just change it. As if emotion trumps biological fact. Why Because we'll feel bad otherwise. And we obsess over mental health, which is by large very Some legit issues there, but by and large, so much of what we call mental health today is in fact emotional health. We're worried about how we feel. And yet for all of that, we have reached an all-time low on the international uh survey of happiness. One of the wealthiest Safest, most stable nations in the history of humanity, and we are unhappy. And it creeps into the church. We can't help it, it does. We're steeped in this culture. And our unhappiness worms its way that the societal of unhappiness worms its way in even to us And why is it that when we focus on our mental health, when we focus on our emotional well-being, when we focus on how we feel, we don't feel good? Because it's a command-driven, rule-driven, law-driven universe God did not say to Adam, do whatever feels good. He gave him specific things to do. Israel did not learn that lesson, and God brought it home to them through Ezekiel in the most shocking way. Through the death of his wife. Ezekiel 24 is a warning to submit to God's rule over us, and to do so no matter how it makes us feel. And in that it reminds us of the one who came at Christmas. You'll recall Jesus' prayer in the garden the night before his crucifixion. It wasn't a prayer of happiness. It wasn't a prayer of joy. It wasn't a prayer of, oh goody, I get to do what feels good. Quite the opposite. Father, this doesn't feel good at all. This is not what I want to do. This is not the road I want to take, the path I want to walk down. If it can be taken from me, take it from me. But he didn't go the way of his emotions. He went the way of obedience. The thought of dying did not make him happy. But he doesn't tune it out, he doesn't take a vacation, he doesn't self-medicate. Ironically, remember when he was offered the mixture of myrrh and wine on the cross? That was actually medication. That's an ancient analgesic, a painkiller. He refuses that, though it would have made him feel good, or at least better. Because to do the Father's work, to be our sacrifice for us, he needed to endure fully the wrath of God. He ignored his feelings in order to obey. And so he suffered in our place, died in our place, received God's wrath in our place. And you know what's interesting? You know what came of that? It's an ironic thing, isn't it? Our feelings are not irrelevant. That's not the message here. I'm not saying your feelings don't matter. I'm saying your feelings can't drive what you do. God's word must drive what we do. But Hebrews tells us the emotional result. It tells us that he bore the scorn and shame of the cross. For the joy that was set before him. The road to feeling good is the road of serving God, of obeying him even when it doesn't feel good. Even when it seems hard. Ezekiel did so in the face of overwhelming emotion. Jesus did so in the face of overwhelming emotion. We must walk that path. Honoring God's command over our feelings, trusting that in the end, He will Reward us greatly, and it will be Jordan. Let's pray. Lord, this is a tough passage. To see the prophet suffering the way he does and yet obey reminds us of how little we have suffered for your name's sake. And yet we do not obey. Convict us. Bring us to a point of desiring Obedience over all else. Bring us to the confidence. And if we trust you with the way we conduct our lives, that you will reward us with everlasting joy, with everlasting happiness, with a blessing Blessedness that belongs to the meek. We ask this and pray this in Christ's name. Amen