Open your Bibles if you would, please, to Ezekiel six, Ezekiel chapter six. We'll be looking Actually, Ezekiel 6 and 7 today, so please keep those Bibles open. If you're using that Red Pew Bible, that's in front of you there. It's on page 826. As I've commented before, one of the best kept secrets about the Bible is that it has a table of contents. I get that you may not know exactly where Ezekiel is. But you can always find it at the table of contents. Ezekiel 6, page 826 of the Red Pew Bible John was a young man who abandoned a critical ministry, and his actions were so uh uh det uh detrimental, so damaging to the ministry, that it actually caused the ministry to come apart at the scenes. And its leaders, men you've heard of, parted ways in animosity. John split up Barnabas and Paul. Now that's a serious thing. To cause a successful ministry to break apart is a serious offense. Is that the sort of thing that might bring about God's wrath? Well, you tell me. John is better known by his middle name, Mark. Do the objects of divine wrath typically get to write one of the Bible's gospel accounts? Peter denied knowing Jesus. Elijah had a mental crisis that was catastrophic. So why do I bring these up? Well, last week in Ezekiel 4, we saw how the prophet enacted certain prophecies of coming judgment. And they were against God's people, and in Ezekiel chapter 5, God justified those judgments. Indicting his people for unfaithfulness. Now we would be fools not to take that seriously, for we claim to be God's people. And if something God's people did made him that angry, we have to ask ourselves, are we at risk of doing it? How do I individually and we collectively as a church avoid bringing that sort of wrath down on ourselves? So I point out Elijah and Peter and John Mark because they did not incur God's wrath for their failures. Now one of you might say to me, well, Pastor, those offenses, maybe those weren't actually sins. Mark's abandoning the ministry, Peter's denial, Elijah's breakdown. Maybe these were just mental-emotional responses to times of enormous stress. After all, Elijah and Mark were both in physical danger So perhaps they just cracked. That's a fair point. But what shall we say about Abraham then? He married his sister, and for all intents and purposes, raped Hagar. Were those mental emotional lapses? What about Samson? He slept with practically every woman he met. Was that an emotional lapse And shall we say that when King David killed Uriah to have his wife, that was just the expression of a tough time he was going through? Are we going to explain away all of those, or are we going to accept the fact that the Bible is chalked full of some pretty bad people? And yet not one of those that I've mentioned incurred the sort of wrath which faces Israel in the book of Ezekiel So again, that begs the question, what could Israel have possibly done that was so bad that God is this fired up angry at them? Then in Ezekiel 4, he is promising famine and fire and pestilence and death. We would have to be serious fools not to ask that question and examine the answer so that we do not fall in to that same sin. Let's pray. Lord, all of these sinners that we have considered, we recognize your grace to them, your hand of mercy upon them. You did not destroy them. You did not bring your wrath down on their heads and their homes. And so we need to know this morning. We ask you to reveal to us. What did Israel do? What sin did they commit that was so heinous, so grievous, that you obliterated most of them and left their land in ruins? Give us ears to hear your word of warning through the prophet Ezekiel, hearts which desire, which long to never commit such a sin. and the will to steer clear of it. We ask this for the glory of Christ. Amen. Ezekiel 6, beginning in verse 1. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them. There is just something about elevated places. Is there not? They inspire awe. And it's no wonder that from time immemorial human beings have worshipped on top of those elevated places, what the Bible calls high places. But that was never supposed to be Israel's practice. God had established the tabernacle as the center of Israel's worship, and he had ordained the tribe of Levi to be priests and to be caretakers of both the tabernacle and the worship that occurred there. They were to superintend the worship of God. And that's going to turn out to be key. It needs to be superintended. And in the temple, God created plenty to awe us. In Solomon's temple, it was tall, it was beautiful, there was bronze, there was silver, there was gold everywhere, there were precious jewels embedded in the walls which sparkled like stars. This Was an awe-inspiring building. And so God's people, the Israelites, no longer needed to ascend the high places in order to be in awe that they might worship. By the way, not for nothing, I'm not sure we Protestants do ourselves any favor when we shy away from awe-inspiring buildings. The temple was awesome, but centralizing worship served a greater purpose. As I said a moment ago, the Levitical priesthood was to superintend worship. You see, human beings in our fallen state Need to be superintended with regard to worship. Just a couple of weeks ago, I met a woman who was looking for a church and she listed off for me her criteria. It's gotta be rockin', her words, not mine. It's gotta keep my attention and get me moving and just be high energy and exciting. And on and on she went. You see, that's the problem with the high places. Without the stewardship of God's ordained priests, worship quickly becomes all about what we like. Without regard for God's instruction, as if God had no idea how we ought to worship him. You see, worship is supposed to be God-centered Even as it speaks to us, it should be about him. But like everything else, on our own, we make it all about ourselves in a heartbeat and a half. And in the centuries since Solomon's temple was built, Israel's high places have been a constant problem. Without priests and Levites at those high places to regulate the religious worship. The high places quickly became the religious Wild West. People did whatever pleased them and called it worship. And in time, anything and everything was practice. You name it, they did it. Pagan fertility rites. That is the polite way of saying orgies. These were performed at the high places in the name of Israel's God. By the way, lest we think we are superior to them, are you aware that there are groups in America teaching Christian pole dancing? I'm not making this up. I couldn't have made that up. Christian pole dancing, we are not that far removed from orgies for Jesus. Fertility rights atop the high places were initially done in Yahweh's name, but they soon dropped any pretense. of the true religion, and they openly worshiped the false gods of the neighboring countries, Asherah, Baal, Malak, etc. Eventually, one of the kings of Judah himself offered his own baby son as a sacrifice to Moloch in one of the high places This is why Ezekiel is commanded to face Israel's mountains and prophesy against them. Picking up in verse 3. And say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys, behold I, even I. That pattern that I, even I gets repeated several times in Ezekiel, and it's to emphasize this idea. See, the people of God, the people of Israel had gotten this idea that, while we can't be touched, we're God's people And it's an emphatic way of saying, you're right, you can't be touched by anybody else, but you're still accountable to me. I, even I, will bring a sword against you, a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places, your altars shall become desolate. And your incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain before your idols, and I will lay the dead bodies of the people of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. Wherever you dwell, the city shall be waste and the high places ruined, so that your altars will be waste and ruined, your idols broken and destroyed, your incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out. And the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the Lord Last night we were driving in the car and I was in the backseat of my rotator trust and giving me trouble and it was causing pain all down my left arm and I quipped the pain in my left arm maybe I was having a heart attack and I was going to die there in the backseat of the Mary Best Car And she gasped. No, I'd never be able to get in this car again. No concern over losing a future father-in-law or even her pastor. Just concern that I would uh desecrate her car. That is the sense of what's going on here. We human beings have always been a little uncomfortable with dead bodies, and in the ancient world is it even more so? And this idea that the dead bodies would be strewn all over the hightops, around all of the altars, was God's way of saying, I am going to make your former acts of rebellious worship so detestable to you that you will never go back to them. And by the way, following the time of Ezekiel, Israel never has. Oh, to be sure, the Jews have had other problems and they have uh had trouble executing proper worship in the right way, but they have never gone back to the open blatant worship of false pagan gods. Picking up in verse 8. Yet I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escape the sword, and when you are scattered through the countries. Then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive, and how I have been broken over their whoring hearts. that has departed from me, and over their eyes that go whoring after their idols, and they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their abominations. Verse 10, and they shall know that I am the Lord. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them. Please note that evil in Hebrew doesn't always mean moral. It can sometimes just mean calamity, and that's the sense of it in Hebrew. God, our God does not do moral evil. He is bringing calamity upon them. Verse 11. Thus says the Lord God, clap your hands and stamp your feet. That is a form of mocking in the ancient world. Alas, because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel, for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence Pestilence, he who is far off shall die of pestilence, and he who is near shall fall by the sword, and he who is left and is preserved shall die of famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them. And you shall know that I am the Lord. When their slain lie among their idols, around their altars, on every high hill, and all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak Wherever they offered pleasing aroma to all their idols. And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste In all their dwelling places, for the wilder from the wilderness to Riblah, then they will know that I am the Lord. Chapter 7 opens in a formulaic way. It clues us in that this is a new oracle. The word of the Lord came to me. In other words, chapters 6 and 7 are two separate revelations from God, two separate oracles, and yet we combine them for, I think, what will be obvious reasons soon. The newness of this oracle is its emphasis upon the timing, whereas four and five emphasis emphasize, chapters four and five would emphasize what would happen. Siege, famine, pestilence, death, horror. The focus of six was is largely on why it'll happen. We'll come back to that. Chapter 7 stresses the timing. When will all of this take place? And I think we'll see the answer. Chapter 7, verse 1. The word of the Lord came to me, and you, O Son of Man, thus says the Lord God to the land of Israel, an end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land. Now the end is upon you, and I will send my anger upon you. I will judge you according to your ways. God is not unjust And I will punish you for all your abominations. And my eye will not spare you, nor will I have pity, but I will punish you for your ways, while your abominations are in your midst, then you will know that I am the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, disaster after disaster, behold it comes, an end has come The end has come, it has awakened against you. Behold, it comes, your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has come, the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting on the mountains Now I will soon pour out my wrath upon you, and spend my anger against you, and judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will punish you according to your ways while your abominations are in your midst. Then you will know that I am the Lord who strikes. Behold the day, behold it comes, your doom has come, the rod has blossomed, pride has budded, violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness, none of them shall remain, nor their abundance, nor their wealth, nor Neither shall there be preeminence among them. That last phrase, neither shall there be preeminence among them, basically means that all rank and social hierarchy have lost their meaning in besieged Jerusalem Whether you are the princess or the slave girl is going to make no difference in that day. Verse 12. The time has come, the day has arrived. Let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all their multitude, for the seller shall not return to what he has sold while they live. This gives the sense, and we're going to see some more of it in a moment. This gives the sense of the economic collapse which is going to take place in Jerusalem during the siege. There is no point in the shopkeeper going to his shop and opening the store. For what value is there in taking in any more money? When there is not a crumb of bread or a kernel of corn to be purchased anywhere in the city, what good is your money going to do you? If you die with a mountain of gold, you're still dead. For the vision concerns all their multitude It shall not turn back, and because of his iniquity, none can maintain his life. Verse 14, the one we're about to read, is going to indicate that any attempt to raise an army in defense of Jerusalem is going to be too little, too late. Men who are starved to the point of being little more than walking skeletons cannot fight. Verse 14 They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but none goes to battle, for my wrath is upon all their multitude. The sword is without pestilence and the famine are within. He who is in the field dies by the sword, but he who is in the city, famine and pestilence devour. And if any survivors escape, they will be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning each one over his iniquity. All hands are feeble, and all knees turn to water. They put on sackcloth and horror covers them. Shame is on all faces, and boldness on all their heads They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it, for it was the stumbling block of their iniquity I've lost my place. I'm sorry. Oh, uh uh. Yeah, I'm looking for why I have this note I have. My apologies. Oh, I'm looking ahead. Sorry. So verse 20, what we're about to read. Verse 20. There's a time in Judah's history where the king of Judah actually discontinued the worship of Yahweh, Israel's God, in the temple. and established the worship of Asher, the chief god of the Assyrians. And that's what probably verse 20 is referencing His beautiful ornament they used for pride, and they made their abominable images and their things of it Therefore I make it an unclean thing to them, and I will give it into the hands of foreigners for prey, and to the wicked of the earth for spoil, and they shall profane it. I will turn my face from them, and they shall profane my treasured place. That's why we think they're talking about the temple. Robbers shall enter and profane it Forge a chain. That is, prepare a means of locking up all the people and hauling them to Babylon. Forge a chain, for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence, and I will bring the worst of the nations to take possession of their houses. I will put an end to the pride of the strong, and their holy places shall be profaned. When anguish comes, they will seek peace for their shell, but there shall be none. Disaster comes upon disaster. Rumor follows rumor. They seek a vision from the prophets, while the law perishes from the priests and counsel from the elders. The king mourns, the princes wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are paralyzed by terror. According to their way, I will do to them, and according to their judgments, I will judge them. And they shall know that I am the Lord. Well, Chapter Seven does to a degree restate some of the horrors of the coming judgment, we see in there an emphasis upon the timing. This oracle has come to the prophet Ezekiel later in his ministry, and it pretends the fact that the destruction of Jerusalem is now on history's horizon. It's no longer an abstract thing out the distant future. It's going to happen soon So what do we do with all of this? What do we do with what we've read here in 6 and 7? All this calamity that's been described, all of this judgment, all of this harshness If we read it casually, we may jump to the conclusion that many before us have come to. That the God of the Old Testament is just an angry God, just throwing down lightning bolts on anyone and everyone. Yet we saw last week that God's anger is not indiscriminately on everyone. Rather, it's specifically on his people. It is on Israel, the church of the Old Testament, and it is therefore a warning to us. Are them out there, are the unbelievers, are they in danger of God's judgment? Absolutely. All who failed to call upon the name of Christ have an eternal danger in front of them. But the warning of Ezekiel is not for them, it is for us. We are the inheritors of the promises of Israel. And we must come to comprehend this warning. Which is why I opened this morning with the question of the day. What did they do to deserve this? What kind of sin brings this sort of wrath from God? And we've said that the weakness of Elijah, Peter, and John Mark did not bring God's wrath down on their heads. The sexual perversion of Samson and Abraham, they brought chastisement from God, but not this kind of obliterating judgment. Even King David murdering a man did not cause burning sulfur to fall from the sky on his head. So what on earth did Israel do to incite God to violence against them Ancient writers would often make their point through repetition. And I hope you picked up on it. If you look back through there, if you go back up to chapter 6, verse 7. And you shall know that I am the Lord. I am Yahweh. In one sense, I am, I am. Verse 10. And they shall know that I am the Lord. Look down there, it is again in 13. It's there again in 14. Look down at chapter 7, verse 4. There it is again. Verse 9. It appears yet a sixth time. And finally in 727, and they shall know that I am the Lord. Now that phrase is going to become common later in Ezekiel. But in the first ten chapters of Ezekiel, it occurs eight times, and seven of them are here in chapters 6 and 7. This is what links these two chapters together. Though they are two separate oracles given to the prophets, they are tied together by this theme of knowing God, knowing that He is. And of course, if you have even a most basic familiarity with the Bible, you probably know That in the Old Testament the word no, the idea of to know is more than just simple awareness Most famously, Genesis 4, the man knew his wife and she conceived and gave birth to a son. Knowledge in the Old Testament almost always carries with it a sense of intimacy, not always sexual intimacy, but always intimacy. You see, that's the problem here. God's own people, Israel, the church. Do not have a desire to know him in any intimate way. These are the people that he called out of the nations to make his own, whom he among whom he placed his temple, his residence upon the earth, to whom he made his covenant, for whom he fought. And those whom he defended, to whom he made a promise of a Messiah, and they don't know him. There is no relationship between them and God. Despite all that he has done for them, they did not care to be close. To their God. Seven times in these two chapters, God says, he is acting against Israel, so they will know him. That is the core issue. That's what's being confirmed here. Back up with me and look at the central paragraph of chapter 6. Go back into chapter 6. Look at verse 8. We're going to look at verses 8, 9, and 10. This is really the core of this whole section. I'm going to read these three verses again. Yet I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escape the sword, and when you are scattered through the countries, then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations where they are carried captive. How I have been broken over their whoring heart that has departed from me, and over their eyes that go whoring after their idols And they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils they have committed for all of their abominations, and they shall know that I am the Lord. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them. For all the reputation that God gets in our society, as the king of the cosmic grumpy old man syndrome, just throwing lightning bolts so those kids would get off his lawn That's not really the message. Do you see in this paragraph the compassion, the grace, the love? First of all, I will leave some of you alive. Why not kill them all? Why not obliterate the whole mess of them? If they are this evil and this corrupt, and they are, why not kill them all? Because God is faithful even when we are not. God made a covenant with Abraham that he would be the God of Abraham's descendants and that Abraham would always have descendants upon the earth who walked with God as their God. And he is going to keep that covenant despite the fact that the descendants of Abraham have violated it in every way. Why not kill them all? Because God keeps covenant. And he will spare some of Israel upon the earth. Second, verse 9. Those of you who escape will remember me. Remembrance in the Bible, much like the word to know, is more than a mere mental activity. Listen to Isaiah 43, 25. I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Jeremiah 31 says speaks of God forgetting all our transgressions. Now think about that. How can the all-knowing one, the omniscient God, how can he forget anything? He cannot God has mental awareness of every sin we've ever committed. So what does it mean that he will forget our sins? It means he will act as if they never occurred. He will move forward in relationship to us as though they did not happen. Remembrance is not mere cognition. It is acting in light of that cognition. And so when it says here that Israel will remember that he is the Lord, he is saying that in the future, moving forward, my people Will genuinely act as though I am truly their God. We see that confirmed in verse 10. They shall know, there's that word again, that I am the Lord. God is going to be faithful and preserve a remnant because he keeps covenant. He is going to work in them that they will remember him, that they will act as though he is truly God. Now look back at verse 9. There's more we need to do with verse 9. The double use of the word whore drives home art. God wants them to know him, to have intimacy with him And like a married man hiring a prostitute, they seek intimacy with other gods. They go ahooring, as it was said in the King James Bible. At this point, we should begin to see the very personal nature of all of this. I think sometimes we forget that God is a person. He's the very definition of personhood. We are persons because we're created in his image. God is so much a person that he's Trinity, three persons in one being. God is personal. And this offense of chasing after gods is a personal offense. In the same way that a loving wife would be devastated to learn that her husband was sleeping with oars. So God is devastated. When those whom he's loved do not continue to love him. Dear Christian, ponder this for a moment God has called us to be His. He's loved us, elected us, chosen us, sent His Son to die for us. In light of that, is there ever going to be a Sunday morning golf outing which should make you miss being with your God in worship? Is there a vacation you could go on that is worth hurting God's feelings by sleeping in on his day? If your wife scheduled a Saturday morning breakfast date, You wouldn't skip it no matter how late you were out on Friday night. Why is it okay to skip a Sunday morning, well let's just call it, a Sunday morning date with our God. A date, a time to get to know each other better, to talk to each other, to spend time advancing intimacy Now, in the pursuit of intimacy, men, what do our wives complain about us? Well, it's just the converse of what we complain about them. Why do they always want to talk about their feelings? And what wife wouldn't wish that her husband would open up more? It realized that intimacy is more than just sex What wife wouldn't want her husband to talk to her about what's really going on inside? Look again closely at verse 9. Then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations, where they are carried captive. How I have been broken over their whoring heart When we sin, we often think about what consequence it might have for ourselves, and seeing none, we go ahead and sin. Sometimes we ponder the consequence our sin might have on others. I'm not going to sleep with that person because it'll hurt my spouse. But how often do we think about the impact our sin has on God? I have been broken over their whoring heart. Last week we saw some of the corporate collective issues related to this. We as a church must be faithful to God's word, teaching his teachings, not our own. But in addition to the corporate responsibility, we have a personal obligation to know God, to know that He is the Lord. So when we thank our lucky stars rather than Providence, we break God's heart. Think about it. If after one of our fellowship lunches in the car on the way home you were to praise and give great credit to Mrs. Smith for the fabulous dish that you enjoyed Only to find out it was your wife who prepared it, you would hurt her feelings because you didn't recognize her handiwork. That's the picture here. When we knock on wood, cross our fingers, worry about the 13th falling on a Friday, we are imagining that somehow God's power has been taken over by inanimate objects. By trees and calendar dates, dead trees to boot. It shows that we do not know our God or his power Perhaps the thing which comes closest to the problem of Ezekiel's day is this persistent idea, even among Christians. That all paths lead to God. That all religions are somehow co-equal The coexist bumper sticker with all of its religious symbols in there ought to infuriate us as Christians. And yet many so-called Christians exhibit it. Jesus claimed to be the resurrection and the life. He was the only one who ever claimed those things. When we say there are other paths to eternal life, we do not know our God. Jesus is the only name given under heaven by which men might be saved. When we say there are other ways to God, we don't know our God. Jesus was sent into the world to die for those whom the Father would give him. If we imagine that those who ignore Christ and honor anyone else are going to enjoy the rewards which Christ purchased with his own life. We don't know our God, and it breaks his heart. Look at the last line of verse 10. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them. Later in Ezekiel, God is going to say to him, I take oops, sorry, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked. God does not enjoy punishment. He does not enjoy judgment any more than those who are judged. In fact, even less so. It is necessary, however, because he is a God of justice and because we are stubborn sinners. But the remnant who survives will be changed. They will not worship idols again, as we noted earlier. So God is going to keep his covenant by keeping a remnant alive, and that remnant is going to learn from this experience. His wrath is not in vain. Ezekiel chapter 6 and 7 emphasize that God's wrath is coming because they did not know their God. They were not intimate with him, choosing instead to spend time with other things. We must hear this lesson and not repeat this sin. But, dear Christian, do you hear the good news in all of this? Do you see the beauty of the gospel in all of this? There's a warning. The sin of apostasy, of turning away from God toward other things, that sin will bring God's wrath upon us like nothing else. But none of your other sins will. I don't know a pastor who isn't regularly asked, Pastor, what's the unpardonable sin? What is the unforgivable sin? And how do I know if I have committed it? This is it. This is the unpardonable sin. Jesus called it blaspheming the Holy Spirit That is actively willfully rejecting God's outstretched hand and his self-revelation in his word and in his son. But everything else is not the unpardonable sin. Your anger is forgivable. Your impatience is forgivable. Your sexual perversion, substance abuse, inward greed, outward gluttony. All of these are bad, and God will chastise and correct the Christian who does them. But they are not unforgivable. King David had ten wives. He was an atrocious father, an adulterer, and a murderer. How could he write the Psalms? How could he be the kingly forerunner of the Christ? How could a man like that be called by Scripture instead of him that he was a man after God's own heart? Because in his sin, David always and only went back to Yahweh. Davor made a sacrifice to Baal just in case David never hedged his best in case he offended Moloch. David knew that Yahweh alone was God, and he always sought gods. Forgiveness. Likewise, Abraham was a terrible man, but he followed the true God loyally, and so he became the father of all those who would live by faith in Jesus Christ. Go on down the list. Why was Peter reinstated after denying Jesus? Because he looked Jesus in the eye. And he said, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. You alone have the words of life. To whom else shall we turn? In your sin, run to God, not from Him. In your fallenness and in your brokenness and your weakness, don't hide from God and try to get yourself fixed before you go back to Him. No. Run to him. Hide in him. He alone can protect you from his wrath. And when you hide in the mercy of Jesus Christ by faith in his death and in his life and in his resurrection Then you need not worry that this wrath will fall upon you. It was when they turned from that faith. That God's heart was broken against them, and his wrath poured out. Let's pray. Or these are dark, difficult chapters. And we want to turn away from them. We don't want to look at this. We don't want to think these things. We want happy thoughts that make us feel good. And yet we see the good news here. We recognize that our many, many, many sins can be forgiven. That if we cling to Christ in faith Everything else will be taken care of by him. And that he even he will hold us to himself Do not let us turn away from him. Do not let us go our own way, preach our own gospel, prepare our own word. Do not let us Decide what is good for us. Do not let us seek our own way. Keep us in Him and in His Word. Let us abide in Him and in His Word. That we might have the confidence that the wrath which you poured out on Israel will never come our way. But that we will instead inherit all the mercy and kindness and riches and glory which he bought with his death We pray this in his name. Amen.