Turn, if you would, please, in your Bibles to Ezekiel 35. We're going to read all of Ezekiel 35 and a portion of 36 this morning. Ezekiel 35 begins on page 858 if you're using that Pew Bible in the rack in front of you. Ezekiel 35, page 858. About 35 or maybe even a little bit more years ago, Becky and I stopped at a busy convenience store and She stayed in the car, driving the car while I ran into the store. And when we got out of the store, I saw that Becky had pulled the car over to the side of the lot, and there was a man pulled up in a car very close to Becky. And he was, he had his passenger window down, and he was leaning across the front seat of his car, and he was screaming at Becky, and he was gesturing, shall we say, inappropriately And I thank God his door was locked. Because if it had not been, I would probably have a felony conviction right now Needless to say, I took out my fury on the sheet metal of his car, and that door was dented, as was the fender, as he drove away in a hurry. I suspect also I was indirectly responsible for some new stains on the driver's seat. I was angry. And the reason was simple. He was messing with my bride. Ezekiel 35 is an account of God's anger when the people of the earth mess with his bride. Let's pray before we jump into it. Lord help us to see the warnings of this passage Help us to see the comfort of this passage. Help us to hear the hope of this passage. That we would leave this morning with a fresh, new understanding. of how much you care for the church, how deeply you love her in spite of her many flaws and sins. And that we would be motivated to love her in the same way. We pray this by the uh through Jesus' name and ask for it to be fulfilled in the power of your Holy Spirit. Amen. Ezekiel 35, the account of God's rage when the nations mess with his bride. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, set your face against Mount Seir. Oh, stop right there, Mount Seir. was the most prominent geological feature in the rugged territory that belonged to the nation of Edom. Edom was a small country, south and east of Judah, I guess for your viewpoint south and east from Judah. It was rugged territory, it was a small population of people, and Mount Seir is the predominant feature. Set your face against Mount Seir, and prophesy against it, and say to it, Thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am against you, Mount Seir. And of course we've seen earlier in Ezekiel that he's not truly technically against the mountain per se, but rather it is a poetic metaphorical way. Of referencing the people of Edom. I am against you, Mount Sear, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you a desolation and a waste. I will lay your cities waste. And you shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am the Lord. Now why is God so angry at Edom? Look at verse 5. Because you cherished perpetual enity and gave over the people of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment. Jump down with me to verse 10. Because you said these two nations, that is, Israel and Judah. And these two countries shall be mine, and we will take possession of them, although the Lord was there. So we see now that the offense of Edom was twofold. In verse 5, they either actively helped the Babylonians, or at the very least, they did not assist the Jews during the conquest. Why not? Well verse 10 tells us why not. Because they coveted Judah's territory. They wanted what belonged to God's people. And so we pick up now in verse 11. Therefore, as I live, declares the Master Yahweh, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy that you show because of your hatred against them. And I will make myself known among them when I judge you. And you shall know that I am the Lord. I have heard all the revilings that you uttered against the monks of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate. They are given us to devour. And you magnified yourselves against me with your mouth and multiplied your words against me. I heard it Thus says the Lord God, While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate As you rejoice over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so I will deal with you. You shall be desolate, Mount Kir, and all Edom, all of it Then they will know that I am the Lord. Back in chapters 16 and 23, Ezekiel spoke of Israel and Judah as unfaithful, as an unfaithful broad. A bride who prostituted herself to the nations, pursuing intimate relationships with those around her by serving their gods alongside of them. And pursuing their goals instead of the goal of their God. That has brought about Israel's collapse. Ezekiel has foretold it, and now he has heard the report of it, and now he is preaching in the aftermath of it, still in Babylon. Those nations, like Edom, they were they wanted to pounce upon the remnants of the people of God. They longed to use God's bride for their own pleasure. God is not okay with that. God's anger burns against Edom because of Edom's attitude toward Judah. Now, yes, Judah's current demise was God's own doing, but that doesn't make it okay for Edom to swoop in and claim for itself The remnants and pieces. Israel still belongs to the Lord. Judah still has a living God. A husband and a wife may go through a rough patch in their marriage, but if that husband is committed to make the union work, you'd better not mess around with his bride. No matter how angry he might be with her, it's still not going to go well for you if you mess around with her. The world lusts after the Bride of Christ. They long for our attention. The NFL now plays games at 9 a. m. on a Sunday morning, as do an increasing number of youth sports leagues. They want to divert us and our attention elsewhere. They covet our space. Buildings which once sat on prime downtown real estate and house worship. Now they, if they still call themselves a church, they house concerts and support group meetings. Perhaps they don't even call themselves a church. They become community centers or cafes or hip microbreweries. Most of all, the world lusts after our minds and our hearts. Stop hoping, they tell us, stop hoping that Jesus is preparing a better place. And just start making this place better. And like Judah in her day, we grow tired of being on the outside looking in We grow tired of being the odd ducks, the weirdos on the street, the weirdos at work, the weirdos in our culture. And that argument entices us. And eventually we give up the hope of a new earth and we begin to pursue what is just maybe a better earth. We abandon the belief that Jesus is going to fix it all, and we take upon ourselves the responsibility to do that. And frankly, if our goal has become merely the brotherhood of all mankind, then the truth is that most of our church buildings would be better off as cafes and microbreweries. God is still not okay with the church being mistreated even under those terms. The decline of the American Church and Make No Mistake, its immediate future looks grim from our perspective The decline of the American Church has been largely a problem of our own making, just as Judah's problem was of their own making. But whatever the church's estrangement might be from her bridegroom, it doesn't change his love for her. It doesn't change his jealousy toward her. That is largely the message of Ezekiel chapter 35. You don't mess with the bride of a jealous husband. You don't mess with the bride with jealous husband. We're not very used to using that word jealous with regard to our God, but God has no problem with it. The first commandments, you shall have no other God, you shall not bow down to them or serve them. For I, Yahweh, your God, am a jealous God. Right there, the foundation, the reason for the first commandment is the jealousy of God. Ezekiel, sorry, Exodus 34. Yahweh, whose name is jealous, is a jealous God. In Deuteronomy 4, it's restated. In Deuteronomy 5, it's restated. In Deuteronomy 6, it's restated. And in Joshua 24, it's said yet again. And then some centuries later, Nahum the prophet, puts an interesting spin on it. He says, the Lord is a jealous and avenging God. We're not comfortable with that word for our God, are we? And the reading is simple because jealousy in a sinner can be an ugly, ugly thing. In a sinner, jealousy can become very quickly a selfish and petty manifestation of our sin. Yet in a perfect love relationship, when each is living for the other and for their best, jealousy becomes a protection and a hedge and a guard. Jealousy becomes not merely about you being for me, but about me being enough for you. And therein lies the jealousy of God. You have imagined that I am not enough for you. You have imagined that there's something else out there you need besides me. That we must follow Jesus and fill in the blank. And the jealousy of God is rooted in His sufficiency That he is all we need. And so there is a warning here in this passage, but there is also a hope The warning is for any who would hope to benefit from the weakness of the church As the church's relationship with her Lord struggles because of our unfaithfulness, some will, like Edom, imagine that they can profit from it. And God is not okay with that. The husband is still jealous, his arm is still long, and his memory is unfailing. And all who seek to use the church for their gain are warned here. But there is also a hope here. Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go, I will come and take you where I am. The American Church has largely traded that hope for the hope of living here in this life among the brotherhood of all mankind. as we already mentioned, but as Judah's abandonment of Yahweh did not mean he abandoned her. Neither is Jesus leading the church. Are the faithful going to suffer in this life because the broader church sold out to the nations? Yeah. Just as Jeremiah suffered in Jerusalem because the people around him were unfaithful. But God is not abandoning his bride. His jealousy for us still exists for our protection and our good. Now before we leave this passage behind and move on to 36, I want to go back and point out verse 13 in particular. You magnify yourselves against me with your mouth, and multiply your words against me. I heard it. There have been two very popular family television shows in the past decade which quite regularly reference the church in their episodes. More than most Hollywood productions do. And yet almost every time they did so for a cheap laugh. There'd be some quip about how boring the sermon was, and the studio audience would laugh and laugh. Maybe someone would remark that the communion wine was really the only good reason for going to church. And again, the studio audience would laugh and laugh. I think what really shocked me the most was how often I would be among Christians who would talk about these shows. And join right in the laughter at the church's expense. I know Becky isn't perfect. But you're not going to ingratiate yourself to me by bashing her. Why do we imagine That we can get away with saying things like, well, you know, I really love Jesus, but the church not so much. That's not okay It is not acceptable to imagine yourself to have a right relationship with God if you don't have a right relationship with his bride. You have to respect the bride of Christ to properly respect Christ. I know you can get an easy laugh at the church's expense, but don't. You disparage his bride, when you disparage his bride, you disparage Jesus. He thought this body and the wider church was worth dying for You magnify yourself against me with your mouth and multiply your words against me. I heard it. God warns through the prophet Ezekiel. Thinking in 36, 1. And you, Son of Man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel. Okay, so he's turning away from the prophecy against Edom, and now prophesying toward the people of God. Prophet of the muggers of Israel and say, O monkers of Israel, hear the word of the Lord. Though says the Lord God, because the enemy said of you, aha. And the ancient heights have become our possession. Therefore, prophesy and say, thus says the Lord God. Precisely because, and this is a little redundant, repetitive here, stick with us, precisely because you have made, precisely because they made you desolate and crushed you from all sides And so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations, and you became the talk and evil gossip of the people. Therefore, O mountain of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God. Thou send us the Lord God of the mountains and the hills The ravines and the valleys, the desolate wastes and the desert deserted cities, which have become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations all around. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, surely I have spoken in my hot jealousy against the rest of the nations. and against all Edom, who gave my land themselves as a possession, with wholehearted joy and utter contempt, that they might make it uh make its pasture lands a prey Therefore, prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys, Thus says the Lord God. Behold, I have spoken my jealous wrath, because you have suffered the reproach of the nations. And here we get to the key verse. Therefore, thus says the Lord God I swear that the nations that are all around you shall themselves suffer reproach. It is utter foolishness for a young woman on a college campus To get drunk or high and go to a frat party. It is absolute foolishness to become so inebriated that she loses control of herself in that setting. But that does not make the actions of those young men around her any less culpable. Her foolishness might have precipitated their wickedness in some way, but it does not justify it. Such is the case of the world and God's people. Yes, Judah was laid bare, unable to fend off attacks, and yes, it was Judah's own doing which precipitated the situation. Yet that does not justify Edom's behavior. Simply because the church is weak is not justification for using her. The American Church Might be so intoxicated with some kind of perverted, weird notion of love that it cannot discern the simplest of doctrinal errors. But don't think for a moment that those who perpetuate those errors, who pounce on such a weak church to sell their books Books which are at the very best dribble and at the worst outright heresy. Don't imagine that they are going to get away with that. When the bride of Christ was weak, they used that for their own personal gain. A jealous and loving husband is not okay with that. The Jim Bakers of the world, the Kenneth Copelands of the world, the Joel Osteens of the world, who go on television and fleece the flock because we are Unwise, unprepared, undernourished, are not okay. It is not defensible simply because the church didn't defend itself against them. They pillaged the church. That is stuck in such a doctrinal stupor that it cannot even see what's happening. But she is still Christ's bride And he's not okay with her being abused. I don't care what Becky might have done that morning in that convenience store parking lot I don't care what justification that man thinks he has for screaming at my wife that way. I'm not okay with it If I had had my way, he'd have paid. One of the great things about being the bride of Christ Is that regardless of our sin, regardless of our culpability, regardless of our foolishness, regardless of our unfaithfulness, he is still good. He is still loving, he is still kind, and he will still defend us. Our God is a jealous God, but his jealousy flows from perfect love. He's not okay with those who lust after our time, who lust after our attention, who lust even after our wealth. He will make all abusers of the church pay dearly someday. Now I'm not a perfect husband, far from it, but even I have learned that when Becky is upset, when something bad has happened in her life, when there has been some problem that needs to be dealt with It's not enough simply that I come alongside and say, well, we'll fix it. Well, maybe next time, honey, if you were to pull the car over to this spot in the lot, I ain't gonna fly It's not what she wants and it's not what she needs. And as much as she might have been thankful that my fury chased that man off that day, She still needs reassurance, tenderness, care. And we pick up in verse 8. But you, O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel, for they will soon come home. For behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you shall be filled and sown. And I will multiply people on you, the whole house of Israel, all of it. The city shall be inhabited and the wasteplaces rebuilt, and I will multiply on you man and beast, and they shall multiply and be fruitful, and I will cause you To be inhabited as in your former times, and will do more good to you than ever before. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I will let people walk on you, even my people Israel, and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no longer bereave them of children. Again, it's directed to the mountains of Israel, but it is clear that the message is for the people of Israel. That upon these mountains, upon this land, they shall walk freely, they shall walk in abundance, they shall walk freely in in uh uh fruitfulness. A day is coming when the Lord um will support his people through the land This really is in many ways the forerunner of Jesus' promise to go and prepare a place for us. It is the hope of a day when the world will be made right When not only will our God punish those who have done us harm, but he will also Allow us to prosper and to be fruitful and to enjoy the land You see, God's jealousy is not merely protective, it is not merely judicial, it is also restorative. It makes whatever was wrong all right. And offers kind words to comfort us to that effect. We as the church of God can take comfort in these words we find here. One day this earth, this very world will be made right, the curse of sin removed, and we will live here in peace and prosperity. Exploring God's universe on one day, just relaxing and enjoying it on the next. And praising Him all the while. When you have a hard time being on the outside, being the outcast in your uh whatever your neighborhood or being the outcast at work, remember this That the day of your prosperity and your joy and your dominion over a perfect earth is promised by none other than God Himself. Chapter 35 warns against taking advantage of the bride of God while she is weak. Chapter 36 opens up promising God's justice upon all those who do so. And now God has comforted his people with bride, promising her that a much better day is coming. So what more needs to be said? Probably at some point in your life, you have been comforted, but still uncomfortable. Comforty, but still uncomfortable. Perhaps it was playing sports. You blew it, and the team paid the price. And the coach says, shake it off, and offers words of encouragement. Shake it off, you've got it, you'll get it next time. Does that really fix it for you? I don't know about you, but me, that's the other way around. I'm more nervous than ever about the next time. I already messed it up once, I'm going to mess it up again And it would be easy to sit here at this point in this text and say, this is all well and good, God, but we're still a messed up church We're still going to make these mistakes. We're still going to fall. How is this ever going to be possible? How can this possibly be realized among us? You have offered me words of comfort, but I can't believe them because I see who I am. I understand who we are, and we are going to fail again. Which is why Ezekiel continues in verse 13. Thus says the Lord God, because they say to you, You devour people, and you bereave your nation of children. They accuse you. My people, Israel, you are accused of your own problems You devour people and you bereave your nation of children, verse 14, therefore you shall no longer devour people and no longer bereave your nation of children, declares the Lord God. And I will not let you hear anymore the reproach of the nations And you shall no longer bear the disgrace of the peoples, and no longer cause to uh sorry your nation to stumble, declares the Lord God. The final and best news of this passage is that the promise of a day of joy, the promise of a hope of peace, is not rooted in us accomplishing it. It's rooted in the fact that God is going to intervene someday and save us from ourselves. Fix us from being who we are. I am going to keep this from happening again, he says. I am going to make it so that you never have to hear this again, he says. The hope of Ezekiel 35 and 36 is not rooted in our ability to live up to some expectation and accomplish peace for ourselves. It is rooted in the assurance that one day Jesus will return and put an end to this earth as we know it. And he will break the power of sin over us fully and finally. He will heal us from ourselves, heal us from the curse, heal us individually and corporately. And we will go forward, not in our own power, but in the power of the Spirit, the very power that carried Jesus through this life without sin. And we will, by his power, by his change in us, be the bride we were always supposed to be. That's the hope of Ezekiel thirty-six, fifteen. I hope that is your hope this morning. Let's pray. Lord, we needed this passage. We needed this reminder that though we are sinners who deserve your chastisement, nevertheless you still love us. You still defend us, you're still jealous for us, you care about your people, even when your people are doing things that are disgraceful Help us to take great hope in this passage. That we will look forward to, long for, the day when this is realized finally and fully among us. Until then, let us hope let us cling to our hope in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whose name we pray. Amen.