Encourage you now to open your Bibles, please, or maybe click in your Bible, as the case might be, to Ezekiel 34, Ezekiel 34. If you're using that Pew Bible in the rock in front of you, it's on page 857. Ezekiel 34, beginning in a moment in verse 1. Some years ago, Becky and I got a letter that had been written originally in Spanish. And the translator apparently was not a native English speaker either. The letter contained one of the most beautiful renderings ever of the 23rd Psalm. The Lord is my pastor. I shall not want. That is how the 23rd Psalm written in Spanish in the letter and then translated into English was rendered. The Lord is my pastor, I shall not want. It reminds us of two fundamental truths Pastors are shepherds. Pastors are shepherds. That's what the word literally means. It also reminds us, and we should keep that in mind as we're reading Ezekiel 34 in a moment, that when we hear the word shepherd, we can substitute the word pastor. The second reason I love that Spanish to English rendering of the 23rd Psal is that it reminds us. That our real pastor is the Lord Himself. The Lord is my pastor, I shall not want Ezekiel 34 is the Word of God. It is the only infallible rule for what we must believe and how we must live. And if you want to know what a pastor really is and isn't, you must know this book and particularly this chapter. Join me now in reading Ezekiel 34. Follow along as I read. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds Thus says the Master Yahweh. Ah, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding yourselves, should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened. The sick you have not yielded. The injured you have not bound up. The strayed you have not brought back. The lost you have not sought. And with force and harshness You have ruled them. So they were scattered because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered They wandered all over the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered all over the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely because my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep But the shepherds have fed themselves and have not fed my sheep. Therefore, you shepherd, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds And I will require my sheep at their hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths that they may not be food for them. For thus says the Lord God, behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the country. And I will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in the inhabited places of the country. I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture. They shall feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the straight, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak, and the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them injustice. As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord God. Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between rams and male goats. Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture? That you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with your feet? Therefore, thus says the Lord God to them. Behold, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep, because you push with side and shoulder and thrust it all the week with your horns till you have scattered them abroad I will rescue my flock. They shall no longer be a prey, and I will judge between sheep and sheep, and I will set over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them He shall feed them and be their shepherd, and I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I am the Lord, I have spoken I will make with them a covenant of peace, and banish wild beasts from the land, so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep even in the woods. And I will make them and the places of all around my hill a blessing. And I will send down the showers in their season. They shall be showers of blessing. And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land, and they shall know that I am the Lord when I break the bars of their yoke, and deliver them from the hand of those. who enslaved them. They shall no more be prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid And I will provide for them renowned plantations, so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord God. And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord God. Let's pray. We ask you, the Good Shepherd, to lead us in understanding this passage, to guide us in comprehending what is here. Use your rod and your staff to keep us on the right path. And if I should say anything that is out of alignment with your word, let it be immediately forgotten. So that we know your word and your word only. For you are the good shepherd, you are the one who feeds, you are the one who will never lead us astray. And we ask to hear you this morning. We pray this in your precious name. Amen. I'm going to guess probably pretty safely that everyone in this room knows somebody who's been hurt by the church. Someone who resists the church because of the church. We all know those who will not attend because of some bad experience they've had with the church. And in some cases, bad doesn't even do it justice. Some people have suffered horribly at the hands of the church, experiencing brutal wickedness. Then there are those who will never join, never become members because of some residual hurt from some person in a previous church. And for most of us, it's not even a question of knowing someone else. You've been hurt by the church. In this room, I am aware of some of your stories with regard to past hurts in the church. I can only imagine how many of these stories I don't know This member gossiped behind your back and it hurt. That person cheated you in a business transaction and you thought they were a brother in Christ. Some of you may have been hurt not by any mere member, but by the very leadership itself within the church. An elder sinned horribly against you. For some of us, the pain is perhaps a little less direct, but no less disturbing. The pastor that you trusted for years turned out to be plagiarizing his sermons. The elder who counseled you and your husband in marriage was sleeping with the church secretary all the time. He was telling you how to fix your marriage. By the way, if that was Elder Goon, it's all good, he's married to the church secretary. Maybe it was just as simple as the pastor you loved. taking a better job. And it hurt to find out that your spiritual life was merely a job to him. It hurts to find out that your church was merely a stepping stone toward his self-centered goals in the ministry. Everyone in this room knows someone who has been hurt by the church. And there's a pretty good chance everyone in this room has themselves, at the very least, Been disappointed in the church. I wish I could say it was over. It isn't. I would love to say nothing more than this church will never let you down. It will never ignore you. We'll never forget to include your prayer requests. We'll never minimize your pain. But that's a bit like saying you are never going to have family conflict over Thanksgiving dinner ever again. It's simply not going to happen And sadly, it's going to come within our walls and perhaps even from our leadership. The earthly shepherds of God's people are broken. We're sinful. And that's the very best of us. That's those of us who fear the Lord. The rest are just wicked Let's take a look at this passage. We're going to look at Ezekiel's critique of the human shepherds. We're going to look at the hope he has for the good shepherd. And finally, we're going to look at the power that sustains us between those two. Human shepherds, the good shepherd, and the bridge between them. First, the human shepherds. Many years ago, I was involved in a small church and well, actually a mid-sized church, and a few of the vocal members of that church, it was a congregational church, so the congregation had to approve the budget, and they were debating the pastor's salary. And a few of those local members decided that the pastor ought to make the average salary of the congregation. And as the debate went on, somebody pointed out that that's all well and good so long as the average member of the congregation needed three years of graduate school to do their job. That's all well and good so long as the average member of the congregation needed to work every weekend. That was all well and good so long as the average member of the church had to give a major presentation at work every single week. You see, it is right and good that pastors are paid. The scriptures are clear on this. Paul tells the Corinthian church He says to them, If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much to ask if we reap material things from you? He's making the argument that the ministers ought to be paid. Paul tells the young pastor Timothy to be sure his congregation pays him. It's all right and good. The Levites of the Old Testament were paid and pastors are to be paid. But Ezekiel underscores not pastors who are being paid by their congregation, but rather pastors who think that their congregation owes it to them. that they can take it from the congregation, that it is something that they have a right to and that they have a right to claim for themselves. Look in the middle of verse 2 with me, ah, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding yourselves. It's one thing for the congregation to say, we want to honor your work in faith. It's another thing for the pastor to say, I'm going to go take it. Should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep Ezekiel's first critique of earthly shepherds was that the flock was, that they believed the flock was for them. No, Ezekiel says, the flock does not exist for the shepherd. The church does not exist for the pastor. It's the other way around. The shepherd is for the flock. You do not exist for me and my paycheck. And the elder who thinks the church is for his business purposes. The pastor who looks at the church as an ATM or as a venue through which he can sell his books, these are evil. And how is the heart of such a shepherd revealed? Verse 4. The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the anger you have not found up, the strange you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. As a teacher, it was always easiest to teach the student who really needed me the least. The student who had a great home life, two parents, a stable situation home, who had help with their homework, who was going to be guided through, that student was a joy to teach, and it was easy to be drawn to just that. student. But the truth is that student didn't really need a good teacher. It was the student who had none of those things, who was the hardest to teach, who most needed my attention as a teacher. As a pastor, it would be easy to ignore those who most need separately. And as a pastor, it's easy to justify it too. They're not the ones paying the bills, we argue. The people with the the the messed up lives, the people who've you know got everything wrong and made all these mistakes, they're probably not running a successful small business And as someone who runs a successful small business that can, you know, write the check for the new educational wing on the church. And so it's important as a pastor that I must shepherd those who have wealth, because that's for the good of the church. And Ezekiel says, no, that's for the good of you as a pastor. That's for the good of the shepherd. Tending to the healthy sheep is easy. Tending to the healthy sheep is justifiable in our own minds because they pay the bills. And any business owner will tell you that you pay attention to your best customers. You give them your best effort. But the body of Christ is not a business. It's not a place of financial transaction. That's exactly why Jesus overthrew the tables in the temple, is it not? The body of Christ is supposed to be a place where we care about the fruit, where we care about those who are struggling with this likes. Ezekiel says that the shepherd, Ezekiel says it's the evil shepherd is the one living off the flock rather than living for the flock. Yes, the church must support its pastors, but the church is not for the pastors. Then in verses 5 and 6, Zika points to another symptom of the poorly pastored church. It scatters, it splinters. This can occur doctrinally. The flock that is not fed the rich food not reared on an in-depth on in-depth Bible teaching, will be pulled away by spiritual candy, you know, sweet teaching that actually has no nutrition to it. No value to it. The poorly pastor church also splinters socially It splinters along socioeconomic lines as those who are more refined and more cultured look down their noses at the crew members. And the crew members, for their part, well they imagine themselves just being, you know, we're just honest. We're the authentic members of the congregation. Everybody else is being snooty. And each side begins to think badly of the other, because no one is correcting them. Because it's hard to do with a past to correct those who pay your salary. Earthly human shepherds are all weak, all fallible. The worst of us tend to ourselves first rather than the flock, and it shows up in the spiritual health of the sheep. And for all the elders and deacons who are here today, including myself, for every man who might someday serve as an elder or deacon For every uh mom out there who hopes her son will someday serve the church in this capacity, I commend verse ten to your attention. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep out of their hand. Now in context, he's not against all shepherds. He's against those who shepherd it badly, who shepherd the flock. for themselves and toward their own personal gain rather than those who uh rather than doing so for the good of the congregation. Each of us who would be in any kind of shepherding capacity, be it a Sunday school teacher, a Bible study leader, a deacon, or an elder We need to fear God and hear this word of warning, that if we do not shepherd well, you will require the flock of us from our own hand. The worst human shepherds will purposely use the church and her members for their own gain. The best of us will simply do so inadvertently. Human shepherds will at worst hurt you and at best disappoint you. I suppose there is some small satisfaction in knowing that God will judge the corrupt shepherds. But where does that really leave you? And if the chapter ended here, it would be a most depressing text. Praise God it does not. Ezekiel now turns his attention to the Good Shepherd. Notice the hope that God offers through the lips and pen of Ezekiel. Beginning in verse 11, I'm going to skip kind of quickly through several verses here. Beginning in verse 11. Behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep. Middle of verse 12, I will rescue them. Verse 13, I will bring them out. Further down and 13, I will feed them. 14. I will feed them. There they shall lie down in good pasture. Does that sound familiar? Does that sound like the 23rd Psalm with which we opened? Verse 15, I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will bring back the three, and I will line up, and I will strengthen. And the I wills of Ezekiel 34 become in the mouth of Jesus I am. I am the Good Shepherd. And Jesus stood in front of the temple and pointing to Ezekiel 34, he pointed to himself and said, I am the promised one. I'm the good shepherd. I'm the one who will lay down my life for the sheep. I'm the one who will not lose any the Father gives to me If a good shepherd lives for the flock, surely the best good shepherd ever is the one who died for the flock. And only one shepherd gave up his life to form the flock, to bring it into existence, so that his righteousness could be ours and we could even be considered part of the flock of God. And that is the shepherd we all want. That is, of course, why our earthly pastors disappoint us. They're not Jesus. I will, intentionally or unintentionally, eventually serve myself and disappoint you. The Son of Man came not to be served but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for each of us. I will lose track of your spiritual life. Jesus will never lose any the Father gives him I will let them down, and Jesus says, all who come to him, he will lift up. And so if you are here this morning a disappointed sheep, You're disappointed because you're looking at the wrong shepherds. Look past me and my fellow elders, look around us, over me, past me, whatever it takes, and see Jesus. He died for you. Surely he will not waste that and let you slip through the cracks. It's not okay for your pastor to fail in his duties as a shepherd, but neither should it shock us. Or undo us. We shouldn't be headed for the door when an elder hurts us One does not cease to be a Smith or a Jones or a Shaw simply because someone else in the family was flawed and hurt our feelings. No, that's the sad part of family life in this world. Do not let your faith then be in your pasture. When he drops the ball, come alongside him. Help him pick it up again. Forgive him. He also needs the body of Christ. And together we point each other to Jesus. And resume the walk of faith toward him. Now the hope of Jesus as our shepherd in Ezekiel 34 is not merely that he will protect us in this life. Rather, Ezekiel paints a picture of a world in which the good shepherd Ushers in a life free from worry, where protection is not needed. Look at verse 25. This is worth reading again. This is incredible news Look at what's here. I, God speaking through Ezekiel, the one who will be the good shepherd, I will make with them a covenant of peace and banish wild beasts from the land So that they may dwell securely in the world. They shall sleep in the woods. I will make them in the places all around my hill a blessing. I will send down the showers of their in their season. They shall be showers of blessings. And the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. This is beginning to sound like Eden again, isn't it? Trees, they are all providing food with little or no work. And the urb yield is increased. The thorns and thistles are calling. And they shall be secure in their land, and they shall know that I am the Lord when I break the bars of their yoke and deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them. Doing what your earthly pastor can never do. They shall no more be prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them. They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid. And I will provide for them a renowned place for planting, so that they shall no more be consumed with hunger in the land, and no longer suffer the reproach of the nations, and they shall know that I am the Lord, their God, with them. And that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declared the Lord God. What great news That the Good Shepherd not only guards us, protects us, and guides us, but he is also going to establish a place. Where we won't need to be guided. There will be no pitfalls into which we could stray. Where we won't need protection because none will harm us. where we won't need safety because there will be no such thing as an uh as unsafety? I don't know if that's a word. There will be no danger. There's a way to say it You know, if you made a church session of the very best shepherds in human history, Moses, David, Peter, and Paul come to mind, right? If you took those four men And you put them together in one church session, the all-star team of human shepherds, the best they could do is help you recover from life's hurt. To help you get over the damage someone did to you when they sinned against you. To help you bounce back from your disappointment with this life. They could walk through you in this life and help you through the trauma of divorce or the unsettling nature of losing a job But they could never prevent it. The greatest human shepherds can mediate the pain of this life. They cannot take it away completely. Jesus can. When Jesus paid sin's price, he also broke his curse. Therefore, he has both the power and the right to overthrow the effects of sin on this earth, and he will do so, Ezekiel promises us. He will create a place that is good because he is good. Ezekiel says that human shepherds are flawed and that the worst will be judged by God. He then promises the good shepherd who gives his life for us rather than taking ours from us. Finally, I wanted to end by briefly noting what isn't here. It would be easy if we stopped right here, if we considered it only thus far, it would be easy to draw the conclusion. Well, if the earthly shepherds, if our human Human pastors and elders are so flawed and so messed up, if they're so given to corruption, if they're so given to weakness and sin, and if Jesus is our good shepherd, aren't we better off without the church? Aren't we better off just going forward with me and Jesus? Can't I just take my Bible, go out in some quiet place, and just live the Christian life by myself? But that's not what Ezekiel is saying. Ezekiel does not undo the institution of the church He does not undo the idea that there ought to be shepherds. And 45 years later, when Zerubbabel and the others would come back to the promised land, back to the Holy Land, back to Jerusalem They would begin to rebuild the very things that had been destroyed. They would re-establish the priesthood, rebuild the temple, re-initiate the sacrifice system. And when Jesus stood on uh uh with his disciples on the verge of his ascension. What does he say to Peter? Does he say, don't worry about it, I'm the good shepherd and everything will be taken care of. There's nothing left for you to do. No, he says, feed mine sheep. Shepherding is still a necessary thing. Just because your human shepherds are flawed, just because those of us who lead the church are sinful. Does not undo its importance, for it is still how Christ Reigns in us. It is how He shepherds us. We cannot self-shepherd. Where every bit is flawed as the leadership over us, and in many cases more so We need the body of Christ and the shepherds provided therein. We need those Who warn us against our sin. Not that we like hearing it, but we need it. We need those who will preach to us what needs to be preached. Not that we always like hearing it But that we need it. And you say, well, how can this be? If the shepherds are flawed, if the pastors are so sinful, how on earth can it have any value? When Drew helps me in projects around our house, he likes to tease me about the inferior quality of my tools compared to his. His are better, newer, nicer, more expensive. And yet in the hands of a skilled carpenter, even my inferior tools produce a fine product. Drew's hand, not mine, just in case we can give it a hand. If there's any ambiguity there. How much so with our Lord? Yes, your pastors and elders and deacons are flawed. Your Bible study teachers are going to get it wrong. Your Sunday school teacher was mistaken at times. Sometimes even hurtful. But in the hands of the Good Shepherd, when they are faithful One of the reasons we don't put the sermon text in the bulletin. Is the preacher taking it out of context? Is he being faithful? One of the reasons we stress the importance of electing our elders, is this a man of God? Do you see faithfulness in his life? And when our leaders are faithful, despite their sin, despite their flaws, in the hands of the good shepherd, of the carpenter from Nazareth, those flawed tools are still used by him. It is through the human shepherds that he works in our lives. It is through the institution of the church that he shapes us, molds us, forms us into who we ought to be. The covenant of peace that the shepherd in Ezekiel 34 offers includes the promise of a day when shepherds will not be needed at all because the whole world will be made anew without sin's influence. Until then, we trust Jesus to work skillfully in our lives despite the broken tools at his disposal. Let's pray. Lord, I ask on behalf of my fellow elders. My fellow Under Shepherds, that you would give us wisdom and grace. Make us faithful. move in us a great fear of you that we would Strive with all of our strength to avoid the evil outlined here in Ezekiel thirty-four. And among all of us, work a great assurance that you are the good shepherd. You are attending to your flock, the church, even through the flawed tools at your disposal. And then renew in us the great hope that the day is coming when we will not have to suffer through the consequences of sin. Where you will be our shepherd who makes all of the surroundings safe and good for us. We long for that day. Our hope is toward that time. Until then. Draw us to yourself. Keep us safe. Let us be your people, tended by you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.