Turn your Bibles please to Ezekiel thirty-seven. Ezekiel thirty-seven, page eight hundred and sixty This is far and away the best known passage in all of Ezekiel, and it is with good reason. It is one of the clearest and plainest passages in all of Ezekiel. It is also one of the most hopeful passages. in all of Ezekiel. So here now the Word of God from Ezekiel 37. It is, yes, the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. But it is also the only power which is able to give life to those who are spiritually dead. And so it is more precious than gold, more powerful than armies, more important than the very oxygen we breathe. So please give ear now to the Word of God. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them. And behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley. Behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound in the whole barattle. And the bones came together, bone, to its bone. And I looked and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath, Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath. Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O ref, and breed on these slain that they may live So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up. And our hope is lost, we are indeed cut off. Therefore, prophesy and say to them. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves. And raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live And I will place you in your own land, then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord. Let's pray. Spirit of God, by your word this morning and the power of your word, speak life into us. Let us not be like these dry bones, but let us be a living people, animated by your word, made alive by your spirit. given to your service. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. It was January sixth, nineteen eighteen fifty. January sixth, eighteen fifty, in Colchester, England, a fifteen year old boy was trying to get to church when a severe snowstorm uh uh uh basically cut off his path, and in the severity of the storm he decided to duck into a small primitive Methodist church that was closer to home. Now he got into that church. He found out that its own pastor was waylaid by the storm and not able to get there. And so when man in the small congregation stood up and read Isaiah 45, 22, he read to the congregation, Look unto me, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. That man was completely unprepared to preach that morning, and he didn't really know what to do with the verse, so he simply repeated it again and again, emphasizing a different word each time he read it over. At some point, however, the man in the pulpit reading Isaiah 45, 22, turned to the teenage stranger and said, Young man, you look most miserable. Turn on to Christ and be ye saved. Look, I'm sorry, look onto Christ and be ye saved. Look, look, look. And it was at that moment that Charles Haddon's Spurgeon gave his life to Christ. The most influential Preacher in the history of the English language and one of arguably the top three or four preachers since the close of the New Testament. Came to know the Lord that snowy morning in England. Spurgeon's conversion story illustrates very nicely for us the text of Ezekiel 37. Let's take a closer look as we march through this. First, we must confess the reality of death We cannot escape the fact that the passage opens up with a stark image of death. A couple of technical comments. Ezekiel is taken in the spirit. That is his characteristic way of saying that this is a vision from the Lord. He's not literally among literal dry bones, but he is seeing them by the power of God. And he is taken to an unnamed valley. Why is it unnamed when he has named places before? Well, it's unnamed because it is a place we already know. This is the very valley where he, back in chapters 1, 2, and 3, saw the glory of God. And that contrast is important. Because you'll recall that back then he saw that even the very wheels of God's chariot had life. They were alive. And it is a stark contrast to the people of Israel who are dead in this valley. And if I may for a moment contradict miracle maps, these bones are not mostly dead. They are very dry, Ezekiel tells us. They are dead, dead. So we are confronted first in this passage with the reality of spiritual It's a real thing and we must admit it. And that means we must reject The poison which comes from many places that wrongfully call themselves churches, we must reject the poison of the brotherhood of all mankind. We must reject the lie that all are children of God. We must refute this notion that there is but one humanity. These views would have us believe that everyone is in the same boat. But Ezekiel stands alive in sharp contrast to all of the dead bones around him. Ezekiel and others around him express a spiritual dichotomy. This is a spiritual dichotomy that Jesus hammers home He speaks of the narrow way and the wide way. He speaks of the sheep and the goats, the wheat and the tares, the good soil and the bad soil. He speaks of those who are against us and those who are with us. And I could go on and on and on. Jesus always frames humanity in a dichotomous way. There are two groups of humanity. There is not a brotherhood of all mankind. Not all humanity are children of God. Some are alive in Christ Jesus. And others are spiritually dead. Why is it important to recognize that? Why do I search there? When the kids were little, we would sometimes be walking along And I would randomly and suddenly just grab one of them and yank them back and then tell them I had saved their life. No, I really hadn't. The road was flat and there was no traffic, there was no precipice to fall off them, there was no car speeding toward them. And it was a laughable moment when they were children. But it illustrates this idea that if there is no threat, there is no salvation. I didn't save the kids' lives because they weren't at risk. When we pretend that hell is not real, that spiritual death is not a thing, we lull humanity into a false sense of security. The salvation of which the scriptures speak, unlike my saving of my children's life, that is a real salvation because there's a real threat. There's a real danger if we do not tell people, if we are not clear about the fact that the lost are headed to hell. We do them no favors. And by the way We diminish the glory of Christ. For if there is no threat to them, then he has saved them from nothing, and he is not our Savior, and we really don't need to be here worshiping him right now. The whole of Christianity falls apart if there is but one humanity and all are saved. Ezekiel makes clear here in this passage. Spiritual death is a real thing. Now the second thing I want us to notice and to learn from this passage is what does not bring life. If you or I are faced with a dead or dying body, we're going to skitch up the most severe cost, try to set the broken bone, or at least split them, we're gonna mend what can be mended, we're gonna do everything outward possible to hope to save them Because it's all we can do. It's all we know to do. And yet that is that happens in this passage. Bone is pulled to bone, and sinew is put upon sinew, and flesh is laid over on top of all of it, but it doesn't equal life. The mending of the outward things is not what people truly ultimately need. Do better marriages make life more enjoyable? You bet they do. Does a good relationship with your friends and family, a good relationship with your boss, a right understanding of the law, a right understanding of justice, do all of these things matter? Absolutely they do But they cannot be the sum and substance of what we are about. They are the things that make life better, but they cannot make life We can have all the outward sewn up correctly, all of it working perfectly, and still be horribly dead inside. And we see that in this passage. Their bodies are restored, but there's no life in them. So the passage sets before us the reality of spiritual death. It also clarifies for us what does not bring life. Merely fixing the outward things does not make people alive. So what does Where does life come from? And the passage offers two things, and they are closely woven together. It offers the word and the spirit of God. Now think about that. Would not God's Spirit have the power to produce life in these dry bones without Ezekiel's involvement? And the answer is an obvious yes. If by the word of his power he could bring everything into existence out of nothing Then he can surely take these people and make them alive directly. But he chooses not to. And we must Accept this. We must acknowledge this. It's not just here in Ezekiel 37, it's across all of the scriptures. The pattern of God is always to speak life to his people through his word. Through a human conduit. And so Ezekiel is told to preach, and by the way, that's the meaning of the word prophecy in this context. He is not telling them something about the future. So much as he's just proclaiming the Word of God. Ezekiel is told to preach to these Presbyterians in the valley. I mean they're dry bones. They can't be Pentecostals, right? By the way, don't get fooled into that stuff, right? The outward activity does not, we already saw, outward does not equal inward. We must never get walled into that I can have a little fun with us because we are Presbyterians, but we must not imagine that those things matter, ultimately. He's told to preach to these dry bones. He's told to prophesy over them, and he does so. He shares the word of God. It is the essence. of preaching. And this takes us back to 15-year-old Spurgeon on that snowy morning in England. The man in that pulpit, in that church, and Spurgeon made very clear later this was not a gifted man. He was not a talented speaker. That man did not have anything that even approximated a sermon. He simply held forth the word of God. But we mustn't make too much even of that. For if we will soon see, even that is not enough. And yet it is our heart. It's all we can do. It is our calling to hold forth the Word of God. And it is effective because it is the Word of God, not because of the conduit who brings it. Now is there value in a preacher learning his craft? Absolutely. Is there value in training? You bet there is. But it's the value of adding another wire to an electrical cable. It enables the cable to carry more current, but it's still meaningless without the current. The power is not in the preacher. It is not even, according to this text, strictly speaking, in the Word of God. For we see Ezekiel preached to them, but they are still not alive. Which brings us into what does bring that life. Specifically, what is there? God's word alone does not bring life into their bodies. Whether we see it prepares them, it readies them, but it is the Spirit of God which breathes life into them. And in this sense, Ezekiel 37 is very intentionally mirroring Genesis chapters 1 and 2. That the body of Adam was made And then life was breathed into him. It sets forth the power of preaching in this dramatic way. By the way Ezekiel 37 is the hope of every pastor, right? This is the hope of preachers. This is why we do what we do. Because we have this hope, this confidence that we can be the conduit. But we must turn right around and recognize that we don't give light. We don't provide for spiritual existence. Rather, the Spirit of God is the one who brings life, even in this fact. So in Ezekiel 37, we see that the stark reality of spiritual death is set forth, and we're shown that merely patching up the outward isn't enough to bring life. We are also shown, thirdly, the necessity of the preaching of the Word of God, the proclaiming of the Word of God, thus saith the Lord. And that it also shows us that it is through these things that the Spirit works and brings life. It is God who gives life, not the preacher. Technically not even the sermon, but the Spirit of God. I already mentioned that Ezekiel 37 is kind of the hope of every preacher, but Ezekiel didn't have it. He couldn't lean on the hope of Ezekiel 37. He was living it. Rather, he lived at one of the darkest, bleakest times in the history of God's people. The body of the bride of God was Saturn. Its king was in captivity. Its temple raised to the ground, its priesthood gone. Every aspect of the cultic rites of Israel were wiped off the face of the earth. And the hopelessness showed. We see it in the people. In verse 11, our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. And we see it even in the prophet. Notice the interesting response when God says to his ego, Can these bones live? You think you should have we we we look we look at him and go well come on you should have said yes of course they can live but he doesn't Because he's not sure. He doesn't want to say no because he does have a sense of who his God is. He's got some basic theology under his belt. But Ezekiel does not respond with great confidence. What does he say? When God says, can these bones live? Ezekiel says, you know. You know the answer to that. It is a technically true answer, but it is a weak answer. Because Ezekiel is burdened by the hopelessness which has befallen all of the church in this day. Prophets and preachers are not above the doubt that besets us all. And I think maybe this is the most important lesson in this chapter, at least for us. I suppose if I were You know, preaching to the preacher, they're going to be a different lesson, but for us, I think this is the most important lesson. Faith is not confidence, and confidence is not faith The two are related, but they are not synonymous. We must not confuse them. There are many. who have great confidence, who we will not see in heaven. They do not have saving faith. They are those who have the sh uh the separation of the sheep and the goats Will be put among the ghosts and they will turn to Jesus and go, Did we not cast out demons in your name? Did we not have great confidence? He will say, Away from me, I never knew you Confidence is not faith, and faith is not confidence. And there will be others at the judgment Among the sheep. And Jesus will say, come into my everlasting paradise, because you did this and this and this and this. And they will say, why did we do any of that? They had no confidence at all in what they were doing. Scriptures make a distinction, and Ezekiel illustrates it for us. He has No confidence. But that's precisely when faith matters. When you are sure in yourself you're not walking by faith. Fa is doing what you can't make sense of and can't see and cannot affirm for yourself. Ezek who has the same sense that you and I have. It's just craziness to preach the dry bones. I mean if if I wonder if living people are listening, he had to know they weren't listening. And he does it anyway. That faith taking that step When it makes no sense, when you have no confidence in it, when you cannot make sense of what God is doing, when he says, live this way. When he says, trust this Savior. And we see it still in the world today. In fact, he shared with me a stunning fact yesterday or two days ago, whenever it was. Across all of America today 80% of those who get married live together before doing so. By the way, the number of people who claim to be evangelical Christians is significantly higher than the 20% left over. Because we can't walk by faith. Because it makes no sense to us. Shouldn't we test this thing out? But the couple that goes to the altar having not lived together, Do they have confidence? No, they have all kinds of concerns about compatibility. Are we really going to be able to make this thing work? But that's exactly what faith is. I don't see it. I don't know how to make it work. But this is what God says to do. And I'm going to do it. I can't imagine how the thief on the cross is saved in his wickedness. But Jesus says, just trust me and I'll get you there. I can't imagine how I am going to be saved in my wickedness. And Jesus says, just trust me, I will get you there. Faith and confidence are not the same thing. Brothers and sisters, when you have doubts, when you have uncertainty, do not Just ignore them or set them aside or mad or try to quell them by your own power. You're not going to be able to, so stop trying to. Rather, see them for what they are. Opportunities to express faith, to act according to God's word, even against your better judgment. Even against everything that seems wise to you. Ezekiel didn't act in the absence of doubt. And his faith is all the more profound for his doubt. You ask me, Lord, if these bones can live, I don't really think so. But you're telling me to preach to them. And so I will preach to them. Some of you have been here long enough to appreciate the fact that we've had a front row seat to this, have we not? There was a time not that long ago Or at least one of the elders was wondering if it was time to pack it in and call it quit. Maybe I'm not called to this task. Maybe this is not what I'm supposed to be Because things are looking pretty. And by faith, you came along and said, no, no, no, keep doing it. Keep preaching. Just keep putting forth the Word of God. And here we are, able to testify with our own eyes to the power of the Word of God and His Spirit of work among His people. It wasn't confidence that got us here. And it was a reminder that these Things happen so that we might admit to ourselves and to our neighbors and to each other that only God can pull that off Spiritual death is a real thing. And making good the outward part of a person is not going to make them alive. We must for our part preach the Word of God into their lives and rely on the Spirit to make them alive. And if we will believe this and act accordingly, regardless of our confidence, regardless of our doubts. God will be faithful today as he was in Ezekiel's day. And dry bones will continue to come to light. And the army of the Lord will continue to grow. Let's pray. You, Lord, have the power to make this a reality among us. And we are blessed to have seen it with our own eyes. And so we read Ezekiel 37 and we say, Glory to God. We read Ezekiel 37 and we cry out amen. We read Ezekiel 37 and we say, let us walk forward with this kind of thing. That you will accomplish your work for your purposes among your people because they are your people and not ours. We praise you for the great things you have done already among us. And we look forward to your continued hand of grace as you continue to call dead souls to life, building your church to your glory. We pray this in Christ our Savior on that.