Open your Bibles if you would please to Ezekiel 40, Ezekiel chapter 40, and we'll be starting in verse 1 in a moment. It's page 864, if you want to use that Pew Bible that's in front of you there. We're going to be moving rather quickly through four chapters of Ezekiel this morning. And so I encourage you to keep your Bible open. Whether it be on your phone or a paper Bible, keep it open on your lap, on a pew next to you. I would also encourage you to maybe keep this insert nearby We'll be referring, it'll help you visualize what is described in these chapters. It's a two-sided document, if you want to look at both sides of that. And even if you are not a note taker, on this particular occasion, I'm going to encourage you to keep the bulletin open to those that outline that's there. Even if you don't take notes, it'll help us stay together and stay focused. This is a little more challenging sermon just because of the sheer content of the material. For that reason and for many others, let's pray before we dive into this. Spirit of God, we do ask that you would give us clarity of thought, that we would Hear the message that Ezekiel meant to deliver, that you gave him for your people back then and for your people today. And that we would see past. the details of the of the description to the importance of the meaning and the content behind these things. We ask that blessing in Christ's name. Amen. So, real quickly, in chapters 38 and 39 last week, we saw that Ezekiel saw a vision of a great and final battle. And it was set the vision was set in the defeat of a nation called Magog and her allies. And figuratively, they they came against God and his people and they were destroyed. It all happened at God's bidding. God invited them to come attack his people so that he might destroy them and give his people rest upon the earth The ultimate prize of that defeat in chapters 38 and 39 of Magog was the reunion of God and man upon the earth. The nine remaining chapters in Ezekiel turn their attention to that great hope. What we will see over the next few weeks as we wrap up our study of Ezekiel Is that these chapters lay forth Ezekiel's prophetic vision of what it looks like for God to return to the earth, to live among his people, to be in full communion with them. And us with him for full restoration. What does that look like? What does that take? How is that going to happen? How is that going to be made a reality? And in keeping with the ancient Israelites' understanding, that connection of God and man takes place in the temple. And so almost everything that comes in these next nine chapters is going to be one way or another connected to the concept of temple. Temple plays a prominent role in the remainder of Ezekiel. And so that's our focus today, the temple that he saw, the vision of the temple that was given to him. For you may recall that the temple in Jerusalem has been destroyed And so he now sees the last temple. We begin in chapter 40, verse 1. In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the 14th year, after the city was struck down on that very day. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me to the city, that is, to Jerusalem. In visions of God, he brought me to the land of Israel. and set me down on a very high mountain, on which was a structure like a city, to the south. When he brought me there, behold There was a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen cord and a measuring reed in his hand, and he was standing in the gateway. And the man said to me, Son of man, look with your eyes and hear with your ears, and set your heart upon all that I shall show you. For you were brought here in order that I might show it to you. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel. It's 573 BC. Ezekiel says 14 years since Jerusalem fell. By our way of reckoning, it would be 13 years. That's a technicality. Since the destruction of Solomon's Temple. The Jews that were left behind back in Palestine are suffering greatly. They have no king, they have no army, they have no walled city to defend them. They are at the whim of any power around them, and they are suffering. Those who are in exile with Ezekiel and Daniel are beginning to give up hope. That the nation of Israel will ever be reconstituted, that it'll ever be made again. And God doesn't want that to be the final reality in their minds. Hence this vision. A hope of a time when God will reside among his people. Now, to understand this vision, there's a few things we need to grasp, a few technicalities of the language and of the genre. So let me illustrate. If I began a story to you with the words, once upon a time, We all know that what follows is a fairy tale. It is fictional. It'll involve a journey or a quest of some kind. There will be trials to overcome. Good and evil will be clear-cut and in the end good will win out. And the whole story will teach some moral or principle. But if you're unfamiliar with that genre of literature and you hear once upon a time, you might be inclined to think, oh, this is history coming next. And you would be horribly wrong to interpret it that way. To hear the story of Cinderella as factual history is to completely miss the point of Cinderella. Too many people come to this passage of Ezekiel. and miss the signpost of the sort of literature we have here. You'll notice already we've seen twice the verbiage of like Something like this or like that. If you were here back at the beginning of our study of Ezekiel, you'll recall that his vision of the glory of God by the valley by the river Kabar He saw it looked like this and it looked like that and it sounded like this and like that because he couldn't tell us what it really was. He had no vocabulary for it He had never seen anything like it before. So he was describing what it was like in the best way he could explain it. This apparently is the same situation. Keep that in the back of your head. That's going to be an important clue. The other thing that's incredibly critically important here is this angelic tour guide This man who meets him on the mountaintop and is going to show him around for the next four chapters, show him around the temple complex. That is a literary marker, like once upon a time is for us. The ancients, when they read this, would have recognized right away that an angelic tour guide was a marker of apocalyptic literature, that this is a genre of literature. And as such, it is a genre that is heavily dependent upon symbols, upon a metaphor, upon figures of speech, and it is almost never to be taken literally. And I say that to say we are not going to get caught up in all the nitpicky details of this length and that thing and how to do that, to spend all of our time focused on those things. is really to miss what this is about. For this is apocalypse. It is symbol. It is evocative and emotional, and we must get at the meaning. And one of the first things we see is the measuring stick in the angel's hand. All that follows, and we're not going to read every verse of it or we would never get through today, all that follows is going to be replete with measurements. The angel is going to measure this, that, and the other thing over and over. We're going to read that he measured, that he measured, that he measured, that he measured. And we need to understand the significance of that. We'll talk more about that in a few minutes. And he's going to measure things in qubits and stadia and the sorts of measurements that were important to the ancient world. Let that be so. Don't worry about trying to convert this to feet or yards or miles. That really misses the point. What matters to us are going to be the numbers that he gives us, not the conversions that we would come up with. But because it's so full of so many details, there is an artist rendering, and we it's why I told you to keep this nearby, and it's really interesting. This is so well described that artists almost always agree on the more or less on what it looks like. You can go online and look at a hundred different artists for the Ezekiel Temple, and they all sort of look like this And so that you might want to keep that nearby as we talk about this just so you can picture what is being described in here Alright, so now let's walk through that's kind of an introductory, some introductory comments. Let's uh take a look at this the last temple and step into the outer court. In that outline, we're at Roman numeral 2, letter A. I'm going to pick up reading in verses 5 and 6 in Ezekiel 40. And behold, there was a wall all around the outside of the temple area. And the length of the measuring reed in the man's hand was six long cubits, each being a cubit and a hand breadth in length. So he measured the thickness of the wall. One reed, and the height, one reed. Then he went into the gateway facing east, going up into steps, and measured the threshold of the gate one reed deep. Verses 22 and 27 describe identical gates, also facing north and south, and they add the detail that each gate had seven steps Okay? So we see this wall, we see these gates through the wall, three gates, north, south, and east. All of them with seven steps. Verse 17, skipping down to verse 17, this is going to be important for us. Then he brought me into the outer court. And behold, there were chambers and a pavement all around the court. Thirty chambers faced the pavement. So here's the picture, okay, this walled court with three gates on it. And when you come into this courtyard area, it is actually a paved area, and around the walls are these. 30 chambers all facing in to that courtyard. So that's where things stand in the outer court If we look at the inner court, I pick up in verse 28. Pick me up in verse 28. Then he brought me to the inner court through the south gate, and he measured the south gate. It was of the same size as the others. A whole series of detailed measurements follow, and also there's going to be a confirmation of two additional identical gates. So just as the outer court had gates on the south, the east, and the north, so the inner court has gates on the south, the east, and the north. I should note also that these inner gates, like the outer gates, also have steps. Eight steps, rather than the seven we saw before. Now look down with me at verse 44. On the outside of the inner gateway, there were two chambers in the inner court, one at the side of the north gate facing south, the other at the side of the south gate facing north And he said to me, This chamber that faces south is for the priests who have charge of the temple, and the chamber that faces north is for the priests who have charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who alone among the sons of Levi might come near to the Lord to minister to him. So here we see two buildings on either side of the temple proper, one to the north, one to the south. The architecture, which we didn't read as described elsewhere, is one of the few places in this entire description of the temple That's a little vague. Modern uh interpreters are not a hundred percent certain what was meant, but nevertheless, we see that these two buildings exist. And so verse 47 brings us kind of to the focal point of the inner court. And this is the geometric center of the whole complex Verse 47. And he measured the court, and a hundred cubits long, and a hundred cubits broad, a square. And the altar was in front of the temple. Okay, so here we go. We have a large paved outer court with three gates and thirty chambers. Three identical gates lead into the inner court. It too is walled off. It has buildings that are designed for the priest. We'll learn more about those in a few moments. And at its very center is an altar. And of note, and I think of great significance, is that the gates to the outer and inner court are aligned in such a way that if one stood outside the complex, you could see straight into the altar. Okay? So that's kind of the sense of the whole complex so far. Alright, we catch up with Ezekiel now in chapter 41. Alright, and he is brought to the front step of the temple proper. Chapter 41, verse 1. Then he brought me to the knave and measured the jams. On each side, six cubits with the breadth of the jams. And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the side walls on the entrance were five cubits on either side, and he measured the length of the nave forty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits. Then he went into the inner room and measured the jams of the entrance. Entrance, two cubits, and the entrance, six cubits. And the sidewalls on either side of the entrance, seven cubits. And he measured the length of the room, twenty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits, across the nave. And he said to me, This is the most holy place. Now notice there continues to be this emphasis upon measurements. But more importantly for right now for us, the interior is analogous. to the Temple of Solomon and to the tabernacle before that. There are two rooms inside the temple proper. The outer, which Ezekiel calls the knave, is what we would hear in Solomon's temple called the holy place. The inner is called the most holy place, or in some translations, the holy of holies. Look down now at verse 18 and 19, and he describes the interior in a bit more detail. It was carved of cherubim and palm trees. A palm tree between cherub and cherub, every cherub had two faces, a human face toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around, from the floor to above the door. Cherubim and palm trees were carved. Similarly, the wall of the nave. You'll notice I have not read every verse, but I have tried to pick up those verses that highlight the key things inside the temple. And you're going to have to, you know, actually don't trust me. Go read this later in detail. But for now, trust me, in that I have given you the key things that are in there. And so we must think like a Jew of Ezekiel's day. What has he not mentioned? What has he left omitted from his description Moving on. The priestly chambers, 42, verse 1. Then he led me out into the outer court toward the north. And he brought me to the chambers that were opposite the separate yard and opposite the building on the north. Now there it could be a little confusing here. We said those Teresa chambers were in the inner court, and he says he was brought out to the outer court. What's going on here is that he has been taken to the outer court and he's turned around and he's looking back at the temple building and he's looking back into the inner court. Move down with me to verses thirteen and fourteen. Then he said to me, The north chambers and the south chambers opposite the yard are the holy chambers where the priests who approach the Lord shall eat the most holy offerings. There they shall put the most holy offerings, the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering, for the place is holy. When the priests enter the holy place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court without laying there the garments in which they minister. for these are holy. They shall put on other garments before they go near to that which to go I'm sorry. They shall put on other garments before they go near to that which is for the people. So these buildings are set aside for priestly use, for the preparation and consumption of holy meals. It would be something akin to our communion service. And they're also for the storage of the holy garments. So now we move to part E, the whole complex. The the angel guide, if you've got a sense of this, the angel guide has taken Ezekiel through the outer court, through the inner court, into the temple proper. Now he's gone back outside, he's looking at some things. And now he's going to take him back out to the outside of the whole complex and to consider it once more. So look at 4220. He stands now outside of the entire complex. He, that is the angel tour guide, measured it on the four sides. It had a wall around it. 500 cubits long and 500 cubits broad, to make a separation between the holy and the common. This complex is huge. On the back of that handout, there are proportions. You can see there the temple that Ezekiel saw, the temple that Solomon, the orange one there in the middle that Solomon built. Herod's huge expanded temple and a modern American football field, all for the sake of comparison. This complex is enormous, and it is perfectly symmetrical. It is perfectly symmetrical. So that's the complex in itself and kind of the highlights of its descriptions. In the outline then, if you're following that outline on the bulletin, we're now at Roman numeral three, and we now come to the obvious question. So here we have this most uh beautiful this most beautifully described, uh detailed d description of this temple. So the quite it begs the question, if this temple is so uh beautifully described and given so much detail It kind of wants you kind of presumes that it was meant to be built, right? It kind of feels that way. And so we ask this question, when and where was this ever built? And the short answer is it wasn't. The Old Testament describes three temples, the one built by Solomon, the one built by Ezra, the so-called Second Temple, and this one, but this one was never constructed And some have speculated that perhaps Ezra was supposed to build this temple, and that Ezra failed in his calling by building some smaller temple. And yet that seems unlikely. For if we were to begin to look at this in relation to the actual geography of ancient Jerusalem This temple is impossible. It cannot be built in Jerusalem. Or at least not in the way that it would have been, it would have existed back then. We'll talk more about that in a few minutes. So this temple was never built, and it seems that it would have been impossible to build. And so we might ask the question, okay, well then is there going to be some point in the future where it'll be built, where the engineering technology will exist. But the moment you dive into these kinds of questions, you run into a problem of biblical prophecy. We run into the issue of the fact, as we already said, this is apocalyptic literature. It is symbolic literature. And our New Testament reading was from the other well-known apocalyptic books, book, sometimes called the Apocalypse of John, the Book of Revelation. And it is symbolic literature. And if we take these two to be literal, we have a real problem. But more on that in a moment. Before we jump there, let's take a closer look at Ezekiel itself. I already mentioned that back in chapter 40, verse 2, he spoke of a something, a structure like a city to the south. and a man who was like blondes, and we saw this idea of this verbiage of the like, that that is a clue to us that what he's seeing is not something he's ever seen before. And he cannot describe it. It is not something of his world. So to imagine that it was to have been built in his world is to immediately be a odds Solomon's temple was built of raw materials that he had readily available to him. Ezekiel is seeing something like this or like that. He can't actually describe it with specificity. And it's built on a very high mountain. If we're going to take this literally, we have a problem. For there is no mountain in Jerusalem that meets that definition. Even the Temple Mount in Jerusalem was not regarded in the ancient world as a very high mountain. And now we come back to the issue of the size. If this temple were to be built. The top half of that mountain would have to be torn off to make a platform large enough for this temple. And what was not a very high mountain would be even a less high mountain at that point. So if we force literalness on this, we run into some real issues. Okay? So we have this, and then we remember that he saw this tour guide, and that was a clue. This is apocalyptic literature. It's supposed to be taken symbolically. Now We go to the New Testament and try to wrap this up. See what the rest of the Bible has to say about it. And we heard in our New Testament reading in verse 22, and I saw no temple in the city For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. You know, there are a lot of sensational books and movies that are based on a literal interpretation of the book of Revelation. But these are the sorts of details that get left out because they don't fit the narrative. If we take Ezekiel literally and we take Revelation literally, then they literally contradict each other. For Ezekiel is saying that there's going to be this temple built someday, and Revelation says there is no temple. When God resides on the earth with his people. Ezekiel's vision of these next nine chapters is God residing on the earth with his people. John's vision in the book of Revelation is God residing on the earth with his people. They're seeing the same thing, and they're seeing Exactly opposite information with regard to the temple. Do we throw the Bible out at this point? Do we argue that it contradicts itself? No, the answer is we accept the fact that this literature is symbolic And that each must be interpreted within its own context, within its own set of symbols. That uh uh uh Ezekiel writes at a time and to a people. Who knew that sacrifice was necessary to approach God. Now they knew that a Messiah was needed, but it's not at all clear that they in that in their day they had connected those two things, the Messiah and the sacrifice. And in fact, what do we see when the Messiah comes? That the Jews, even Jesus' own disciples Can't wrap their head around the idea that the Messiah would be the sacrifice. So Ezekiel's symbolism fits his day When we understand that need, they still understood the need for the ongoing sacrifice. Hence there is a temple. John's revelation comes at a time after the great sacrifice of the Christ. And the people to whom he writes understands that that sacrifice has been made, and so there is no need for the temple. Each must stand on its own and be interpreted. with the symbolism that is there. So we have a temple that was never built, and I'm now arguing it's not going to be built. That it's a symbolic gesture. And so we it begs the question, what's the point? Roman numeral four, what's the point? of all of this. Why such a detailed account, detailed description of a temple that is never going to be built? Well let's walk through the descriptions and see if we can't make some sense of them. First of all, there is the edenic imagery. I'm taking these kind of in the ascending order of their importance in my judgment, and I begin here. We saw in the inner walls of the sanctuary that there were cherubim carved and palm trees carved. This is a reflection of what was in Solomon's temple and a reflection of what was in the tabernacle before that. This imagery goes back at least a thousand years in Jewish life and has always been understood to point back to the first. Temple. Do you know what the first temple was? If temple is where God meets man and man meets God, then the first temple was Eden. For God walked in the cool of the evening with Adam. And it has always been understood that the carvings in the most holy place of the tabernacle, well, it would have been sewing into the veils and the m and the tabernacle, the carvings in T almost temple and the carvings here point back to Eden. The cherub that guarded Eden, that that was on its outskirts and the fruitfulness, the palm tree, the pomegranates in the tabernacle, the fruitfulness of Eden. Because that's the one time on this earth where we have communed with our God the way we were intended. So Ezekiel's vision of God is rooted in the history of Eden. Then we look at we we look at the the order and the symmetry of the description that's here. When we're reading these four chapters, we are overwhelmed by the measurements. Everything is measured, everything is laid out, everything is uniform, everything is specific. And all of those measurements point to a place that is ordered and symmetrical. There is nothing haphazard about this temple. There is no detail left to man, but it is all addressed by God. And there's no detail out of place. No, and the nothing there breaks the flow or draws undue attention. The moment something's out of place, that's when we notice it, right? You know, if we put a chair in the middle of the aisle here, that's all you would notice when you walked in. By being so ordered, the attention is never taken from where it needs to be You know, when Paul writes to the Corinthian church, he spends a great deal of time addressing the orderliness of worship. That Christian worship is to be conducted with an element of decorum and an air of reverence. Now where does Paul get that? Where in the Old Testament is it explicitly stated that worship must be orderly and reverent and conducted with decorum? Well the answer is right here among some other places, but right here is one of these places. This sort of description would have impressed upon the Jews' mind of Paul's day. that God, their God, was a God of order and not of chaos. By the way, the ramifications of this are huge. You do understand that despite the fact that in today's world we pit science and Christianity against each other, historically science was rooted in Christianity When a uh uh a Buddhist who doesn't believe that God there is a God that's going to do anything orderly and it's just all kind of this random whatever, there's no point in studying the universe because you can't predict it. It's only many full even many atheistic philosophers will admit that it was only in the realm of the orderliness of Christianity that there was any point in pursuing scientific endeavors. to actually understand the world. Our God is a God of order. Weaves were the aspect of the curse, the chaos. was an aspect of the curse. Man was created to rule over and subdue the chaos. He was put in Eden. He was to extend the garden over all the earth. And at the pinnacle of all of that would be the worship of our God. So the orderliness, the symmetry, all matters. Part C, the elevation changes. We've noted this, that with each transition, when you go from the common into the courtyard, You go up seven steps. When you go from the outer courtyard to the inner courtyard, you go up eight steps. When you go from the inner courtyard into the nave, you go up ten steps. I think I forgot to mention that. You go up ten steps. Total of 25 steps from the outside to the presence of God in the temple. And the symbolism is clear. That there is this ascension, there is this upward movement toward meeting God. Not because God is physically bound to high places. But rather for the metaphor of that, for the imagery of that, that we are, that God is elevated, that he is lifted up, that he is made high. We get to part D. We have these barriers and boundaries throughout this temple that Ezekiel describes. There are the structural or physical barricades and boundaries. There, you know, upon walking up to this structure, had it ever been built, upon walking up to this structure, the most prominent feature would have been a wall, a barrier. A boundary. Access was encumbered. It was limited. It was not open to everyone. That is one of the most fundamental purposes of walls they keep out. Now this complex, if you get through that outer wall, what greets you? Another wall, another barrier, another layer of defense, of protection. You get past that wall and get into the inner courtyard. What do you see there? A third barrier. The door of the temple is closed. In each step, there is a barrier. There is something that keeps people back from God. No church architect worth his salt today would dare build a church building like this. We're not going to let you in. We don't want you to join us. But it was for a point. It was for a purpose. The ceremonial barriers. This one's interesting. Did we catch all that was going on? That you you know you go in there and you have these priests, you have these uh rooms, you have these places, that you have all these things you have to do. Let me see if I can illustrate the significance of all of these things. Some years back we were working on putting some shells in a hunting cabin. One of the men who was helping us decided that he had exactly the right tool. So we could make these shelves perfectly and he took off to go get that tool. The three of us who were left behind looked at each other and went, a hunting cabin is the very definition of rustic and imperfect. And we had the shelves built before he got back. The exact right tool for the job can actually slow things down sometimes. That's the point here. All of these chambers kept the exact right knives that had to be used for the sacrifice. All of these chambers held the exact right utensils. that needed to be used to collect the blood from the sacrifice. All these Jesus had the exact right garments, the exact right this. The priests had to go and change their clothes. They had to go and get those things. They had to your sacrifice was not going to be hurried. By design, the ceremonial elements of this temple kept you back They slowed you down. They made the approach more difficult. It was on purpose. And what do we see even with the robes? The priests were to change when they went into the inner courtyard out of their street clothes into their priestly robes, and before they returned to the to the outer courtyard, they were to change back into their street clothes. Why do judges wear robes? It's to remind them and everyone else That in that office, in that place, acting in that capacity, it was something different from the rest of their lives. In that time with that robe on, that judge is supposed to be acting as a neutral arbiter of the law. He's supposed to forget about his frustrations he had that morning on the drive-in. She's supposed to forget about whatever aggravations she had with her husband this week and to put on that robe and function in that capacity. setting apart that portion of his or her life from the rest of their lives. The priests were supposed to do the same. So that their ministries on behalf of God would be set off from everything else they did. The whole picture is that getting to God was not easy. It was not easy. You had to go through gates and up steps and had to do this ceremonial washing and that ceremonial preparation and then you had to go through more gates and up more steps and getting to God was encumbered. And it was not cheap. Look at point E. I haven't said very much about the altar, but Ezekiel's detailed description of the complex makes clear to any careful reading That the altar is the centerpiece of this complex. Now pause on that for just a moment. Had I asked you to predict ahead of time what would be the centerpiece, the central location, the heart of the ultimate temple to God I think most of us would have said, well, the holy of holies. The most holy place. That should be at the very center of the complex. But it isn't. It's the altar that is dead center in this entire complex. Secondly, the altar, as we already have mentioned, is visible Upon entering the complex, if you're off to the side somewhere, all you see is a wall. The moment you stand in front of the gate, you could see through the outer gate, through the inner gate. and to the altar. It was visible the moment you were aligned at the entrance. It was the dominating element. Of this entire complex. Access to God was through atonement How does the author of Hebrews say it? Without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. If one wished to ascend all the steps and go to God, Someone or something had to die on that altar. So here's where we stand. Ezekiel describes in great detail a temple never to be built It is adorned with edenic imagery dominated by barriers, physical and ceremonial. Crossing each barrier requires ascension. And at the very heart of the worship complex was sacrifice and altar. God was literally walled off. To get to him took some doing, and it must be accompanied by an atoning sacrifice. Which brings us back to the question we started with in this section. What's the point? What is the point? Why is all of this here? Well, you can be forgiven if you're still a little hazy because I've kind of omitted the key text so far And it oh, looks like I forgot to put it in the bulletin also. Sorry about that. 43, 1 to 5. Note that down in your bulletin. 43, 1 to 5. Let me read it. Then he uh the angel to her guide, then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east, and behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the east. And the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory. And the vision I saw was just like the vision I had seen when he came to destroy the city. Remember back in Ezekiel 10, 11. where Ezekiel saw the glory leave the city. Here he sees the glory returning to the city. And it was just like the vision that I had that I had seen by the Chebar Canal. The opening vision way back at the beginning of Ezekiel. And I fell on my face. As the glory of the Lord entered the temple by the gate facing east, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple. When we were taking our tour through the temple along with Ezekiel, I asked you to think like a Jew for a moment. And to ask yourself what was missing? What did Ezekiel not describe? And the answer is, of course, the Ark of the Covenant The Ark of the Covenant is missing from this temple. For almost 900 years, that box with winged cherubim on top of it had been the centerpiece of true religion on the earth. The manifestation of God's presence among his people. But it had always been the footstool of God. The place where he touches down on the earth, but not in his fullness, not in the entirety of who he is. Yes, a wonderful blessing that even his feet would be rested among us. But the imagery here is different This isn't God merely touching down among us. It's the fullness of God inhabiting his people. The fullness of God entering the temple, the fullness of the glory of God flooding the temple. What Ezekiel sees here, the reason there is no Ark of the Covenant. is because no longer is God depicted as being confined to a little space But rather he fills all of it. This image is an image that is not of a restoration of what was, but something that infinitely surpasses any religion that had yet been known upon the earth. His people, God was going to be among his people as he never had been before. But anyone who was going to join God, anybody who wanted to be a part of that, anyone who would enter his presence was going to have to come to grips with who God is. And that's the heart of this temple. This temple is an object lesson in the character and nature of God. He is inapproachable. He is uh uh uh unavailable to mere man. Nowhere in Scripture is God a POW. A friend, a buddy. It's only in the arrogance of 21st century American Christianity that we have this idea that God can be approached in that kind of casual way. It's not biblical Christianity. It's friendship perversion of Christianity, I guess. The God seen here is not the man upstairs He's a God that's dangerous to us, who must be walled off from us and we from him if we're going to live. This is this temple is the, I, in the the the title of the sermon I call it the deabstraction If holiness was an abstract idea, this temple makes it a concrete idea. It's the disabstraction of holiness. It's three-dimensional holiness. It's holiness you could walk in and see it. That there were barriers and boundaries, that there was a way to come to God and only one way to come to God. That no matter what door you came in, you had to go to that altar. And a sacrifice had to be made. Ezekiel saw a day when God would be on earth among his people, but his view, Ezekiel's view, would have been limited, his understanding would have been incomplete. He still saw a temple with barriers and an altar because he lived among a people who were sinners and needed to be kept back from God. Which is why Ezekiel's counterpart, John, in the New Testament, is so important to us. He saw a similar vision, but he sees it after the Christ, after Jesus after the one perfect sacrifice was made. And so he sees not a temple, not an altar, but he sees the church itself What did our New Testament reading say? We make the mistake of reading Revelation 21 as though it describes a city. No, it tells us right at the beginning that it's the bride of Christ that John saw. And everywhere that is only the church. It's not a city. It's us being described. In beauty, in perfection, in fullness, in completeness, and God in our midst no longer walled off. For the perfect sacrifice has now been offered. If Ezekiel's temple Taught Israel that God is holy and costly to approach. The cross drives that point home Not because the cross made God an easier God, a more casual God, a friendlier God. No, because at the cross the enormous price was paid. God didn't become less holy at the cross. God did not become more of a buddy at the cross. Rather, Jesus sacrificed himself on that altar. So that any who believed in him could enter into the presence of God. That's why John sees the people of God on the new earth without a temple. Because there is no longer going to be a barrier between us and our God. Ezekiel's temple sets before us a picture of the holiness of God. But the rest of Scripture reveals to us how it is we approach such perfection. We do so in Christ Jesus our Savior. Let's pray.