The digital recording file of the Call of Ezekiel, the second sermon in our Ezekiel series, preached September 28, 2025, was, for unknown reasons, empty. This is a desktop discussion of that same content. Our examination of the call of Ezekiel begins in Ezekiel 1, verse 1. In the thirtieth year in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the exiles by the Jebar Canal, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God. Scholars are reasonably confident that the Chebar Canal is the Shah'an Mil River in modern-day Iraq. It was dug millennia ago as an irrigation channel that ran southeast from the Euphrates River past ancient Babylon. So one of the first things we have to recognize, have to understand about Ezekiel is that he does not live in the promised land, and his ministry is not in or around Jerusalem or Samaria or the temple or any of the places which are most familiar to us from the Old Testament. Now this can be a little disorienting. When we think of Old Testament prophets, we think of Isaiah in the courts of the kings of Judah. Or eighty years later we picture Jeremiah preaching fire in Jerusalem's streets or from the temple steps. Why then is Ezekiel some 900 miles away in Babylon? The answer to that question is central to understanding the book of Ezekiel, and it's the first main point of our sermon. Ezekiel is known as an exilic prophet, an exilic prophet. He lived and ministered in exile. He lived among a few thousand other Jewish exiles outside of Babylon, and his ministry was to those exiles. In order to understand Ezekiel, we have to understand the nature of the exile itself and the history behind it So we back up to 605 B. C. King Jehoiakim of Judah ignores the counsel of the prophet Jeremiah. He sides politically and militarily with Egypt against the invading Babylonian army Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, he defeated Pharaoh Neko of Egypt, and then he turned his attention to Jerusalem and laid siege. Jehaiken quickly capitulated. He agreed to pay an annual tribute. Um if To give you some sense of what we mean by an annual tribute, it's something akin to a mafia protection racket, except on a national scale. Pay up or we'll beat you up. That's kind of the sense of it. So he agrees to pay an annual tribute to Babylon. And Judah becomes a vassal state of Babylon. And this really was the beginning of the end of the Davidic dynasty, though at the time very few could see it. Also as part of the siege settlement, Nebuchadnezzar hauled off a small number, we don't know for sure, maybe a few hundred. Nebuchadnezzar hauled off a small number of Judah's elite. And among those was a teenager named Daniel. A teenager named Ezekiel would have witnessed all of this. He would have been about seventeen or so at the time, and he lived in Jerusalem at the time. Anyway, King Jehaiakim grew tired of being cash-strapped, of paying that annual tribute to Babylon. And so he ignored Jeremiah's advice a second time, and he stopped paying the annual tribute. Now he died, so he didn't get to see how this all played out, but it did not go well. Nebuchadnezzar returned in force. um and collected the tribute that was owed with interest, if you will. He did this by stripping the Solomon's temple of all of its gold, silver, and bronze, leaving little more than wood and stone behind. He also confiscated everything that was in Jerusalem's treasury. At this time, instead of taking a few hundred people, he deported somewhere around 10,000 Jews, including the new king, Jehaishin. And Ezekiel, who was a 25-year-old apprenticed priest. Now the second and third verses of Ezekiel are the only, instead of the little technical point, are the only ones in all of the book which speak in the third person. Unlike Isaiah and Jeremiah, most scholars believe Ezekiel himself actually wrote his book, rather than having one of his students or one of his disciples compile it. Yet the person to whom he entrusted it upon his death, and that's a name long since lost to history, uh that person felt the need to explain verse 1 and inserted verses 2 and 3 as a commentary on verse 1. So Ezekiel speaks through the fifth day of the fourth month of the 30th year. But the 30th year of what? Hence the insert. Verse 2. On the fifth day of the month, it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jehoiashid. And there we have, oh I should keep reading. The word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest So here we see his Ezekiel's priesthood established, and and that'll become important in the in the sermons to come. But we also see now a connection to something concrete in history so that we can begin to date this. The fifth year of the exile of King Johayashin. Well, we know in what year King Jeha Shim was exiled. We can count forward five years. We can compare their calendar to our calendar. So the fifth day of the fourth month of their calendar in that year. is July 31, 593 B. C. , according to our calendar. So what is the 30th year of which Ezekiel speaks? Well, it's almost universally accepted. that he means to say the 30th year of his life, his 30th year. Now that too is going to turn out to be important. We are a youth-driven culture, and so we kind of tend to look at the 30th birthday as something we maybe don't celebrate quite as much as we did the 29th that came before. We see it as the passing of our youth. But in that culture, um age was honored, experience was honored and exalted, um wisdom was admired, and so turning thirty was a uh a time of admission uh to the to the big boy table, if you will, to the adult table. At age 30, a man could become an elder in his community. Some years later, it was at age 30 that he could become a member of the council of the Sanhedrin, the synagogue. At age 30, an apprentice could become a priest. and begin to enter into the temple on his own and to minister before God. So this is his 30th year, and it seems to have hit Ezekiel hard. It was a time when he would have looked forward to going into God's presence in the temple in Jerusalem, and yet he finds himself 900 miles away. unable to fulfill that priestly calling upon his life. It's interesting to me how we tend to want God to appear in times of despair. We don't really seem to long for God to make himself known, to be present among us during times of great joy. Rarely do I hear anyone stop and wish that God would have made himself known while they were celebrating a promotion at work or they were excited about the birth of a child. No, it's the opposite. We long for God's presence when that child dies or when we lose our job. It's during dark times that we generally want God to draw near to us. Now to the praise of God's glorious grace, that is exactly the sort of times in which he tends to make his presence known. If you look across the pages of the scripture, most of the theophanies, most of the appearances of God are at times of difficulty. Now there's a beautiful uh grace to the vision that we read about last week. As terrifying as it might have been. How wonderful is it that God chose to visit Ezekiel in a place and at a time when Ezekiel could not visit God? In all of the book of Ezekiel, this is one of the very few biographical notes that he includes, and I suspect it's there precisely because it impacted him that he noticed that God came to him at the time in that year when he was so down about his predicament, about his situation as an exile. God came to him in that year. And allowed him to meet his God. Now I'm going to explain how Ezekiel came to be an exilic prophet, but we also need to understand his significance as an exilic prophet. First of all, we've got to appreciate the fact that God found him in exile. God came to Ezekiel in Babylon. Now we live on this side of the cross where the gospel of Jesus Christ has gone around the world several times over, so we don't think regionally or parochially, but they most certainly did. If you stop and think about the history of Israel and of Judaism in the Old Testament, it was a very place-centric religion. By the time of Ezekiel, almost all of them imagine that God's presence was in the temple in Jerusalem. Period. That's it. That's where he was. After all, even the Psalmists talk about him being the God who was enthroned upon the cherubim. Those cherubim were on top the Ark of the Covenant. That Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies, in the Temple, in Jerusalem. Even a proper biblical godly Judaism back then would have been a profoundly uh location-centric religion in a way that our Christianity tends not to be. Reflect on their history. Why did they have to get out of Egypt? So that they might worship their God Why couldn't they just set up camp in the wilderness? No, God wanted them to go to the promised land. And when they got to the promised land, were the high priests allowed to just go to any old hilltop? to meet with God? No. There was a tent called the Tent of Meeting, the Tabernacle, and the priests had to go there. Long before the temple, the place mattered, and the temple simply amplified such thinking. Because of its beauty, because of its grandeur, everything else. So while Ezekiel had may not have lost his faith in God, he imagined himself to be in a place where drawing near to God was never going to happen. And yet it happened. Now, to be sure, Israel had never imagined their God to be God's power to be limited regionally or geographically No, Jonah preached in Nineveh and warned them against God's power. Obadiah warned the Edomites of God's judgment. Always Israel saw their God as the God over all the world. But they also tended to see him as his manifesting his presence and showing his glory in the temple in Jerusalem And so the appearance of God to Ezekiel on the plains of Babylonia would have been a profoundly What about a profound theological broadening as uh as they thought about their God. And it's uh reminder to us that we do not ourselves fall into any kind of localized view of God. That we do not imagine He is present only when we go to church or only in our morning prayer time. God's manifest presence would have been a shock to Ezekiel and probably rattled his theology in the best way possible. And we need to learn the lesson alongside of him. We need to understand the meaning of omnipresence. Our God is everywhere. Now there's great comfort to be had in this doctrine. There are no circumstances where our God is not with us, not able to save us, not able to keep us for his purposes. No alley is too dark, no addiction too deep, no love of money too all-encompassing, that God cannot come to us and call us out for his purposes. But there's also great warning to be had. There is no place we can go where our sin is not explicitly in front of God's face. Okay, so Ezekiel is an exilic prophet living not in Jerusalem but in Babylonia, and God has made himself known to him even there. Now, let's move down to the end of chapter 1. And actually picking up at the very last sentence of chapter one and then reading on into chapter two and three. And when I saw the glory of Yahweh, I fell on my face and I heard the voice of one speaking, and he said to me, Son of man, stand on your feet and I will speak with you. And as he spoke to me, the Spirit entered me and set me on my feet, and I heard him speaking to me. And that alone is a beautiful sentence right there God has knocked Ezekiel off his feet by the revelation of his glory, and yet God restores him to his feet. He is able to make him stand. It's reminiscent of Romans 14. And he, God, said to me, Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to nations of rebels who have rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day. The descendants also are impudent and stubborn. I send you to them, and you shall say to them, Thus says Yahweh Elohim, the Lord God. Now let's pause there for just a moment and digest what's being said. Ezekiel is not being sent home to Jerusalem. So we have to ask ourselves, in what sense is God sending him to the rebellious people of Israel? Well, the exiles living in and around Ezekiel were not living in prison camps. They had houses. There was They were semi-autonomous communities? Ezekiel's going to reference his own home and he's going to talk about the council of elders in his community? Jeremiah writes letters to the exiles and they to him. All in all, the exile community had it pretty good, actually. How good? We have fast forward 120 years, and the scribe Ezra is deeply distraught. Because when the new king allowed the exiles to return to their homelands, very few chose to do so. Very few Jews go back to Jerusalem and Judah. Excuse me. Instead, they remained as expatriates. And until about a century ago, there was a huge population of Jews still living in what is today modern-day Iraq. Much like the Jewish diaspora in Alexandria, Egypt, which, by the way, included the prophet Jeremiah against his will. The community in around Babylon was uh it became a very scholarly and historically important Jewish community. In time, this group compiled and formed much of the Old Testament in the way that we have it today, at least that which existed. before they were exiled. Um for centuries they had just taken for granted that any document put in the temple in Jerusalem would be perfectly safe, and why why worry about it? Why make copies of it? And now they understood. And so they began to copy the scriptures and compile them and arrange them and refine them to be what we are accustomed to seeing in the Old Testament. This community in Babylonia would eventually help give rise to the synagogue system, since they couldn't go to temple They needed some other place to gather uh as a community and to worship. Their minority status, interestingly enough, actually helped s create and cement their identity as Jews. So, for example, the Passover had often been ignored while they lived in the Promised Land. But it becomes an institution while they live in Babylon. And the annual celebration becoming a marker of who they were, and therefore they would never let it go again. The scholars have long agreed that the wise men who come from the East who visit the baby Jesus Todd or Jesus were almost certainly uh descendants of this group of exiles. For if you think about it What pagan Iraqi or Persian, Mesopotamian in the ancient world, would ever go looking for the birth of the Jewish Messiah? We tend to think of the Babylonian exile as this national trauma for Jews, and in many ways it was But there were also a significant number of Jewish exiles who were happier in exile, content to live relatively comfortable and peaceable lives. Now, aside from the historical connections, helping us tie a few loose ends, a few loose threads in our knowledge, helping tie them together, how does this help us understand Ezekiel? Well, first It helps us understand how God can say that Ezekiel's ministry in Babylonia is a ministry to the rebellious people of Israel. Many of them are there with him, and whatever he says to them, they are free to communicate back home. So there's a free flow of correspondence between Jerusalem Jews and exiled Jews. So they would be able to say to their friends and loved ones back home, Hey, there's this prophet among us, and he's giving us God's word, and let me pass it along to you Second, it helps us understand the kind of the bizarre sentence that God is going to speak next. Look at verse 5. And whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house, they will know their prophet has been among them. We have to scratch our head for a moment and go, wait a second, there's a chance they're going to refuse to hear? Even after being exiled, even after being hauled away to a far away, faraway land, there's a chance they won't listen And we ask ourselves, how stubborn could they be? How stupid were they? And we quickly realize they are us kind of stupid and us kind of stubborn. First, consider the history we've already reviewed. It was because King Jehoiakim ignored Jeremiah twice that they end up in this situation at all. So we already see this tendency to double down on disobedience And the church over the last 150, 200 years, has been no different. Religious liberalism, the sort which takes a lax view of the Bible's authority and infallibility always sticks its nose under the tent by promising growth. You know, if we will just ordain women, then the crowds will love us and they will stream through our doors. And so churches ordain women. But instead of praise the local newspapers, they only scoff, well, it's about time you did this. And maybe a few more come in for a time. But inevitably the numbers shrink. Now do they admit their mistake and turn back to the Word of God? Never They double down. It's women and gays. We have to we have to uh uh honor their form of love and we've got to acknowledge their marriages and yes, even ordain them to the ministry, and then everybody will Lovos and our churches will grow. It's not a coincidence that every dying small town church, no matter how broke it is, has money enough to fly a rainbow flag on its lawn. We don't learn when our defiance of the Word of God actually hurts us. They didn't either. They they had been s uh uh uh their their their temple and their their uh Palaces had been stripped bare by Babylon, their elite had been hauled off, and yet they God implies that they're not going to listen to the prophet despite all of these warning signs Humanity's refusal to listen to God isn't really stupidity. We've got to be a little careful using that word. It is stubbornness. It is moral refusal to put ourselves under the authority of the Almighty. We think up in verse 6. And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briars and thorns are with you, and you sit on scorpions. Be not afraid of their words. nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house, and you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house This doesn't really sound like a mayor may not situation anymore. It really sounds like they're not going to listen. The emphasis is on their rebellious nature. Verse 8. But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Be not rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I give you. When I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me, and behold, the scroll of a book was in it, and he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe. And he said to me, Son of man, eat whatever you find here. Eat this scroll and go and speak to the house of Israel. So I opened my mouth, and he gave me the scroll to eat, and he said to me, Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you, and fill your stomach with it. And I ate it, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey. Ezekiel the book is full of symbols and here is one of the earlier ones. It's not that hard to to decode. Ezekiel is told to eat this scroll, symbolic of the Word of God, the written word. He does, and it is sweet to him. Well, honey was the definition of s of deliciousness in ancient Israel and throughout most of the ancient Near East. The psalmists speak of the Word of God, the law of God being sweet to them, uh sweet like honey to them. Clearly the picture here is that This was something wonderful to Ezekiel, that he enjoyed it, that he was going to be a man of the word of God. But the symbolism doesn't stop with his taste. It extends also to the very ingestion of the scroll. What scripture did Jesus quote during his temptation? Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word which comes from the mouth of the Lord. Ezekiel is to be a man who lives on and for God's word. It is to become part of him. He is to take it in, and it's uh and it's to nourish his very soul. You know, this has some interesting implications. Uh-uh. We have to think about what this means for us personally. It's really important to note what isn't required here, what isn't necessary of Ezekiel. There is no pretense of ritual necessary. He's not to build a new temple and then resume all the ritual. He's to be consumed with and to be a consumer of the word. Now, I'm not saying that we should do away with ritual, and I'm not saying that we shouldn't have them in our church. But if we partake of the Lord's table and imagine that our partaking is what is important. Our participation in the ritual is what matters. We've missed the point. Ezekiel's called not to be a man of ritual, though he was trained in it as a priest. He's called to be a man of the Word of God. And that is incumbent upon us. To be faithful in a dark, rebellious world. We need to be consumers of God's word, of what he says, of the Bible, of the Scripture. Is there a place for the baptisms that we celebrated in this service? Yes, they're essential, they're necessary, we should never think of doing without them. But they're not what make us Christian. They are what mark us as Christian. Is there a place for the Lord's Supper? Yes, there's a reason we have come to a weekly celebration of the Lord's table rather than monthly. But it is not what saves us. We are not Christian because we partake of the table. We partake of the table because we are Christian. We are Christians because the Word of God has stirred life. Within us has brought us to life. Ezekiel is to be a man who lives upon the word of God. It also reminds us our church is going to be considering nominees for officers here in a couple of months What is one of the characteristics that we're supposed to look at of an officer? Does he live like a man who is filled with the Word of God? Does the Word of God flow out of his life? Does he is his life rooted in the Word of God? These are the characteristics that should mark our officers, our deacons, and our elders. And finally, you know, our our the the principle here that An effective minister of God's Word ought to be a man who you know lives and reads the Bible. That it ought to be who he is, that it ought to ooze out of who he is. Are we going to avoid hypocrisy? No. We are going, you know, it hypocrisy is going to happen. We're going to say that God is holy and we are going to fail in our holiness. We are going to say that God is love and we are going to fail in our love. And we're going to say that Jesus forgives sins and we are not going to be as forgiving as we ought to be. We are not going to avoid hypocrisy in this life. But hypocrisy must not be the hallmark of who we are. We must live lives consistent with the Word of God. Picking up and uh continuing, and he said to me, Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them. For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel, not to many peoples of foreign speech and hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely if I sent you to them, they would listen to you But the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you, for they are not willing to listen to me. Because all the house of Israel have had a forehead, have had a hard forehead and a stubborn heart. Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads, like emory is harder than flint, have I made your forehead Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house. Now it's really interesting how frequently we see this as a theme of the call of the prophets. Isaiah's call was the same. You're going to go? Whom shall I send? Oh, please send me. You're going to go, but they're not going to listen. God told Isaiah. We know Elijah's discouragement because nobody would listen to the uh the word he preached. And Ezekiel is told that while his task is going to be simple in one sense, simply deliver my word, it's going to be incredibly difficult in another. They're not going to listen. Notice also God's strange words of comfort to Ezekiel. I've made your face as hard as their faces, your forehead as hard as their foreheads. In fact, harder. Like Emory is harder than Flint. You know, I I don't want to over we don't want to over-personalize everything we find here. Um you know, you and I don't have any promise that we are as hard-headed as Ezekiel. Uh I suppose maybe some pastors are hard-headed, but we should take comfort in the in the picture that God prepares those whom he calls. He calls us to different things than Ezekiel, so maybe he prepares us differently. Maybe we don't have that same hard firmness with regard to the Word of God. But we should, you know, we we should recognize that God prepares those who He calls. And we should uh respect the the preparation, respect the training of our pastors, the experience of our elders, the skills of our deacons. God has ordained all of that for his purposes. Verse 10. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you, receive in your heart, and hear with your ears. And go to the exiles to your people and speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, whether they hear or refuse to hear. Ezekiel's call is simple, but that is not to say it is easy. Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great earthquake. Blessed be the glory of Yahweh from its place. It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, you'll recall the vision last week in chapter one, and the sound of the wheels beside them, and the sound of the great earthquake. The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the Lord being strong upon me. And I came to the exiles of Tel Abib, who were dwelling by the Chebar Canal, and I sat where they were dwelling. And I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days. We are going to sit here for seven days. We are going to leave off and come back next week and pick up. We have seen Ezekiel's call into the ministry, a call that came in the very year that he should have been entering into the priestly service. God appeared to him and made himself known to him. And give it gave him a new direction and a new calling in the Lord. The call, uh My apology, lost my place. Uh-uh. The call reveals God that God is not localized in Jerusalem, but that He is a God who transcends time and place and is able to find His people wherever they might go and is with them wherever they might go. And the call was one to proclaim God's word, to be rooted in God's word, and to be a man of God's word. The call uh uh warned him that people would not listen, but that he was to preach the Word of God anyway. And the call overwhelmed the man, knocking him down, knocking him off his feet at first, and yet God turned right around. and helped him stand and become the man he needed to be. This is a great encouragement for all of us as we think about our calling in this dark world and our place in it And the word that we need to take to them. Amen.