In your Bibles, if you would please take a look at Ezekiel 8, Ezekiel chapter 8 on page 828, a lot of 8's there, on page 828 of the Pew Bible in front of you You may also want to have your bulletins open to pages 10 and 11, as there are some, there's an outline there, but also some detail that might be helpful as we go through this relatively lengthy passage. Ezekiel 8 through 11, these four chapters, are a single vision in Ezekiel's ministry. They are framed as a literary unit by the opening four verses and the final three, creating these literary bookends to this passage and tying it all together. And so we are going to take all four of these chapters together this morning. Let's seek God's help in doing that. Lord, we ask to see the glory, your glory, in this place. Just as Ezekiel saw your glory in the temple, in the sanctuary, we asked for that same vision, that same insight. And if there be anything that I say in the exposition of this vision that you would that is incorrect, that you would strike it from our memories. That we would come away understanding what you revealed to Ezekiel and understanding why that's important to us today. that we might worship you properly. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So this is Ezekiel Third vision. You'll recall the book opens with his vision of the glory of God when he was by the Chebar River. We looked at that on our first Sunday in this series. And then in chapters 2 and 3, Ezekiel has his second vision. That was the one where he was brought the scroll and told to eat the scroll, that it tasted sweet to him. He was going to be a man who enjoy devouring the word of God. This now is his third vision. Chapters four, five, six, and seven were presented not as a vision, but rather as the word of God to Ezekiel Ezekiel seems to have heard God, or at least in his mind, perceived God speaking to him. Here he has another vision. So let's take a look at this, beginning in chapter 8, verse 1. In the sixth year, sixth, I'm sorry, in the sixth year, in the sixth month of the fifth day of the month. In case you're curious, that would have been September 18th, 592 B. C. , and it's 14 months to the day from that first vision back in Ezekiel 1. As I sat in my house with the elders of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord God fell upon me there. The elders among the exiles recognize Ezekiel as a prophet, which is something God promised would happen, and they are now here to hear God through him. There was news and we're going to see news from back home in in uh Jerusalem. seems to have gotten to the exiles in Babylonia, and that's why they are meeting with the prophet Ezekiel and seeking a word from God. God does not necessarily give us a word every time we ask for it, but on this occasion he does, as we see there in verse 2. Then I looked and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man. Behold sorry, below what appeared to be his waist was fire, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal. He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head. And the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north. My apologies, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes the jealousy? And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there like the vision that I saw in the valley. Again, as illustrated on page 10 of the bulletin, these four verses form the introduction of a literary unit, and they are mirrored by the last three verses of 11. As we get into verse 5 here in a moment, we get into the meat, as it were, of this vision. And it is a symbolic look at the spiritual and political state of affairs back home in Jerusalem. We're going to look initially at chapters 8, 9, and 10, which address the spiritual state of affairs. In these first few verses, the first part of chapter 8, God is going to reveal, he's going to give Ezekiel a tour of the temple, sort of, and going to reveal four abominations to the prophet. And each God is going to describe as being worse than the one before it. So this is a progressive revelation that builds on itself. So we have the first of those abominations in 8. 5. The first of these abominations begins in 8. 5. Now remember, Ezekiel is not bodily in Jerusalem If you imagine uh uh security footage, most of it is boring, boring, boring, boring. Oh, there's the part, there's where somebody sold my Amazon package off my front porch We're kind of getting that picture. God has condensed what's going on in Jerusalem and is showing Ezekiel the key parts that are happening. So these are real things happening in Jerusalem. But they are symbolic for Ezekiel, and he's being shown in a condensed form. We're not necessarily seeing them in real time, though they are real things. And this first thing, we've already been briefly introduced to it, is this idol of jealousy picking up in verse 5. The idol of jealousy, the first abomination. Then he said to me, Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, north of the altar gate in the entrance was this image of jealousy. And he said to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing? The great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations. I have said that these are going to be symbolic, they're symbols, but I don't want us to think that just because something is symbolic, it isn't real. The red octagon at the corner of the road is a symbol. It tells us to stop. It's a real sign. It's really there. You're not imagining it. These are real things that are occurring in Jerusalem, and yet they symbolically point to the deeper reality of what's going on. So what's happening here? Well north would be the direction of threat. Though Babylon lies to the east of Jerusalem, because of the vast desert, armies did not march east to west. Or that they followed the Fertile Crescent where they could get food, and so they would come into Canaan from the north. So this north gate faces the direction of the threat of Babylon against Jerusalem. And the people of God in Jerusalem, in Judah, have placed an idol At the entrance to the threat. They are trusting, probably, we know for sure, probably the goddess Asherah. They are trusting in Asherah to protect them from Babylon. And this is, of course, a profound abomination. in the eyes of the true God. He says, in fact, that they are driving him away from his own sanctuary. But the next abomination is worse, as God says, picking up in verse 7. I've called this the hidden room of paganism. And we see it beginning in verse 7. And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall. Then he said to me, Son of man, dig in the wall. So I dug in the wall, and behold, there was an entrance. This is almost symbolic of the fact that this is being done in secrecy. Almost certainly symbolic of that. And he said to me, Go in and see the vile abominations that they are committing here. So I went in and saw, and there, engraved on the wall all around, with every form of creeping things and loathsome beast. And all the idol, by the way, the things God created are not inherently loathsome. They are loathsome because these people are using them as gods. and and worshipping them. Alotham Beast and all the idols of the house of Israel. And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel. With Gazaniah, the son of Shaphan, standing among them. Each had his censor in his hand, and smoke of the cloud of incense went up. Then he said to me, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, Yahweh does not see us. The Lord has forsaken the land. He said also to me, you will see still greater abominations that they commit. Seventy was the number of elders who ascended Sinai with Moses to worship God immediately following the exodus from Egypt. 70 was the number of elders that were appointed in the desert to help Moses govern the people. Seventy is throughout the Bible a significant number of this idea of the across all of God's people. They're all represented. And so now we have 70 elders here being symbolic of the pervasive nature of the religious corruption. All the leading men, as it were, are a part of this idolatry. And biblically, the incense, in the Bible, incense is almost always associated with prayer And so the picture here is that these leaders of Israel are praying to these pagan gods in secret. The one man who is named, Gazaniah, is named for effect. We care more about his father, as mentioned, Shephan. Shaphan was the Secretary of State under King Josiah some 35 years earlier. Josiah was the greatest religious reformer in the history of God's people. His zeal exceeding probably even King David's. And the point is a simple one. That in a single generation, the truth of God has been completely lost. so that Shaphan's son is part of those worshiping and praying to the pagan idols. As hard as it is to believe, even greater abominations await. This next one is the weeping of four Tammuz. Join me in reading verse 14. Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the Lord, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz. Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these. When the rains in midsummer in that part of the world, when the rains in midsummer would cease and the land would begin to dry up. The local mythology said that Tammuz, the Canaanite god of fertility, had died. Women would ritually weep for him as you might at a funeral. And it was imagined that their ritual weeping would raise Tammuz from the dead and bring about the next seasons, growth, reigns, and growth. So you see that what the elders are doing in secret, honoring pagan gods, The women, the lay people, are doing out in public. They are openly, blatantly seeking a pagan God's help. In pursuit of fertility, of growth of their crops, etc. , we mustn't imagine that this cannot happen to us Our forefathers and mothers in what was once the predominant Presbyterian denomination in this country and in the world. In 2016, at their General Assembly, had a moment of silence to honor the great spirit and other Native American gods. Those are our Presbyterian ancestors. This sort of blatant paganism can creep even in among us. Finally, we see the fourth abomination picking up in verse 16. And he brought me into the inner court of the house of Yahweh. And behold, at the entrance of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men, with their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, worshiping the sun toward the east. Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah? To commit the abominations that they commit here, that they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still further to anger Behold, they put the branch to their nose. We don't know what that phrase means. It's lost to history. The significance of this scene is not lost to history. Given their presence at the door of the temple and between the door and the bronze altar, these are almost certainly priests. Other people were not allowed to go there. So these 25 men are priests. And they are at the temple entrance. And they are facing the bronze altar, which faced east from the temple entrance. And there was a gate beyond the bronze altar, and apparently that gate is open. And they are watching the sun rise over the horizon and stream through that open gate, and it is pouring across this bronze altar. Almost certainly given the scene, there's a sacrifice burning on the bronze altar So that as the smoke wafts up, the rays of the sun are breaking through that smoke as they stand there, and they are bowing down and worshiping that rising sun. S-U-N. On the eastern horizon. But more than that, they have their backs to the presence of God in the Holy of Holies. The temple. Verse 18. Therefore I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. Almost always in our lives, when something bad happens, when there is a calamity of some sort, almost always we say, well, God didn't want that to happen. Oh, I guarantee you, sister, that was not God's plan for you. But the message of the prophets is always the opposite. They make a point of saying, God is bringing this calamity. It is Yahweh, your God, who is bringing these things down on your head. And they go further and they connect it concretely to something going on among God's people. These four abominations depict the spiritual decay of God's people. They are guarding their northern approach with a foreign goddess. Their leaders are secretly praying to pagan gods. Their women are openly practicing pagan rituals, and even the priests and pastors have turned their backs on the Lord. And though he needn't do so, he is God. Nevertheless, Yahweh is laying out his case for all to see. Brothers and sisters, we must have the wisdom to see this. We dare not take the world's bait and imagine our God to be harsh, to be unkind, or brutal. It is only because we never stop to look closely at this scene that we come to that conclusion. You see, it's been almost 800 years since God brought these people out of Egypt. And for much of that time, they have offended him over and over and over again by mixing him in among all the gods, as if he were just One more sad regional parochial deity, capricious, moody, needing human validation. But for all that time, God has been patient with them. As they did intermittently return to him. But now even the religious leadership The priests have turned their backs on him. And if those who lead the people spiritually do not lead toward God, what hope is there for this people? So in chapter nine, we are now going to get a picture of the personal aspects of judgment, how it plays out person by person, individually. But to run it to get into nine we need a running head start and so we look back at the last sentence of eight And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them, then he cried in my ears with a loud voice saying, Bring near the executioners of the city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand. And behold, six men came from the direction of the upper gate which faces north, each with his weapon for slaughter in his hand, and with them was a man clothed in linen, with a writing case at his waist. And they went in and stood beside the bronze altar. A group of seven in total The number of perfection, the number of God in the scriptures, the judgment which is about to befall Jerusalem is perfect in holiness, it is perfect in its morality. It should not be lost on us that these seven are standing where the twenty-five priests were bowed before the sun. These seven represent God and his judgment. And they have a right to stand in his court. Verse 3. Now the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherub on which it rested to the threshold of the house, and he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writing case at his waist. The significance of this might be lost on us as modern readers. But to the ancients, to the audience, those elders in that room who would have heard this the first time from Ezekiel almost without fail in the Old Testament when God moved, when that language was used of God It was either for the protection and preservation of his people, or it was for judgment. And the original listeners would have been hanging on this. Wait a second, what? The presence of God, the glory of God is no longer among the between the cherubim on the Ark of the Covenant? God is moving something that dramatic is about to happen. Either God is going to save Jerusalem Or he's moving in judgment. Verse 4. And the Lord said to the one with the writing tablet Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed herein. Given the presence of women throughout this context, given that the Hebrew word here is an ambiguous word, I think men really should be people. In other words, all those who sigh and groan. And to the others, he said in my hearing: Pass through the city after him and strike. Your eye shall not spare, and you shall show no pity. Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women. But touch no one on whom is the mark. And begin at my sanctuary. So they began with the elders who were before the house. Then he said to them, Defile the house. Fill the courts with the slain. Go out. So they went out and struck in the city. And while they were striking and I was left alone, I fell on my face and cried Lord God, will you destroy all the remnant of Israel in the outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem? Then he said to me, The guilt of the house of Israel in Judah is exceedingly great. The land is full of blood, and the city full of injustice. Notice here that while the focus has been on spiritual decay, The consequence of spiritual decay is practical. It plays out in the way society functions. The land is full of blood, and the city is full of injustice, for they say. The Lord, Yahweh, has forsaken the land and the Lord does not see. As for me My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will bring their deeds upon their heads, and behold, the man clothed in linen with the writing case at his waist, brought back words, saying, I have done as you commanded me. Chapter 9, we see the personal nature of judgment. First, let's consider the personal nature of the righteousness and guilt which led to the judgment. Real quick history lesson. King Josiah, I already mentioned him 35, 40 years earlier, enacted one of the most aggressive, far-reaching religious reforms in the nation's history. But a little piece of an interesting little piece of history. King Josiah died on the battlefield, killed in a battle with Egypt. We have a bad habit of drawing invalid conclusions. Of taking a single piece of data and interpreting it the way we want to. And the people of that time looked at Josiah and said, Well, here was a great reformer. This guy was as gung-ho for Yahweh as anybody's ever been. And Yahweh let him die on the battlefield. Apparently Yahweh is no real God after all. You see the mistake there? When we begin to connect the events of this world arbitrarily on our own and our own wisdom to the things that happen in our life, we are going to draw wrong conclusions. And these people looked at the death of Josiah and decided that his God must not be a God worth worshiping. The second Babylonian invasion, the one which stole Ezekiel away, has only confirmed in the minds of the people the powerlessness of Yahweh. After all, Jerusalem was Yahweh's home base, as it were, and if he would let it fall into the hands of the Babylonian gods, well, what does that say about It doesn't cross their mind that that was the judgment of Yahweh. That He actually brought it about. It doesn't cross their minds that that was his doing. And instead they assume he must be powerless. Give you a little bit of insight. While we're focused on Ezekiel and the ministry he has in Babylonia, we can't forget that Jeremiah is back in Jerusalem ministering among the people. And as things are running up to that second, as things were heading up to that second invasion, the one that led to Ezekiel being deported Jeremiah was telling the king, don't fight it. Pay the tribute, pay the tax to Babylon, do not try to stand up to them. Do not imagine that God is going to save you. So the prophet of Yahweh says to them, You're going to fall at the hands of the Babylonians. And when they fall at the hands of the Babylonians, instead of saying, Ah, look, The prophet of Yahweh told us that was going to happen. They say Yahweh is no real God. We do not. We cannot. We are not equipped to interpret the facts of history on our own, in our own judgment. We must understand them in the light of God's revealed word. Or we will fall into this trap. The righteous, by contrast, by the way, that's why they conclude: the Lord has forsaken the land and does not see. The righteous, by contrast, are those who sigh and groan over what is happening, those whose hearts are pained by the religious decline. Brothers and sisters, we need to examine our hearts Does the prospect of a canceled worship service, you know, because of a snow day, because of COVID, I don't know, because of a hurricane coming in or whatever, does the prospect of a canceled worship service bring joy or sorrow? Do you look forward to sleeping in or are you sad that you cannot go? Let me put it to you this way pretty simply. Those who have no desire to be with God in this life are probably not going to be bothered with him in the next life. They're not going to have to put up with him. So the wicked think Israel's God is impotent. The righteous are sad by the spiritual decay. And the Lord is going to judge between them. His wrath is not indiscriminate. He's going to mark out some of them, those who are righteous, those who are saddened by the spiritual decay. Now I don't imagine, I don't really think this means that they were not affected by what was coming. I don't imagine that somehow the righteous had hidden stores of food, that their houses were fireproof, that they had some kind of you know escape pod that they got out of the siege Brother, I think what we're seeing here is that God is making a distinction not with regard to the temporal judgment. Jeremiah will testify to the fact that he suffered under the temporal judgment of God. But that God in the end, in the final analysis, in the eternal sense of his judgment, will recognize the righteous. The wicked will receive no mercy, not by virtue of being elderly or youthful or female. They will all perish. Finally, it's worth noting the starting place of the judgment. It's in the temple. James warns us: not many should presume to be teachers, for we know that those who teach will be judged more strictly. One wonders if James had this scene in mind when he wrote that. God's judgment falls first upon the religious leadership. God's executioners begin in the temple, even if that meant defiling the very courts of God with their dead bodies. In both the Old and New Testament elite, God holds the shepherds of the people responsible for the spiritual well-being of those people. I was asked the other day about hell. If Dante's understanding of hell is correct, if there are these consecutive nine circles of hell, each worse than the previous then who might be in the ninth circle, that inner place, who suffer the greatest? I speculated that terrible men like Hitler and Stalin and Gingis Kahn, Gingis Khan Khan, if I pronounce it correctly, are likely in the eighth circle, and that the ninth is reserved for pastors who lead congregations astray. The ninth is the place where the shepherds of God's people who are unfaithful to his word will reside for all of eternity. In chapter 10, we move away from this individual, personal look at judgment that God will discern between the righteous and the wicked. And we look at a more corporate aspect of judgment, picking up in chapter 10, verse 1. These first eight verses in particular are a look at the corporate judgment. Then I looked, and behold, on the expanse that was over the heads of the cherubim there appeared above them something like a sapphire, in appearance like a throne. And he said to the man, clothed in linen, go in among the whirling wheels. Under the cherubim, remember that picture from chapter 1. Fill your hands with burning coals from between the cherubim and scatter them over the city. Skipping down to verse 7. And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took some of it, and put it in the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out. Whereas chapter nine was concerned with God's judicial distinction between the righteous and the wicked, this chapter gives attention to the totality and the breadth and the width of God's corporate. Judgment. It will fall on the whole city like burning coals from heaven. These coals from the chariot throne of God are to be taken out and scattered on Jerusalem. It is an image, of course, of catastrophic judgment. And it's an interesting image. For if we remember our Bibles well, as certainly many of the readers would have The hearers would have. God was willing to spare Sodom if Abraham could have found five righteous men there. Sodom is always, in Christian circles, the final image of the worst possible expression of human sin. God would have spared Sodom had he found five righteous men. Jerusalem will get no such reprieve. It speaks to the depth of the corruption in that city. So, yes, while God has marked out the righteous in some way, they will still temporarily, momentarily be swept up in the judgment which is coming, as Jeremiah attests. As we look at the second half of chapter ten, verses nine through twenty-two. These are essentially a a restatement of the vision we saw back in Ezekiel 1. And since we looked at that in some detail back in the first sermon of this series, We're not going to go through it again today in that level of detail. I do want to make a note, one note about the content of this vision this time. It's a hair different. And then I want to step back and look at the significance of the second half of 10. My note about the content is if you re- if we were to read through this, we would see that here, unlike chapter 1, Here, Ezekiel calls the four living creatures terabine. He didn't do that back in chapter one. I think the significance of that actually lends some credibility, an air of authenticity to this account. You see, back in chapter 1, Ezekiel the 30-year-old had never been in the temple in Jerusalem. He wasn't yet consecrated as a priest. He didn't know what the cherubim carved into the walls and out of the doors looked like. He didn't know that the living creatures he was saying were cherubim. Now he has seen the temple in this vision. Now he recognizes what he's seeing as teraby. It authenticates this idea that he didn't go back and retroactively write the whole thing, that he wrote down what happened as it happened. And now he knows what they are. What's more important than what he saw is what the people didn't see. The second half of chapter ten is that same vision of the chariot throne of God, of the four living creatures, of the wheels, of the emerald throne, of God sitting above it. All of that is painted here, and it's hovering over the temple in Jerusalem. And the worshippers there aren't seeing it. They don't see the glory of God in his sanctuary. They are asking Asherah to guard their gate. They're praying to carve image of creeping things. They are weeping for Tammuz and they are bowing before the sun, but they are turning their backs. on the glory of God. All the while he was right there, between the cherubim, in their presence above the mercy seat. It is a profound statement about the faith necessary. We cannot judge what's going on with our eyes We must understand the truth of God's word, or we will turn astray. Chapter 11 looks at the political side of things, how it's playing out in politics, with the foundation of all these spiritual problems causing this. 11. 1. The Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the house of the Lord, which faces east. And behold, at the entrance of the gate, no longer are we back on the temple steps, now we're out of the entrance of the gate. There were 25 men, probably a different 25, given that we're in a different location. We're going to get some here some of their names also. And I saw among them Jazaniah, the son of Azura, Azur, different Jezaniah then, and Pelatiah, the son of Beniah, princes of the people. So these are politicians, not priests. And he said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and who give wicked counsel in this city, who say the time is not near to build houses, the city is the cauldron, and we are the meat Therefore, prophesy against them. Prophesy, O Son of Man. We know from the book of Jeremiah. That uh every politician in Jerusalem, they saw the political problems, the military problems, they saw the Babylonian trouble on the horizon. They knew these things were coming. But Jeremiah is God's mouthpiece, and he's telling them to capitulate both what led up to the second uh uh invasion and now it's going to lead up to the third invasion. Jeremiah is back home telling them just Stop resisting. Give Babylon what Babylon wants. That's the Lord's will for you. But they won't listen. They won't pay the tribute to Nebuchadnezzar, and it's going to cause all of these problems. They refuse to listen to Jeremiah and his God, who they imagine have abandoned them, and they prepare for war. Thus, the comment about not building houses. It's just not the time for that. Resources need to go into the war. And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and he said to me, Say, thus says the Lord, so you think, O house of Israel. For I know the things that come into your mind. You have multiplied your slain in this city and have filled its streets with the slain. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the meat, and the city is the cauldron, but you shall be brought out of the midst of it. You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, declares the Lord God. And I will bring you out of the midst of it. And give you into the hands of foreigners and execute judgments upon you. You shall fall by the sword. I will judge you at the border of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord This city shall not be your cauldron, nor shall you be the meat in the midst of it. I will judge you at the border of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord, for you have not walked in my statutes. nor obeyed my rules, but have acted according to the rules of the nations that are around you. There is this idea in human culture. Abre even in defeat. Glory even in military uh in losing militarily, even in dying on the battlefield Think of Mossada and the stand in 70 A. D. , 73 A. D. that the Jewish Jewish zealots took against the mighty Roman Empire. Remember the Alamo, a glorious defeat in American history. These princes in Jerusalem imagine that they're going to die a glorious death. We're going to take a principled stand against the invading armies of Babylon And if we die in the siege of Jerusalem, so be it. But at least we will die gloriously. And God says, nope. Not going to happen that way. I'm going to drag you out, and you're going to be mercilessly executed, and your corpses will be scattered on the ground to defile the very hope you live in. Thirteen it came to pass While I was prophesying, we're not sure if this means he got news of it back in Babylon or if he saw it in his vision. It's not clear. It came to pass while I was prophesying that Pelatiah, the son of Beniah, died. And I fell down on my face and carried out, cried out with a loud voice, and said, Ah, Lord God, will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel? Whatever is happening here, Ezekiel sees it as a down payment, a first fruit, if you will, on the coming judgment that causes him to worry about the continuity of Israel And the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, your brothers, even your brothers, this repetition probably means that it's emphasizing those who are closest to him Those brothers with you in exile. Your brothers, even the brothers in exile, your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, all of them, again, in exile, are those of whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said. And I think the NIV, the New International Version, gets it better right here. You have gone far from the Lord. To us, this land is given for a possession. The politicians back in Jerusalem are mocking those who have been taken away to Babylon in exile. They're saying, look. If your God is really the God, Ezekiel, then what are you doing over there? We're the ones he's left in Jerusalem. We're the ones he's entrusted with his temple Clearly we're in the right, and God has hauled you away because you were never close to him anyway. Again, the message couldn't be clearer Our interpretation of the facts is not valid. We fall into this sin all the time. Large churches will point to their size as the proof that God is blessing them and they're doing everything right. Small churches will point to their size as proof of the purity of their doctrine. We're not selling out. That's why we don't have big crowds. Both are invalid. Neither of those is a justified conclusion. We cannot interpret the events of the moment as if we know for sure what God is doing in history. The hidden things belong to our God. And we must trust what he's revealed in his word That's why these politicians back home. That's why the elders are in Ezekiel's living room. We've gotten word of the politicians back home mocking us Is this really true? Are we really here because God has abandoned us? It's really interesting. You'll recall, in fact, I think it was the second sermon of this series, we talked about the fact that the echels were used by God to preserve the true religion. The exiles in Egypt would translate the scriptures into Greek. What we call the Septuagint. The exiles in Babylon, where Ezekiel and Daniel are living, Jeremiah, by the way, went to Egypt The exiles in Babylon, where Daniel and Ezekiel are living, they're the ones who would preserve the Old Testament in Hebrew. They're the ones who would establish the synagogue system. Which gave rise to God's word getting out among the people so that worship was in truth. And it was the foundation of our modern local churches. God is going to use the exiles to great effect in the history of his people. And it doesn't seem like it in the moment, but as a grace to Ezekiel and Daniel, unlike Jeremiah, who's been left back in the land, they don't have to see this catastrophe. They will not watch their kinsmen starve to death in the siege. They will not see the temple of their God burned to the ground. The British novelist Graham Green said it well. You cannot conceive, nor can I, the appalling strangeness of the mercy of God. God's mercy is actually to those who are in exile. And that will begin to come into focus now in verse 16. Therefore, say, Thus says the Lord God, though I remove them far off among the nations, that is the exiles, And though I scattered them among the countries, yet I have been a sanctuary to them for a while in the countries where they have gone. God is providing sanctuary to the exiles. Therefore say, thus says the Lord God, I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you. out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. And when they come there, they will remove from it all its detestable things and all its abominations, and I will give them one heart and a new spirit, I will put it within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. But as for those whose heart goes after the detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord God. Picking up again in twenty two And the terabim lifted up their wings with the wheels beside them, and the glory of the Godwill was over them. And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city. That would be Mount Olivant. And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chelchaldea, back to Babylonia, to the exiles. And the vision that I had seen went up from me. And I told the exiles all the things that the Lord had shown me. Ezekiel has seen four abominations in the temple. He has seen how God's judgment will be personally distinctive. God will sort between the righteous and the wicked. He has seen that there's going to be a corporate aspect to it, that the entire city is going to be burned by the wrath of God. And he's seen how that plays out in the politics of the city. So what are we to see? What are we supposed to take from this? I think first of all we ought to take warning. I think we'd be foolish not to. We should see the warning that is implicit in all of this. Simply bearing the name of God. Simply being called God's people, simply being called Christians, simply being in a church, possessing a sanctuary of our own, is in no sense A protection. That is not what it's about. You see, if our hope is in the fact that we're Presbyterians, then our hope is foolish. And if our hope extends beyond the church, that somehow politicians are going to save us, then our hope is even more foolish. In the end, if our hearts are toward the created things, money, comfort, whatever it might be, we're kind of like those men praying to the carved images on the walls. If we weep for the death of some pagan religion somewhere, we're kind of like those women weeping over tamus. If we worship Mother Earth, we are not different than those priests bowing before the sun. There's a grave warning here. And we must heed it. We must turn our face to the true God, see his glory in the church, even more so in Jesus Christ. We must imagine, if we imagine that there is glory, there is no glory in the one who died, or that the body he has left here on the earth, the church, somehow has no authority over us. We are like those in Ezekiel's day. You are looking at the bright, shiny sun because it's pretty We're missing the real glory of God, his presence among his people. I think a second thing we ought to notice are the terms that are laid down here. We don't often think that way in terms of our Christian life, but there are some terms laid down here. The Christian school um tradition where I was the headmaster of the Christian school tradition there was that for each graduating senior would get up at the final chapel of the year, would get up and share a life verse and a brief testimony in words of you know, uh wisdom and encouragement to the underclassmen who were present in chapel. In that particular year, Gina was graduating, she was a graduating senior, and Gina made no pretense of faith in Christ So should she really stand up in our worship service, our chapel? Should she really hold up the Word of God and talk about it in some important way? There was a member of the school board who said, well yes, absolutely she should. Because I was at the camp meeting some years ago. Where on Friday night, when the minister asked for you to give your heart to Jesus, she raised her hand and she prayed the sinner's prayer as he guided her through it. She must be a Christian. She must be saved. All of Jerusalem had the temple All of Jerusalem had ritually bowed toward it, offered sacrifices in it. All of Jerusalem had the ancient equivalent of praying the sinner's prayer at a camp meeting. But in Ezekiel 9, it is only those who sigh and groan at Israel's spiritual corruption who are saved. It is only those who have a heart for God. You must not imagine that praying a prayer somehow binds God. We are not that powerful. That raising our hand at a Caesan Bible school or walking down an aisle somewhere has somehow made sure that we are saved. For if it is followed by spiritual indifference, Then it is no more than what these people had. It is only in the disposition of our hearts that we have any real hope of confidence. If you want assurance of salvation, look inside. Is your heart moving more and more towards the things of the Lord? Not is there less and less sin? That's not what I'm asking or saying. For the more you move toward God, the more you're going to see sin in yourself. The closer you get to the holiness of God, the more profoundly struck you're going to be with your own unholiness. I'm not asking you to judge, are you more holy, less sinful than you were yesterday? For the truth is, if you're moving toward God, you're seeing yourself as more sinful than ever The question is, where is your heart bent? When push comes to show of what do you care most about? What do you want to protect? What would you die for? What would you live for? It is those who sighed and groaned at the corruption of God's worship that He marks as His. Thirdly, besides the warning besides the terms, we ought to see the hope here. The hope of the restoration Old Testament prophets get a bad rap. They're characterized always as negative, always judgmental. Amos comes pretty close to that. But they all have some message of hope and restoration and renewal. Ezekiel's third vision that we've read this morning is the first time really we're seeing hope in his prophecies. It won't be the last, praise God. Though exile was regarded as punishment from God, nevertheless, though through it God was going to promise restoration and renewal. What did we see? I am uh you know, though I removed them from far away among the faraway nations, though I scattered them among the countries, yet I have been a sanctuary to them. The real hope of protection. Therefore, thus says the Lord, I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. A hope of restoration, of return to the promise, of a restoration of the covenant made to Abraham. And when they come there, they will remove from it its detestable things and all its abominations. Not merely a formulaic return to the land, but a return to true religion. There is this hope in this vision And I will give them one heart, and a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh. that they may walk in my statutes and rules and obey them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. You know, the numbers, the number in exile, those elders meeting with Ezekiel, they must have imagined that their situation was bleak and without prospect. And yet God says he will use them to restore the true spirituality to Israel. Now we can't apply this strictly to America. I'm not suggesting that the PCA and our sister conservative denominations are somehow going to repopulate America one day with God-fearing people and purify all of her religion. That is not what this is saying. Instead, it's reminding us of the new world to come. Of the new heaven and the new earth. That God is saving us, even though we feel like we are in exile right now from this society, from this culture, we feel like we're excluded from it. There's coming a day when he is going to wipe this earth clean of sin and repopulate it with us. Restoring us, giving us all the fullness of the promise of his creation in perfection, without sin, with him forevermore. That's what we see here. That's the image of the restoration that was shown to Ezekiel And it is in that hope that we persist and continue to walk in faith. Let's pray. Lord, there's a lot going on here. Help us to digest it. Help us to understand it. Help us to see in this vision that you gave to the prophet Ezekiel great encouragement for us. Even as we feel like exiles, as we feel excluded, help us to appreciate the hope of restoration set before your ancient prophet. We ask for this insight. We ask for this vision in the name of Jesus. Amen.