I invite you to turn in your Bibles to Mark 6 as we continue our sermon series from Mark, A Call to Confess Christ. Mark 6, we're going to be starting in verse 30. And we read verse 30 as part of last week's sermon, and yet it does overlap with what we're doing this week, and so we are going to read that again. To remind you that here at Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. that if we want to know what it is we are to believe and how it is we are to live, then we must know God's Word. So I invite you now to hear the Word of God from the Gospel of Saint Mark. The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught. And he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest awhile. For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, This is a desolate place and the hour is now late. Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat. But he answered them, You give them something to eat. And they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat? And he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. When they had found out, they said, Five and two fish. Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in groups by hundreds and by fifties. And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said, I'm sorry, he looked up to heaven and set a blessing, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all, and they all ate and were satisfied. And then they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish. And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men. Immediately, he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side to Beth Seda while he dismissed the crowd. And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray. And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them walking on the sea He meant to pass by them. But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, Take heart, it is I. Do not be afraid. And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased And they were utterly astounded, for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore. And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him and ran about the whole region began to bring the sick people on their beds to wherever they heard he was. And whenever he came, in villages, cities, or countrysides, They laid the sick in the marketplaces and implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment, and as many as touched it were made well. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Holy Spirit, speak to us through this your word, that we might hear its message, that we might understand its meaning, and that we might respond in repentance and faith To the good news of Jesus Christ our Savior, in whose name we pray. Amen. As I think most of you probably know, the Lord called me into full-time ministry a little later in life, and so I had a pre-ministry career. Some people like to call it a job in the real world. Those people have never done full-time ministry Working in that real world, I was a teacher. And I had an interesting experience some years ago in a situation where I was in grad school. uh getting a do uh uh a master's degree in chemistry, and I was a teaching assistant for organic chemistry at this university Now organic chemistry is famous for its memorization approach to things. You have a thousand different chemical reactions you have to memorize and remember them all, keep them all straight and try to get it right on the exam. And the other thing for which Organic chemistry is known for non-chemist. Most of the non-chemistry world views organic chemistry, I think, as the weed out course for those who would like to be doctors. And it does function that way in a lot of universities. But this particular university took a different approach to organic chemistry and is one I found really fascinating. Well it was also interesting, while I was a a teaching assistant and I was getting to look at this class from the instructional side of things. My brother, who's some years younger than me, was simultaneously a student in the class, and he got to look at things, and he also went on to have a career as a teacher, and he got to look at things from the student side. And one of the things that was interesting in this particular organic chemistry class is they stressed the fact that you could not memorize your way through the course. That they were purposefully going to write and craft every single exam to contain chemical reactions that had not been seen throughout the course of a lecture. So that you had to learn to take the principles that were being taught and apply them to the exam to solve these new problems that you had never seen. And they were as good as their word. And it was a fascinating course to watch unfold as the semester went on. Students who had come so far by just memorizing their way through were really stymied But those who could say, I think I understand that lesson and how it applies over here, I think I can apply that. And they succeeded. And it was in many ways a brilliant course, for it's rare in our lives that the same situation occurs twice. We have constantly got to take a lesson learned earlier in life and figure out how to apply it in the new situation that life presents, that God brings across our path. That course, and that course's focus on the need to apply what we've learned illustrates wonderfully the text that's before us this morning. For you may recall last week that we saw that the disciples were sent out on a sort of apostolic internship. For the first time, we had a record that they went out on their own without Jesus. And they ministered. They preached. They called people to repent. They healed. They drove out demons. And we saw here at the beginning of this text a couple of the verses that show them returning. The apostles return to Jesus. They return from that mission, from that apostolic internship. And they told him all that they had done and taught. And he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest for a while. And it describes how they were overrun by the crowd, so they hadn't even gotten a chance to grab a bite to eat. And it's certainly not the main lesson of today's text, and yet I do think we need to recognize that there is a rest, a work-rest cycle in Scripture A time to work and a time to rest. And Jesus recognized their need for rest. They had been working, and it was time now to rest and to be called aside. This was, most of you don't love Mondays because it's the day you go back to work. See, most pastors, we take Monday as our day off for having worked Sunday, so we like Mondays. This was their pastoral Monday. They had done the work of the ministry, and Jesus now calls them to rest. I point that out because I think it helps us to understand some of the disciples' consternation later in the passage. For the fact that they're unhappy about the crowds. Why are they unhappy about the crowds? Because this was supposed to be their day off. And they don't get their day off. And something interesting happens as the crowds gather around them yet again. So they get in the boat, they try to flee to the other side. The crowds look up and recognize, wait a second, I know where they're going. They're headed over to that. And the crowds race around the shoreline. And actually get there before Jesus and the disciples were told. And as the minute they get ready to uh get off the boat, there are the crowds again. You can just see the disciples going, oh my goodness, we've rowed all the way across here, and more of the same. When are we going to get a break? And we see something interesting here. Jesus looks from the boat to the shore and sees the crowds and has a very different response What does the text tell us there? When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, this is verse 34, and he had compassion on them. Again, I don't believe this to be the main point of the passage, and yet I want to point out briefly this description of Jesus' response, that he had compassion on them. What does compassion look like in most of today's churches, at least here in North America, when we start to think about having compassion on people, what does that look like? Ordinarily, that takes the form of meeting some sort of temporal physical need. A soup kitchen, a food pantry, a clothing drive. meeting somebody's temporal, physical need. And very often, when this passage is preached in such churches, We see that Jesus had compassion, and then we read about how he fed them all, and we tie those together and go, Jesus had compassion, and he fed them. But that is not the length the text makes. And in fact, I'm going to argue that the feeding of the 5,000 is not directly connected to Jesus' compassion. In fact, Mark tells us down later on, down why the reason I tied all this together in a way that is often not Is if we go down in verse 52, it links it all together by saying they did not understand about the loaves. You see, what happened on the sea Happened because they didn't understand about the loaves. The feeding of the 5,000 or what are the events that occur on the sea, those are things that have to do with the disciples' training, the follow-up to their internship. It's not about the compassion that Jesus had on the crowd. What does the text say was the manifestation of Jesus' compassion on the crowds? It is not his soup kitchen When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd and he had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. They're wandering around spiritually aimless. They don't know what to do. They don't know where to go. They don't know what to believe The Pharisees are telling them one thing, the Sadducees are telling them something other, the Herodians are telling them something altogether different, the Hellenic Jews are over here yet with a fourth idea. The Essenes are over there with their idea, the zealots are over there with their spiritual ideas, and the people don't know who to follow or what to believe, and it's for that reason that Jesus has compassion on them. And then it's interesting how his compassion is made manifest. What does Mark record for us? He had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them many things. And when they had grew grown late, dot dot dot The implication is that he taught them for a very long time. Most of us as pastors, we think the compassionate thing to do is to cut the sermon short. We look out at the faces and we go, okay, they're done. Jesus' compassion upon the crowd was to teach them. And to teach them some more, and to teach them some more, and to teach them yet some more. And I share this again, not because I think it's the main point of the text, but because I want to be reminded You see, the world has crept in on the church, and even the church has misled itself to believe that our compassion ought to be made manifest in the way that we deal with temporal needs. And to be sure, there's nothing wrong with meeting temporal needs. Jesus is going to do that in just a moment here. There's nothing wrong with that. But it ought not to be what we're principally about. When we meet someone in this community and we ask them, have you ever heard of Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, and they begin to describe what they have or have not heard about us, woe to us if the thing that they talk about is our soup kitchen. Our food pantry, our ministry to the poor Our reputation ought to be that we care about souls that are going to hell. And we teach them the gospel of Jesus Christ. Out of a compassion for those who are lost and dying. People ought to say that's a church where the Word of God is preeminent, where you can go hear God speak to his people through the Word. Oh yes, they do other ministries. Yes, they have met other needs. Yes, they certainly have a desire to reach into the community. But their principal endeavor Is the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. And it's because they love people that they do this, because they understand the need to hear the Word of God in order to be saved. Jesus had compassion, and out of his compassion he taught, and he taught them a great many things. So why then the feeding of the 5,000? I've made the argument that it is not a flowing out of Jesus' compassion for the crowd, and so we have to ask ourselves, why does he do it? And it's interesting to me how he does it. And this is where we tie back into the opening illustration about a course in which you learn things that you then have to apply to new situations. You see, Jesus turns to the twelve. The twelve, I don't think the twelve are really worried about the people being hungry. I think the twelve are hungry themselves. And they don't want to break out their dinner because they learned in kindergarten that you don't eat in front of other people unless you have enough to share. And they know they can't share what they have. Because they've only got the five loaves and the two fish. Jesus tells them to go investigate, but the Greek structure actually allows for the idea they already knew. It's what motivated them to come in the first place. And they come to him and say, we've got to dismiss these crowds. We've got to send them home. And Jesus says, why don't you just feed them? And I ask myself, why did Jesus tell them to feed the crowds? And I'll be honest, uh the first time I read this, I assumed he was doing it in order to keep the crowds there. He's been teaching the crowds. He doesn't want the crowds to leave, he wants to keep teaching them And so he feeds them. It's a strategy churches have been using for a very long time. You want people to come feed them Yet if we look at the text, after the crowd is fed, what's the next thing that happens? Verse 45. Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat. Verse 46, after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain. Oh, sorry, sorry, verse 45, get in the boat and before him, and go before him to the other side to Beth, while he dismissed the crowd. Immediately he dismissed the crowd. There was no more teaching. He could have sent them home earlier, as the disciples wanted. He wasn't going to continue teaching them. He was dismissing the crowd. So he's not feeding them in order to keep the crowd there Nor is feeding him the outcropping of his compassion. So why is he doing it? And I again point us down there to verse 52. It's about the disciples and what they're learning or not learning. You see, the disciples had just returned from their apostolic internship, where they had been given the power to work miracles. where they had been given the ability to work signs and wonders to authenticate them as God's ordained messengers. And Jesus is now testing them. Have you learned? Have you learned that when you walk in obedience, you can do what you're told to do. You can do what you're called to do. Have you learned that you are equipped to do what I am telling you to do? And the disciples miss it altogether. He says, feed the crowd. And they say, we can't. We don't have that kind of food. We don't have that kind of money. 200 denarii is roughly uh the most scholars believe that's roughly the equivalent of a of a median household annual income back then. So I did some math. When I taught, I taught math and science. So I like math. I did some math. The sense of data I was able to find quickly was from 2014, so it's a few years old. But the median household U. S. income in 2014 was $54,000. If you take $54,000 and you go to the McDonald's value menu and you buy everybody a drink, a fry, and a and a McDouble It's enough food for about 13,000 people. You can buy 13,000 value meals for $54,000. That's almost exactly the amount of people that were here. For it tells us there are 5,000 men plus the women and children that were present. It's almost exactly the amount that was here. And the disciples are going, that's a lot of money. An annual household income? That's a lot of money. And we don't have it. You see, Jesus understood what they did not. When they healed the sick, did any of them have medical degrees? Did they know how to heal sick people? But they did it anyway because they were told to do it and they were empowered to do it. When they drove out demons, did they have some special knowledge of the demonic forces of this world that equipped them and enable them to drive out demons? No. They acted in obedience and God gave them what they needed to obey. And now in this moment, Jesus again commands them to obey. And they should have recognized that the way they were empowered just a few days ago to obey is still with them. Okay, our Lord is telling us to do this? I don't see how we're going to do it But let's just do it. Let's just start passing around the bread and the fish. Let's just start feeding the crowd and see what happens But they don't. They doubt. They look at their own power, their own strength, and they say to themselves, we can't do this. And Jesus teaches them another lesson. And what is the lesson Jesus teaches them? He shows them how it is to obey, what it takes. to have faith in the face of the impossible. When you look at something you cannot possibly do, how do you do it? And I want to make an interesting observation. And give me about 90 seconds before you walk out on me here. I'm going to say to you right now, this is not a miracle of Jesus. I'm not saying it's not a miracle. It's a miracle. It's not a miracle of Jesus. For in a few chapters, in chapter 9, we're going to read where Jesus comes down off the Mount of Transfiguration, and there's going to be this dispute going on, and the disciples are going to say, Hey, we could not drive out this demon. And Jesus is going to say to them Because that takes prayer and fasting. And then Jesus drove out the demon. But do you catch what Jesus didn't do on that occasion in Mark 9? He didn't pray and he didn't fast. He just told them that they need prayer and fasting to drive out the demon, and he doesn't pray and he doesn't fast. And he drives out the demon. Why? Because prayer and fasting is a way of us going to God and saying, help us. He is God. He can drive out the demon by his own power as the divine one walking among man. He didn't need to pray and fast, and in his own divine power he cast out that demon. But on this occasion, do you catch what he does? He turns to heaven and he prays. He's teaching the disciples. He's teaching you and me where we go and what we do. When we face the impossible in our lives. I can't do this. You're calling me to obey, Lord. You're calling me to feed the 5,000. I can't do it. And Jesus says, there is a power that can accomplish it through you. And he says, what you've got to do is turn to that power. Turn to your Heavenly Father. Pray to the Holy Spirit that He will work in your life and work through you to accomplish what you think is impossible. And so on this occasion, Jesus prays. That's why I say I don't think this is the miracle of Jesus. He is not using his own divine power to accomplish this. In his humanity, he turns to heaven and says Show us your power. Father, reveal yourself to us right now. And he distributes the food. And they gather up the pieces and they see all that is left over. And Jesus dismisses the crowd, and he tells the disciples to head out across the lake again, get to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, and they start to row back across the sea, and they are uh having great difficulty rowing across the sea. Now let me remind you, these are manly men. These are not academics who have spent their whole life in their undergraduate and then they went to seminary for three years and then they went right into an assistant pastorship. And they've never touched a hard day's work in their life, physical work in their lives. These are manly men. Most of them have been out on that lake since they were able to walk. And they set out rowing. And they cannot get across. Now there's a difference this time. They don't quit on this one. When Jesus said to feed the crowd, they said we can't do it. He says, go across the lake. They say, okay, we're going to try it. We're going to go across the lake, and they're at it. And they're rowing and they're rowing. And Mark makes reference to the third or the fourth watch of the night. That would be about 3 a. m. So they set out at a time when it was still light enough that Jesus could look out from the mountain and see them. The text tells us he saw that they were making headway with difficulty. So sometime around 7, 8 in the evening, and now it's 3 a. m. and they're still rowing. They haven't quit. They haven't said, well, we just can't do this. They quit with the 5,000. They said, we can't do it. But now they're trying in their own strength. To do what is impossible. And Jesus heads across the lake on foot. Mark makes so little of that. It's really like Mark's acting like, yeah, that's no big deal. Jesus heads across the lake on foot. And he is testing the disciples. Notice what Mark tells us. He had intended to pass by them. He wasn't headed to the boat. He was going to let them continue to struggle. Lord, wake them up. Father, these men have been working with the 12th, they don't understand. They're still trying in their own strength to do what I've told them to do. Would you just smack them with a wave so that they'll pray? So that they'll come to you, so that you can enable them to do what I've told them to do. And Jesus is headed across that lake, and he's praying on the way, and he's praying for the twelve, and he's going across the other side, and they call out. And the text doesn't quite say it, but I think it's fair to assume that Jesus now had compassion upon them. It goes to the boat, and the wind stops, and the waves cease, and they're able to finish getting across the lake. And they're utterly astounded. And Mark ties the whole section together, as I've alluded to already, with verse 52, but they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened. And as I was studying this and prepping this, I was really struggling with how it is the loaves tied into this trek across the lake, across the Sea of Galilee. And then it dawns on me. They should have learned on their apostolic internship that God had empowered them to do what he told them to do. They should have learned in front of the face of the five thousand men That if God says, feed the crowd, you can feed the crowd. They should know by now that if Jesus says, head across this lake, that there's a power to get them to the other side of the lake. And they don't pray. They don't rest upon their Heavenly Father. They don't trust that the Holy Spirit will enable them to get there. They're trying in their own strength. They've taken an incremental step. At least they didn't quit this time. But nevertheless, they cannot accomplish what God has given them to do. That's what they don't understand about the loaves. That's why Mark ties these sections together. That's why I desperately wish the English translations wouldn't put a subheader between them. Because they all go together. It all explains the learning process of the disciples. And then the text closes with a few verses that seem at first glance a little out of place. It doesn't really seem at first glance to fit with what we've read, nor does it really seem to go with what's coming in chapter seven. And yet as we look at it more, and as you read it and pray over it and think about it, you begin to realize it does fit. For the whole passage is about the disciples' lack of faith, for their failure to trust God, for their unwillingness to turn to Him and say, show us how to do it. Give us the power You've told us to do this, we want to obey, now enable us to do it. And we have a wonderful contrast at the close of this chapter. Unnamed, unidentified multitudes, who have spent very little time with Jesus at all, if any, who know him only by reputation, But who are literally trusting him with their lives and are flocking to him. Just so they could touch him. Not spend days and weeks and years with him. Just touch him. Because I believe he'll heal me. I believe that he'll heal my my Daughter. I believe that he will heal my stepmother. I believe that he has power. And in contrast to the disciples Who first quit and then try in their own strength, these crowds come and say, no, Jesus can do it for us. You know, we, like the disciples, struggle with the application of the lessons of the Lord's Word in our lives. Somewhere in your life, I don't know what it is in your life. I know some of them in mine, probably not all of them. But there are some places where we have been called to do something, where the scriptures say, this is what God wants from you. And either we throw up our hands and say, I just can't. I can't do it. I can't feed 5,000 people. I can't stay married to this person any longer. I can't obey my parents. I can't live with a testimony for the Lord out in this fallen world. I can't give a tithe to my church. I don't understand how you expect me to do that And in our own reasoning, we say we can't do it Or we are like the disciples on the lake, rowing with all our might. Lord, I'm going to overcome this sin in my life. I'm going to keep working against it. I'm going to stop gossiping under my own power. I'm going to turn away from lust under my own strength. I'm going to turn away from this lying that I constantly do, and I'm going to keep fighting on my own. And we keep failing and we make no progress and we're fighting this headwind we can't win against, and we there is nothing there. Because we fail to understand the lesson. That it's not up to us. We're not the ones empowered. We're not those who are able to meet God's requirements But he provides the one who can. He provided the Christ who meets all of our needs before a just and righteous God. He provides the Holy Spirit who enables us to walk in faithful obedience, who empowers us to do the things we've been called to do. And like the crowd at the end, we just need to fight to be in touch with Jesus To be reminded, to touch him, to hear his word, to have him speak to us, so that we can do the impossible that he's called us to do. And this is not a sermon to think the to inspire you to do miraculous things, for we read in our New Testament reading. About how many who were faithful to the Lord were sawn into, they were tortured, they were beheaded, they were put to the sword. The life of faith is not a promise that it will all work out in this lifetime The scriptures are clear about that. But it is a call to seek the Lord's power and the Lord's strength to do what he's called us to do, where and when he's called us to do it, in faithful obedience to him. So that we like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego say, I don't know Lord whether you're going to deliver me from this situation or not, but I'm going to trust you anyway. And we hand out our five loaves and our two fish. Not because we understand how that's going to work, but because that's what we were told to do. Feed them. We rest on him for the power to overcome the waves in our lives because that's what we've been told to do. In all of this, we recognize that it is Jesus. It is the Father. It is the Spirit working together to empower us to do that which is impossible on our own. Let's pray. Lord forgive us for all the times that we say we cannot do it. All the ways that you tell us to obey, and we say we can't do that because we don't believe in the power that you have provided. Forgive us for all the times when we row with all our might and our own strength, seeking to do that which you've called us to do. Forgetting. That like Jesus, we need to turn to our Heavenly Father and say, Lord, please step in Please provide what is needed that I might do what you've called me to do. As we come to this table now, Lord, thank you for these Visual, tactile, olfactory reminders that you have provided the one who met our need before you Remind us also that through him we have everything else that we need. We pray this in his name. Amen.