Please turn in your Bibles to James chapter 2. If you've been with us for the last several months, you know we've been going through the book of Acts. Acts, but we're going to take a couple of months break. We're going to come back to Acts. We're going to finish it. Don't worry about that. But we are taking a few weeks away from it. This morning we're going to be looking at James chapter 2 verses 14 to 19. As we get ready to take a look at this text, imagine for a moment that you were in a restaurant in the D. C. area. It's a crowded restaurant, it's uh you know the lighting is that you know partial lighting that's so common in restaurants, but across the room you think you see Steven Strasberg. The uh uh uh face of the Washington Nationals, pitcher extraordinaire, uh MVP of the last World Series, and a fairly new member of the $200 million club. I think that's him. I think that's Stephen Strasberg over there. Now you might be tempted to get up and run over there and ask for an autograph, but you You're not sure it's a poorly lit room, it's crowded, he's a long way away, you're not a hundred percent certain if it's Stephen Strossberg, and you don't want to look like a moron So what do you do? I mean it'd be cool getting his autograph talking to him. If nothing else, just being able to come back and make Dennis and Conrad so jealous would be really, really worth it, wouldn't it? But, but, you don't want to look like an idiot. So you hang back at your table and you look for evidence of Steven Strasberg being in the restaurant. Because if Steven Strasberg is in a restaurant in the DC area, well there's going to be evidence of it. The bus boy is going to walk very slowly past the table. The people at the tables nearby are all going to be stealing glances. The wait staff is going to pay particular attention to that table. And the manager is probably going to come out at some point and make sure everything's okay. If Steven Strasbourg is there, there's going to be evidence of it. Where Strasbourg goes in the DC area, fans appear And that's how you're going to know whether or not he's really there. That's a bit of an analogy for the text in front of us. Many people will come to me and say, Pastor, how do I know if I'm really saved? How do I know if my faith is real faith? And James is going to tell us that there is a way to know whether or not your faith is real. Just like you can tell if it's the real Steven Strasberg, because there will be fans, there is a way to tell if you're faith. is real. So please follow along now as I read James chapter 2, verses 14 to 19 What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and if one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled Without giving them any giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by what? By my works. You believe that God is one. You do well. Even the demons believe. And shudder. Let's ask the Lord to guide our understanding of this His Word. Spirit of God, we come to you with exactly that request, that you would reveal to us the meaning of this your word. And that you would work its meaning into our hearts, into our minds, and into our lives, that we would be a people of true faith. As demonstrated by our true works. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Martin Luther once said that we know that salvation is by faith alone, but such saving faith is never alone. Salvation is by faith alone, but saving faith is never alone. It's a good A catchphrase to remember. We are saved by faith alone, but faith is never alone if it is true, authentic faith. That's the argument that James makes here. In 2 verses 14 to 19. As we look at this text, we're going to see three things that come out of this text. James is going to argue that there is a faith that matters. He's going to argue that faith can be measured. There is a faith that is measured. And he's going to argue that there is a faith that is a mirage. A faith that matters, a faith that's measured, and a faith that is a mirage. That's going to be the three points that we're going to bring out of James' writing this morning. Now, we have jumped into the middle of the book of James at this point, so we need a little bit of a background to understand where we are in his letter. We haven't met James yet in our Acts Sermon series, but he's going to be the guy very soon. We're going to see him as the the head kind of the leader of the Jerusalem church. He's the half brother, uh younger brother of Jesus, and that's the James who writes this letter. And and in the first chapter James is going to say things like this. In James 1. 12, he says, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. So you see, James has got this focus on trials are actually a good thing because trials allow you to demonstrate, to show your faith. So this theme of faith that is accompanied by outward actions, we see established even early in James chapter 1. At the end of chapter 1, he challenges us to be doers of the word. And not hearers only. Again, we see that what we do is incredibly important in James writing. And then James chapter 2, part we didn't read, opened up with the challenge not to play favorite to the church Not to give some people preferential treatment, but rather to assume that in the body of Christ, all, no matter what their social status in the world is, that in the body of Christ They are united with us as brothers and sisters in the Lord. And so now here in verse 14, James asks if faith without works can save. So there it is again. What we do is come around for at least the, this is the fourth time now in his letter that this has become important. But now he he talks not only about uh about uh works, but he ties in the idea of salvation. Which is why many have mishandled this text throughout the centuries. Many have argued that James argues for a faith plus works equals salvation. But we're going to see that it's exactly not what he's arguing for. He's not contrary to Paul, where Paul says you're justified by faith alone. James isn't writing in opposition to that. But rather he is saying, how do we know if we have justifying faith? So there it is in verse 14, he introduces this idea of salvation. If someone says he has faith but does not have works, can that faith save him? Now that begs the question, save him from what? There's a saying I really like, I think it's one worth remembering when you're studying the scriptures. Text without context is just pretext. Text without context Is just pretext. Now we could make up what we're being saved from. I could bring my favorite other passages in here and twist this to be what I want it to be, but that's pretext. And we have a context. We must remember that as helpful as the paragraph headers are, they subdivide the letter in a way that the writer probably did not intend. So if we're going to understand what James is talking about, we need to back up a couple of verses. So go back with me. Look at verses 12 and 13. So speak and so act again what you do as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. The context is judgment. When James says, can such faith save him? And we ask the question, save him from what? The answer is save him from judgment. That's the issue here. Can your faith save you from judgment? And that's point number one. Faith matters. There is a faith that matters. It matters eternally. It matters with regard to the biggest things you can think about. For notice here that James does not say, can your faith and your works save you? It's that there is a particular faith that saves from judgment. He's not writing in contradiction to Paul, but rather he is trying to get you to understand that there are things that people call faith that are not faith at all. And he wants you to be sure that you have true faith. He asks the question: can faith without works save from judgment? That's his question. That's a faith that matters. You know, if you're going to do anything that is uh that risks one's life You're going to check and make sure that you are safe first. If you're going to jump out of an airplane, there's a reason that skydivers check and re-check and re-check and recheck. their parachutes and all the ropes and all the gear because their life depends upon that Firefighters do not run into burning houses without having thoroughly checked their oxygen tanks because their life depends on it. If I'm going to survive that fire, my tank has to work Here in Maryland, I discovered the hard way, you can't even buy a car without making sure that it's going to be safe on the road. It's got to be inspected and checked. We check these things because our life depends on them. And James is arguing that you need to check your faith because your eternal life depends on it. Your faith needs to undergo a test to see if it really is saving faith. We know That that oxygen tank, the firefighter, knows the oxygen tank is going to save him or her in the b building burning because they sat in a comfortable, non-threatening place and tested it And it worked. That brings us to the second point: that faith can be measured, it can be evaluated. Faith matters because it is what saves eternity. It is what saves in the face of judgment. But if faith is that important, then it had better be measured. And that's what he brings us to next. Notice in verse 15, he says, if a brother or sister is poorly clothed, And lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body. What good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. The so also there is key. In the same way as how some translations render it. So also, in the same way. In other words, Paul or James is saying, precisely the way that you can tell it, the way you can tell your faith is going to work in the next life is does it work in this life? How do you know that the oxygen tank is going to work in the fire? Because it worked in the fire house. Does your faith save anyone else from the effects of sin? He says there are these people who, because of sin in the world, they are suffering physically. They're hungry and they're cold. And all you have for them are platitudes? If your faith does not save them from the effects of sin in this life, what makes you think your faith will save you from the effects of sin in the next life? That's the measuring stick. That's the test of true faith. Does it Mediate the effects of sin. What is your sin? What is your sinful tendency? What is the thing in you that tends to crop up You tend to be impatient with other people as your faith saved others from your impatience. Is your faith changing you and saving other people from the effects of sin? Do you tend to hold a grudge? Is your faith teaching you to forgive? Do you tend to be short with your mother-in-law as your faith spared her? And the answer, if the answer to these questions is no, it really hasn't. then do you really think it's going to save you from the effects of sin? That's the question that James poses here. If your faith doesn't work for people here and now, if it doesn't affect, if it doesn't uh uh uh uh uh uh uh decrease the effects of sin in this life, what makes you think it's going to decrease the effects of sin in the next life? If your natural tendency is toward physical lust, and your faith does not save your girlfriend from that or spare your wife of the affairs that you would want to have. Then is it really going to be a faith that's going to change the effects of sin in the next life? Faith matters because it's the only thing that we have to cling to in the face of judgment. Because it matters, it must be measured. And faith is measured by looking at how it changes the effects of sin in the here and now. Now, before we move on at verse 18, James anticipates one of us making an argument. You see, he understands that you've just recently taken a spiritual gifts inventory You just completed some online survey, did spiritual gifts, and you say, well, you know, works is not my spiritual gift. That's your spiritual gift, James. My spiritual gift is just finding flaws with your spiritual gift. That's my spiritual gift, and I find a flaw with what you're saying. And James says, no, no, no, I saw that coming. Look at verse 18. Now we're going to have to stop and look a little closely at verse 18. Verse 18, probably in most translations, there are some quotation marks somewhere in verse 18. The problem is if we were to put all of our different translations next to each other, those quotation marks probably aren't in the same place from translation to translation. And the problem with the reason for that is simple, that the oldest and most reliable copies of the ancient scriptures we have, the Greek versions of this, there's there are no quotation marks. In fact, there's no punctuation at all Punctuation is a relatively modern invention. And that sometimes leads to problems knowing where to put the punctuation in our modern versions. And most scholars are now increasingly convinced, and I'm on board with them, that there should be no quotation marks at all here And again, that's not a violation of Scripture. We're not altering the words of the text, or there are no quotation marks in the copy that God gave anyway. Okay? So I'm going to suggest that we think about this verse without the quotation marks, and we see the whole thing as though James is saying it. You have faith and I have works. James is speaking. You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works. See, that actually fits better with the rest of the text. If we put this in quotation marks and make it somebody else's saying Then they're talking to James, you have faith, but not works. But James the whole his whole time, his whole book, has been arguing that you need to have works, so why would James all of a sudden be on the side of not having works? So you just take the quotation marks out. See the whole thing as James's argument. You have faith and I have works, James says, show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. James foresees what you're going to come at him. He sees that you're going to say, well, my spiritual gift just isn't good works. And James is going to say, then I'm not convinced you have the spiritual gift of faith. For if you do not have some good works, how on earth are we supposed to believe you have faith? By the way, once again, Paul and James are not at odds with each other on this. For when Paul writes to Timothy and tells Timothy how to select elders for the church. There's not one single requirement there that's got to do with the question of does he profess faith? If all he does is profess faith, then he can be an elder. No. Paul gets on board with what James is saying and says, yes, what he does is the evidence of what he believes. Is he temperate? Is he self-controlled? Is he d does he run his uh household well, love his wives, discipline his children? Um i i i you know, is goes on this whole list of what does he do? That's what reveals what's in his heart, not what does he say. What does he do is the revelation of what's inside of him. And that's what James is saying to his hypothetical opponent here. What you do is the evidence of what's inside of you. Faith can and must be measured. James says faith matters, for it is what saves us in the face of judgment. And because it matters, it must be measured. How do we measure it? Take a look at whether your faith is saving anybody from the effects of sin now. If your faith is saving other people from the effects of sin now, then there's a pretty good chance it'll save you from the effects of sin in eternity. But James now says, listen, there is also a faith that is a mirage. They're in verse 19. A faith that is the mirage. Take a look at this verse. Lost my place there, sorry. You believe that God is one. You do well. Congratulations, you've learned the first question of the Jewish catechism. I read the opening of our catechism. All good Presbyterians know the answer to the question, what is the chief end of man? We can recite it without the words there. Every good Jew knew that God is one. Hear, O Israel. Yahweh is our God. Yahweh is one. It was the central tenet of Judaism. It is the Shema. It is the thing that was said over and over again. It's the signature prayer. Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one. And he says, great, you believe there is one God. You've got your doctrine straight. You've got your knowledge down. But that's not saving faith. That's faith that is a mirage. Knowledge masquerading as faith is no faith at all. For what does he go on to say? Even the demons believe that. The demons have that same doctrinal purity that you have. But it is not a cause for hope. It terrifies them. For their understanding of God. Convinces them of the dire fate that they face. And they shudder. The doctrinal truth that God is one is not saving faith. I think if many of us here are honest with ourselves, this is a little terrifying For while certainly we have some strength to our denomination, to our faith tradition, This is an area of weakness for us. We love our doctrine. We love our doctrinal purity. We love to get it exactly right. We love to say it just so. And we should. Why on earth would we have wrong ideas about God? Why on earth would we ever justify not knowing the truth of Scripture? But we must never make the mistake of thinking that doctrinal purity is somehow the equivalent of faith. It's not Doctrinal knowledge does not save the demons have a better knowledge of God than you have. And they have no hope. Faith matters because it saves Faith, because faith matters, it has to be measured, but we must never mistake that which is just merely a mirage, knowledge, for true faith. And so as we tie this together, we are tempted to sit here and think to ourselves, well, I just got to go out and heap up good works. I've got to go out and do a bunch of good things. That'll prove that my faith is real. That'll prove that I'm on the right track if I just do a bunch of good works. So the point of the message this morning, Pastor, I got it, is to go home, buckle down, redouble my efforts Be all the more committed to my New Year's resolutions. I get why you're doing this on the on the uh last Sunday of the year, because I've got to make New Year's resolutions a couple of days and I'm gonna really I'm gonna make good ones faster And I'm going to redouble my efforts to do a bunch of good works. Many of the men here have been sweating over the last six weeks. I give you guys credit, it's been probably the last six days. But we'll pretend it was the last six weeks. Sweating to try to find exactly the right Christmas gift. What does she want? And we've all fallen in love with a gift card. Forget it, I'm not gonna try, you just take the gift card But knowing what she wants comes from knowing her. Knowing what she wants comes from knowing Her. I'm always put to shame when my children have better ideas of gifts for my wife than I have for my wife. They've listened to her, they've paid attention, they've noticed what she wants. And I'm sitting there going, oh, I'm so embarrassed. My kids know my wife better than I know my wife. This is sad Redoubling your efforts isn't going to get you anywhere if you don't know Jesus. If you know him And spend more time with him. And read the gospels and walk along the Sea of Galilee with Him and be among His disciples as He teaches them. And be renewed in what he has done for you, and be reminded of all the way you've sinned against him, then doing what he wants will come naturally. It will just flow out of who you are. Imagine we're back in that restaurant in DC and there's you think you see Steven Strasbourg across the way. Now answer this for me. If you just get a bunch of people and make them into fans. Would you go stand over there by him and ask for an autograph? Does that make him Steven Strasberg? No! If the guy's not Strasburg, he's not Strasbourg. I don't care how many false fans you send over there. It's not going to turn him into Strasbourg. You see the problem? When we read this text backwards, if we think that through our works we're going to get a true faith, we're just piling up false fans around a guy who really isn't the authentic deal anyway. If Stephen Strasberg is real, there will be fans. And if faith is real, there will be works. And if you don't have the works, if you're looking at your life going, I don't have the evidence, then don't focus on the works. Focus on the faith. Get to know Jesus. Get to know your own sin. so that you will better appreciate what he has done. The good works that are the measure of true faith flow out of that faith. And if your self-diagnosis is, my faith is not sparing other people of the effects of sin in this life. And therefore, my faith is probably not going to spare me of the effects of sin in the next life. Don't focus on the evidence. Focus on the problem. I don't apparently love Jesus enough. I don't know what to give him for good works. I don't know what sacrifice he wants for me, or at least I'm not willing to make it, even if I do know. Why is that? Either because I have undervalued my sin, or I have underappreciated his sacrifice, or I do not know him in some way. Get to know Jesus. And out of that will flow the evidence of a faith that matters, a faith that is well measured, and a faith that is not a mirage. Let's pray. Jesus, as we look to this new year, help us to know you. Draw us to yourself. Ignite in us a desire to hear you, to see you, to talk to you in prayer, so that out of that will come a real desire. To serve you through our works, so that we will see the evidence and have the confidence of a faith that saves us from judgment We ask this prayer, because on our own, this is not what we will pursue. So we ask you to come and make it a reality in our lives. We pray this in your name. Amen.