Please open your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter 10. Acts 10. We continue in our sermon series, Acts the Work of the Word continues Luke's account of the ongoing ministry of Jesus even after his ascension to the heavenly throne. Acts chapter 10 is a long passage, but we are reminded that part of what we do in worship is not only come to hear a sermon, but also to hear the reading of God's Word. When Paul is giving instruction to the young pastor Timothy, he tells Timothy to be devoted to three things, the public reading of Scripture and to preaching and to teaching. And so we give ourselves to much reading of Scripture, for we know there is found the truth. So turn your attention now to Acts chapter 10. Follow along as I read the whole passage. At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian cohort, a devout man who. He feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God. About the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him, Cornelius. And he stared at him in terror and said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa, and bring one Simon, who is called Peter. He is lodging with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea. When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who attended him, and having related everything to them, he sent them to Joppa. The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop about the sixth hour to pray. And he became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while there but while they were preparing it he fell into a trance, and saw the heavens opened, and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four corners upon the earth. In it were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air. There came a voice to him: Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice came to him again a second time. What God has made clean do not call common. This happened three times, and the thing was taken up at once to heaven. Now, while Peter was inwardly perplexed Perplexed as to what the vision that he had seen might mean. Behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate and called out to ask whether Simon, who was called Peter, was lodging there And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, three men are looking for you. Rise and go down and accompany them without hesitation, for I have sent them. And Peter went down to the men and said, I am the one you are looking for. What is the reason for your coming? And they said, Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man, who is well spoken of by the whole Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to send for you, to come to his house and to hear what you have to say. So he invited them in to be his guests. The next day he rose and went away with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him. And on the following day they entered Caesarea Cornelius was expecting them, and had called together his relatives and close friends. When Peter entered, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter lifted him up, saying, Stand up, I too am a man. And as he talked with him, he went in and found many persons gathered And he said to them, You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or to visit anyone of another nation. But God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean. So when I was sent for, I came without objection. I asked then why you sent for me. And Cornelius said, Four days ago, about this hour, I was praying in my house, at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing, and said, Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms have been remembered before God Send therefore to Joppa and ask for Simon who is called Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner by the sea. So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now, therefore, we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord So Peter opened his mouth and said, Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all, you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea. Beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all that he did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They put him to death by hanging him on a tree. But God raised him on the third day and made him to appear not to all the people. but to us who had been chosen by God as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach to the people And to testify that he is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him All the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed Because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles, for they were hearing them, speaking in tongues and extolling God Then Peter declared, Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they ask him to remain for some days. This is God's holy and inerrant word. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Since it is your word, we need your guidance. We need you to work in our hearts and minds that we would hear the message and receive it humbly We need you to convict us of sin where we are guilty, to assure us of grace where it is found. And to renew us in the hope that is ours in Jesus Christ. Let my words be yours, and if I should speak anything that is out of line with your word, let it be quickly forgotten. So that you are known by your word among your people. We pray this. In Christ's name. Amen. The passage before us, the passage we've just read, is a long passage. More than that, it is a repetitive passage. And what we haven't seen, but what we are going to take up next week, is in the opening of Acts 11, the story is told yet another time. So that we actually have three times that this tale is told. It's told first by Luke as the narrator. Then it's recounted by Cornelius as he tells it to Peter. Finally, in Acts 11, next week we'll see that Peter then recounts most of these same details to the church in Jerusalem. So that there is a threefold repetition. Now, one of the things that is interesting when we consider history as it was written in the ancient world, particularly at the time that this book of Acts was written, was that it was necessarily fairly condensed And in fact, one of the things we find interesting is that when we begin to look at the size, the physical size of many of the New Testament books, we find that the longest ones are all of roughly the same length It's not by accident. It's because the documents were limited by the writing materials, namely a scroll. There was only so much material you could wind onto one scroll and uh be uh be useful. Otherwise it would become so big and so unruly as to be impractical. So that the longest books of the New Testament all appear to be roughly the length of a maximum scroll. They have maximized The space made the best possible use of it. Now that's not a div uh a detail I share just so that you can win the next trivia competition at your small group gathering. But rather it is to say this. If you have very limited space and you have a lot to tell and a lot to talk about, why on earth would you repeat anything three times? Why would you give up limited space to tell the same story three times? Why does Luke not just simply say and Cornelius retold the details to Peter? And Peter retold the details in Jerusalem. Why does he repeat the story? Well, the answer is already obvious to you. Because it's important. Because what we have here is critical. It is incredibly a determined for the future of Christianity. It is a central issue. Now, it turns out that if we consider the account here in Acts 10, there are at least two ways to look at it One is to step back and look at it from a macroscopic, big picture, 30,000-foot view, to talk about its meaning with regard to the makeup of the church. But that's what the church in Jerusalem did in Acts 11. And so that's what we'll consider next week. We will take that macroscopic big picture view of these events next week. Today we're going to look at it up close, on a personal level, on an individual level. Not what do these things mean for the broader church in general. But what do these things mean in individual lives? We're going to look at the life of Cornelius and the conversion of Cornelius and consider its implications. In the bulletin, in the outline that's offered there, I have three points, three main points. First, we are going to consider the spiritual person. We are then going to look at the spirit-filled person, and then we are going to look at what changes one into the other. The spiritual person, the spirit-filled person, and then what it is that transforms the one into the other. Now, in our culture today, there are many who regard themselves as spiritual. You know them, you're familiar with them, you may, they may be your neighbors, your co-workers, your members of your family. They may be you. People who are, and they ought to be all of us. We all ought to be spiritual But these are people who will talk about the supernatural. They're open to the idea of deity They are in tune to the things beyond the material world. They are spiritual. And yet what we see in this passage is there is a distinction made between those who are merely spiritual and those who are spiritual because they are spirit-filled. And we must make that distinction. We must recognize that while those who are spirit-filled, brothers and sisters in the Lord, believers in Jesus Christ, must be spiritual, not everyone who is spiritual. Is necessarily spirit-filled. So we're going to look first at the spiritual person. One of the things I've noted in the subheadings there is that a spiritual person can be a good person. One of the tendencies we have, I think sometimes, is to think of every non-Christian as somehow, you know, uh blatantly, horribly evil. We misconstrue the doctrine of total depravity as though it's the doctrine of utter depravity. Total depravity simply means that every aspect of our beings are affected by sin. Utter depravity means we're as bad as we can be. Now the reality is that no one has been utterly depraved. The worst person you can think of probably loved his mom. Probably did something nice somewhere along the way to somebody. Probably stopped at least once for a red light. They've done something that was basically good. Nobody is utterly depraved. But we do tend to think of unbelievers as pretty close. Certainly much more that way than we are. And one of the things we've got to be able to do is to think in biblical categories, and in biblical categories we realize that there are those who do good things. They live good lives. They perform good works And they are regarded as such even by the Bible. Now they are not good in the sense of meriting salvation. They do not merit God's pardon. But they are nevertheless good deeds. Such a person is set forth here. Look at what we see of Cornelius. He is a good person, he is a good worker Notice there in the first, the opening verses. The man named Cornelius, he is a centurion of what has been known as the Italian cohort. Couple of comments there. First of all, Centurion is a significant officer. An officer, as the name implies, who has oversight of roughly 100 soldiers. An officer who would have uh a fair amount of and by the way, uh technically it'd be the equivalent of an officer in today's army, something like a captain. Technically in the Roman army, he wasn't actually an officer, but he was a high ranking member of the army, I should word it that way. Okay? Um And he had a lot of authority. He had a lot of autonomy and freedom. A centurion could make field decisions and execute his will on the battlefield. And he's a centurion. He's part of the Italian cohort in Caesarea. Now there are two Caesarea's in uh ancient Palestine. Uh you may be familiar with uh uh uh uh uh uh Uh Caesarea um Philippi, where Peter gave his famous confession, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. This is the Caesarea by the sea. Okay, this one's over on the coast. This is a different Caesarea. Named Caesarea, obviously, because it's built in honor of Caesar. Okay. Uh uh It was an administrative headquarters. It was a key city. It was Uh uh uh the equivalent uh yes the capital of the region. It's the equivalent of Annapolis, probably with better weather. Um It's an important city. So for him to be a centurion and to be stationed there, he's part of the Italian cohort. He has been sent from Italy. To guard this important city, to be part of the garrison there that protected it against rebellions and uprisings. He is entrusted. This is similar to one to a to a Marine being put in charge of a of an embassy, of protecting and guarding an embassy in a potentially hostile environment. A lot of responsibility You don't get that responsibility. You don't acquire that position without having been a good, faithful, reliable worker. Soldier. He is a good employee, a good soldier. He is a good father, husband, and friend. Down in verse 24, we well, there in verse 3 we see him with a devout man who feared God with all of his household. He's leading his household. The household follows his lead. And then down in verse 24, where is it? Oh, and the following day they entered Caesarea, Cornelius was expecting them, and he called together his relatives and close friends. This is a man who says, I care about more than myself. If this message is important for me, then it's important for the people I love and I care about. I want them to hear it also. He is a good man. He is a good soldier. He is a good father, husband, and friend. And he's a good citizen. Look at verses 2 and 22. In verse 2, he is a devout man who feared God with all his household and gave alms generously to the people. He's a good citizen. He cares about other people. His reputation is summarized in verse 22. And they said, Cornelius a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man who is well spoken of. by the whole Jewish nation. He is a good citizen. He is a spiritual man. He is a good man. The other thing we find is that he is spiritually good. That he behaves well in the spiritual realm. Again, in verses 2 and 22, it says that he is a God fearer. He fears God. Now, some have argued that this is a technical term at this point. that Luke is using this to speak of one who is an adherent of Judaism but has not become a full proselyte. I think the evidence for that is a little weak. I don't think we can make that case. But nevertheless, regardless whether or not we make that case, the point here is this That he is open to the God of the Jews. He is sympathetic to the God of the Jews. He is uh reverent with regard to the God of the Jews. He's a spiritually good person. He also prays continually to that God. Verse 2. We see also that he listens to the vision that comes to him. He interacts with it. We see there in uh uh at the end of verse 3, his name is called out Cornelius. And he says, what is it, Lord? Lord here probably means sir. All right? It's not that he's necessarily addressing the angel as God, but rather he is addressing the angel with re uh a term of respect. What is it, sir? And he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended. And he goes on and uh recounts there what the angel says to Cornelius. Cornelius doesn't disregard the angel, he listens to the angel. This time of year, many of us will watch or re-watch or read or reread Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol And there is that scene where the ghost of Marley comes to Ebenezer Scrooge, the ghost of Jacob Marley, and Scrooge is dismissive. He says you're not really a real thing. The line is a pretty good one. You may be an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fr a fragment of underdone potato. There's more of gravy than of grave about you, whatever you are. And with that, Ebenezer dismisses the spirit realm. Cornelius is not like that. He does not dismiss the spirit realm. He does not dismiss the angel when the angel comes. He is open. And then we see he is obedient. So he is one who prays to God, he fears God, he prays to God, he is open to the spirit world, and he is obedient. to the spirit world. In verses 7 and 8, and again in 30 and 33, 30 through 33, we see him acting in obedience To what he's been told by the angel, what has come to him in this spiritual vision Cornelius is a good man. He is a spiritual man. He is a person. in tune with the spirit world. And in fact, he is more in tune with it than many of us who are spirit-filled. So he is a believer. What did do we do with this? Is he saved? Is he a uh uh uh a Christian at this point? If he died right now, at this point in the retelling of his story, had he died right here with all this information, what would happen to his eternal soul? Well, there are some who would argue that having done the best he could do with the revelation available to him, having seen all that he could see by the light he had been given That God would grant him heaven. And yet when we flip over, and again we'll take this up more closely next week, but if we flip over to chapter eleven, we look at verse fourteen. We read some important words there as Peter retells what came to uh Cornelius In 1114 we read this. He, Peter, will declare to you a message by which you will be saved. You and all your household. If the message that is going to come from Peter is going to save Cornelius, what does that say about Cornelius' standing before the message comes? Does it not make clear that he is not saved? Clearly, he is a good man, a spiritual man. But at this point in the story, he is not a saved man. And we must recognize There are many good people, spiritual people, who are going to hell. We must not write off the member of our family, the co-worker, the neighbor, who speaks in spiritual terms. But never speaks of Christ. We must not say, well, they talk a lot about God. They must be saved. I don't need to evangelize them. I don't need to share the gospel with them. They talk about God all the time. Do they talk about their hope in Christ? That's the defining characteristic. Being good and being spiritual is not determinative. It's not that God discounts them. But they are not determinative. And by the way, we see throughout the book of Acts, and there in the bulletin I've given you some verses to look at later, but we see repeatedly that the message of Acts consistently throughout the book of Acts is that salvation belongs not to those who are good or to those who are spiritual, but to those who repent and believe. Who turn away from sin and turn to Jesus, who repent and believe. Cornelius is a good man, a good soldier, a good father, husband, and friend, a good citizen. He is a spiritual man. listening to the spirit world, following its instructions, obeying it. But he is not a saved man. By contrast, we see the spirit-filled person in the text. Peter also weaves his way throughout this entire chapter, and he represents the spirit-filled person. Now, right off the bat, we've portrayed the I've said that the spiritual person can be and often is a good person, and many of us know that experience. We scratch our heads and think to ourselves, I know a lot of unbelievers who are a lot nicer than some of the Christians I know. I like them better. I like hanging out with them more. Because we see that it's not about our outward niceness that is determinative. We ought to be nice. I'm not dismissing that. I'm saying that's not what determines. the group to which we belong. So let's consider the spirit-filled person. In verses 9 through 29, we see Peter in his interaction with a vision. It's interesting, his interaction with the vision is very different than from that of Cornelius. While Cornelius immediately submitted to and followed the instruction of the angel, we see Peter arguing And in fact, Peter is probably not arguing with an angel, but is actually arguing with Jesus. The sheath comes down from heaven. I think it's really interesting that it that this vision comes to him in a form to which he was already ready to go. In other words, it says he was hungry and the vision was one of food. It's an interesting thing there. He's tempted. Wow. Those steamed crabs on that sheet smell really good. And I'm really hungry. But I can't eat crabs, I'm a Jew. And the vision comes to him, and what does Peter do? He argues with Jesus. Rise up and kill and eat, Peter. No, no, no, no, I'm not going to do that. Now remember, this is the guy who earlier walked with Jesus during Jesus' earthly ministry when Jesus foretold the fact that there would be coming a time when all foods would be made clean. Yet here it is repeated for him. We're going to see later. He's going to say, I recall, but in chapter 11, next week we're going to see where it says, I recalled what Jesus said, but this time he doesn't recall what Jesus had said. He just argues with Jesus. And in fact, the argument goes on, it has to be three times. We're seeing this pattern with Peter. He never gets the message. Recall that after the resurrection, how many times did Jesus have to say to Peter, Feed my sheep? This repetition of the three. He is the spirit-filled man, but he is arguing with the Lord. We then see that despite his instruction, he doesn't obey straight away. Look down at verses uh uh What's it verse uh 20 and 21? Um rise and go down and accompany them without hesitation. Now it's interesting when Peter re when this gets related later, Peter says he did it uh w without objection. But the command was to do it without hesitation. And then what do we immediately see? And Peter went down to the man and said, I am the one you are looking for. Let's go. It's not what he says. What is the reason for your coming? He's been told to go without hesitation. And he stops and says, let's have a conversation and talk about it. He is the Spirit-filled man, but he is not immediately obedient to the Spirit. The spiritual person can, and sadly often is, spiritually slow, spiritually stubborn. The spirit-filled person can be spiritually mistaken, can just be flat out wrong with regard to theology, doctrine, and practice. Look at verses 34 and 35. These are difficult verses, and we must figure out a way to deal with them, though I don't know that I'm going to solve it this morning. So Peter opened his mouth and said, Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. What does that mean? That anyone who fears God and does what is right is acceptable to God? Well, there have been many who have turned to this passage, who have pointed at that verse, and defended universalism. Everyone goes to heaven. Clearly the Bible does not teach that. But some have pointed the verse and said, well, no, it doesn't say that everyone goes to heaven. But clearly it says that those who do the best they can Those who make the best of what they have available to them, they go to heaven. You know, anyone who fears God and does what is right, he's acceptable to God. Well, we've already seen that that Cornelius is not saved, and that he has to become saved. So we have to reject that interpretation. Some have said that what this means is not so much that it's the person himself that is acceptable to God, but rather their deeds, their good works. Not meritorious, they don't merit salvation, but nevertheless God receives them as good works, that God acknowledges them. Now, there's something to be said for that view. Our own confession of faith acknowledges that the unredeemed certainly do good things. And the scriptures talk a lot about the fact that we will be judged according to our works. Final condemnation is not based on our works, but much of the judgment is. And we see, and and by the way, when I say there's something to be said to that, that's basically Kelvin's view, is that the works are what's in view here, not the person being acceptable. Some have uh uh uh uh said now what's been what's being said here is really that the one who fears God and does what is right is the one who does everything found in verse 43. They have believed and and received forgiveness of sins through his name. The only one who has done what is right is the one who has believed, and therefore that's what this is talking about. Maybe there could be something to that Others have argued that it's a view that says that where people respond to the light of general revelation, where they respond to the light that they have available to them, God will honor Their response. It's not that they are saved by their response, but rather because they have responded, God will seek them out. God will make sure that the word gets to them. There's something to be said for that. There are many highly respected evangelical and reformed Christian thinkers who hold that view. And many of us have heard the account of missionaries arriving in certain places and the gospel being almost immediately accepted. The people were just waiting for it. And so that's a possible view. I think there is one other view that needs to be considered. Peter just gets it wrong. Peter is just wrong at this point. That Luke is not recording a divinely inspired truth, but he is recording what was actually thought and said and done in that moment. This is a difficult thing to think about, but we see it in other places. For we see in one place where the disciples of John the Baptist approach him and say, Are you the promised Elijah? And he says, No, I am not. But the disciples of Jesus go to Jesus and say, was John, is John the promised Elijah? And Jesus says, yes, he was. Yes, he is. John was just wrong about his own status in the plan of God. And we know, lest we be freaked out by the idea that Peter could be wrong. We were reminded that in Galatians 2, on this very issue of who could come to God, Paul reminds us that Peter took the wrong position and that Paul had to confront Peter on this issue. I think what we see here is Peter just flat out being wrong. That he is holding a view that says, those who get themselves ready. Those uh you know, this whole uh Gentiles coming to uh to the Jewish Messiah is a tough thing, is a tough pill to swallow, but now I get it. It's those who become very Jewish-like Cornelius has become very much like a Jew, hence the term God fearer. He is sympathetic to our God, he's been praying to our God, he gives all into the court with our God, he is but uh liked by the Jewish people. That's why he can come. Because for all intents and purposes, he's made himself Jewish. I suspect, although I don't know for certain That's what we have here. And that's what's going to be unveiled in the next few weeks, the next few chapters of, actually it won't be the next few weeks, but in the next few chapters of the book of Acts We're going to see the church wrestle with this question. What is required of one who would come to the Christ? Just because one is spirit filled does not mean that one is without error. It's because one is ordained as a pastor or an elder or a deacon does not mean one is without error. Just because one is a believer in Jesus Christ and the Spirit lives within them does not make one without error. So it's an interesting contrast up to this point. The spirit-filled person seems to be just wrong. about who can come to the Lord is uh stubborn with regard to obedience to the direction of the Spirit, argues with the vision that Jesus sends. The spiritual person, Cornelius, is the opposite on every account. Open, obedient, good citizen, good father, good member of society, good soldier. And yet the two stand in very different with regard stand very differently with regard to their eternal destiny. You see, because in the end the spirit filled person. is saved. Look at what changes in verses 44 through 48. While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word. And the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them, speaking in tongues, and extolling God. Then Peter declared, Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Peter, for whatever he may have gotten wrong earlier, recognizes that there has been a conversion. That this household has come to Jesus, that they are now changed. They are not what they were before. That the Holy Spirit has entered them. Unless there be any doubt, I'm not sure how to judge that. I don't know how to tell if the Holy Spirit is somebody. We have the Gentile Pentecost going on here. We have the same outward signs that accompany the first church. Now, don't get me wrong, it's not that this is supposed to be an ongoing thing, for we will see repeatedly in Acts that people will come to know the Lord, and these events do not take place. But nevertheless, it does mark out an important new turning point in the church. And at this point they are saved. Cornelius was not saved when he was merely spiritual. Cornelius was not saved merely for being good. Cornelius was not saved when he was a good citizen, a good soldier, a good father. He was saved when he heard and believed the word of Christ. was saved when the Holy Spirit entered him. Whatever flaws the Spirit-filled person might have He is saved. She is assured of eternal life. And whatever goodness this spiritual person, the merely spiritual person, might have. They stand in need of the gospel, of good news for good people And what makes the transformation? What makes the difference? Well, it's clearly set forth in verses 36 through 43. We have there the preaching of the gospel. The message that Peter preaches is Jesus is Lord. Jesus was the faithful minister, the one who set free those who were under the curse of sin. That Jesus was crucified. That he was raised in verse 40, that he was revealed, verse 41, that Christ was preached and prophesied, verses 42 and 43. That he was preached and prophesied. And that he is believed, verse 43b. When Jesus is preached and when he is believed, that's when those who are merely spiritual become spirit-filled. And it is yet another reminder in this book of Acts what we need to set before those around us. What we need to set before ourselves. If you are here today, dear friend, you are a spiritual person, a good person, who has not Put hope and trust in Jesus. And that transformation awaits you. Hear the message. That he died, that he was raised again, that he is the one who will forgive sins. And for those of us who have already clung to this, we must proclaim it to others. This is the only way to transform the spiritual into the spirit-filled. It is a message they need to hear. It is a message not just for the for the really, really bad. It is not a message simply for those who are obviously hellbound. It is a message for everyone, but especially for those who do not claim Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, let us see the importance of Jesus. That while our goodness might be good, it is not enough. Well, our spirituality might be valuable, it is not enough. That we need to come to Jesus. Lord, let us also declare this to all whom we know. Let us, as we gather with family and friends in the days and weeks to come, Let us boldly proclaim the message of the life and ministry and death and resurrection of Jesus. So that they will believe in him and be transformed from spiritual to spirit-filled Let us recognize that the distinction lies in your work through your word, and not in anything that we do or say or are. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.