Well, I'm finally going to join the twenty-first century and say this. Would you please click in your Bible app? To Acts chapter 6, beginning at verse 8. If you've still got a paper Bible, you can flip there that way. Acts chapter 6, we're going to uh start in verse 8. We're going to be reading a long passage this morning, the remainder of chapter 6, all of 7, and the first few verses of chapter 8, a long section this morning. As you turn there, I will share with you a a story about a couple. They were in their early sixties. They are uh getting ready to celebrate their fortieth wedding anniversary and retirement was right around the corner and so it was an exciting time in their lives. And the husband, knowing how much his wife loved antiques, he He bought her uh this old, beautiful old brass lamp. And as she was unpacking it, she she as she unpacked the lamp and was excited about it. Suddenly there was this wisp and then a poof of purple smoke. And in the midst of the purple smoke there was a genie. And the genie looked at them and said I'm going to grant you each one wish. You each get a wish. And the wife says, well, I know exactly what I want. I want a luxury around the world cruise with all of the amenities, all of the extras. And the genie says it is so granted. And there is a poof, and in her hand are tickets. Tickets to the most posh ship on the oceans. And it's the presidential suite. And it has all of the best ports of call all around the world and all of the most amazing excursions in those ports of call. First class airfare to get there, deluxe hotel accommodations when they're on shore everything she could want. The husband, wanting to give his wife of forty years a little ribbing and a hard time, says Wow, when you think about scuba diving and parasailing and all these fancy excursions, I I kinda wish my wife were thirty years younger. And the uni says poof, and instantly he was ninety-three. I think many of us have wished for a genie at some point in our lives. A genie that would grant us the things that we want. I think some of us would mishandle those wishes. We would, like the man in the story, not be careful with what we wanted, and we would get something unexpected. But we want that genie, that one who will come and give us whatever it is we want. And one of the reminders, one of the things that we're reminded of In that genie scenario, there's that temptation to look at the genie as the one who is powerful, and in some sense, the genie is powerful. But we are reminded that ultimately the power rests with the wishmaker. Ultimately, authority and control rests with the one who controls the genie. Who has released them from their bottle, from their lamp? That desire for a genie reflects really our desire for control and for power. And our text this morning reflects that. Now this is a long passage, and there is a lot of good content in here, and we are going to consider another version, another angle of this text in Sunday school this morning. I would encourage you to stay for that. But this morning we're going to take a look not so much at Stephen the man. That's a common angle in this place Or Stephen the Martyr, another important way to consider this. But rather we're going to look at Stephen the preacher and actually the content of his sermon What is it that Stephen had to say? This is the longest speech in a book full of speeches. It is one that Luke thought was sufficiently important that he did not cut it down and summarize it quite as much as he did some of the others. So what was so important in this And what we're going to see is that, among other things, one of the things Stephen does is he takes to task the Jewish leadership because they treat God like a genie. They treat God as though he is this powerful being who is under their control. That he's there to grant them their wishes to do for them what they want when they want. And they do not respect his godness, his true deity, his true power. And I fear that some of us fall into that trap. That God has become for us a genie. We keep him bottled up at church. Until we go there and need something. And we set him free for a short time only for the purpose that he grant what we want. And then he goes back in his bottle. And Stephen takes the Jewish leadership to task for that. So as we look at this passage, we are going to look at an important truth. God is not your genie. God is not your cosmic wish fulfiller. He is not my wish grantor. If he is God at all, then he is completely sovereign and independent of any demand that I might make upon him. And if he is under my control, then who is really God? As we turn to this passage, we'll remind you that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice That if you want to know what to believe about God and how to live in light of His godness, if you want to know how to honor God as the God of glory and not your personal genie, Then you must know his word. So I invite you now to hear the word of God. And in fact, we are going to go to him and ask him to guide our understanding of it. Lord, as we turn to your word, as we consider this long passage, help us to see at least one important message this morning. Help us to see that you are not our genie. You are not a God under our thumb, under our control. You are not a God who is to be manipulated by us. But rather you are the God of glory. Let us see what Stephen saw, and in so and in seeing, let us have the zeal that Stephen had. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Starting in chapter 6, verse 8, stopping, as I often do in these longer texts, stopping at places to make some comments as we go through it. And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people. Then some of those who belonged to the synagogue of the freedmen, as it was called uh former slaves, as the name implies. And of the Cyrenians and of the Alexandrians and of those from uh Cilicia and Asia rose up and disputed with Stephen Now some of you are probably more up on your ancient Middle Eastern geography than I was. When I read this, the list didn't mean much to me, but we should note that Cilicia is the region, the Roman province. where a city by the name of Tarsus was located. And so many scholars suspect, and if you don't remember the name Tarsus, that's the hometown of a guy by the name of Saul. who is remembered in church history by his uh uh uh uh uh Latin name Paul So this is probably the synagogue that Saul of Tarsus, or the Apostle Paul, attended before he was a believer. Um verse ten. Uh sorry, and and the point here though is we got all these people from all over different places around the world all disputing with Stephen, basically taking him to task for his claim that Jesus of Nazareth was the promised Messiah. And in verse 10 we read this. But they could not withstand the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. Then they secretly instigated men who said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God. When you can't win fair and square, cheat. And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him, and seized him, and brought him before the council, that is the Sanhedrin. And they set up false witnesses who said, This man never ceases to speak words against this holy place and the law. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses delivered to us. First of all, let's stop and consider what we have here. The charges against Stephen really come down to this. He doesn't hold to our view of God. He doesn't see things the way we see them. He speaks against this place. Now you remember from a couple of weeks ago in Sunday school, we saw that the Sanhedrin met in an uh in an antechamber of the temple. So this place is the temple. And they're saying Stephen speaks against the temple Well, we're the keepers of the temple, we're the Jewish Council, we're the Supreme Council, we keep the temple. We know what it's all about, and he is saying that his Jesus of Nazareth is going to destroy the temple But you will recall that Jesus of Nazareth said he would destroy the temple. He said the day was coming when the temple would be raised. And he's also on, Jesus pointed out, that the temple was no longer needed following him. The boundary, the barrier between God and man was torn when he died. The Temple Vale was rent from top to bottom. The temple, while still a valuable building and a wonderful place to go and meet Its function as a place of sacrifice, its exclusion exclusive claim to be the place of worship, was now in the past. It's not that Stephen was going to change the temple, or even that so much that Jesus was going to change change the temple per se. It's that the temple was changed. It's already past tense. It's no longer a future tense thing. But neither were the Christians anti-Temple, for what have we seen so far in the book of Acts? Where do they routinely meet as Christians? In the temple. So Stephen is not speaking against the temple per se, but rather what he is speaking against is their understanding of the temple. Let's continue reading, verse 16. And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of the country of an angel. Nobody knows for sure exactly what that means. How was it like a face of an angel? I'm going to assume we it's safe to believe that it means he did not see what I saw in the mirror this morning. Whatever the angel face was, it wasn't that. Picking up in verse, uh chapter 7, verse 1. And the high priest said uh to Stephen, Are these things so? Are the accusations against you correct? It's interesting. There's a lot of dispute about what comes next among scholars. Does Stephen actually address the accusations? Does he take them up point by point? Is there a counter to it? And there can be an argument made on both sides, but I think the important thing is to see this, that no matter what to what degree he addresses the specific charges, Stephen addresses the need of the moment. And in this way he is very much like his master Jesus. I always got frustrated reading the Gospels. I always wanted to say, yeah, but Jesus, you didn't answer the question asked. But he had a way of knowing what needed to be said, even if that's not what was asked. And Stephen here has the wisdom. What did we see? That he is a man full of grace and power. Earlier he's a man full of the spirit and of wisdom earlier in the chapter. He knows what needs to be said. And that's what he says. And so we read in verse two, and Stephen said Brothers and fathers, respect. Hear me, the God of glory, respect, appeared to our father Abraham. Now notice what we have here. When he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran. And said to him, Go out from your land and from your kindred, and go into the land that I will show you. Then he went out from the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran And after his father died, God removed him from there into this land in which you are now living in. Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length. I think that's proof that the metric system is not biblical. But he promised to give it to him as a possession and to his offspring after him, though he had no child. And God spoke to this effect, that his offspring would be sojourners in a land belonging to others who would enslave them and afflict them four hundred years. But I will judge the nation that they serve, said God, and after that they shall come out and worship me in this place. And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him. On the eighth day, and Isaac became the father of Jacob and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs. Now the first thing we see introduced in this paragraph is a theme of place. You see how many seven times, actually depending on how you want to divide it up, maybe as many as nine times, this idea of place is repeated over and over and over again. You, the Sanhedrin, you the council, the great High Council of Judaism, say that it's this place, this temple. That God is confined here. That God is limited to this bottle in which you've kept him. But you have forgotten our own history as Jews. We have a long, rich history of God working with us. Well, apart from this place, have you forgotten? Abraham didn't live on Mount Moriah when he was called. He didn't live at this place. He was an er of the Chaldeans. Beyond the river. It was interesting too, for Stephen has been accused of blaspheming the tradition, the Moses, and the law, and all these things. He is very careful not to make any of the negative comments about the forefathers of Judaism. Joshua tells us that Abraham worshipped other gods beyond the river. Stephen leaves that out. We're going to see in a moment that Moses is the murderer and Moses has his other problem. Stephen leaves all of that out. He just points up the good side of these guys. He's on trial. He doesn't want to anger the people needlessly there. And Stephen says, You've forgotten. Our forefather Abraham was called not when he lived in this place, but he's called in another place. And God moved him to Haran, and then from there God moved him again. Even when God brought him to this land, he still didn't give him this land. He took him to another place. And then he brought him back to this place. And then he took his descendants out of this place. And then he went to Pharaoh and said, They're going to go worship me in another place. And then he brought us back into the land. Stephen is reciting Jewish history for them to remind them that God is not bottled up in your temple. God is not contained in the walls of the church. If he is God at all, he is God over all. And he cannot be bottled up. The theme of place will come back many more times, but in the next section, we see a second important theme being introduced. The theme of the forefathers rejecting God's appointed man. Notice how this begins to play out now. Picking up in verse 9, and the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph Sold him into Egypt. But God was with him and rescued him out of all of his afflictions and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household. Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan and great affliction, and our fathers could find no food. But when Jacob heard that there was no there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit. And on the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh. And Joseph sent and summoned Jacob his father and all his kindred, seventy-five persons in all. And Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died. He and our fathers. And they were carried back to Shechem. Notice place again. and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem. Stephen is on trial because he has rejected the tradition of the Jews. He has gone against the the council and they're saying we stand in the long tradition of Judaism and you are following this this rebel we are already executed, Jesus of Nazareth Now you speak against the temple and you speak against our law and against Moses. And Stephen says, Have you forgotten the tradition of our fathers? The tradition of our fathers is to reject the very person God sends. We have a long history of God sending us people, and we reject them. And here it is in the story of Joseph. God raised him up to be a savior, and his brothers rejected him. Do you really want to stand in the tradition of our fathers? Now, Stephen hasn't been that blunt yet. His argument before the council is subtle at this point, but he's beginning to introduce this idea. Do you want to keep doing things the way they've always been done? We continue. Verse 17. But at the time of the promise drew near Which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive Put them out in the elements so that they die of exposure. Verse 20. At this time Moses was born, and he was beautiful in God's sight. Listen, every mom thinks their child is adorable, right? Wouldn't m most moms love to have that statement right there? Oh, by the way, and also God thinks you the kid's pretty good looking too. God does think that about your child, so it's okay. He was beautiful in God's sight, and he was brought up for three months in his father's house. And when he and when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him. And brought him up as her own son. And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds. I don't speak against Moses. Look what I think of Moses In fact, this is an interesting statement. Nothing in the Bible tells us that Moses was trained in this way. But somewhere along the line in Jewish tradition and in Jewish history, Stephen had access to this knowledge. He says, this is what I think of Moses. I think he's pretty amazing. I don't speak against Moses. Verse 23. When Moses was 40 years old, It came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel, and seeing one of them being wronged, he defended an oppressed the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand. And on the following day, he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort, Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons Now, when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai in a flame of fire in a bush. When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. As he drew near to look, then came the voice of the Lord. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob And Moses trembled and did not dare to look. Then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. Now surely when God when when when uh uh uh Stephen was reciting earlier about going into Egypt and the God bringing them back to worship at this place, they all assume the place was back into the promised land, per particularly Mount Moriah, particularly the Mount of the Temple in Jerusalem. But in the midst of his recounting, he reminds them That God was not tied to that place. And in fact, when he took Moses out of Egypt, he didn't return him to the promised land, but God met with him in another place. And it wasn't the walls of the temple. It was not the golden doors on the most holy place that made the place holy. It was the presence of God. And the word of God. So that in the desert in Midian, not in the promised land, not in the place that God had said he would meet with his people, God met with his people. Or his person at this point. And that what makes a place holy is God's presence. And what makes God's presence real to us is Him speaking. He has no physical form, that he can be present in that way. If he revealed his glory, we would be dead instantly. He reveals himself in his word. He spoke to Moses through the burning bush. And God speaking to his person Defined a place as holy. God speaking to his people defines a place as holy I am thankful that we have retained the word sanctuary for this room. It's not that we couldn't call it a worship center. It's not that we couldn't give it other titles. But the word sanctuary is related to this word holy, a set-apart place, a place where God, through his word, meets with his people. This is what happened with Moses. And Stephen says, that's what defines a holy place, not your temple courtyard. Not your walls. We're gonna see. He doesn't speak against the temple as we go on here. He's very pro-temple. Picking up in verse 34, God speaking to Moses, having told him to take off his shoes. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. And I have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them, and now come, I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected. And now Stephen returns to that theme. He has talked about place. Now he returns to the rejection of God's leaders, the ones whom God sends, our forefathers rejected. First Joe and now Mo. They are both being cast aside by the ancient people of God. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt. Notice the wording that Stephen chooses here. He has been described at the opening of this passage as doing wonders and signs. Peter has been described as doing wonders and signs. Jesus of Nazareth was described as doing wonders and signs. And Peter uh si Stephen is trying to get to the Jewish Council to see that they stand in the tradition of God's leaders who do wonders and signs. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years. This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. Our fathers rejected Moses. Moses foretold the Messiah. You see where Stephen's headed with this? Verse 38. This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai and with our fathers. He received living oracles to give to us. Our fathers refuse to obey him. You said I don't respect the law, that I speak blasphemy against the law. Look, our father, our fathers, you claim to stand in the direction of our fathers. They rejected Joseph. You stand to claim to stand on the tradition of our fathers. They rejected Moses. You claim to hold to the tradition of our fathers. They rejected the law. They did not obey it. Picking up verse 39. Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt, saying to Aaron, Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. And they made a calf in those days and offered a sacrifice to the idol. and were rejoicing in the works of their hands. But God turned away and gave them over to worship the hosts of heavens, as it is written in the book of the prophets. Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You took up the tent of Moloch and the and the star of your God Rephan. The images you uh that you made to worship and I will s uh send you into exile beyond Babylon Now back to the theme of place. Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it. According to the pattern that he had seen. Our fathers in turn brought it in with Joshua when they disp dispossessed the nations that God drove out before our fathers. So it was until the days of David who found favor in the sight of God and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. But it was Solomon who built the house for him. Now notice Stephen has been willing to point out generically how the fathers went wrong. He's not afraid to speak of the ancient Israelites as having sinned. And he's been harping on this theme that God is not bound to a particular place, and now he gets to the builders of the particular place in question. Notice he doesn't fault them. He doesn't imply that they went wrong. It's not wrong to have a temple. Steve is not speaking against the temple. His issue is not with the building, but with the attitudes and hearts of those who were clinging to the building. Let's keep going. Verse 48. Yet the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as Isaiah the prophet wrote. Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord? Or what is the place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things Even the temple that you built for me, I built for myself. I've made it all. You stiff-necked people, now this is where Stephen brings it home. You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. Stephen's now tying threads together that have been going on for the last many weeks around him. There's been this dispute and debate over the circumcision bubbling up. Earlier in here, he said the circumcision was the sign of the covenant God had with his people earlier in this sermon. And now he comes around and says, but you are not circumcised. I don't care what your body shows. I don't care what's true of your flesh. You are not circumcised. You are not marked as the covenant people of God. Your hearts and your ears are covered over, and the sinful flesh has not been cut back. And then he weaves in the Holy Spirit. Have you lost sight of what happened at Pentecost? Many of you in this council were there at Pentecost. You were there that day. You saw it You're faithful Jews. You would not have missed Pentecost. You saw what happened and you questioned it. It's why Peter preached to you that day. It's why you dragged Peter and John before this very council just some weeks ago. You know what happened when the Spirit came, and yet you still won't believe Which of the prophets did your fathers, notice he's no longer our fathers, which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered. You who received the laws delivered up by angels, but did not keep it. Now, when they heard these things, they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God. He opened with speaking about the God of glory and now he sees the glory of God. We see an interesting sandwich here, Stephen. God is saying through Luke, the Holy Spirit is saying through Luke, that it was Stephen who was in the right here It was Stephen who could see God clearly. It was Stephen who really understood who the God of glory was and is. But full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed into heaven and saw the God the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Jesus said, those who deny me before man, I will deny before my Father in heaven, but the one who testifies to me before mankind, I will testify. about him to my father. That's the image we see here. Jesus standing up in the court of heaven and saying, Father, the one they're about to kill, he just testified to me. He was just faithful to me. Let me testify to you about him. That's the image that Stephen sees, and what a glorious thing to see. Verse 47. 57. But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. Usually this throw him off a small cliff so that he's down below you and then throw stones down on top of him until he's dead. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this he fell asleep. So many parallels to the death of Jesus. The crying out in a loud voice, the forgiving of the ones who are executing him, the the giving over of his spirit. He gives it to the Lord Jesus. Jesus gave his spirit to his Father. Your hands I commit my spirit. So many parallels that Luke wants us to see here, that Stephen really is walking in the ways of Jesus. And then verse 8, or chapter 8. And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, place again. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church and entering house after house. He dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. In this long speech to the Sanhedrin, Stephen kept going back to two themes, the theme of place and the theme of the rejection of God's chosen leaders. He does so largely to bring home to them the the the irony of their accusation. I don't know so much that he's really trying to defend himself. I don't know that he cares to defend himself. What he cares about is making the truth of the gospel known. And he says, you guys have this God in a bottle way of thinking. You're claiming that I speak against the temple. It's as if the temple is the only place that God can exist. And I get why you think that way. You're the Sanhedrin. You control the temple. And in your minds, now grant it, get it, they would never say this out loud. And Stephen knows this. But basically, the thought process in their minds goes like this. We control the temple. God is in the temple, therefore we control God. We can decide who comes to God and gets to see him and meet with him. We can regulate when God is going to be on display for everybody else. We can decide which prayer requests get taken in with the bowl of incense. We are the gatekeepers of God. And Stephen says that is God in a bottle, genie thinking. That's a genie mentality of your God. You have turned the faith We had, as Jews, you have turned the God we have as Jews into a magical, mystical, superstitious religion. If we just go to the temple and do these incantations, if we burn these incense, if we offer these prayers at this time of day and do this sacrifice in this way, then God is obligated to respond because we'll have kept our innocent. I mean after all when you say abracadabra, when you say open sesame When you say the sinner's prayer, you obligate God, right? Is He not forced to then do what you want? And many of us think this way. We have a God in a bottle view. He is our gene. If we go on Sunday morning and we rub the bottle by throwing a few bills in the plate, by offering up a few prayers, And he'll do what we want. I've kept my end of the deal. I've gone on Sunday morning. I've done what I'm supposed to do. So now God has to grant me my three wishes. Ask yourself this. Do you come to get or to give? Do you come to get or to give? Nobody ever goes to the genie in the bottle to give the genie anything. When you come here, what is your mindset? What am I going to get out of it this morning? I'm not singing that song. I don't like that song. Did you bother to wonder if God might like that song? Does it declare his praises? Does it speak highly of him? Does it exalt him? If you came to get, you're probably coming to a genie in a bottle. If you came to give, you probably have a better understanding of what we're really supposed to be doing here. We give him praise. Not half-hearted praise. Not pinched lip praise. Not praise full of excuses, well my voice isn't that great. Let me ask you this. Which of you, when your child sang happy birthday badly, Turned away from the child. Which of you, when your child was on stage at the school production, was ashamed of the fact that they were off key? And if you, as the flawed, sinful parents that you and I are, can love your child and be excited about the off-key performance of the school production How much more so our Heavenly Father, who is phenomenally gracious? Because if you restrain your voice in singing his praises because you're worried about what people think of you, You didn't come to give to God. And when you come here, do you give him your attention in the service? Are you sitting there going, what am I going to get out of this? It's going to make me feel good about myself. Well that's a psychotherapy self-help approach to coming to church That's a genie mentality. A genie in the bottle. I came here, I want to rub the bottle. My wish today is that I feel better about myself. Pastor, say something to make me feel better about myself so I can walk through here and get my wish granted Stephen says, no, you guys have got this bottled-up view of God that he's contained in this temple. Yes, he has agreed. He graciously agreed to come meet with you in the temple. He has said that he would come down and be present there, but that's not because he's trapped inside. It's because he is the God of all the universe. And we would sit there going, so where do I actually focus my attention? I don't know where to go to know that I've actually and for our sake, he said, let me make it simple. Come to this spot. And I will meet with you there. Not for one moment because he's confined to it, because he has genie-like bracelets that keep pulling him back to the temple and he can't escape it. That's God in a bottle thinking. And we have to be careful that we don't fall into that. There's a great deal in the American church today that gets awfully close to that view of things. We must not. Do you notice all the warnings in the passage that the bottle was empty? Over and over and over again, Stephen tells them, You're not getting it. You're missing the point. Your bottle, you're hanging on to this bottle so you can control your genie God, but you've missed the fact that the bottle is empty. When God sends a man and says, Go this way, do these things, and you reject him You're hanging on to an empty bottle. When God sends Joseph and you reject him. When God sends Moses and you reject him. Oh, by the way, and when God sent Jesus and you rejected him. Many of us hang on to an empty bottle. Because we don't come to God through the mediator of his appointing. We don't come to God as the God of glory. We don't come with reverence and fear and adoration. When a plan to exalt, we come to get. We come as though He is answerable to us. Stephen says, when you come to God on your own terms, when you do not recognize that He has sent Jesus of Nazareth, when you do not recognize that that's the only way to come That the sacrifices of the temple, the sacrifices of your offering or my offering, the sacrifices of our time, the sacrifices of anything else we do are are nothing They gain us nothing with God. They're good in the sense that they're given in faith a response. But if we for one moment believe that they're what's going to get us into God's presence. We are horribly mistaken. We have an empty bottle, just as these people had. God in a bottle of thinking keeps God bound up in church. Leaves him there all week. He doesn't get to be a part of my life. I'm going to come in, meet with him for a short time on Sunday morning, and I'm going to walk out and leave him there. God in a bottle of thinking says he's just there to do what I want when I want it. And that's an empty bottle. That's one that Stephen says, no, no, no, that's getting you nowhere. And you notice what happened at the beginning of chapter 8. You notice how the passage that we read ends. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. Many of us read that and go, how sad for the church. But that's not Luke's point. If you say how sad for the church, you've not read the rest of Acts. If you stop here, I can see how you get that conclusion. But we've got to remember this. This is the last time Jerusalem will be the point of attention in the book of Acts. This is the last time we will see ministry occurring in Jerusalem. The last time we will see people coming to the Lord. in Jerusalem. Oh, they're going to return to Jerusalem for trials. They're going to return to Jerusalem for controversy. They're going to return to Jerusalem for But never again were we going to see in the book of Acts that the Word of God is going forward in Jerusalem as it's going forward everywhere else. You see, they're not going to get the wish they're going to wish they had. Because when you reject God's man, When you reject him in the form of Jesus, when you reject him in the form of Peter, when you reject him in the form of John, and now when you reject him in the form of Stephen, at some point God stops sending people. At some point, he turns you over, just as we saw Stephen quoted in the Old Testament, God turned them over to the gods of Moloch and Russia, and I can't remember all the names of the other gods there. He's going to turn us over. If we reject Jesus of Nazareth, if we reject the teaching of this book, not only are we going to run out of the wishes for the things that make us happy in this life But we're going to find ourselves one day standing, really wishing we had a fourth wish. I wish I could go back and change my attitude. I wish I could go back and repent of my sin and humble myself before Jesus and go and cling to him in faith. I wish I could do that. And it'll be too late. The gospel will have moved on, just as it moves on from Jerusalem at this point. When we reject God's appointed Savior When we reject the one he sent and said, Come to him, come to me through him, not through your temple, not through the church of your making, not through the good deeds of your choosing Come through Jesus. When we reject that, we end up wishing we had more wishes. And it'll be too late. We must stop treating God as though He is our wish granter. Our genie. We must come to him through Jesus. Come to him because he is Almighty God. Come to him because he is worthy of anything that we would proclaim positively about him and worthy of so much more. We must do so with enthusiasm and excitement and knowledge and energy. Do so in here, do so out there, do so in here. So that we know he is not our genie. He is our God. He does not answer to us. We answer to him. Let's pray. Lord, forgive the way that we bottle you up. Think of you in small, confined ways. Think of you only being able to do what we ask you to do as though you could not possibly work unless we prayed first. Forgive us for that. Cut us free from that thinking. Let us see a God who is more capable. And more willing than we could ever imagine. It will be scary for a time, because we will feel like we're out of control. But God help us to recognize that the only way to a sure outcome is for you to be in control. Make us that kind of people, make us that kind of church. Let us hear the warning that Stephen gave to the Jewish Council. Let it be a warning to us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.