Please turn your Bibles to Mark 13, the 13th chapter of the Gospel of Mark, as we continue our sermon series, Mark, a Call to Confess Christ. As you turn there, I want to confess something to you, and that is this simple truth. I don't like flying. I realize I'm not alone in that, but I really don't like getting on airplanes. I don't mind so much getting on them. It's when they leave the ground that I'm not happy. Now as a guy who once taught high school physics, I understand the mechanics of flight, Bernoulli principle, air pressure differences, all of that stuff. And yet there is a part of me that says a 450-ton piece of metal should just stay on the ground. Moreover, in the King James Bible in Matthew 28, Jesus said very clearly, Lo, I am with you always. I don't like flying. However, there are things that make flying even worse. You see, what happens is when I sit on that plane. And everything is quiet and calm. I begin to relax and I think, oh, we're okay. And then something happens. Suddenly the engines rev up. And I'm like, what's going on? Why is that happening? And then I get used to the new RPM on the engines and I relax and I'm calm and okay. And then all of a sudden the plane banks. Should we be doing that? What are we doing? Level back out. Why are we doing this? And I sit there, every new thing, there's a hydraulic pump going over here, there's the whirring of a mechanism over there, there's a gear, and what is all of this? Is it supposed to be happening like this And it unnerves me, and I am a wreck the entire time. Now something interesting happened here quite a while ago now. I won't be more specific since it'll give away my age. But some time ago, I got invited on a uh uh a four-seat single propeller private aircraft. Now if you know anything about the statistics of flight, you should know that the Jumbo Jets are infinitely more safer than these little tiny private single propeller planes. And yet because of the politics of the situation, I felt like I had to say yes when I was invited on the plane, and so I went on the plane. And something amazing happened I wasn't nearly as scared. Because I got to sit in the co-pilot seat and I got to put on the headset and I got to talk to the pilot. So every time the plane did this, is that supposed to be that way? He's like, yeah, that's okay. We're doing that. Oh, oh, okay. Every time there was a warring motor, what is that? No, nothing. It's just this happening. Oh, okay And the unknown of it was stripped away from me. And what was scary before, because I didn't understand it, was far less terrifying because it was explained to me. And actually, since that flight, I still don't like flying, but it's a lot easier since I went on that flight and had that pilot explain to me what was happening and why it was happening That's an illustration of the text that's before us this morning. There is going to be turbulence in the life of the apostles. There's going to be things that happen that are uncertain. It's going to cause great fear and consternation. And Jesus comes on the intercom of their lives and says, ladies and gentlemen, would you please take your seats and fasten your seatbelts? We're going to be hitting some rough patches. And because he explains to them the turbulence that is coming, it's far less fearful. It doesn't undo their faith. And in fact, on the contrary. When these things happen in their lives, everyone else looks at it and goes, the mountains are crumbling into the sea. As we read in the Psalms. But the faithful look to Jesus and say, He foretold this. He said this was coming. Had it not happened, we would have been worried about the mountains crumbling into the sea. Well, but it's happening exactly as he said it was going to happen. That doesn't undo our faith. It builds our faith. It establishes the ground of confidence. And so as we look at Mark 13 this morning morning. I want us to consider this a a uh uh uh uh insight from the pilot of the universe saying hey these things are gonna happen these things are coming Don't be undone by them. Don't be unnerved by them. Don't let them undo your faith. The text is long and interpretively and on the interpretive side is difficult. And so we are going to handle it a little differently than we ordinarily handle it. Rather than read through the whole text and then offer the sermon afterwards, I'm going to read through the text and stop frequently as we go through it. Make interpretive comments and technical comments along the way. And then at the end, consider the message. And I want to encourage you with a couple of things, though the interpretation of parts of this text are very difficult. And Christians are not widely agreed on how to interpret it. The message is crystal clear. There's nothing about the message that is hidden behind the interpretive difficulties And it's actually, when we get all done wrestling with the text, it's a very short, sweet, wonderful sermon. So as we prepare, with that in mind, ordinarily we read and then pray, but since we're going to have an unusually long reading, I'm going to pray now before we proceed. Spirit of God, speak to us through your word this morning. Let us hear the wonderful truth. That our sovereign God is in control of all things. And though the mountains appear to fall into the sea, yet we know that you are our fortress Help us to see that this morning. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. I would like to remind you that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if we want to know what the future holds, if we want to be sure of who holds that future, Of who it is that guides us through the turbulence of this life, then we must know God's Word. I invite you now to hear, with frequent stops and comments along the way, the Word of God from Mark chapter 13. Even before we begin, I'm going to make this introductory comment. In Mark 11, we saw that Jesus cleansed the temple in a fit of righteous anger, making an emphatic point about its importance. And to show that they were listening and to show that they were learning, that we're going to see now the disciples point to the temple as to strike up a happy conversation about the glory of this temple. Jesus, you said the temple was important. Look how wonderful it is. We've been listening and we see it So now we pick up in verse 1. And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Look, teacher, what wonderful stones, what wonderful buildings. And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. The temple was the focal point of Jewish worship. It was the physical manifestation of God's presence among the people. It was the forerunner of the Christ Himself. It was the locus of mediation between God and man. And it's going to be thrown down? We have to realize the significance of that statement. For in the Jewish religious system without the temple, there is no hope. There is no way to come to God. And if you tell a group of pious believing Jews, as the twelve were, that the temple is going to be destroyed, there are going to be follow-up questions. And we see We pick up in verse 3. And as Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, that's why it's called, this passage is known as the Olivet Discourse, because it occurs on the Mount of Olives. As Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, tell us. When will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished? And Jesus began to say to them. See that no one leads you astray. Many will come in my name, saying, I am he, and they will lead many astray. We can't miss this. There's an important thing going on here. The disciples have asked a question, and it's a good, it's an important question, and Jesus is going to get around to answering it. But notice he doesn't begin with his answer. He begins with a warning. And it's actually the first of many such warnings throughout Mark 13. And it's a warning we cannot miss. You see, many will take a passage like this and sensationalize it and twist it around in order to sell books and promote their movies. In order to mislead people into thinking that it's all about the fanciful ideas they have in their heads. And Jesus says, we must not fall for that. Brothers and sisters, let us be warned, even as he warned those four, not to be led astray from the Bible by wild speculation of fiction writers Pick up in verse 7. Jesus says, When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed. This must take place, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain speaking. We are about to experience some very severe turbulence. Please take your seats and fasten your seat belts. A rough ride is scary, but it's less so if you're worn and ready for it. That's exactly what Jesus is doing here. Cataclysmic events are about to take place in the life and the religion of these people Events which could shake even the most faithful. But if those same events are foretold, it alleviates the impact. The significance of verse 8, as we think about those events being foretold, the significance of verse 8 is somewhat lost in translation. If you look at verse 8. The Greek grammatical construction is passive voice. Just in case you didn't pay attention in eighth grade English, let me remind you that in uh we were ordinarily write and speak an active voice in English. So active voice would be something like this. Bob threw the ball to Sally. Okay? The subject, the doer of the action, Bob, is stated right up front and it's clear who it is. Bob threw the ball to Sally. Active voice Passive voice would be like this. The ball was thrown to Sally. Sometimes we can tack on the doer at the end by Bob. Sometimes it's left out. In passive voice, the doer of the action is obscured. This sentence in Greek is passive voice. And in fact, it's extremely common in the New Testament for the writers to write in passive voice, some of which do come through in English, some of which you are familiar with. Let me give you a few examples. Blessed are the poor. For they shall be comforted. Hallowed be your name. Truly I say to you, all the sins will be forgiven, the children of man, except he who blasphemes the Holy Spirit So who comforts the poor? Who is hollowing God's name? Who forgives all the sins of the children of man? Obviously, in each case, God is the intended actor, the doer behind the action. Though not stated clearly, clearly it is implied that we are to understand God as the doer of these things. He is the one who forgives all the sins of man. He is the one who is working to hollow his name. He is the one who will comfort the poor. This grammatical construction is so common in the New Testament that scholars give it its own name. They call it the Divine Passive. The Divine Passive. In the divine passive, the assumed subject, the implied subject, is always God. So now I point you back to verse 8. You see, verse 8 in Greek is not what we have in English. In English it says, nation will rise against nation, as if the nations are doing the action. But in Greek it says this: nation will be raised up. Against nation. So what is the implication? Can we quickly apply the grammar lesson we just had? Who is raising up those nations? Well, this is the divine passive. It is God who is bringing these things about. God does not simply get on the intercom of the disciples' lives and say, hey, there's turbulence coming. He says, and I'm bringing it about. And I'm in control of it. These things are not the random happenstance manifestations of geopolitical military machinations. No. I am raising up nation against nation. Nation will be raised up against nation. And I'm doing it. It's interesting how often we miss the importance of that. Why do I talk about that? Some would say, well, you're a Presbyterian pastor and you have to talk about the sovereignty of God every chance you get. And I would argue that's not why I'm doing it, but rather because it's actually here in the passage. One of the things that we must recognize from biblical prophecy is how often the Bible writers use prophecy to comfort the people of God. Fiction writers use prophecy to sensationalize and to terrify and to scare us. The Bible uses prophecy to comfort us. To say God is in control. He foresaw these things. He ordained them. He is raising up nation against nation. You see, when the world begins to come apart at the scenes, the twelve and those to whom they have testified this glorious truth are going to be able to say to their neighbors, No, no, no, don't fear. This was foreseen. Our God said this was coming. It's happening according to His plan. Is that the testimony of your life? This is the testimony of my life. That when the mountains fall into the sea, we say, No, no, no. Our God is the fortress, he is the God of Jacob, and he is in control. And we will not fear I may worry a little bit around the edges, but I'm not going to fear. I may fret a little bit about what, but I'm not going to fear. And I'm not going to be driven by panic. I'm going to trust We pick up now in the second half of verse 8. Jesus says there will be earthquakes in various places. Major quakes Shirpleados in AD 60 and Pompeii in 62. There will be famines. Acts 11. 28, a prophet by the name of Agabas foretells a major famine which took place during the reign of Claudius, Emperor Claudius. Jesus says, but these are but the beginning of birth pains. Now stop and think about that for a moment. The coming catastrophe is no small thing. All the destruction wrought by those earthquakes, all the loss of life as a result of the famine, they are only the forerunners of the destruction that is coming. Mere birth pains. I can remember when Becky was in labor with our first child and we got to the hospital and she was like, Oh, it's hurting and you could see all the nurses who kinda knew more. Kind of just roll their eyes, yeah honey, you don't know what's coming Because while it feels bad, what's coming is even worse. And Jesus says, these earthquakes, this famine, they're bad, but what's to follow is even worse. We pick up in verse nine, Jesus says, Be on your guard, the second such warning, for they will deliver you over to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues, and you will stand before governors and kings for my sake, to bear witness before. We don't know a lot about Andrew's post-resurrection ministry, but Peter, James, and John certainly experience precisely what Jesus foretells here. They were turned over to authorities and suffered greatly for the sake of Jesus. In fact, we don't have to go very far. All we have to do is get to Acts chapters 3 and 4, and we see this unfolding. Continuing in verse 10. And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations. This begins the point in the text where interpretations vary and become divergent, but I'm going to suggest to you that this was fulfilled at Pentecost. Let me explain. Jesus and his disciples, uh clearly we see in them a Hebraic mindset when it comes to numerical precision. If you've been in our Sunday school class about the book of Kings, we've talked a little bit about that But if you've not, just let me refresh your memory here. Um the Hebrew mindset didn't require the level of precision with numbers that we may expect out of a Western engineer or a Western lawyer Okay? So even Jesus himself, in one place, one place says that he will rise on the third day, Matthew 17, 23. In another place he says he will rise after three days. Mark 8. And yet another place, Jesus points to Jonah as an example, and he says that on the after three days and three nights. He will arise. Those are three very different time frames according to our way of thinking. Yet it's interesting, even Jesus' own enemies never once took him to task. They never once said, ah, you're contradicting yourself. You're not even they don't see that as a contradiction. In that Hebrew mindset, there's just a okay I point that out to say this. When we read verse 10, and the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations, we have a tendency to put a little too much stress on that word all. to require of it a sort of Western way of thinking about all. And I'm going to suggest that Jesus and his apostles would not have thought that way. So that at Pentecost, um Luke records in Acts chapter 2, Luke records at least sixteen different nations. That were present on the day of Pentecost, that heard the gospel message, who became believers and took with them the great news of Jesus Christ back to their home countries Now you say, well, Pastor, 16 isn't all the nations of the earth. It wasn't even back in the Roman Empire all the nations of the earth. Come on. How can that possibly be a fulfillment of this? But then in Acts 2, verse 5, Luke writes this. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. If Scripture interprets Scripture, as we believe that it does, then this is a perfectly valid application of the gospel going into all the world. That what happened at Pentecost fulfilled that. And that is what I'm going to propose here, that this comment in verse 10 that the gospel must go into all the world. Took place when the gospel was preached at Pentecost. And Jews from all over the earth took home with them the good news that the Messiah had come. Verse 11. And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, do not be anxious beforehand what you are to say. But say whatever is given you in that hour, for it is not you who speak but the Holy Spirit. And brother will be delivered over uh I'm sorry, and brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child and children will rise against parents and have them put to death, and you will be hated by all by all for my name's sake. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. A couple of comments on these verses. It's interesting how often we appropriate this passage for ourselves, and I'm certainly guilty of doing that. You know, we read this and say, you know, don't need to be prepared, worry about what to say. It'll just be given to you. And yet I have come to the conviction later in my ministry that perhaps I don't get to appropriate this passage. Maybe I need to listen to what one of these men later said. One of the four listening to Jesus here, Peter, went on to say later, always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for the reason of the hope that you have. Peter didn't say, I don't worry about it. Holy Spirit will provide whatever you need when the time comes. For you see, these men were apostles. The Holy Spirit dealt with them and spoke through them in a way that perhaps He doesn't speak through me. So that I actually do need to prepare sermons and Sunday school lessons. I can't I can't just walk into the pulpit and wing it. I don't have that kind of authority or that kind of uh uh uh uh uh uh ordination from the Lord. I'm ordained as a pastor, not as an apostle. We must be careful which promises we appropriate and which we don't, recognizing how they were given and the context in which they were given I also want to go on in this passage and talk a little bit about the trials that these men faced as foretold here. We know from the book of Acts that there was a great deal of suffering that these men underwent for their faith. We also know from church history that the things described here played out. This sort of a brother betraying brother thing played out. And in fact, it became common practice in many parts of the church that those who made an initial profession of faith would go through a process of two or three years of training in catechism. Because there were those who were who were spies, who were saying, Oh yes, I believe. You'd invite them into your home church meeting and they would then tell the Romans where you were and they'd come and explain. The church in the early days suffered the very things that Jesus is foretelling. Here. Picking up in verse 14. But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where he ought not to be, let the reader understand, then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Biblical prophecy often has dual fulfillment. In Isaiah 7, the prophet points to a young woman of the court. A young unmarried woman of the court and says, a year, less than a year from now, she's going to have a son. And that was to be assigned to King Ahaz so that he would know that God was with Judah, that he was fighting for Judah. God with you. Of course, the New Testament writers pick that up and recognize that that prophecy applies to another born of a young woman. And that that one also was a sign that God was with us. And so the Emmanuel prophecy is fulfilled through the virgin birth of our Savior. The dual fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy and Isaiah Isaiah seven. I'm going to suggest that we have a dual fulfillment of the abomination of desolation. Daniel chapters nine, eleven, and twelve speak of this abomination of des desolation, and most biblical scholars, and I think they're right, and I agree with this interpretation. interpretation, most biblical scholars believe that that at least at one level there was a fulfillment in in 167 B. C. When the uh the Greek Seleucid king, the descendant of the one who inherited a portion of Alexander's empire, when he went into the temple and sacrificed pigs on the temple, on the altar of the bra brazen uh altar in the temple And erected Zeus worship in the Jerusalem temple. That was a fulfillment of the abomination of desolation. But Jesus obviously sees additional fulfillment. He points to something still in the future of him and his disciples. And there's a lot of disagreement over what he is pointing toward. But I'm going to suggest, given the context of what's about you know, there seems to be a warning about what's coming, when you see this, then flee to the mountains. Okay? I'm going to suggest that what Jesus is saying is when you see the the descendant of Antiochus, the political inheritor of Antiochus, the one who, the pagan who has power over the people of God, like Antiochus had. That you beat a path out of town. So that when the Roman armies come over the horizon Jesus says, flee to the mountains. By the way, we're going to come back and talk about that in a moment. That's really an interesting instruction he gives, but we'll come back to that. Picking up in verse 15. Let the one who is on the housetop not go down nor enter his house to take anything out of it. Just get out of town. Let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. Just get out of town. Alas for women who are pregnant, and for those who are nursing infants in those days, pray that it may not happen in winter. For in those days there will be such tribulation as as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created until now and never will be. And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would Be saved. We need to stop now and talk at some length about what days were cut short. We might remind ourselves this whole passage opens way back in verse 1 with a discussion about the temple. Jesus has said in verse 2 that every stone of the temple will be cast down. The temple is going to be physically torn down and disassembled. That took place in A. D. 70. Let me give you some of the history that leads up to it. In A. D. 66, the Roman governor, a guy by the name of Florus, confiscated the temple treasury. He went into the Jerusalem temple and took all of the silver that had been given as offering in that temple. Of course, that incited a rebellion among the Jews. He attempted to quell that rebellion by sending in a garrison of the army. They killed 3,600 Jews. That uh act did far it did far from quelling the rebellion, it actually stirred it and it exploded and Jerusalem erupted. Initially, for the first two years, it started out in A. D. 66, for the first two years the Jews seem to be winning. And in fact, they're able to drive all the Romans out of Jerusalem. And in fact, they go out to the outskirts into the Dead Sea Valley, and they're actually able to capture the impregnable Roman fortress at Masada. Isn't it interesting how everything impregnable and unsinkable eventually sinks or you know i i is taken over? And they capture Masada, and for two years it appears that they're going to throw off Rome. By the way, in the midst of that time, many Christians struggled with their faith. For many were still expecting the Messiah to be one who threw off Rome. And now here these who do not believe in Jesus are throwing off Rome. And Jesus appears to have been wrong. He said the temple was going to be destroyed, far from being destroyed. It appears that we're going to be free from the first time in years and years and decades and centuries. And many doubted Jesus. In 68, a new Roman general was appointed, a man by the name of Titus. He took control of the battle of in Palestine. He brought the armies of Rome in. And he laid siege to Jerusalem. And the city began to starve. And the city began to die. Eventually, his men were able to breach the outer wall of Jerusalem. His men assuming Having, you know, the the Jews hold up in Jerusalem. They're out of food. They're out of weapons. Their strength is sapped. We've just breached the outer walls of the defense. We're going to walk through the wall and they're going to have laid down their arms and we're going to be done and we can clean up and go home and be with our families. As they broke into Jerusalem, the zealots had retreated into the temple and were taking up defensive positions behind the temple wall. And the Roman soldiers were furious, and they marched up to the Temple Mount, and they began to lay a very short siege to the temple wall, and they were able to break through and tear it down. And they thought this time the Jews will throw down their weapons and raise their arms and surrender. And they got inside there. And the zealots had fled not just from the court of the Gentiles, but into the inner court. Behind that wall And at this point the Roman soldiers were outraged. And history records that General Titus had intended to preserve the temple. It was his desire to keep it. But his men were so angry at the zealots that when they finally broke through the innermost court and killed every last man in there, they also set fire. to the temple, a fire that spread not just through the temple, but through much of Jerusalem. So that the temple was raised to the ground, and much of the city along with it. Two years of mass starvation and war and the final destruction of Jerusalem took an immense toll on the people of that region. Historians recount the horrors of life in and around Jerusalem at the time. Flavius Josephus, an eyewitness of these events, estimated the number of dead at about a million men, women, and children And another 97,000 taken as slaves. It's interesting, most modern scholars are very skeptical of Josephus' numbers. And Josephus is not an inspired writer. He could be wrong. But they forget, they seem to forget. What was the standard and pattern? When a foreign army invades your countryside You're a little villager, a little farmer out in the countryside, you're in the lowlands of Palestine around Jerusalem, and you see the armies of Rome on the horizon, what do you do? Well you flee to the walled city. That's what the walls are for, is to protect me from this invading army. So yes, the population of Jerusalem was only about a million, but that doesn't mean there were only a million people in the city. For all the surrounding countryside had holed up in the city, so that the population of Jerusalem was two or three times its normal size. That's why so many died. It also brings us back to the instruction that Jesus gave. Did you catch what Jesus said to his followers? When you see Titus standing on the horizon with the armies of Rome, when you see the abomination of desolation where it should not be, you are not to run to the walled cities. You are to the fleet of the mountains. You're not to even leave the roof of your house to go inside and grab a few things. You're to flee to the mountains. You're not to leave the field and go back into your house to get something. You're to flee to the mountains Jesus gave his followers perfect advice. You want to die with the rest? Head into the walled city. You want to be safe from what's coming? Listen to me. Conventional wisdom says you flee to the walled city. It's amazing how wrong conventional wisdom can be when it contradicts Jesus. Conventional wisdom says, yeah, you promised to repay that mortgage, but you want to move, and so it's okay to short sell. Jesus said, let your yes be yes. Conventional wisdom says, if your marriage no longer makes you happy, get out. Jesus says, what God is joining together, let no man tear asunder. Conventional wisdom says to bask in all the pleasures of this life because you only live once. Jesus says, seek first the kingdom of God When conventional wisdom goes contrary to what Jesus has to say, we must believe him. Those who doubted him in A. D. 68 Did not doubt him in A. D. 70. Picking up in verse 20. But for the sake of the elect whom he chose, he shortened the days. Just as God was prepared to spare Sodom and Gomorrah for the sake of even a few righteous living among them, just as God spared Judah repeatedly for the sake of David's line, just as God was patient with the Canaanites. Not removing them from the land until their sin had reached its full measure. So Jesus points out here that God will also show grace to all men for the sake of the few who are his Though Jerusalem will, in the large part, largest part, reject him as the Messiah, and thus earn for themselves the just punishment of God, nevertheless, God will not bring the full measure of his wrath, not yet anyway. Because of those who are his own. I continue in verse 21. And then if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or look, there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, the elect. Brothers and sisters, we cannot chase every book and every blog site that says, hey, he's coming back on September 3, 2019. We've got to have the wisdom and the insight and the the s uh the the the uh uh anyway I can't think of the word. We've got to have the ability to sort through all of that garbage. Discernment there's the word. We've got to be able to discern. What is the word of God, and what is the mere speculation of human beings? We must not be turned aside ever from following Jesus. Verse 23: be on your guard. Again, another warning. I have told you all things beforehand. There's that illustration again of the pilot telling the passengers what's about to come so that they're prepared to for it. Jesus says, you must be prepared for what's coming in A. D. 70. Verse 24 But in those days after that tribulation the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken. Jesus is quoting Joel 2. Peter quotes that same passage at Pentecost. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. More on this in just a moment. And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. Verses 26 and 27 are very difficult, and they create a great deal of consternation among Bible scholars far more learned and studied than I am, and certainly gave me a great deal of challenge. Golfers have an expression when they talk about an approach shot as they get near the hole, they have an expression that they want to land the shot on the green as softly as a butterfly with sore feet. That's pretty soft. I want to land on the interpretation of this text like that. As a butterfly with sore feet. I'm going to tell you what I think it means, and then it's say I can be absolutely wrong on this. There are a couple of things that I think help us unpack this. First, let me state right up front, I do not believe that this is foretelling the second coming, but rather a coming in judgment. And don't get me wrong, I still believe the second coming is out in front of us. There are those who call themselves full preterists who believe that all of the predictions of the coming of the Lord are in the past and that nothing uh in the Bible applies to our future. I I don't agree with that view. I don't think that is consistent with historic Christianity or with the scriptures. But I do believe that what's being foretold Here is not that second coming. Let me explain to you why. Rather than being the coming of the end of the age as we know it, what Jesus is pointing to is the end of the age as They knew it. He's pointing to the end of the religion of the Jews. Let me offer some insight as to why. First, the word angel in the Greek From the word the Greek uh the word angelos. It is uh uh it simply means messenger. And it's uh a real difficulty for translators to translate Because in a in English, angel doesn't just merely mean messenger. Rather it means a heavenly being that brings a message. When we hear angel, we don't think any old messenger. We think angelic messenger. But the Greek word doesn't necessarily have that same connotation. It just means messenger. So that when a human being takes the message, they are an angel, a messenger. You know, between Greek and Hebrew there aren't there's not a lot of semantic overlap. This is one place where the overlap is almost perfect. The word m uh um uh uh um uh Malach from the Hebrew means messenger. It's where we get the prophet's name, Malachi, my messenger. He's not an angel. He's just a person who brought the Word of God. And I'm going to suggest that what we have here is a poor choice of translation into English. The translators had a they had an impossible task ahead of them, so that's not their, you know. But I'm gonna suggest what we've got here is the a prediction And a description of how the Word of God was going to go forth into the earth. And that after the destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem, how is say that by the angels would go and gather the elect. And as the Word of God goes forth, as the messengers carry the gospel with the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70, the people of God were scattered. They were driven out of the promised land. They were driven into the four corners of the earth, and they carried with them the gospel message that Jesus had come. And they began to preach the word, and the elect began to be gathered from the four corners of the earth I'm going to suggest to us that what we're doing right here this morning is the fulfillment of this passage. It is the gathering of the elect from a corner that they couldn't even imagine. There's another reason I think this passage speaks not of the final coming of Jesus, but of a coming in judgment in A. D. 70. And I lost my place in my notes to say what that was. Oh, we'll come back to that. There is another, and we will come back to it in a few moments. I want to make one more comment before we leave this behind. I said that this represents not the end of the age as we know it, but rather the end of the age as they knew it, the end of the Jewish religion. And I do want to point out the reality of that. I don't know if you've ever noticed, but most Jews you know, the vast majority of them are atheists. I've been to a couple of different Jewish synagogues. They don't really believe there is a God. They practice these markers of a religion, but it's strictly for cultural identity. They don't believe in God. And I'm going to contend that this is the reason why, right here. You see, the temple was the meeting place for sinners to go to God. And it had to be a mediated meeting, because sinners can't enter into the holy presence of God. And so there had to be some mediation, so there had to be a sacrifice offered, and there had to be a priest who would mediate that meeting. And if those things are taken away, if those things are stripped away. then there's one of three options. You either have to believe that another mediator has taken the place of the temple, and we do. And there are some Jews who do. We call them messianic Jews. They believe that Jesus took the place of the temple. That he is the new mediator between God and man. He is the one to which the temple pointed. He's the one that fulfills all that the temple merely symbolized. Another view is to be absolutely hopeless. Our mediation between us and God is gone. No new mediator has taken its place. Therefore, we cannot go to God. But we know God from our scriptures is holy. We know that we're sinners, and so there is no hope. Who can live that way? No one can live that way. And so most Jews have chosen the third option There must not be a God. There can't really be a God. I mean, He wouldn't leave us if it really was a God, He would never leave us hanging out here like this for all these 2,000 years with no hope of mediation and no replacement for our lost temple. There can't possibly be a God. Either Jesus replaced the temple, or there is no hope, or there is no God. It's really all the choices there are. And I'm going to suggest that we know that he replaced this temple that was prophesied to be destroyed here. We pick up in verse 28. From the fig tree, learn its lesson, as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see these things take place, you know that he is near at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. As I've already mentioned, there may not be a more disputed passage in all the scriptures in the Olivet discourse. And it's the difficulty of figuring out how it applies that we've got to wrestle with. And of course there are those who we can just we we we we can discard. who say, well, you know, Jesus spoke very plainly, very literally about everything, and it clearly didn't happen before that generation passed away, and so he's a bad prophet. He's a false prophet. By the way, it's amazing how many of those want to still go on and say, but he's still a good guy, a good teacher He just was wrong about all this stuff. He himself says that his words should never pass away, and you they turn right around and say, Yeah, those words have passed away. He can't be that good Another way to look at this passage, and many hold this view, many very conservative Bible-believing Christians hold this view, many whom I love and respect and have interacted with for many for a long time, hold the view that says Jesus spoke literally about the coming. He spoke very plainly about the events. He spoke figuratively about the time frame. That when he says this generation, he didn't really mean that biological generation. He meant that this sort of generation. uh people, mixed believers and unbelievers, all together on the earth, mixed up like you guys are right here. Uh uh all of that, you know, I'm talking about before all of that passes away, so that they still look for these things to be fulfilled out in the future It's a biblically sound interpretation. I take the third view that says Jesus spoke very literally about the time press. He meant this biological generation that was listening to him teach. And that what we have to re-understand is how it was fulfilled. That it took place in the destruction of the temple. In AD 70. That at that time the Son of Man came in judgment upon the Jews for having rejected him. And he judged their false religion and he wiped it out. That the Son of Man did come with great power and glory at that time, destroying that false religion. Again, we tread lightly as a butterfly with sore feet. Finishing out, picking up in verse thirty-two. But concern concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake. Yet another warning to the twelve. For you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and the commands And commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore stay awake, for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning. Lest he comes suddenly and finds you asleep. And what I say to you, I say to all, stay awake. Yet another warning. For all of the complexity and interpretive difficulty of this passage, the message is really quite simple. Trust Jesus. He said the temple would be destroyed within the lifetime of that generation, and it was. He said that the destruction would be accompanied by great tumult and death, and it was. Trust Jesus. He said the temple would not fall until after the gospel had been sent into all the world, which Luke tells us took place at Pentecost, just a few months after Jesus' teaching, but some 35 years before the temple fell. Trust Jesus. He said there would be wars and rumors of wars and there were. He said nation would be raised up against nation and they were. He said the world would hate the believers and it did and still does. He said there would be false messianic claims, and there were many. Trust Jesus He said the twelve would face trials and punishment and abuse for the sake of Jesus' name, and they did. He said the Holy Spirit would give them the words to speak, and we hold the New Testament in our hands as a testimony to that truth. Trust Jesus. He said all these things. So we would know that he has his hand on the rudder. the control stick of history. Like those, like that day when I was in the cockpit and I could talk with the pilot, the disciples have been told about coming turbulence. Precisely so that they are prepared to ride it out in faith. It's our great privilege to be able to look back and see how all of it was fulfilled And give our faith a firm footing upon which to be placed. The chaos of this world is not fun or easy any more than a rough plane ride, but it doesn't terrify us Rather, because of Jesus' teaching, it reassures us. All the turbulence of this world has always been on God's radar. Jesus saw Jerusalem's coming judgment, and he told the faithful about it. He still knows what is coming in your life today. Sit back, relax. And trust Jesus. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Let's pray Lord, thank you for the testimony of history that validates Jesus as the supreme prophet.