Turning your Bibles to Zechariah chapter four Zechariah 4 As we continue in our sermon series from the prophet Zechariah, we uh have been looking at a series of visions, visions given to Zechariah all in one night. They came at night, but they were not dreams. And in fact, we'll see this morning that he specifically mentions that he had to be uh awakened and brought to in order to see the the uh vision. So these are not dreams, but they came all in one night to the prophet Zechariah. And one of the things that we may not have noticed is the narrowing focus of these visions. So that the first vision was of horsemen who roamed the whole earth. They went to all the corners of the earth and reported back to the Lord about the status of the whole earth. But in the second vision, and in the third vision, the focus was narrowed to the people of God. The second vision dealing with the destruction of the enemies of the people of God, and the third one dealing with the defense of the people of God. Last week, in the fourth vision, the focus narrowed even further. And there was really just one person in view, and it was the high priest, Joshua. Now to be sure he represents all of the people, but there has been this narrowing pattern of these visions. And again this week we see the focus upon one individual. And as we look at uh visions six and seven, we're going to see them widen back out again to the people of God. And vision eight is going to go back and look at the scope of the whole earth. So that there is this hourglass shape to these visions. I point that out because it helps us to realize that the but that that the one person in view here and his role among the people of God is particularly important. Our attention is drawn to it by this hourglass shape of these visions. So I invite you now, as we consider the fifth vision in Zachariah's Sleepless Night. To uh to follow along as I read from Zechariah, I'm going to read the entirety of Zechariah chapter 4. This now is the inerrant and uh uh perfect and wonderful word of Almighty God, and I invite you to hear it as such. And the angel who talked with me came again and woke me like a man who is awakened out of his sleep. And he said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it. And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl, and the other on its left. And I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord? Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? I said, No, my lord. Then he said to me, This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel. Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. Who are you, O great mountain? Before as the rubbable you shall become a plane, and he shall bring forward the topstone amid shouts of grace, grace to it Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house, his hand shall also complete it. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice and shall see the plumb line in the hand of the rubbable These seven are the eyes of the Lord, which range through the whole earth. Then I said to him What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand? And a second time I answered and said to him, What are these two branches of the olive tree, which are beside the two golden pipes from which the golden oil is poured out? He said to me, Do you not know what these are? I said, No, my lord. Then he said, These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray and ask that His Spirit would lead our understanding of it. Spirit of God, we do ask that you would come and guide us as we consider this vision to the prophet Zechariah. That you would keep us from error, keep us from misinterpreting it. And by your power apply it to us so that we would grow in faith and in understanding and in a in a belief that you are accomplishing all the things that you have foretold. We pray this in our Savior Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Zechariah has had a sleepless night, and it appears that he has dozed off again and I don't know that we could blame him. As mu as much as we might say, well, the word of God is being proclaimed. Visions are coming from God. How can you not pay attention? Well, which of us has not dozed off in the occasional sermon. It happens. And Zechariah has fallen asleep. And the angel comes to him and rouses him out of his sleep. And Zechariah even describes it that way. He says, I it was roused as like one out of sleep. You know that that In between I hadn't really gotten into a full blown sleep. I was kinda in between and I got awakened and just kind of foggy and can't get your head cleared and can't quite quite get focused. And he sees, he looks up And uh um the angel says, What do you see? And he he looks up and he says, I see, and oh, behold. And there really is this redundancy, it's captured well here in English, this redundancy is there in the Hebrew. This idea that Zachariah is saying, Yeah, I looked, and then wow, I really looked. It stunned him. It was a an amazing sight that he saw. And as this begins to unfold, we we see what the point of the site is. And I want us to look this morning at three aspects of this text. They overlap each other in terms of the actual layout of the words on the page. And so I'm going to take them really in the order of the sermon title and let the sermon title be our outline For this morning. It is God's power for God's purpose through God's people. God's power for God's purpose through God's people. And I want us to see first this idea that it is God's power. We see this come up first there in verse 6. If you look down there, then he, the angel, said to me, This is the word of the Lord to the rubbable What is this vision that you're seeing, Zechariah? What is before you? What is laid out here? Well, it's the word of God who's a rubbable. It is a message to the rubbable. So let's first understand who the rubbable is. He's called a governor. He is a governor of the region of the Medo-Persian Empire that had control of Palestine at this time. He's been made a regional governor over Judea. He is, though, more than just a political appointee. For Zerobal is the grandson of Jehoiashin, and Johaashin was the last, well, sorry, the penultimate, he was the second to the last king in the Davidic line before the collapse 70 years earlier. So that Zerubbabel is an heir of David. He is the rightful ruler of the people of God. He is not merely a political appointee, but he stands in the line of King David. So that he represents that administrative aspect of God's governance of his people So now in the last two weeks, we have been considering Zechariah, each and every week, the prophet of God. Last week we looked at Joshua. the priest of God, and this week we see the rubbable the King of God. If you're familiar with your catechisms or you're familiar with our the the the threefold office of Christ, we see throughout the Old Testament these three playing the role of the governance of God's people, the prophet, the priest, and the king. And they come together to lead God's people. They come together to be a foreshadowing of the one in which all three offices would be united, our Savior Jesus Christ, who is the prophet and the priest and the king. And here they are presented to us. Now the role of the king, the role of the priest, as we considered last week, was to deal with our the people's spiritual well-being. To go on their behalf before God, to make the appropriate prayers and sacrifices and offerings so that they would be spiritually right with God. The role of the king was more earthly focused. That doesn't mean it to say that it wasn't spiritually important. We sometimes make the mistake of divvying up the physical and the non-physical, and saying that the non-physical must be important, the physical can't be important. Well that's a very Greek, very uh uh uh uh uh Platonic view of things, but it's not a very Christian or biblical view To be physical does not mean to be unspiritual. But rather the role of the king was focused more on physical things. His job was to protect the people in this world. To lead the people in this world, to administer justice in this world, to govern the people's daily activities, and to provide that they might thrive. For sure, when we studied the book of Kings a year ago in our Sunday school class, we saw that the author of Kings wanted us to recognize that there was this correlation between the spiritual well-being of the king and the physical earthly well-being. being of the people. So that when the kings sought the Lord, the kingdom thrived. And when the kings walked away from the Lord, the kingdom shrunk. And we were to see that correlation. So that the earthly reign of the king is a spiritual matter, even though it's physically and earthly oriented. Zerubbabel stands in that line. He is the one who is to administer God's people here on earth and to oversee them. He had a daunting task. He had an overwhelming job. When the king had all the resources of David or Solomon. And none of the enemies of Assyria or Egypt, the job was still really, really hard. Now the king has no resources. And they're being ruled by an enemy godless power. And as we see from the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, all their local Enemies are attacking them on every side, and Zerubbable has an impossible test. And into that dire situation, this vision comes. This vision comes to the prophet Zachariah so that he can take it as a word of God to the rubbable. As encouragement to the ruler of God's people. And the sum and the substance of the vision is simple. The rubbable, you do not have to do this on your own. In fact, you cannot do this on your own. It is not by your might, nor by your power, but by my spirit. says the Lord of hosts. It is God's power which will accomplish the things the rubble that you need to accomplish. The things that you are supposed to do as the ruler of God's people will be done because of God's power is at work. This vision, in addition to being the word of God to Zerubble, is also a picture from God to Zerubbabel. Certainly Zachariah did not just go to the governor the next day and say, oh, by the way, God says it's by his spirit things are going to get done. No, he retold this vision to the governor. He retold this to David's heir and said, let me tell you what I saw. So that it is not only a word of God, but also a picture of God to the ruler of God's people. And what is the picture? Well, it is this lampstand and two olive trees that provide the oil that light the lamp And what do we see? We see two golden pipes going from those olive trees and pouring right into this large bowl. And the picture is a simple one, that there is a continuous supply of oil. That it is an unending source of power. Zorubble, not only do you have God's power to get done what you need to get done, but it won't run out. It will continue to see the need. As you have more need for the power of God, it will be supplied. You know, maybe you know the children's song, Give Me Oil in My Lamp, Keep It Burning, Burning, Burning. It's based right here. This steady supply of oil into the lamp that keeps it burning without end. And Zerobal, you have that as the leader of God's people. It is an unending supply of God's power. And we see that it is an unstoppable source of power. Verse 7, we see uh where there, who are you, O great mountain? Before it's the rubbable, you shall become a plane. The Hebrew is even more brief. It just says, before it's a rubbable, a plane It's just that matter of fact. It's not even a question of the becoming is so instant that it's sip right over the becoming. It's just that easy So Zerubbabel, when you are empowered by God's Spirit, this unending source of God's power, you're not going to have to overcome the mountains. They're going to just simply vanish. And they will become for you a plane. Leader of God's people Those who you who are in charge, whether you be the head of your own household, whether you be a Sunday school teacher or a deacon or an elder or yes, this is a message the pastor's got to hear as well The source of power to get done the things that have got to get done is not ourselves. It is God's Spirit. But it is an unending source of power. It will not run out. It will not ever be exhausted. It will continually be supplied from these golden pipes, draining these two olive trees into the bowl. And it is an unstoppable source of power. That whatever obstacle is in your way It will be removed. It will be flattened instantly, become a plane. It is God's power that is at work in us. And so we don't need to despair Having spoken as the vision outlines the power of God, it then addresses the idea of the purpose for which it is being given. God's power for God's purpose. Something interesting happened. If you go on a uh an electronic uh online Bible um source. I use Biblegateway. com, but there are others out there. And if you do a search for the most frequently searched Bible verses An interesting pattern comes up. It's not exactly the same on all the different websites, but they're pretty close. I've looked at several of them. The number one most frequently searched online verse shouldn't surprise us. It's John 3. 16. I'm going to guess there are more than a few football fans who are watching the game and they see the sign go up behind the goalpost and they scratch their head going, what is that? And they go look it up and I'm glad they do. I'm thankful for that. The next three verses though are a little interesting. Listen to them. The second most frequently searched verse on Biblegateway. com is Jeremiah 29. 11. I know the plans I have for you, plans to prosper you and not to harm you. Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose. Philippians 4. 13, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Now I love Scripture, and I'm glad people are looking up these verses, but I guarantee you these verses are not being used. In the way that they are intended. For starters, the Jeremiah verse is pretty much directed to the nation of Israel. It's a little hard to believe that we can just directly appropriate it to ourselves. But we do These become very me focused and me centered verses. I'm amazed at how many wrestling meets I've gone to over the years with my boys and will be in this big gymnasium and there will be uh guys wearing t shirts and that have the the verse, you know, I can do all All things, you know, through Christ who strengthens me. And I and and I think really that means that God's giving you the power to win this next wrestling match? So what happens when you are in the tournament and you meet somebody else who is wearing the same t-shirt What's God going to do there? How's it going to work out? God's power is never for our purposes. Never. For our purposes, unless our desires align with his When our desire, when our will, when our hope, when our vision is aligned with his, well then yes. God's power flows freely for our purposes. God's power is to accomplish God's purposes. It's always been that way and will always be that way. When we misappropriate things uh misappropriate uh power of verses about God's power, will we misappropriate discussions about abundant life? When we misappropriate uh uh all the promises of scripture and think that they somehow apply to us individually in this lifetime, we miss the message. That God is achieving his purposes. So what in the passage is God's purpose? Well, it's stated there clearly, the completion of the temple. God says to uh to uh uh reveals to Zachariah, to pass along to Zerubbabel, that while Zerubbabel the governor has begun laying the foundation, he also will complete it. And some of us today are going, well, that doesn't seem that shocking. Of course, the guy who starts the building completes the building. Well, a couple of things we've got to remember. One, building took a lot longer back then Some of you know that I like to do home improvement projects and I've had one going on for what about a year now. Am I very patient wife is kind of goading me along and saying it needs to get done and I look at this and say, honey, compared to this, I'm moving along at a uh eagle's pace. I'm flying. I'm a jaguar. I'm a cheetah. I'm flying The projects back then moved very slowly, so that some of these projects would take generations to complete. Also, you gotta remember that the project has stalled When they got back to the promised land, they got excited and they begun and they laid the foundation they got going. And then 17 years later, that's it. There's just a few foundation blocks And nothing has been done. So now Zerubbabel is 17 years older, and now the Lord comes along and says, He will complete it. God's purpose on this earth is the building of his house. Sometimes a physical house More often, the spiritual house, his people. God's purpose on this earth is to build up for himself a people. A people in which he resides, a people who become the spiritual house of God, those who are his and who proclaim him. And the purpose here is the completion of that temple. You know, it says when it gets completed That the people are gonna cry out, Grace, Grace I wish remember remember the original biblical languages they have no punctuation and so all punctuation is a decision made by the translator and I I wish the translators here had put the closed quotation after the second grace. I don't think they're yelling grace grace to a a rock, a capstone. I think they're yelling grace grace to it, to the laying of the capstone. That upon the completion of the temple they're yelling out grace. It's been by God's grace that this has been accomplished. And that's part of what we need to see here is that when this thing these things happen When God builds his church among us, when he strengthens us, when he gives us his power to accomplish his purposes here at Short Harvest, We need to call out grace. Grace. God's grace. Um One of the things I want us to see, do you see there, if you look at uh down at verse uh nine, the hands of the rubble have laid the foundation of this house, his hand shall also complete it. Why Why is it important that Zerubbable complete it and not his uh uh uh uh descendant? Then you will know that Yahweh, the Lord of hosts, has sent me to you. You know, it's easy to make a prediction about something way out in the future. Because if it doesn't come true, you and everybody you made it to are all dead and nobody holds you accountable for it. But in the scriptures we see this frequently among the prophets, that they make predictions on multiple levels. And they make prediction on a near-term level. They talk about something within the lifetime of the hearers. Why? Because we doubt God's ability to bring things to pass. But when they come to pass, when when Zachariah says, Hey Zerubbable, not his son, not his grandson, the rubbable is going to complete the temple. It is when that happens When two, three, five, ten years later, Zerubbabel actually completes the temple, everybody goes, oh yes, I remember Zachariah saying that. Maybe he really is a prophet. Maybe I ought to listen to him. It's been funny to watch the end of the uh NFL season and hear all the talk about how the commentator Tony Romo has become really good at predicting the plays before the ball is snapped. And as he got better and better at doing that, we were tuned in to listen to him more and more and go, let's see if Tony's right about this one. That's kind of what's going on here. God says Zerubbel was going to do this so that you know that I came, that I came from the Lord, and this is a message from God. And why does that matter? Because, brothers and sisters, in a few chapters, Zachariah is going to say some pretty outrageous things. Pretty unbelievable things. Things that are going to be tough for you and me sitting some 2,500 years later. to believe. Well we're gonna look at this and go, oh that's right. Because we just read From the book of Ezra in our Old Testament reading, that the temple was completed. And that it was completed under Zerubbabel's leadership. That this prophecy came true. That the God who gave this prophecy through this prophet, when he gives the other prophecies through this prophet, they can be counted on also This is the Word of God. And it is the power of God. And it will accomplish the purpose of God. And that ought to be an encouragement to each and every one of us. God's power for God's purposes, God's unending, unstoppable power flowing through his anointed agents, God's purpose, the building of his temple, of his people, and his fellowship upon the earth. One last thing before we move on. Notice it says there that those who despise the day of small things shall rejoice. You know, there were a lot of people at the time going, oh great, so you added one more stone to the foundation. Whoopee. So what? It's nothing And the angel says to Zechariah, there's going to come a day when those are going to, those who despise those small things. are going to see the accomplished work and they're going to join in and rejoice. And I encourage each of us, we sometimes despise the small things the Lord's doing among us. It's not happening fast enough. It's not happening big enough. It's not happening in the public way we wish it would happen. And yet, we're going to one day look back and go, oh, I was a little impatient I see it now. I despised that small thing, but that small thing was being used by God to accomplish his purposes among us. Don't give up. Don't quit because the things are too small. Continue to trust in the Lord and look for the day when we can rejoice. And how the accumulation of all the small things add together to something really, really big. He goes on now and talks about the the the I'm going to go on now and talk about the text, how the broader picture of the people of God and the role they play in here. It is God's power for God's purpose through God's people. In verse 14, the source of the power, the oil from the trees, it flows through what are they called the anointed ones. These two are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth. Now the astute student, many of you out there are scratching your head going, gee, I wonder if that's That's the word Messiah in Hebrew. Messiah means anointed one. I wonder if that's what's going on there. And that's a wonderful guess and it's good thinking. But actually it's not the Hebrew word. The literal translation of this is sons of fresh oil. Sons of fresh oil. Those who have benefited from fresh oil now become the conduits of fresh oil. And who are these two? Who are these two sources of God's oil, God's power? Well, they are Joshua and Zerubbabel. They are the anointed ones. They are the sons of oil. They are those who are to lead God's people and to be the source, the conduits, not the power itself. But the conduits of that power to God's people. The church Is the conduit of God's power. God's people are the conduit of God's power. He works through those who are his. To bring encouragement, to bring his word to the others who are his. We are the conduits of God's power to one another The pastor is the conduit of God's word to all of us. Sunday school teachers are the conduit of God's word to some of us. We are the conduit of God's word to each other. This is why things like small group matter. This is why things like Sunday school classes matter. This is why being in church week after week matters. Because the power of God comes to us through the people of God, His anointed ones, those whom He has given, who whom He has renewed and refreshed through oil. And it's an interesting thing, teacher. Elder, deacon, parent, brother and sister. If you're feeling a little discouraged, if you're feeling like you can't be used by God. If you're sitting there going, my sin keeps me from being used by God, my discouragement keeps me from being used by God, my despair makes me useless to God, I will point out to you that just one chapter ago, Joshua was covered with filth. And he is here a son of fresh oil, a conduit of God's power. And Zerubbabel obviously needed a word of encouragement. And now he's a conduit of God's power, a son of fresh oil. You and I. are the conduits of God's power to each other and to a world in desperate need of what the Spirit of God has to offer. It is God's power for God's purpose, the building of his church, through God's people. The oil feeds the people of God. The oil that is coming through these anointed ones is pouring into this bowl and feeding the people of God. Before we move on, there's one other thing we should point out here. If you flip back to chapter 3 and look at verse 8. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are assigned. Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. As we consider this picture of Joshua and Zerubabul being the conduits of God's power, as we consider the role of people in our church today who are the conduits of God's power and his word too. We are reminded that the in the end, each and every one of them was not its himself the final end of this uh of this picture, but rather was a sign to another And who was the other? The branch. And who was the branch? We saw last week. That's Jesus. The rubbable is a weak, feeble picture of what a king really ought to be. Joshua is a pathetic picture of what a priest really ought to be. Zechariah, as wonderful as he is, is a very flawed prophet. But they are a sign of the one who ultimately is the conduit of all the power of God And just as they were a sign of the coming of Christ, so the continuation of the Church today, the continuation of God using his people as conduits of his supply of oil, as the sons of fresh oil among us Preach and speak and teach and encourage one another with the Word of God, we continue to be a sign of the return of that same Jesus. So that one day when he does come and he does live on this earth among us, we won't need all of these others. We will be supplied directly By him. God's power through for God's purpose through God's people. Lastly, did you see the picture of the people of God in this text? Isaiah 42, 6 says the people of God were to be a light to the nations. Matthew 5:14, Jesus says that his followers are the light of the world. In Revelation 1, the Lamb walks among seven gold lampstands, which John tells us are the seven churches to whom the seven Letters are written. Throughout the scriptures, light is a picture of the people of God. The people of God are to be a light in a dark world. This lampstand is the people of God. It is the church. Now remember how they were back then, no wall to defend them, economically broken, defenseless without a temple, uh uh a f just a mere fraction, uh about fifty thousand of them in total compared to the five million estimated at their peak They are a shell of their former selves. And if they were to think of themselves as any sort of light at all, the best they might imagine is one flickering little firefly. If we're a light at all, that's what we are. But the image that Zachariah sees isn't that at all. For it is a lamp that has seven individual lamps sitting on the bowl. There's a giant bowl of oil and there are seven lamps on each of those, and each of those lamps has seven lips Now let me tell you, you know, uh how these things worked back then. The the bowl of oil, you'd put lay a wick down in there and you'd lay the wick up over the lip, and the wick would soak up the olive oil and it would light and burn right at the end of the wick. So that it was not unlike our candle, somewhat brighter than our modern candles, but but in that vein Now, in a typical household, if you used a lamp at all, you used one and used it for a short time, olive oil was expensive. So that you didn't burn a lot of olive oil lamps at night. Now to our modern LED-lit world, we might look at this and go, it ain't that bright But the picture here is supposed to be one of brilliance. For he sees not a single wick burning, nor even the seven-branched menorah typical of the temple. But rather he sees a lamp with seven individual bowl lamps and each of them with seven wicks, seven lips. He sees forty-nine lights burning. Much brighter than anything you would have ever expected to see. And that is compounded by this fact. These aren't clay pots. These aren't hardened earth that are holding the wick in the oil. These are gold So that it is all reflecting off from the gold. So that every point of light is now mirrored three or four or five or eight times So that the 49 wicks now become hundreds and hundreds, dare I say, a thousand points of light. It is a brilliant picture. That's why Zechariah is taken aback, and I see, and behold, a lampstand. Not just, oh Lampstand, yeah, I've seen Lamp Sans before. He's never seen anything like this. Did those people back then feel like they were a brilliant light? Did they feel like they were a dazzling display of the power of God? They most certainly did not. But that was how the angel portrayed them. That is how God saw them. For through them would come the Christ. And that's a beautiful, dazzling thing. How do you see us? How do we see ourselves? As a dazzling light? As one that is blinding and causing people to take a second look? Probably not, if we're honest about it. But through us comes the Christ to a darkened dying world. This is what we need to be. This blinding, dazzling light. Why? How? How? Through the power of God. Why? To the accomplishment of His purpose, to build the church. So that as he flows through us, we burn brighter. And as we burn brighter, we are more attractive to all the others around. It is God's power for God's purpose through God's people. You know, sometimes when we think about God's purposes. And we think when we talk about God's plan and God's providence and his purposes, we get a little fatalistic. We say to ourselves, well, you know, God's going to get it done, so we don't have anything to do. I want us to recognize that this isn't so. Even the historical context in which this is written doesn't allow that interpretation. How does our uh there was a uh uh uh commercial some years ago, it's been off the air for a while, but maybe you remember it, and if you don't, you'll be able to follow along easy enough. The commercial show is a little boy and he's got his little plastic pretend dashboard in front of him. uh like a play school or whatever and he's sitting there and he's steering and driving and you see a flash of him having a good time, big grins on his face and he's driving, and then you see a flash of a car, boom, zipping around a corner And you see the kid turn this way, the car boom turns that way. You see him grab his shift and the car accelerates and takes off. And eventually as the commercial I think it was a Mazda commercial, as the commercial continues, you now catch glimpses of the fact that, of course, the kid is sitting in the back seat. Dad is sitting in the front seat looking in the rearview mirror and going where the kid drives the car. So when the kid turns right, dad turns right. They're at a parking lot, it's perfectly safe. When the kid turns left, the dad turns left. And the kids having a blast, dad's having a blast, and the of course the messages that I'm It's a pretty good image of how you and I need to think about our role in light of the sovereignty of God. We can't become fatalistic. We can't sit there and say there's nothing for us to do. For if the child in the backseat had thrown up his hands and said, well, so if dad's driving the car anyway, there's no point The car wouldn't have gone anywhere. It's not that the child was driving the car, per se. But the way that dad and the child's will came together The car was driven. It was moved. And the decisions of that child affected the outcome of things. Not because he was truly in control, but because it was the will of the father. to allow his decisions to matter. Our confession of faith says it this way. God from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. So as thereby neither is there violence offered to the will of the creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but rather established. God ordained everything, including the causes and the means by which things would get accomplished. This is God's power for God's purpose through us God's people. But it is not a call to fatalism. It is not a call to sit at our hands and to do nothing. And in fact Haggai, if you read him, his message to the people is get up and get to work. Quit sitting around and waiting for the providence of God to magically build the temple and build the temple Not so that you can receive glory, not to us, O Lord, but to your name be glory, the psalmist says He says to Short Harvest, you ain't getting it done on your own. You ain't doing it yourself. But what you do in my power for my purpose will be accomplished. What you do on behalf of my church in keeping with the Spirit of God and letting Jesus flow through you so that others see him, so that you burn more brilliantly, will be accomplished. And as the church is built and the day comes that the capstone is put on it and history comes to an end, and the new Jerusalem comes down and the church is gathered in, and we're all there in the presence of Jesus, we too will get to yell out, Grace, Grace. We're here by God's grace. And my brothers and sisters are here because God allowed me to show them his grace. So that they came in and they're now here. This is a wonderful vision for us today. That it is God's power for God's purpose among God's people. So that we might be a part of it. So that we might accomplish the things he wants us to accomplish. So that we might get to the joy of sitting in that back seat and feeling like we're in control because we kinda are But we aren't. Rather than worried about how to parse out the sovereignty of God, let's respond to the call of God. To be his people, oozing with his power, supplied by the conduits of those who bring his word. So that his purpose are purposes are accomplished among us. Let's pray. Lord give us Uh uh faith to believe that you are supplying all that we need. Your power is in fact flowing through us so long as Jesus is flowing through us. So long as we are proclaiming Him We will burn brilliantly. So long as we are furthering his word and his cause, you will, by your grace Accomplish your purpose through us. Give us the hope and the assurance to trust in this truth. And let us be for you a brilliant light, so that others might see So that our light will grow even brighter, so that others might see, so that the light will grow even brighter and others might see. And when the day comes that you return or you cap our work here, let us cry out, Grace, Grace. We pray this. In your powerful name, in hope of your powerful work. Amen