As we continue in worship, I invite you to open your Bibles to the Gospel of Mark, Mark chapter six. We continue in our sermon series through the Gospel of Mark, a call to confess the Christ. And as we prepare to read this morning, I want to challenge you to consider why Mark put these three stories together. Mark's going to tell us about how Jesus' hometown responded to him. He's then going to give us the account of a sort of apostolic internship that the twelve are going to serve. And then he's going to flash back in time to give us the account of the death of John the Baptist that he had earlier skipped over. And so we're going to wonder why did Mark put these three things together and what do they say to us? And as we read, I encourage you to consider those questions. I'd like to remind us that here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. I want to remind us of that in particular as we think about the Protestant Reformation and its implications. At a time when the traditions of men had begun to become the dominant authority Men stood up and said, no, no, no, it is the Word of God and that alone that matters. So let us let's not let our new traditions today become a new source of clouding the issue, but return always to the Word of God as the only authority for faith. and for practice. Let us hear now the Word of God through the Gospel of Mark, starting in chapter 6, verse 1 He went from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him, and on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joseph and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him. And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown, and among his relatives, and in his own household. And he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went about among the villages teaching And he called the twelve and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits. He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff. No bread, no bag, no money in their belts, but to wear sandals and and not to put on two ton tunics. And he said to them, Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there, and if any place will not receive you, and they will not listen to you, when you leave, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a testimony against them So they went out and proclaimed that people should repent. And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. King Herod heard of it, for Jesus' name had become known. Some said John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him. But others said, He is Elijah. And others said, He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old. But when Herod heard of it, he said, John, whom I beheaded, has been raised. For it was Herod who had sent and seized John and said I'm sorry, seized John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her. For John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death, but she could not, for Herod feared John knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly But an opportunity came, when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee. For when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guest. And the king said to the girl, Ask for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you. And he bowed to her. Whatever you ask me, I will give you up to half of my kingdom And she went out and said to her mother, For what should I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptist And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, I want you to give to me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter. And the king was exceedingly sorry. But because of his oaths and his guest, he did not want to break his word to her, and immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head He went and beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother. When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb. Let's pray. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word, that we would this morning hear its message, and in hearing its message we would better understand the call you have placed upon us. To be obedient in the proclamation of your word to all mankind. We pray this in Christ's name and for his sake. Amen. For a number of years I was a high school uh teacher, high school science teacher, and and I would witness, and I also spent some time as a college uh professor, and I would witness young men and their attempts to uh to woo young women by their displays of of their uh uh manliness Whether that be in the the the fields of athletic accomplishment or even things as simple as squealing the tires of their car on the way out of the parking lot. It was always interesting to me. That never really impressed the women, but for some reason the guys always thought it would. And so these young men would go on trying to impress these girls so as to get catch the eye of one of them. I took a very different tact. Lacking the ability to impress young women, I went in the other direction. And as Becky and I began to get more serious about our relationship and to think about marriage, I began to paint for her the bleak picture that was before her. if we got married. Now I really wasn't trying to drive her away because I had no hope of another. You know, so I I had to keep the one I had. But I wanted to set the stage properly. I didn't want to to set her expectations too high. and so have her be disappointed in the early years of our marriage. And so we were still in college when we got married, and so I talked about how, you know, working three and four part-time jobs and being full-time students, we were just never going to see each other and we were going to be dirt poor, we were going to be broke, we weren't going to have anything. And I painted this picture That set expectation's really low. By the way, that's paid off for 29 and a half years. She just doesn't expect much, so But by setting expectations down there, even little blessings, even little joyous things that happened in the early years of our marriage turned out to be a pleasant surprise. Managing expectations and controlling expectations is a part of managing people. And on the flip side, on the other end, expectations are what we think about if we go into something. But on the flip side, as we come out of something, the conclusions we draw about them, and managing those conclusions is also an important part of managing people. One of the sad examples of that, and some of you have undoubtedly been touched by this sadness, is the pain that happens when there is a divorce, particularly when children are involved. And how the children will look at that difficult situation and often draw the conclusion wrongly that it must be their fault. They must have done something wrong. That this tragedy is occurring in their life, that these bad things are happening to them must be because of something they have done wrong. We have come alongside of such a child and explained to them that that conclusion is not valid. They can't look at their difficult circumstances and necessarily conclude that they've done something to warrant that. And we have this morning in the text before us a sandwich of negativity with something exciting and positive in between. Mark is helping us to prepare our expectations and manage our conclusions As we think about what comes in the middle of this text. And as we unfold this text, I want to actually begin with that middle example. In the midst of this text, Jesus sends out the twelve in a sort of apostolic internship Now, in fact, the word there that is put in the middle of that text, sorry, I'm on the wrong page there, in verse 7, and he called the twelve and began to send them. That word send is apostolane. I think you recognize that. It is from which we get the English word apostle. He begins to send them out. Now, there's a couple things to note. Jesus had many followers. We've seen that repeatedly through the text. Many who believed in him. But only the twelve were sent out in this manner. A couple of reasons I point that out. One, they are in in endowed with uh supernatural powers. And we sometimes think that in the church today we should all have those supernatural powers, and that we only lack them because we lack some sort of faith. And I want to show you that Out of all the many followers Jesus had, only the twelve were given those powers. It wasn't given to all the rest of his followers. For you and I to expect that we would have those same supernatural powers is to expect that we are one of those twelve. And that's probably not appropriate. I also want to comment on the special nature of those twelve very quickly here. They are apostles. And while this is not the formal commissioning of their apostolic ministry, it is nevertheless a sort of internship as I described, a sort of practice for what was to come. An apostle is not merely any old messenger. For we are all called, as we are going to see in this text, we are all called to carry forth the message of the Christ. We are not all called to be apostles of the Christ. And the distinction is relatively simple. An apostle carries with him the authority of the sender and comes with the power of the sender and comes on behalf of the sender In the early days of governments in the ancient before electronic commu communication allowed for instantaneous cross transatlantic communication when a diplomat would be sent, when an ambassador would be sent from one nation to another, he'd be received into that nation here in the United States where we speak English, our president would receive the ambassador as a plenipotentiary. It's a big word. Comes from the Latin word plenus, meaning full or complete, and potentus, meaning power. They had full power to act on behalf of their government. They could sign treaties. They could enter into economic agreements. They could negotiate peace. They had the full power of the government they represented. And therefore, the way we treated that ambassador was a reflection of how we treated the government that sent them. This is the nature of an apostle. An apostle comes like that. An apostle comes with the full power of, an authority of, and is a full representative of the sender, in this case, Jesus Christ. So there are a number of things we need to recognize. One, their ability to perform miracles was to authenticate their claim of coming with the full power and authority of the one who sent them, God Throughout the Bible, we find that miracles are given as a sign of God's stamp of approval to validate his messengers. When Moses says, you know, whom shall I say has sent me, and God gives him his name at the burning bush, and then Moses standards and says, Yeah, but they're not going to believe me. What does God do? He says to Moses, well here are some signs and wonders. And Moses staffs becomes a tool of signs and wonders. And the plagues become tools of signs and wonders to validate Moses as the one who spoke with the full authority of God. When Elijah comes to the evil King Ahab, God again empowers his messenger with signs and wonders. So that in the midst of Ahab's court, it would be made clear that this Elijah was unlike all the prophets of Baal, but came with the power and authority of God. And when Jesus sends out the twelve, he sends them out with that same power, with those same signs and wonders, so that they would be validated as his messengers. It is yet another reason why we ought not to expect the continuation of the signed gifts in the church today, for the need to validate them has passed. Their authority as apostles has been established, their word to us through the New Testament writings has been given, and such validation is no longer needed. And therefore it is not surprising that the sign gifts have vanished. As Jesus sends out the twelve, they go out and they have success in his name. He sends them out in two by two, in keeping with the book of Deuteronomy that says that all truth should be established by two or three witnesses, and he sends them out two by two, and they go forth and they experience success in the early days of their ministry. Well, it's a wonderful thing to build a little confidence, to build a little uh assurance to how this is going to go. To have success early is valuable. Yesterday was Andrew's 16th birthday. And one of the activities we did to celebrate that is we went out on a cruise out of St. Michael's. I think it's called Patriot Cruise there. We went out, we got in that boat, we went around to become familiar with the area. And we had an unexpected uh a surprise. It turns out that what became far more interesting than the historical cruise, the local marine engineering school, is it Calhoun, I think it's called Um they were sending young uh students out to practice boarding a sh a boat that was underway. And so we have to watch these young students to bring these little uh rubber crafts and try to zip up next to our big boat, try to get their boat up next to the side of it, to fight through the bow wave, to to to to n nudge the notice of their boat, and then to keep it running running right alongside of our boat so that if needed somebody could climb into our boat. It was like pirates. It was kinda cool. They were friendly pirates. And we got to watch these students. And some of them nailed at the first try. Some of them struggled repeatedly. But eventually they all got it and they kept trying until they got it. That sort of success under the oversight of an instructor does confidence so that someday when they are on their own, they're going to know what to do and how to do it. And that's what we see here. Jesus sends out the twelve so that while he's still with them, they can come back from this mission and report back, and he can instruct them and guide them and follow up with them. Now, if we had only the account of the sending of the twelve, of the in apostolic internship of the disciples. We might be tempted to come to some really false conclusions For what happens when they go out? Well, first of all, we we see that they uh uh they they they went out, verse 12, they went out and proclaimed that people should repent. That was the message that Mark tells us way back in Mark 1, verses 14 and 15, when Mark is summarizing the ministry of Jesus. That is precisely what Jesus preached. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news. Fast forward to after Jesus has ascended into heaven and the disciples are now apostles and they begin their ministry on earth without him. What do we is the first thing we read, Peter preaching at Pentecost? Repent. What do Peter and John preach in the temple? Repent and be baptized. What do the prophets of old preach? Repent. And seek the Lord's forgiveness. So, first of all, I do want us to see the simplicity of the message. People are sinners. And they need to confess that sin, repent and turn from it and turn to God. Turn to Him in Jesus Christ who offers forgiveness for sins. This is why we confess our sins each and every week, and why we seek the assurance of pardon from the one who forgives. Repent is the message of these twelve when they go out. But then we also see That they had some success. They cast out many demons and anointed many with oil who were sick and healed them. We're going to read in next week's sermon text. How, as a result of the disciples' work, the crowds following Jesus actually expanded. They grew. The disciples had great success in this ministry work. Now I want to remind us of to whom Mark writes his gospel. When Mark writes this He writes in 65 A. D. to a downtrodden and persecuted church, a church that is shrinking in numbers, not growing, one that is under great distress. One that is probably saying to itself, much like that child in the broken home, what have we done wrong? Why is this happening? Why don't we experience the success that Paul and Peter experienced just ten years ago? Just ten years ago, Peter came to town and the church began to grow and Peter began to preach, and now Peter is dead. He's been crucified by Nero. What's happening to us? Why are the wheels coming off? Why are things coming apart at the scenes? Many of us feel like that when we try to share the gospel. Why is it rejected? Why don't I why doesn't anybody receive it? Why am I hated for trying to tell them the good news? And to that Mark writes, to that crowd, Mark writes The sandwich of the entire text that we have read. For had he written only this, we might be tempted to judge ourselves against their success and say we are utter failures. We have nothing to show for the work we have done on behalf of Christ. And Mark puts this In an interesting sandwich. Now let's back up in the text and look at what came before. Before Mark tells us about the successful internship, apostolic internship of the twelve, he first relates to us An account of Jesus return to his hometown. And I want to stress again that while we read these as they flow right one into another, and we tend to default to a chronological reading of them, there's actually nothing in the text that requires. . And in fact, the account of John the Baptist is clearly not chronological. We know that from the other gospel accounts, that this death of John had occurred some quite some time earlier. And that Mark now goes back to pick it up. And so we ask ourselves, why would Mark do that? Of all the places in his gospel where he could have addressed the death of John the Baptist, why at this point did he flash back to that? What is going on? And why of all the places that he could have told us about what happened in Jesus' hometown of Nazareth, did he pick this time to do it? I want to remind us of what happened when Jesus went home to his hometown You know, in the ministry there's an old quip, kind of a tongue-in-cheek sort of joke, that if you want to put on a ministry event, you have to bring in an expert. Do you know the ministry definition of an expert? An expert is someone who gets paid to speak and drives more than 30 miles to the event. That's the definition of an expert. For if your pastor speaks to you in a wedding in a marriage seminar about marriage, you're all going to sit here and go, wait a second, I've heard his wife She doesn't actually give witness to the fact that he practices what he preaches about marriage. You see, when the guy comes from more than 30 miles and gets paid to tell you about marriage, We all sit up and go, yes, he must know what he's talking about. He's an expert. It's only because you don't know his wife and kids. He wouldn't be an expert if you actually knew his family. Jesus expresses that same consternation, but it's interesting, his is totally flipped on its head. He goes back to his hometown and they reject him, and he says, Of course you reject me. Because anywhere else the prophet goes, the prophet receives honor. Unless of course he's in his own home among the people who actually know him. But this is interesting. We reject the local prophet, we reject the hometown guy because we know his sin. These people reject Jesus for just the opposite reason. They know his sinlessness. They reject him because of who he is. And something interesting happens. In that place, he's not able to perform any miracles. He's not able to perform any great and powerful deeds. How does it say it there? Oops, I'm again on the wrong page. I keep doing this. My apologies And he could not he could do no mighty work there. I want to comment on that real quickly. There's a popular Christmas movie. in which Santa's sleigh gets s uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh what's the word um down crash lands in central park in New York and it can't get off the ground because uh not enough people believe in Santa. And so they gotta rally to get the local TV news stations and they start singing Christmas songs and they gotta rally everybody to get them to believe in Santa so that Santa can get off the ground. I think sometimes we read this text, and that's how we think about it. See, not enough people in Nazareth believed in Jesus and therefore he was powerless to do anything. That is not what is going on here. That is not even consistent with what we've already seen in Mark's Gospel. For Jesus regularly performs mighty works in front of entire crowds of skeptics. He had told the man on the map, your sins are forgiven, and they all doubted his ability to forgive sins. The whole room was full of doubters. There wasn't a believer among them. And Jesus said, well, there's no believers, so you can't get up off the ground and fly, sir. Sorry. No. Just the opposite. He said, get up and walk, so that we can make believers out of all of these people, so that you will know that I have authority to forgive sins. Get up and walk. We've already looked at the function of miracles, biblically speaking. We have a tendency in our culture today, particularly in the church today. To say that faith produces miracles. That is just the opposite of what the Bible demonstrates. In the Bible, miracles produce faith The signs and wonders of God relay his power to humanity so that we will believe in him. Miracles were not inhibited because the people did not believe. So why couldn't Jesus do any mighty work in his hometown? Well in John 5, Jesus says to those the crowd around him, a large crowd in John 5, and he says, You know, the Son can only do that which is given to him by the Father. I can only do that which my father has given me to do. And we have to conclude that Jesus' inability to perform mighty works in his hometown was because the Father said no. The Father has reigned in his power in Nazareth. Our lack of faith does not impede God's working. For if that were the case, how would creation have occurred? We weren't there as we sung in Psalm 100 today. We weren't there to help create ourselves. So God said in the emptiness of space and said, Well, nobody believes in me, so I can't create That is not how it happened. That is never how the power of God comes to be. And so in this situation, we must conclude that these people The Father says, No. I have shown them plenty. I have given them plenty of testimony to the power of God among them. I have shown them enough, and enough is enough that I am not going to show them anymore. The only one who can reign in the power of God is God. The only one who can inhibit the power of God is God. And you say, Scott, what have they been shown? What miracle have they seen? I have four children and three of them are here this morning, so clearly the example I'm about to give must apply to the other one. But I ask you, parents, grandparents, those of you who were once children yourselves, what is more miraculous A withered hand being healed, or a child growing up sinless? A boy getting up off a mat and walking, or a boy who never once sasses his parents? They know the power of God. They've seen it for 30 years, testified to in the sinless, perfect life. Of the one who's grown up among them. And they've rejected him anyway. There are no more miracles that can possibly be done. And that's why there is no power on display here. And so Mark, as he assembles his gospel, puts this account right before the sending out of the twelve, and he says to his readers, People rejected Jesus. What do you think they're going to do when you take the word? What are your expectations? Do you really think that you're going to present the gospel more efficiently than Jesus did? Do you really think that you're going to be more articulate than the Christ? Do you really think that you're going to have more power over sinful souls than God become man? They rejected him. Are you surprised that you're rejected? The first Presbyterian church I attended some twenty years ago I came back to church after having been away for a while, and while I was away, I had an opportunity to share the gospel with some unbelievers in a in a in a completely non-church type setting And as I got done sharing the gospel, I thought I'd done a really nice job. And uh one of the people sitting there uh using some other uh coarse and craft language uh just flat out rejected everything I said Came right up to me instead. I just always assumed Christianity was a pile of And I went back to my pastor and I said, What's going on? I'm scratching my head going, I did a great job. I presented all the things of the gospel, I got all the key reports right. What's going on? He looked at me and said, seriously, Scott? What's going on? Because has there ever been a time in history when sinners like to be told they're sinners? And to the downtrodden church in Rome. And to the discouraged among us this morning, Mark reminds us that the way the gospel grows and the way the kingdom expands is a mystery. Jesus has taught this in the parables back in Mark 4. And now Mark illustrates it for us. That here the disciples go out and they're received. But Jesus comes to his own hometown and he's rejected. And from an earthy perspective, it makes no sense. And then Mark comes back around and wraps up the account with the story of John the Baptist. And how does he address John's situation? He talks about John's he doesn't he chooses not to focus in on John's success and the people who came out and the disciples he had. We know that he had disciples, and we know that he had followers, and we know that he had some success. But rather, Mark focuses in on the death of John at the hands of a corrupt and crooked king, Herodantopos. And the message to you and to me and to the original audience of the Gospel of Mark is a simple one. Again, do you think that you're going to present the Gospel better than John the Baptist? Do you think that your ability to transcend the difficulties of this life exceeds that of John the Baptist? Do you think that it comes down to you being rewarded for the excellent way that you tell your neighbors about the Lord? For if that's the argument, if you're supposed to have wonderful reception because you've done a great job of revealing the gospel, then John ought to be the most rewarded human in this life ever was. For no one has presented the Christ better except the Christ Himself. And how did John's lot end up in this life? Twelve pounds lighter than he should have been. For the loss of his head. And Mark writes to discouraged and downtrodden Christians, some of whom are sitting here this morning. And he says, do not judge your message on the way it's received. Do not judge the Holy Spirit on the things you perceive. It's not about how much our church grows or shrinks. We do not get to claim some mantle of righteousness because we have big numbers, nor are we to assume there's something wrong with us because we have small numbers, nor do we get to Reverse those things and say, well, our small numbers are the proof of our purity of our doctrine? No. The outcome is not necessarily related in human terms to the process We are called to proclaim the gospel, a gospel that calls people to repent of their sins and to know Jesus Christ. And there will be times in our lives and in our ministry, in our collectiveness as a church, where this will go forth and be well received, and the numbers will grow as they did for the apostles. But there will be times when we'll be rejected as Jesus was. And there will be times when that rejection will become so harsh as to go even to the point of death, as it did for John. So the question is not, how are things turning out? The question is not, are you having your best life now? The question is not, are you growing your ministry? Is your Sunday school class getting bigger? Is your women's Bible study growing? Are these things? The question is, are you proclaiming the truth of Jesus Christ? Are you calling people to repentance? And if they reject you for that reason, then it's a good day. And if they kill you for that reason, it is a good day. And if God blesses the growth of your ministry for that reason, then it's an equally blessed day. The success of the twelve is couched in the failure of Jesus himself in his hometown. And in the failure of John from an earthly perspective. And yet Jesus says what about John? There has never been one greater born of woman. And what does the Father say about Jesus? He ascends to the right hand of God, and from there he will come to judge the living and the dead. It is not how things appear in this life, but how God judges them to be. Let us be a church who proclaims the gospel of good news of repentance and of forgiveness without regard for how it is received or how it is rejected, but because that's the call upon the lives of those of us who confess Him to be Christ. Let's pray.