In Romans chapter twelve, begin this week, page eleven twenty-seven, if you're using the red pew Bible, Romans twelve. The sermon will begin in verse 9, but as we saw last week, verses 1 and 2, they kind of superintend most of the rest of the Book of Romans. And so join me back at verse 1. We'll then jump to this week's text. Romans 12, 1 and 2. This is the word of the Almighty, and so it's the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. What we believe and how we live must always be ruled by this book. Romans 12, verse 1. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which if you Which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing, you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. I saw last week that humility was good, acceptable, and perfect, and that's what Paul addresses in verses 3 through 8. Now join me down in verse 9. What else is good, acceptable, and perfect? Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer, contribute to the needs of the saints, and seek to show hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him something to drink, for by so doing you will keep burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Let's pray. Lord, the message of this text is just it's an affront to our view of self. It hits our pride and our ego hard. So we need your help. We need you to soften our hearts so that we would hear the instruction of your word this morning. And that we would respond appropriately, striving, seeking, working to be your children through and through. To be and our everyday lives, what you have said we are. We ask for this help in the name of Christ. Amen. Our sermon this morning is going to have four points, and they're on page 12 of the bulletin if you want to use that to follow along. And they are like this: The nature of gospel life instruction. That point is going to be taken out of this text, but it really applies to what's coming in the next several weeks from Romans. The nature of gospel-life instruction. Then we're going to look at what genuine love is, and we're going to consider brotherly love, and finally we're going to look at love for our enemies What is the nature of this instruction? What is genuine love? What is brotherly love, and what is love for our enemies look like? That's where we're headed this morning. Now I'll tell you this passage is not typically Pauline. In seminary, in our Greek courses, we despise Paul's notoriously long, unbroken thoughts. Not Paul, we didn't despise him. We despised his one-on- sentences. They were brutal to translate. They're often broken up in English translations, but they would last four or five, six verses in Greek. But that's not the case here, is it? Each thought is brief, it is just a few words. They come in rapid fire. If this were music, we would call it staccato. If I were a candy marketer, I would say these are fun size sentences. I would have said that as a graduate student, by the way. Most of my, despite my post-seminary stress disorder, when a writer changes style, we have to ask why. Why has Paul shit switched it up and gone to this bullet point approach? I think the answer is fairly clear. Concision. Concision has value. Concision offers urgency. Concision offers clarity. And clearly, this passage is about love. There can be no doubt about that. That's the theme that ties it all together. And the be uh the bevy of subtopics here are application points. They are examples of what love might look like when it's put into action. Now we could this morning jump right into a discussion of this instruction in love, and there'd be nothing wrong with that. But I think there is some value in pausing and thinking about the very nature, the essence of Romans 12, 13, and 14. You see, it's easy to mishandle texts such as these. And let me explain why. What else in your life reads like this passage? A series of staccato directives. Let me offer an illustration from the life of the Shaws yesterday. Power wash the deck furniture. Hang the door. Repair the fence. Assemble the bench. It feels like a to-do list, doesn't it? Romans 12 can have that sense to it. And in fact, it's actually more like a honeydew list Not a list you make for yourself, but a list somebody else makes for you. Honey, do this. Honey, do that. If Moses Paul is giving us not a honeydo list, but a disciple do list. You need to do this and this and this and this and this. And very quickly, Romans 12, 13, and 14 can feel like a checklist. If we just do these things, we're going to be alright. And yet that's not what's going on here. This is not a list imposed by the apostle on us so that we can be right. Rather, it's a description of what ought to characterize the transformed mind. Now some people see you say, whoa, whoa, whoa, standard pastor, how are those two things different? What's the distinction between a to-do list from Paul or a description of the life of the transformed mind? Let me see if I can illustrate the difference. When I used to coach middle school girls volleyball, there were always at that first week of practice a few girls who were there out of compulsion. Their parents were making them try a sport Now if you think about the false sports that are available, you've got lacrosse, you've got soccer, you've got cross-country. If you're being made to play, you're not going to pick one of those running sports. So they all showed up in my volleyball practice. Because they thought it would be the least objectionable of the available false sports. Now a lot of those, those those girls that were there. In addition to those that were compelled to be there by moment, there were also those girls that were there because they already loved volleyball. So here's how maybe an early practice would go. I would give them the fundamentals of good passing in volleyball On your toes, feet shoulder width apart, wrists extended, elbows locked out, shoulder punched, you know, keep your eye on the ball, tilt your shoulders, target doing this road, tilt your shoulders toward the target where you want to pass the ball Now everyone heard the same instructions from me. The girls who were there because mom made them They heard a checklist. They heard the things they had to do to be alright with the coach. But the girls who were there because they wanted to be volleyball players, they were excited to receive that. Because they recognized that it was the instruction they needed to become what they wanted to be. Bible place. You see, the differences in how it's received. And I would challenge us. If we hear this as a checklist of things we have to do to please the Lord It may be that our minds are not transformed, that we have not apprehended the mercy of God in Christ. That we have not understood what's really going on. You see, this right here Is instruction to become what we ought to want to be. This actually is in many ways part and parcel with our famous catechism question. What is the chief end of man? The chief end of man, that is to say, the primary purpose of mankind, is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. If you're hearing Romans 12 as an onerous checklist, are you really enjoying God? How is it that the psalmist could talk about his love for the law of God? It's because he wanted to be different than he was. He didn't want to be the sinner he was. And the law of God was the way to be transformed. God's instruction was the way to become what he really wanted to be. You see, all of those girls in that practice heard the same instruction. Those who longed to be volleyball players welcomed it. They were excited about it. That doesn't mean they loved every practice. That doesn't mean they loved everything about every aspect of volleyball. But they endured it willingly, joyfully, and enjoyed it because they wanted to be volleyball players. Do we want to be the children of God? Do we imagine that our sinfulness we can just be that without instruction? Paul doesn't think so. Paul, having explained the gospel for 11 chapters, says, now I need to tell you how to become what you're supposed to be. And if we are renewed in our minds, we're transformed in our hearts because we've apprehended the cost of the mercy of God in the death of Jesus. And we are looking at this going, thank you, bring it. This is what I need. I know how deeply sinful I am. And here is guidance. To becoming what I'm supposed to be, what I now want to be. And this view that it's something that springs out of who we are internally is supported in the text itself. Look at some of the language that's used here. Look at verse 9. It says to abhor what is evil. Now, if it said to avoid what is evil, well that could be something outward, right? But to abhor it, that comes from within That can't be imposed on me outwardly. Look at verse 10. It talks about polite. If it talks about politeness or civility or tolerance, those could be outward things, but brotherly love is not an outward thing. Probably love flows out of how I perceive my relationship to you and vice versa. Verse eleven Province in spirit Clearly it is something flowing from the inside out. Rejoicing in hope, verse 12, verbanoun, blessing, not being haughty, not thinking oneself wise. All of these show that Paul is not imposing on us a disciple do list. He's giving us guidance on what it looks like to have a life transformed by the gospel of Jesus Christ. He is himself coaching us so that we might become what we want to become. And I close this argument really by pointing to the very first sentence. Let love be what? Genuine. There's nothing genuine about a to-do list, a checklist imposed on us from outside of ourselves. This is Torah. This is instruction. It is the teaching of God for those who long to be what they were created. to be. Those who love God enjoy it and Him forever Gospel life instruction such as this should be received with joy for it shows us how to become what we want to be. Now, in this subsection, the first thing Paul addresses is love, specifically genuine love in verse 9. Having addressed pride and humility in the previous paragraph, Paul now speaks to this question of genuine love. Nothing is going to drive pride out of our lives as effectively as genuine love. Love, by its biblical definition, is the prioritization of another person's good. So the moment we love, our eyes are off ourselves and on each other. If pride is the root of all sin, and it is, love is the antidote The fear of the Lord may be the beginning of wisdom, but it is perfect love, John says, which drives out fear. Jesus himself says that the summary of God's moral law was to love God and love one another. Now Paul is going to address some of the specifics of love in the verses which follow. He's going to look at brotherly love, he's going to look at enemy love. But first he addresses the nature of true love, of genuine love. Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Sadly, much of what passes for love in churches today does not clear the bar Paul sets here for being genuine. It in fact is not love at all, it's something else masquerading as love. You see, even a casual reading of the text shows us that what is good Cannot be defined by love. In other words, there are many who would argue that if it is loving, it is good. They allow love to define what is good. But this passage puts it the other way around. Good defines what is loving. You see, if love defines what is good, then we have a problem. Paul's logic would be circular. What is genuine love? Well, it's holding fast to what is good He says. Then we ask what is good? And the churches of today would say, well, anything loving. But then we'd ask, what is love? And he would say it's holding fast to what is good. And we say what is good? But anything that's loving, and you see the problem. We're in this circular loop. Now, Paul is nothing in the Book of Romans if not logical. Such tautological thinking has no place in Paul's writing or in his approach to things. And that leaves us only one interpretation of this passage. Genuine love is being defined by what is good, and what is good must be defined by something other than love. Or at least as we perceive love. Now Paul has already hinted, has he not, at what defines goodness? Did he not say that the transformation of our minds, according to the mercy of God, will enable us to discern what is the will of God, that is, what is good and acceptable and perfect? Paul has set the good and acceptable and perfect as parallel to God's will. It is God who defines what is good and acceptable and perfect. Not our ideas of love. You see, the world and too many churches begin with a vague, self-defined idea of love and then say anything aligned with it must be good. Paul says love holds to what is good, and that good comes from the will of God. And we're going to see in two weeks. Where in chapter 13, Paul returns to this topic of love, and he explicitly ties it to the Ten Commandments. In other words, what is good is defined by God's moral law. It's an expression of God's will. God defines goodness, and love holds to that. Now what difference does this make? It makes a big difference. You see, when we define goodness according to our understanding of love, we get it backwards. And so we claim things like, well, you know, if you're loving, then whatever you're doing is good. But see, this perversion of goodness and love was not Good and acceptable and perfect when King David loved ten wives. And it's not good and acceptable and perfect when a man romantically loves another man. Goodness is defined by God and his moral law, and love holds to what is good. To think otherwise is to up in Romans 12, to set it on its head in a way that just does not work logically. Paul says genuine love is defined by abhorring evil and holding fast to what is good. And as we're going to see, God's moral law defines goodness. So instruction in gospel life is not a to-do list. It's the help we long for to become what we now want to be. And the key to that gospel life is genuine love, abhorring evil, holding fast to what is good. Paul now gives his attention to how love is displayed, and he does so in two rather distinct but overlapping ways. He will come around to this idea of loving your enemies, as Jesus taught, but first he addresses Jesus' new commandment to love one another. So look with me in verses 10 through 13. Verse 10: Love one another with brotherly affection, outdo one another in showing honor. Paul calls this brotherly affection. Why? Because it captures what he wants for the Roman believers He wants their relationships to look like the best biological family you've ever seen. And what does that look like? Well, there's a lot of components to it, but one of them is talking about them. We talk about our beloved siblings My brother did that. My sister just got this job. And we brag about our brothers and sisters with whom we are close. And if that's not you, you've probably seen it in some other family. And that's Paul's point. Notice how he even stresses it. Outdo one another in showing honor. Have you ever boasted about your big sister? Boast even more about your spiritual Sister. Have you ever been proud of your younger brother? Be even prouder still of your brother in Christ. Brotherly love, Paul says, begins by showing each other honor. Proverbs 27, 2 warns us of the foolishness of tooting our own horn, of bragging about ourselves. But Paul is saying, brag about one another. Show great honor to one another. Inasmuch as the brothers and sisters around you are serving the Lord well, they're doing good in the Lord, talk about it. Honor them. You see, the one who loves her family talks about it positively, honoring that family. We ought to do the same with our church. Honor these brothers and sisters by talking them up, by showing brotherly love. In verse 11, Paul says Christian love includes serving the Lord with zeal, fervent in spirit. The men on Wednesday evenings were studying 1 Thessalonians, and I've been taken aback, I think we all have, particularly me as pastor, I've been taken aback by the enthusiastic way that Paul speaks about the Thessalonian Christians. of their tremendous success in living the gospel life. They want to do the same. The Thessalonians were really awesome. Just kidding. You guys are. You are an awesome church in so many ways. And specifically in this way, with fervent zeal for the Lord. I've got members of this church calling me up going, I need more to do at the church. I don't know a lot of my pastor friends who have that problem. I've got members at this church who come to me and say, I've got this idea, could I do that at the church? It is a wonderful thing that you desire to express love. Through zealous, fervent spirit towards service in the church. I brag about this to my friends back at Knox, to my fellow presbyters. It is a blessing to be among you. You demonstrate this component of gospel life. And I thank God for it. Next we see that brotherly affection, genuine Christian love, it endures Look at verse 12. Rejoice and hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. These are the aspects of endurance, amid trial. And what does this look like in a biological family? It's the big sister who comforts the younger siblings when mom is horribly ill. Reassuring them that everything will be okay. She rejoices in hope, even in the face of Mama's death. Our genuine love for one another within the church looks similar, does it not? Have we not hoped for this church together? Have we not together been patient with each other through a great deal of tribulation? And so many of you have testified to me about your personal constant prayer for this body. Through COVID, through upheaval, through your own personal sufferings and trials, you have endured a great deal together. With hope and patience and prayer. Those kinds of shared trials have a tremendous value when we stick to it together, when we go through it together. rather than abandoning. It unites us as a body. I was a boy, I was a teenager, and I was Deer hunting and my father and brother had fallen asleep at the front of the camper. Grandpa and I shared the double bed at the back of his camper, and we were talking about his World War II experiences Deer hunting was one of the few times Grandpa ever talked about his war stories. And I asked him, I said, Grandpa, how often do you think of those men? And he said with a force that Grandpa Shell rarely used, he said, every day. And it shocked me. It was a moment of wow. But I realized as I got older that they'd gone through so much together. They endured so much together. They had been patient with one another because they had no choice. It's hang together or die with the options. And it bonded them Those who would never have been friends apart from that experience were forever joy because of it. That's the church in a lot of ways, is it not? We're not meant to be a social club of people who would get along with each other and be friends any other way. No, we have been bought with a price and put together by the foreknowledge of God. And go through this life together. And it bonds us one to another. And that's something that comes with time, right? Many of you know that Becky and I are taking a more extended vacation this summer than we have taken in the past. And I am finding myself missing you already. That wouldn't have been true six years ago. I mean, I've said it. But you know, in the past year I'm supposed to say it. Wow. But it's true now. We've been through so much together. I hope you feel the same way about this body. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. So brotherly affection, it shows honor. It's fervent in its service to the Lord. It endures. And then look at verse 13. Contribute to the needs of the saints. Take care of each other. Who among us would not lean on his biological siblings in time of need? And Paul says that ought to be true of the church as well. Don't be embarrassed if you have a need. Bring it to the church. One of the great ironies actually of the American Church is we are, relatively speaking, relative to the rest of the world, the rest of history, we are so well off that there are brothers and sisters who would like to help each other and can't find the opportunity to do it. If you have a need, let us know. We should depend on one another. Bailey says, seek to show hospitality. Seek it. Our most precious commodity is our time. Do you spend it on the others here? Do you invite others over to your house? Do you go out after worship? Not today, but do you grab a coffee together? Seek to show hospitality. Don't wait for it to fall into your lap. Don't be passive about hospitality. Pursue it so after it. There's simply no better way to care about a member of this family than to spend time with them. I thank our deacons. It was their idea to establish a monthly fellowship lunch They saw the value of this and the need for this. And they are practicing hospitality toward us. So the gospel life loves genuinely and it holds fast to what is good and abhors evil. The Gospel of Life loves the brothers and sisters with brotherly affection. Now Paul turns his attention to another aspect of love. I've titled this last section, verses 14 to 21, as Enemy Love. That's kind of an oversimplification. In fact, if you look at the passage with me, if we look quickly at this paragraph, it opens in verse 14. Bless those who persecute you. It closes in verse 21. Overcome evil with good. Now, that smacks of our attitudes toward enemies, not toward brothers and sisters. And yet look at verse 15. Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. That feels brotherly, sisterly, does it not? Verses 16 and 18. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate low and never be wise here on eyes. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all All of that seems like he's talking about brothers and sisters again. And yet verses 17 and 19 feel nothing like brotherly affection. You're paying no one evil for evil in verse 17. Verse 19, never avenge yourselves. And then verse 20 is explicit. If your enemy is hungry Feet. So what's going on here? Why this fluctuation between harmony in one verse and vengeance in another? I think the key is to remember what we learned about this Roman church. Jew and Gentile, rich and poor, slave and slave owner, shopkeeper and tax collector, uptown and downtown. All sitting side by side, listening together as Stevie reads out this letter from Paul. The merchant class Constantly having to pay off corrupt officials, they would have resented every government lackey in that meeting that day. There would have been slaves and freedmen Sitting in the same row as slave owners. Those who abused them and may even have raped them at one time. Regardless if the guilty party was actually present or not, they would have looked upon the rich as representative of the whole social class and social order. And it would have been easy for them to resent all of them together. It's entirely possible, in fact, probable. That there were people sitting together hearing this letter read out by Paul, who are themselves enemies of one another. By the way, we've already looked at chapter 16, but you'll recall he told them to greet one another with a holy kiss. A little harder to think about in this context, isn't it? So can we ponder that for just a few moments? To be sitting in church with enemies? You see, in America, we change churches because we have disagreements. Disagreements. Not, oh, my former rapist just walked into the service. We've had people leave this church, and others I know of as well, other churches. We've had people leave this church, and on their way out the door, they have said things like this. I'm just so hurt by the decision of elders. How can I worship here anymore? I'm just so angry at so-and-so. Isn't it better that I go to a church where I can be at peace? No! No, it's not better! We so desperately need the Good Shepherd to rule over us because human postures fail in that moment. Do not dare say that to me after I've studied Romans. We leave the church because our feelings got hurt. Not because we were sinned against. Because we had a disagreement. Not because we were personally violated. And it never crosses our mind, by the way, the pride with which we work function as amazing. It never crosses our mind that maybe, just maybe, our feelings were hurt because we're a little too sensitive. That doesn't even cross the line. We we we we must be right in this assessment, and therefore they hurt our feelings. You see some of that Roman church. They had been fleeced. Their livelihood were taken from them by corrupt tax collectors. Some of them had suffered horrible injustice because of a crooked official. Some were objects of racism, classism, misogyny, and some of them had been utterly dehumanized by slavery, reduced to chattel. objects of comfort and perverse pleasure. And does Paul say to them, hey, go start a new church where you can be comfortable, where you can worship at ease. Where you can avoid the hard work of forgiveness, unity, and peace. Noted this mishmash of Roman society, Paul says. Pick up with me in verse 14. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with them who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. That's right. If your former slave owner is now having a baby, you're to be excited about that. And if the boss who fired you unjustly loses his mother, you're to mourn with him. Live in harmony with one another. Think about that metaphor for a moment. When my previous church put on its Christmas show, the musical director would have to have a conversation with the dramatic director to make sure that Scott was blocked in the proper section. Because if he wasn't next to the other tenors, he was going to hit the wrong note. Move Scott so the place where he can actually sing a harmony. But that's not what Paul is saying. That's not what a good musician would do. That's not what a professional would do, right? Paul is not saying go to some church where you can be in harmony. He's saying, stay in harmony where you are. Change your notes. Hit the right key and the right pitch. And be at harmony, right where you are, singing a beautiful melody to the Lord. Having spoken to the lower classes of Roman society, he now speaks to the upper echelon, and he says to them, Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. You see, he says out there the world might think you're all that. In here, you are one more sinner saved by grace. In view of God's mercy, associate with the lowly. Love every brother and sister with brotherly affection to us. Verse 17, he says, Dear shopkeeper, hey, dear small business owner, repay no one evil for evil, but get sought to do what is honorable in the sight of the law. That guy at the end of the pew, did he rob you the last the last tax on it? Let it go In fact, Paul says he's a government official. Pay him the proper respect in the marketplace. Do what is honorable in the sight of all. Paul doesn't say just let it go. He said, show honor to that person. Verse 18, if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourself, but leave it. To the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. I can't imagine an American church constructed like this one. We would say to ourselves, come on, elders. His behavior was beyond the pale. It has to be addressed. He has to pay. Paul says it will be addressed. God is just. It will be dealt with. God will repay as needed. You see, we don't truly know, but that maybe Christ have already paid for that man's sins. Ponder that for just a moment. When we think that a brother or sister, for some past action, particularly one that might predate their salvation. We think somehow that they have to pay for it still. But if they're now a Christian, Christ paid for that person's sin. You see, forgiveness is the transfer of a debt, so that the debtor does not have to pay. The debt doesn't just magically go away. If your student loans are forgiven, they don't just vanish. Rather, the American taxpayer pays them off for you Your loans are forgiven by the obligation being transferred to another party. If the bank forgives the balance of your mortgage, they agree to eat the cost of it. The debt didn't vanish, it comes out of their profits, and their sharehold shareholders are paying your debt to be forgiven You see, when we make a person pay for their sin against us, in other words, when we do not forgive them, we have decided that person's sin was not forgiven at the cross. And he still owes. Do you really know that about your brother? About your sister? Do you know for sure that they are not forgiven? The Lord will sort this out. Leave it to Him, or you risk insulting the work of Christ. You see, the unity of the church does not grow out of our authority. affection for one another. It's the other way around. Our affection for one another is supposed to arrive out of the unity of the church. The church is one. We are united. In Christ we are all one. In Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, male nor female. slave nor free, for there is no distinction, Paul said in Romans 3, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And what does he say in 10? There is no distinction, but the same Lord is Lord of all bestowing his riches on all who call on him, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Even that hideous person who once did terrible things But now walks into the church and says, I love Jesus, and he has forgiven me. For 11 chapters, Paul has explained the great leveling effect of sin. It pulls the ladder out from beneath everyone, and we are all down under the wrath of God. And all equally at the mercy of God. And for eleven chapters, Paul explained the gospel. It cares nothing for one's place in society. It cares nothing for how evil one had previously been or how good one thinks one is now. The gospel discriminates only on the basis of God's sovereign will So if you think that terrible person didn't deserve to be saved, remember that you didn't either You see, the final chapters of Romans are not a checklist. This is not a disciple-do list sent by God. It is instruction for those whose minds and hearts have been transformed, who have apprehended the mercy of God in the death of Christ, who are longing to be worthy of that, knowing full well they are not. And Paul says we should love genuinely, according to what is good, abhorring evil. Also their affection for one another should be brotherly. It should be like the best biological family you've ever seen, or even better. And Paul, understanding the complexity of the Roman Church, he says, regardless of the wrong that person did to you. Regardless of how you perceive them as an enemy, they are now a brother in Christ, a sister in the Lord. Love them. Honor them. Be at peace with them, in harmony with them. This is who we are called to be in view of God's mercy. So if God has not shown you mercy, then by all means. Go find a new church every time you are offended or you disagree. But if Jesus died for you Can you not see that he died for those around you? Or can we not see that if he loved them enough to die for them? It is paltry by comparison to live at peace with them. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to let love be genuine. to love each other with brotherly affection and to bless those who persecute you. Even those in that pew over there. Amen.