What does the condition of your life say about your relationship with God? What does the condition of your life say about your relationship with God? If you have a great job, a wonderful marriage, financial stability, does that mean that God loves you? When Jesus said, this is a fruit statement we know well, but when Jesus said It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. When he said that, his disciples were aghast. The twelve, they stood slack-jawed in utter confusion. It was patently obvious to them that if you were rich, God loves you. On the other hand, if you lose your job, or if a loved one dies, a seemingly untimely death. Or if you suffer grave health concerns, is that evidence that you are on the outs with God? Perhaps he is angry with you. Perhaps he is punishing you. Maybe, maybe he's even abandoned you. Job's friends certainly thought that way, did they not? They blamed Job for all the bad things that had happened to him. And again, the twelve thought that way. When they encountered the man who had been born blind, they assumed God was punishing someone. Lord, they asked, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? But God called Job righteous and said that there was nothing in him that had brought about all of his suffering. And Jesus said that the man born blind had nothing to do with either his sin or his parents. In the ancient world, it was very natural, very automatic to assume that your Situation in this life was a direct result of how the gods felt about you. And that thinking crept into Judaism and into early Christianity, and it has never been fully eradicated. It survives even to this day in the way that we interpret and talk about the Scripture, in the way that we talk to ourselves the Scripture, in the way that we teach our children about the Scripture. Psalm 121, with which we opened this morning, says that God will keep you from all evil. Most scholars believe, as I mentioned earlier, that David wrote that psalm while he was hiding from Saul, who was trying to kill him. And yes, God delivered David from the hand of Saul. But it's how we talk about it that's the problem. We say things like this: God loved David And saved him from Saul. Now, in one sense, not a word of what I said there was wrong. It's all technically correct. But it is horribly, dangerously misleading. Let me illustrate. Do you imagine that Dietrich Bonhoeffer The great Lutheran pastor during the 30s and 40s in Nazi Germany. Do you imagine that Dietrich Bonhoeffer Did not quote that very same psalm while he was hiding from Hitler? Do you not imagine that he too looked to God to be his deliverer? He was captured and hung. In other words, if we imply that David was saved because God loved him. Are we not implying that God did not love Dietrich Bonhoeffer? And if God did not love Dietrich Bonhoeffer, why do we quote him from so many pulpits and read his books so often? Why is his book, The Cost of Discipleship, a Christian classic? And you, yes, you ought to read it. He loved God and God loved him. Yet he was captured by his enemy and executed. Now some will say, Pastor, I get it. Okay, I take your point. Bad things can happen to good people. But that's not really my point. It's not just that bad things can happen to believers, to God's children. It's that God brings about and ordains the things we don't like. When the speeding semi-truck narrowly misses slamming into us, well that was Providence. Again, technically correct, but dangerously deceptive. For if the truck had struck your car And if the child in the car with you had died at the scene, and if you were confined to a wheelchair for the rest of your life. Would that have been an indication that God was out of control in that moment? That He didn't have that under His care and providence? If there is a moment where God is out of control, He is no longer almighty. Almighty means everything is always under his control. Did you catch what our Old Testament reading said from the book of Isaiah? The great I am says to Isaiah, I form light. And create darkness. Now we might say, well, of course, God created the heavens and the earth, and he created day and night, but it's metaphorical, as he goes on to make clear. I make well being and create calamity Do we properly assign to God a calamity in our life? But again, someone might say, well, Pastor, okay, I get it. I suppose there can be calamity in the life of a believer. But wouldn't that be because God was upset with them? Wouldn't that be because God was punishing them? Or for some other negative cause. But all the things that befell Job The loss of his enormous fortune, the death of his children, The loss of his health, the abandonment of his wife. All of those befell Job not because God was upset with just the opposite. God was impressed with Job. God thought very highly of Job, and that's why Job suffered And so we'll say, okay, okay, okay, I get I get it, I get it, I get it. Bad things happen not just because God necessarily allows them, but sometimes because God brings them. Take out the word sometimes. Okay, I get it. And it may not be because God's punishing us, but then it's a testing, right? God is testing us. You know, Job spent all that time jawing with his friends, and you know, once he turned to God in prayer, then he was restored. So yeah, okay, I guess we're tested. Not punished, but tested and tried for a time. But then we remember to turn to God. We we pray for him to remove the difficulty. We ask for things that are in keeping with His will, and we ask them in Jesus' name. And through prayer, our God is a good God, He's a good Father, and He would not give us a stone when we ask for bread. And therefore Job was restored because he prayed, because he responded at the time of testing. If you've not already done so, open your Bibles to Romans 15, verse 22. Romans 15, 22, I believe it's page 1129 if you're using the Pew Bible. Give or take a page, it's right close to 1129. Romans 15, picking up in verse 22. This is how Paul closes the body of his letter to the Romans, chapter 16, with a bunch of personal comments. We've already looked at. This is the close of the meat of the letter. Verse 22, this is the reason Paul says Why I have so often been hindered from coming to you. We're jumping in the middle. Let me fill in some blanks. This is the reason. He has said earlier in the passage that he's committed to taking the gospel where it's never been taken. To unreach people groups. And he's basically saying, y'all in Rome at Rome know Jesus, so I don't need to come to you right away. I've been busy ministering in other places. And now he he Paul lays out his longings and his desires, and he lays out his plans and his prayers. Listen to them in verse 23. But now, since I no longer have any room for work in these regions, and since I have longed for many years to come to you, I hope to see you in passing. Not going to hang out with you very long. As I go to Spain. And to be helped on my journey there by you, once I have your company for a while. Paul's desire is a noble desire. He wishes to continue his work as a missionary. He wishes to go to the far-flung edges of the Roman Empire. And to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to those places. His is a noble desire. At present, however, verse 25, at present, however, I am going to Jerusalem, bringing aid to the saints. We can fill in the gaps from the book of Acts and from some of Paul's other letters. The Jews in Jerusalem were persecuting the Christians quite aggressively. And they were suffering. There had also been a famine in Jerusalem, and a combination of persecution and famine, Christian Jews in Jerusalem were suffering. Paul had collected a quite sizable sum of gold. from the uh uh Greek and Macedonian churches, and he was going to take it back to Jerusalem to alleviate their suffering, as he explains down in verse 26. For Macedonia and Achaia, those would be the churches we know as Philippians, Thessalonians, the Bereans, and the Corinthians, have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints at Jerusalem. For they were pleased to do it, and indeed they owe it to them. For if the Gentiles have come to share in their spiritual blessings, they ought also to be of service to them in material blessings. When therefore I have completed this and have delivered to them what has been collected, I will leave for Spain by way of you. This is the plan of an apostle. This is the desire of a man filled with the Holy Spirit, empowered to speak on Jesus' behalf. He says in verse 29, I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ. I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit to strive together with me in your prayers on my behalf. And here come his prayer requests. First, that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea. Second, that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints. Finally, verse 32, so God's will I may come to you with joy. And be refreshed in your company. May the God of peace be with you all. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, there are deeply ingrained false ideas about how you work in this world. We are persuaded by the overwhelming mass of humanity and many in the church who have argued for one viewpoint. Help us to see the truth. Help us to consider the end of this letter and the end of Paul's life and to see correctly how it is that you work in this world. Perhaps more accurately, how it is that you don't necessarily work in this world. And in seeing the truth, help our faith to be strengthened that we are never Led away from the gospel of Jesus Christ, that we are, that we never abandon the faith because of our wrong understanding of your love. Guide my words and our hearts that we would hear from you this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. The notion that our comfort, our ease, our pleasantness, and especially our wealth In this life is somehow related to God's disposition toward us, it is difficult to shake. It permeates the thinking even of the church. If God loves you, you will get more or less what you want And if you are living a life you don't really enjoy, well, that's probably an indication that you've gone wrong with God in some way. Many will blame you outright. If you're not living a comfortable, easy life, the life you would like to live. It's almost certainly your fault. At a bare minimum, you lack the faith needed to get what you want. If you simply asked with enough faith, if you simply prayed with enough sincerity, if you simply longed for it in the right way, you would have whatever it is you want. These ideas are so deeply ingrained in our thinking that they permeate even into the scholarship surrounding the New Testament. If you do an internet search on the life of Paul, specifically focusing on his life after he wrote the Book of Romans. There are a surprising number of sites that will tell you that Paul went to Spain. In other words, he got what he wanted. He got what he prayed for. But if you begin to delve into the articles and begin to read them carefully and begin to look for the evidence How is it that we know he went to Spain? Every single one of them I looked at, some, I don't know, twenty of them, every single one of them pointed to this passage. As the evidence that he got to Spain. But this passage doesn't say he got to Spain. It says that he wanted to go to Spain. So how can this be evidence that he went to Spain? Only if you have this preconceived notion that you get what you want when you're a genuine Christian. That he was an apostle and he prayed for this, so he must have gotten it. He must have gone to Spain. And that is how we think That's how the scholars think But there is nothing in the Bible that says he went to Spain. There is nothing in history that says he went to Spain. There is one comment in a letter written by Clement of Rome that says Paul went west in his ministry. That's it. Now, if you say west of where Clement was located in Rome, then maybe Paul went to Spain. But if you consider that the center of gravity of Paul's life was Jerusalem and Antioch, then the very fact that Paul eventually got to Rome was pretty far west. So, first of all, we don't even know if Clementi is right about Paul going west. And secondly, if he is, we don't even know what that means. And as we begin to unravel Paul's lies, as we begin to piece together the evidence from the scriptures, something interesting happens. There doesn't appear to be any time for him to have gone to Spain. For he writes the book sometime around A. D. 57. Shortly after writing this from the city of Corinth in southern Greece, he heads back to Jerusalem. He travels back up through Greece and Macedonia to revisit the Philippian Berean Philippian I'm missing a church, Thessalonica. Those four those three churches, he travels back to visit them. He then jumps on a ship. He sails to Militus, he meets with the elders from Ephesus. He gets back on the ship. He sails to uh uh I think it was Joppa and then he makes his way into Jerusalem. Where he was arrested for inciting a riot. He did not incite the riot, he simply went to the temple, and a riot ensued. But he was arrested there. So that's the first strike. Remember, he asked the Roman Church to pray that his return to Jerusalem would be a peaceable one. It wasn't And that his work there would be acceptable to the Jews there, and it wasn't. Two prayer requests of the Apostle Paul denied. He lacked the faith? Should we blame Paul that he didn't get what he prayed for? That he named it but didn't claim it? Is that Paul's fault? He spends two years in a Caesarean prison. The Roman governors can't make a decision. They can't figure out how to dispatch his case. They know he's not guilty, but they also know if they release him, they're going to have political trouble on their hands in Jerusalem. And so, because of their cowardice, he sits in prison for two years, at least. At the end of that two years, fed up with the slowness of their justice system, slower even than ours, he appeals to Rome. He's a Roman citizen, and he has a right to appeal to Caesar, and he executes that right. He is shipped to Rome, literally. The famous shipwreck along the way where the the the boat runs aground in the dark in the And Malta, everybody's safe. He gets back on a new boat. He makes it to Rome. And he is then in Rome for at least two years under house arrest. Better than a prison, but still not freedom. He could receive guests, he could not go out. His ability to go into the marketplaces and into the synagogues and preach Jesus as he had in the other cities was denied. And he o as he awaits trial. So now it's roughly A D sixty two In A D sixty-five, he dies for his faith in Jesus Christ. He recognizes finally the benefits of being a Roman citizen, for most Christians were crucified, some were burned alive, but because he was a Roman citizen, they did him the favor of beheading him. So we have three years roughly unaccounted for. In that time, we know that he wrote the book of Titus from a city in Macedonia. We know that he wrote 1 Timothy from Thessalod Nike, I believe it was. I may have that wrong, but somewhere in the Greek Macedonia area. And we're pretty sure he wrote 2 Timothy while he was back in prison in Rome. For in A. D. 64 a fire broke out and burned much of Rome. Nero was derelict in his responsibilities as emperor. In order to deflect public opinion, he blamed the Christians and he went after the Christians hard. He arrested initially their leadership, and Paul was the most prominent Christian in all the world at the time. He would have been one of the very first to be arrested, one of the very first to be executed There's no time for him to go to Spain. He seems to have traveled back east after his initial release. And then been captured and sent back to Rome, and this time imprisoned. Paul's request that his return to Jerusalem would be peaceful was not granted. That his gifts would be acceptable to the Jews in Jerusalem, not granted, that he would be able to spend time with the Roman Church being refreshed among them and being rejoicing with them. Only sort of granted, they would have had to come to see him, he wouldn't be able to go see them. And that he would be able to go on to Spain seems unlikely. Paul spent at least four years and maybe six of his last eight on this earth under arrest. He did not live the life he wanted to live. And he was beheaded for his faith. He did not die on the mission field as he would have preferred. Did God love Paul? During that earlier Roman imprisonment, Paul wrote four books. They're called the Prison Epistles. Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon. Turn with me in your Bibles now to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1. I did not note the page in the Pew Bible, but there is a table of contents. Ephesians chapter 1 Ephesians chapter 1, picking up in verse 1, this is the apostle writing while he's under arrest in Rome. Not getting any of the things that he had prayed for. Paul An apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us. There's a whole sermon right there. How many of us, if we were imprisoned for something we didn't do, if we were imprisoned for political reasons, would regard ourselves as blessed? Who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places? Even as he had chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose which he set forth in Christ. as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him. who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. We tend to think of the providence of God as Christian luck When we have that narrowly missed accident that I described earlier, we walk away saying, it's a God thing. Providence protected us. When we get the new job we want, that's a God thing Providence was looking out for us. But the Apostle Paul sees God's providential control of all things. And he sees them working for a very different purpose Than our pleasure, our comfort, our ease. Paul's sentences are long, and so we have to back up to verse 7 to get a running start. But look again at Ephesians 1 with me, and follow closely his logic. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. According to the riches of his grace, which he lavished on us in all wisdom and insight, make known to us the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time. To unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance. Having been predestined. Predestined. Destined beforehand. A destiny planned out in advance. Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things. According to the counsel of his will. I form light and create darkness. I make well-being and And create calamity to our great detriment Our commonplace everyday theology tends to get only half of that. We give God credit when things go well We do not assign to him the things we don't like. And he quickly becomes the God of good things and not the God of all things. He could see becomes the God who says yes, but never the God who says no. And eventually we reduce him to being little more than a Christian genie. We rub our Bibles. We grant, we we ask our three wishes, he grants them to us, and that's the relationship we have with God. And so we suffer. We suffer confusion when things don't go the way we wished they would. When there's calamity, when there's darkness in our lives, we're kind of aghast and we don't know what to do with that. And some will walk away from the faith because of difficult times, not believing that God loves them. If I were to make a list of the ten most important people in my childhood, one of those would be a man who walked away from the church and never has gone back. Because God did something in his life that made him angry, and he couldn't accept the fact that God was in control. If we don't get this right, we put our future in danger. We put the perseverance of the saints around us in danger. We undermined our confidence in a God who's truly in control. For if God doesn't treat us the way we want to be treated in this life, he must not love us. But Paul didn't get the things he prayed for here in Romans 15. His desire to serve God in Spain has almost certainly never happened. His desire to enter peacefully into Jerusalem was denied. And he was imprisoned for at least four years, probably closer to six. on false charges. But it's in that imprisonment. He writes this profound passage in Ephesians 1. Quite possibly the most amazing statement ever written on the sovereignty of God. Far from resenting God, Paul appreciated that God was God. And that he could do and would do whatever pleased him for his purposes. So, where is the love in all of that, Pastor? How is that God's love for us? Love requires kindness. Paul said so in First Corinthians thirteen. Love requires a degree of giving, Paul said so in 1 Corinthians 13. It requires some measure of goodness toward the one who is loved. If our lives can go badly, if we can suffer, if we can be imprisoned wrongfully If our prayer requests can be denied, where is God's love? How is any of that to be called love? And this is love, John writes. Not that we have loved God, but that he loved us. And sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Does not Paul reflect exactly that same sentiment back in Romans 5? And God proves his love for us in this. While we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. Where is the love of God, you ask? It is at the cross. Where is the kindness? Will it not be at the judgment seat? Where is the giving? Is it not in the eternal life that we now have? For the unbeliever, this life is all they have. And then eternal suffering. But for us as believers, this is the time to suffer. And then eternal reward. Do not ponder your relationship with God by looking at your well-being now or the calamity that has befallen you now. God works both of those, whichever one it is. Your relationship to God is measured at the cross. It's measured in the price he paid to make you his. It is measured in the one who died for you. Not sure if you loved it. What did Becky sing in the prep praise earlier? What other father would give his son? Only a holy God. Paul's life did not play out as he wanted. Likely none of the things he prayed for here in the close of the book of Romans actually came true. But I don't think for a moment that Paul ever wanted to take back Romans eight. When he wrote the Prison Epistles, he was still believing the truth of Romans 8. When he went to prison a second time and was ready to die in writing the last of his letters to 2 Timothy, he still believed Romans 8. It is the pinnacle of the Christian faith for a reason. And every word of it resonates, even in the midst of our great difficulties. There is, therefore, now no condemnation. There is therefore now no nation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For God has done what the law could not do. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemned sin, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk according to the Spirit. Now, if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through the Spirit who dwells in you. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed in us. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who then shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus, our Lord. God's love is not apprehended in the condition of our lives. Or in the nature of the way that this world plays out. It is apprehended in the nature and the condition of Jesus' life. It's not found in our sufferings, but in his It is in him that we know God loves us And it is in his death, not our life, that we know God cares for us. For it is in the death of Jesus. That we are kept from all evil, as the psalmist promised. The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. Let's pray. This is a profound and moving truth, and we need your help embedding it in our lives. We need you to tear away the wrong ideas we have about how our lives reflect your love. And we need you to replace them, Lord. With this truth. In the midst of suffering for things he did not deserve The apostle still loved your sovereignty and wrote beautifully about it Facing a death he should not have had to die. He still desired to remain faithful to the end. For he looked forward to the glory that was awaiting, and found the suffering of this life. To be nothing by comparison. Instill that in us Let us do the best we can with this life. Let us live it as well as we possibly can Grant that we would use it to reach others, to bolster our brothers and sisters in the Lord, but in the final analysis, Lord. Help us to understand that its value is fleeting. Its importance is passing And that the love we have in Jesus Christ and the hope we have in the next life surpasses all the suffering of this We ask this grace in the name of our Savior Jesus of Nazareth. Amen.