We turn today to Romans 13, Romans chapter 13. It is one of the more familiar passages. in the book of Romans. It's a passage that has been used and dare I say misused, even abused, by many throughout the century since it was written. Quite frankly, we are not going to address all of that today. We are not going to attempt to untangle all of the abuse of this passage, nor will we address Much of the nuance related to this subject matter. On the contrary, a simple plain reading of Romans 13 makes clear Paul's point. The message he wishes to drive home to us. And so we're going to set aside all of the distraction and readily admit that the passage has been mishandled and can be mishandled. And yet we are going to try to submit ourselves to the message the Apostle had for the Church in Rome and that he has for us this morning. Begin with me in Romans 13, verse 1. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid. For he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore, one must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Respect to whom respect is owed. Honor to whom honor is owed. This is the Word of God, and it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. If we want to know how to live rightly in this world with regard to the governing authorities, then we must know this. Let's pray and ask his help understanding it. Lord In truth, we don't need help understanding this passage, we need help in obeying it. We need you to dismantle our pride We need you to overcome our objections. We need you to humble us. So that we will listen to what the apostle taught two millennia ago. And that we will be faithful as your bride, your representative upon the earth. And we will express this in a proper submission to the governing authorities with proper respect and honor, because they were put there by you. Please give us the will to obey, to become on this earth those who reflect the mercy you have shown us. In view of your mercy, let our hearts and minds be transformed and renewed, that we would be like what Paul did describes here. We ask this in Christ's precious name. Amen. Authority can be a tricky business. If you really think about authority and all the ways it plays out, it's the big sister in a family. If she gets a little too full of herself, we can almost hear her younger brothers, can we not? You're not the boss of me. The classic line. It's a Shaw family favorite. You're not the boss of me. And there are times when that big sister may appear bossy. But really is it? It's time to come in and wash up for dinner. She's not really the boss right then, is she? She's merely conveying the authoritative message of mom. Our elders recognize this distinction. They welcome any member to be a scripture reader up here on Sunday morning. Why? Because that's the spiritual equivalent of the dinner call. Simply conveying verbatim the message of our Heavenly Father. Now I suppose the big sister could issue mom's dinner call in a bossy Stone, I suppose our scripture readers could come off with an authoritative sense. But in the final analysis, the true boss, the true authority, is not the messenger but the one behind. The message. So when Big Sister calls you in for dinner, she's not the boss of you. And yet on Friday evening something else happens. As mom and dad are headed out the door for their date night, what do they say? Listen to your sister, she's in charge. And suddenly the big sister is the ball. She's endowed with real authority. And that's Paul's argument in this passage. The state, the civil government, has authority like that of the older sister, not inherent in who they are as people. but rather because of the position to which they have been appointed by the Heavenly Father. Paul says it explicitly. There is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. So whether it's the town of Easton or Talbot County or the state of Maryland or the United States of America, each of them has authority because God has authority. granted them authority. So what does that authority of the state look like? Well for starters we've got to admit that it is real authority. It is instituted by God. And Paul adds in verse 2, therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. You see, while mom and dad are on their date, if the younger brothers won't listen to her, what is this sister's ultimate weapon? What is the big gun she can pull out? Put away your dirty dishes or what? Or I'm telling Ma when she gets home. You see, the final authority rests outside of herself. It rests with those who ordain her to her position. And that's where Paul goes first in this passage. He reminds his readers that they will answer to God if they defy the state. Now, should they do the right thing? Because you know it's the right thing? Absolutely. Look down at verse 5. One must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. Now you can hear the big sister, can you not, boys? You know what you're supposed to do or not do. You know you're not supposed to wrestle in the family room. It's her pleading with them to do the right thing because it's the right thing for conscience' sake. But of course, what comes next? Stop it, or I'll tell mom Paul offers the spiritual parallel. Whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed and will incur judgment. You see, when those little boys defy their big sister, they are ultimately not really defying her. They're defying mom. It was mom who said to them on the way out the door, obey your sister. So for them to not obey the sister is for them to not obey mom. And this in the final analysis is our relationship to the civil government, to the state. It is a big sister of sorts. Which God has put over us to protect us and guide us. Now, the saint is also empowered in a way that few older sisters are. What does Paul say there? The governing authority is God's servant for your good, but if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Now the big sister might say, stop it, or you're going to get a spanking. But she has no authority to carry that out. She's not actually going to spank them, nor can she make mom spank them. It's not so with the state. They have that authority. They have the ability to enforce, quite literally, enforce by force their idiots. Now what exactly does that entail? I'm going to tell you right now, we're not going to flesh this out for. Not because of this sermon. Prior to me getting to the point of this sermon, we've made the decision that in the fall our adult Sunday school class is going to take an extended and detailed look at the question of Christian ethics. How do you live a biblical life in a complex world? Let's face it, the Bible does not speak directly to every issue, but biblical principles can be used to understand how to live in light of them. And our relationship to the state is a complex one. And there is much that could be sorted out, and we will do so in that class in the fall, and not attempt to do it all right here. But I can kind of boil it down to this Does this reference to the sword grant to the state the power of corporal punishment, bodily punishment? And the answer is yes, it does. There's a great deal more about that that could be talked about. There's a great deal of nuance that needs to be understood with regard to that. I don't think we should all run out and go, hey, our pastor said a capital punishment is okay. It is. But it's got more depth to it. And we will look at that at another time. The sword was a weapon of force, it was a way to compel The sword could keep you from going where you might have wanted to go. It would keep you out of the governor's house, for example The sword could make you go where you didn't want to go, forcing you into a jail cell, for example. And of course the sword could take a life And all of those things are wrapped up in Paul's reference there to the sword. The state does have at God's direction with his okay. The power, the right, the obligation to physically enforce its laws. Paul says we must face, we must obey the government, or we will face God's judgment. It says we must obey the government or face its judgment through the power of the sword, and that we should obey the government because it is the right thing to do. Now I don't know about you, but you haven't had time to think about this quite as long as I have. As I was pondering this all week, I found that order to be a little baffling. Were I writing on this from scratch with a white piece of paper, I'd have put it in the exact opposite order. I would have said, first we ought to obey the state because it's the right thing to do Then we ought to obey it because the state can enforce its will over us, and finally we ought to obey for fear of God's judgment. But that's not the order Paul gives. Why not? Well, as I pondered that question, I thought about why I would put it in the other order. My inclination is to say I would put it in the other order because I think the other order would be a little softer. would work up to the, would begin gently and then work up to the bigger consequence. And if that's my reason for putting it that way, I suspect that Paul's reason for reversing it is the shock value. But he wants to get your attention right out of the gate. Obey the state or face God's wrath. Which means this is serious. It's Paul's way of saying, sit up and listen. This is not a minor thing. In all the discussion, these four chapters that we're in in the book of Romans now, chapters 12, 13, 14, and 15, these are look at what we ought to do in response to the gospel, how a Christian ought to live in this world. And it's profound to look at some of the things he doesn't talk about in this section. Christian sexual ethics plays a huge role in other letters to the New Testament church, not here in Romans. He began back in Romans 1 by brushing up against the topic of homosexuality. It has no appearance here in the final four chapters. But obedience to the state makes the list. And he says it's a big deal, you will incur God's wrath. And so we have to understand the seriousness of this. We have to come to grips with the fact that this is a big deal. That our relationship to the state cannot be brushed off as minor, as some insignificant part of being a Christian. That our Christian life is over here and our involvement with the secular world is over there. No, our Christian life is to feed into and to bleed into and to saturate Our understanding of what it means to live in this world. The severity of the motivational tool that Paul uses tells us something about the severity of the offense. He's trying to address. This is a matter of great concern to Paul. And so what we recognize is that obedience is not here a mere suggestion. Obedience to the state is not here a good idea. Paul's not saying if you want to expand your witness to the unbelievers, well then one way to do it is to obey the state. No He says if you want to be right with your God, if you want to be transformed in your mind, you need to be transformed with how you think about the state. We must obey it because in so do we obey God And of course, obedience has been our issue from the get-go, right? It's where Adam went wrong in the garden. He thought he was oil back. He thought he could eat of the tree. We think we are all that. We think we don't need the state to look over our shoulder. We think we are so grown up that we needn't have a babysitter. God thinks otherwise. And right there, some of you are a little uneasy with that. Pastor, you just talked to us like we were children. You just insulted our pride. And I will tell you that's where this whole thing began, was it not? Back in 12, 1 and 2, Paul talked about the transformation of our mind, and then in verses 12, 3 through 8, he directly addressed the issue of pride. And if we are if we are rebelling against, if we are gnashing our teeth, this idea that we need a government overseer. Is it not a function of our pride? We need to obey the state because we need to obey It's a very practical, hands-on, everyday way to get better at humbling ourselves and doing what God tells us to do. And by the way, and not for nothing, I know this passage is not about parenting, but there is, if you are a parent of a young child or hope to be soon a parent of young children, you need to hear this. You see, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus expanded our understanding of the Ten Commandments. He said that you've heard it said, do not murder, but I tell you, do not hate. You've heard it said, do not commit adultery, but I tell you, do not love. He expanded how we thought about the Ten Commandments, and our catechism that we read earlier did a spectacular job of taking that principle and applying it to the Fifth Command. That in fact, obeying our parents is just the first in a long line of obedience we need to learn to execute. That obeying our parents is the stepping stone to obeying the state. And God. Parents, teach your children to obey you. Not because it makes your life easier, though it does. Not because it makes them more fun, though it does. But because you want them to learn to submit to authority. And you are the first authority in their lives. Alright, so Paul is stressing the supreme importance of obeying the governing authorities because their authorities derive from God. He motivates this by talking about fear of the Lord, the fear of the punishment of the state, and as a desire to have a clean conscience. So I want to talk briefly about the role and the nature of the state's authority. First of all, we see, we already said that the state's authority is not that of a person's authority. We just touched on this. The big sister is not in charge because of who she is, but because mom put her in charge. She holds an office. It's by virtue of her appointment to office, and not because of who she is. This is the distinction with which we struggle. Human beings always have. That line between the office and the office holder. We blur these far too often. But the distinction is not mere nuance It has tremendous importance. We've tried to execute this in our civil politics for a long time now. Presidents are not addressed directly by their name but by their office. It was Mr. President, not Mr. Eisenhower. And that distinction though so reminds us that he is not supposed to be acting in and of himself or for himself. He's supposed to be acting as an agent of the state. It's why judges still wear robes. It hides the person and marks out the office. That they're supposed to be acting not in their own interest, but in the interest of the law and of the society. Not all leaders are able to distinguish those, but it's a beautiful thing when it happens. I can remember on the school board years ago when I was the headmaster, when I was the principal of the Christian school There was this policy discussion going on. And the vice president of the board was arguing in favor of this policy change. And I knew her well enough, and I knew her children well enough to know that her oldest daughter was going to actually suffer as this policy changed occurred. Her oldest daughter was going to lose some of the extracurricular activities she enjoyed. But this woman wasn't there as her daughter's mother. She was there as a school board member. And in that office, she was supposed to put the best interests of the school ahead of herself. And so she argued for a policy change that would actually hurt her daughter. It's a rare and beautiful thing. But that's the nuanced difference. The big sister is not in charge because of who she is. But because of the office to which mom appointed her. Our government is not in charge because of the individual people And one of the things that gets muddled when we think about how to execute and handle this is we don't make that distinction. It is to the office that we owe obedience. It is to the government that we owe submission. These things matter because of who they are. The agents of the state are to act like that woman on the school board. In the interests of the society, in the interests of the state, in the interests of the people in the state, and not in their own interests. From the President of the United States down to the county commissioners, city clerks, and building code inspectors. Their job is to put the best interest of the state first. Which brings up kind of another matter. It's really this question of the need for governance at all. It's really assumed here, is it not? Paul just assumes our need for governance, but it's worth stepping back for a moment and asking, how far does that extend? Do we inherently need governance, or is this just a function of the fall? Is governance in place because of sin? We've already alluded to the answer. We've already alluded to the idea, back with our prep praise and some of the earlier, the psalm of which we opened up, governance is eternal. Our need for oversight will never go away. For he is King of kings and Lord of Lords. He will come to the earth to reign over us, to govern us. You see, for even in our perfected state, in the eternal restoration of the perfection of the Garden of Eden here on earth, we're still going to have disagreements. You are gonna want that lakefront mansion and somebody else is gonna want the same lakefront mansion. Who gets it? Now we're not going to sin in the midst of that dispute. We're not going to connive or steal or undercut or gossip or lie or do whatever else to get our way, but we will still have to be governed. And there'll be a perfect judge. And he will make a ruling about who gets that mention. And we will live with it joyously. But governance lasts forever. Think about that. If we are inherently opposed to governments, if our if we are uh just we we hate government in and of itself for the very sake that it exists at all How are we going to live in eternity? Remember, our sanctification in part serves to get us ready for our eternal lives. If we can't stand holiness now, what makes us think we're going to enjoy heaven? And if we can't stand governance now, what makes us think that we're going to willingly sit under a king forevermore? Governance will last forever. Now we are commanded to obey earthly authorities because God has ordained them. We are motivated to do so for fear of the Lord, fear of the state, and sake of conscience. And we understand that the saint acts on God's behalf for our good and not for themselves. And at this point it is easy to imagine that at least a few of us this morning are starting to ask, Pastor What about Acts 5. 29? What about Peter and John who said to the Sanhedrin Must we obey God rather than men? Surely there are times where we can defy the government. Why aren't you talking about that? Because Paul doesn't. Look at Romans 13! This is not a sermon about our relationship to government in the big picture. It is ultimately a sermon about Romans 13. This is not about what I want to say on this topic. It's about what the Word of God says about this topic in this place And in a to a church that was under Roman government, I don't care what political party you belong to here in the U. S. , I don't care what you think of U. S. governance, I don't care what you How you imagine this nation to be falling, coming apart at the scenes? We have never had a government in the US that came even close to Roman government And to a church under the Roman government. He doesn't give opt-outs. He doesn't give exceptions. But that there are exceptions, Pastor, I know. Why do we crave those It was an interesting thing. I was having a hard time pulling this sermon together this week. And so I went, as I will, occasionally, I went to a couple different commentaries, went to a couple of different preachers that I respect. I listened to a couple sermons and read a couple commentaries, four different voices on this passage All four of them spent the bulk of their time talking about the exceptions for why we don't have to obey the government, or when we don't have to. And I'm stunned by that because the passage doesn't talk about that. It reveals our pride. That need to get out from underneath it, that desire to have some justification to defy. reveals the heart within us. You're not the boss of me, has been our cry from day one, and it's still our cry. And we want wiggle room. We want to feel like we are okay to do what we want to do. And there's none of the factor. The simple reading of these verses will tell you plainly. If you all read it and I asked you all on a piece of paper to write down in one sentence Paul's main point, you'd all have the same thing. Obey the government. Submit to the government. Subject yourself to the overseeing authorities of this earth. That's clearly his point. And the very fact that we long for the sermon to tell us why we don't have to do that reveals the pride within us. I know this lies in the face of Our politically conservative bent, the traditions out of which our nation arose, we are a country that was born in rebellion and revolution. We are a people that honor rebels, even rebels who fought for ignoble and abominable causes But the question is this. Is our loyalty first and foremost to political party? Well should the work up The first commandment is you shall have no other gods before me. That doesn't mean you can have God as a ranking priority. So long as Yahweh is number one on the list, it's okay to have Baal and Asherah and Moloch and Republicans all on the list. That's not what that means. Before me means in my presence. You may not bring another God into my presence. And what is the presence of the Almighty? He is omnipresent. When the commandment says you shall have no other gods before me, it means you shall have no other gods. Period. It isn't like we're trying to balance our loyalties. I want to be a good Christian, but I've got to be a faithful member of my political party also. There's a sad scene in a TV comedy where a woman explaining her reaction to a situation She says, well, a good Christian probably would have forgiven him, but a good Texan would have shot him, so I guess I split the difference. That's not how it's supposed to work. We're not supposed to be striving to be good Christians and good at something else. And causing a compromise between those two. The call is to be the bride of Christ the representatives of our Lord upon the earth, transformed in our minds and hearts because we have apprehended the mercy of God. We have understood what the Savior did for us. How he submitted to the laws of this earth, though he had no obligation to do so. And as that transformation sinks in, we should be asking how we'd be more like him. And Paul is saying, submit to the governing authorities. It's a very practical, right there in front of you, way to do it. Obey them. Keep them. Are them. You see, the pressure point for most Americans is not what it has been historically for most Christians. Christians across the ages were faced with lions in the Colosseum, with being crucified or burned at the stake, imprisoned, exiled, or some other violent or material mistreatment. Our pressure point is how many likes and thumbs up we're gonna get on our social media. We don't abandon our faith for fear of death. We abandon our faith for fear of being unfriended. If we were to dare in our Facebook feed to to, you know, fail to berate that administration Or worse yet, if we actually dared to suggest that maybe we should submit and obey and honor that administration. You know, the the wrong one from the other political party. We worry that our circle of friends will blast us. We will be Prasadana Rata. We will lose our standing among them. But if you will permit me to paraphrase Jesus, he said, whoever did not hate his social media followers could not be his disciple. And so we expect a sermon like this, especially in a conservative church. To justify our disdain for government, to place a stamp of approval on our defiance, and at a minimum to encourage us, you know, to dislike certain politicians. But the call of Romans 13, the command of Romans 13, is that we obey the government out of an obedience to God. Well, most of us have little trouble obeying when and where the state's laws coincide with God's. None of us in here are disputing in our minds right now as we're wrestling with this. Not a one of us is disputing whether or not murder is wrong. We're not arguing whether whether or not it's right to steal or to cheat or to lie. And in that sense. . We're kind of like those little brothers being babysat by our big sister. When big sister enforces rules that we know mom enforces, well we kind of begrudgingly, okay, sure. I guess I should put my dirty dishes in the sink. But it's in the gray areas that we struggle. It's in the areas where the judgment calls. Where prudence and wisdom have to determine the outcome, and that's where we dig in our heels and fight. So maybe dad has made it clear that the kids are not to touch anything in his office at home. Now just to be safe, Big Sis, well she's watching them, she says to the boys, don't go in dad's office. Immediately. Being the natural born lawyers that every child is, immediately the boys are like, that's not the rule. Dad said we can't touch anything in his office. He didn't say we couldn't go in his office. And that's what we do to the civil government. We begin to take issue with every little judgment call they make. But mom said to obey your big sister. Did she step over the line? Maybe? Did she make the rule go too far? Possibly But she didn't ask them to sin, she didn't make them do anything wrong. And in the final analysis, I may be wrong about this. Absolute statements can get you in trouble, but I can't think of a single time where the Word of God is concerned about our rights. But it is routinely concerned about our obligations and responsibilities. So big sister took away our right to go into dad's office and not touch anything. So what we have an obligation to obey her And just in case we can't jump from there to the civil government. COVID masks You can dig in your heels. You can argue that they had no right, that they overstepped their bounds, that they went too far. Maybe. But we're supposed to obey. We're supposed to do what the civil government says to do. Out of honor for God. Because our Savior obeyed what He didn't have to Because he kept the law perfectly, knowing full well we would not Paul closes out the section by putting a little salt in the wound. For because of this you also pay taxes. Woo! Yeah, this is a fun sermon. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to the very thing. Paul actually justifies taxes. He says that it's appropriate not only that you submit to the government, but that you financially uphold it. And echoing Jesus, he likens the tax to the tithes by calling the ministers of the state ministers of God. Would you argue with financially supporting the Lord's work? Of course not. So Paul says you shouldn't argue with financially supporting the Lord's work in the state. through the civil government. And then in verse 7 he tax on, paid all what is owed to them. Tax it to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Okay, fine, I get it. I gotta pay taxes. And then he says, respect. To whom respect is owed, honor, to whom honor is owed. Ouch. Not only do I have to wear the mask that I don't want to wear. I have to pay taxes to support the governor who issued the order that I don't want to follow. And if I need him, at least I get to harange him over his poor decision, right? Nope. I still have to show him honor. I still have to call him Mr. Governor. I still have to stand when he stands. I still have to hold the door for him. I still have to admit it. That in regard to the function of this earth, he is my superior, even if I don't like his individual decision. But it's always been this way. Moses erred David aired. Elijah heir. Jeremiah aired. Isaiah, Josiah, all the rest of them erred. Were we free to defy any of them just because of that? Has a wrong decision ever invalidated God's authorities? Those whom he puts in place over us. Have we ever been justified to disregard anyone just because they get it wrong sometimes? You see, God didn't get it wrong. His authority is perfect His execution of the laws is perfect. Every rule, every precept, every law, every command he gives is perfect. And this is almost like a little bit of, I don't know what you might call it, overload training. We couldn't keep the law of a perfect governor. And so now we're being told that we must follow and honor and respect and obey the imperfect ones. As if it we need to be pushed that little extra in our sanctification. God ordains earthly authority over us, our parents, our big sisters, our elders, our civil government. To each of them we owe honor and respect and obedience, because they are set in place by the Lord. To defy them is to defy him. You see, this is the transformation of the mind that needs to happen if we are to become the children of God. In view of his losses.