Romans fourteen, beginning in verse thirteen. This is the Word of God, and as such it is the only infallible rule for faith and for life. We must know what it teaches and we must live as it directs. We must fear God and he's word. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling lock or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then, let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upfielding. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have Keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment of himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. We, who are strong, have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell upon me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures, we might have hope. Lord, help us. The passage is simple and it is clear. That is still difficult. Soften our hard hearts. Break our pride. Give us humility and grace, that we might deem one another more important than ourselves. That the upright life of our brother and sister will matter more to us than being right. That we would desire to serve each other, even if that means forgoing our freedom. Lord help us. For the glory of your name. Amen. I'm not sure that there is another passage in all of the Bible which is simultaneously so easy and so difficult. So easy to understand, so difficult to obey. So easy to grasp, so difficult to hold on to. Even if you knew nothing about the meat controversy that persisted in the early church, in the ancient church, you would still understand the message of this passage. The strong should give up their freedom for the sake of the weak. It's that simple and it's that clear. I suppose verse 16 might be a little confusing. Do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. You might look at that and say, aha, if somebody uh tells, you know, well I'm doing in my Christian freedom, if they say it's wrong, and I should stand up for it, I shouldn't let it be spoken of as evil But within a moment you realize that doesn't fit with the rest of the passage. In fact, the whole point of the passage is that we don't want to give up our freedom for the sake of others. So you may not understand what verse 16 means, but for sure, you know what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean fighting for what you think is right or good. It doesn't mean quarreling with your brother or sister in the Lord to prove yourself doctrinally precise. Verse 16 cannot be a call to defend your view of controversial things. So view strong Do you shake off the whole passage and say, well, I can't grasp what the first 16 means, and by the way, I have no intention of telling you what it means. No. If you can't grasp what verse 16 means, you're going to throw the whole passage out. You're going to use it as an excuse to say, well I don't have to be under this passage because I didn't grab that. I didn't grasp what that verse really meant. That's how our pride works. That's how our desire to justify ourselves works. But the message of the passage is clear, it is crystal clear, it is profoundly clear So much so that this is the rare sermon where there will be zero exegesis. I'm not going to explain a single Greek word. I'm not going to bother to tell you what was going on in the early church and what this was all about. I'm not going to set this in any context because it needs none. What it needs Is humble obedience. What it needs is the submission of our will to the will of God. Never has my seminary training been less important than this morning Never has the knowledge of Greek been any less valuable than it is right now. Or never have commentaries been less helpful. Yes, sanctification begins with the renewing of our minds, as Paul said that in Romans 2. But our minds can grasp this tense. It's right there. It's crystal clear. We've reached the point in the book of Romans where we no longer need to wrestle with issues of the mind, but of the will. Of our pride, of our selfishness and self-centeredness, these are now the hindrance to our growth in Christ. And they have been for 2,000 years. The church has always struggled with this teaching. Why? Well, in part because we always imagine that the thing we're contending for, that's really important. That's a gospel issue. We have to stand our ground. Because if we don't, the very foundation of our faith is going to crumble. And so in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, Coparnakus said, Hey, the earth is not the center of the universe. And Galileo pointed his telescope in the sky and said, turns off Copernicus is right. And the search came apart at the screen. How can you say that? We humans are the pinnacle of God's creation. Clearly, he would have put us in the center of the universe. And if you can't accept that fundamental truth of Genesis 1, then you don't really believe the Bible and your faith is not genuine. And we argued against the evidence, and we fought, and we divided Over something that turned out not to be that big of a deal. Guess what? Jesus Christ still stands over the Lord of the universe, even if our planet's not at the middle of it. You say, well, Pastor, you know, you're saying, no, no, I'm not contending for something so silly as that. I'm contending for a real gospel issue. We once defended racism and bigotry and gospel imperatives. And by the way, when I say we, I believe we The Presbyterian Church in America had leaders, fighters Who says you must not have interracial marriages? God created the races to be separate. He gets them apart. Clearly, he doesn't mean for them to be together. Never mind the fact that Moses had a black wife. Never mind the fact that one of the men who laid hands on Paul and sent him out of the missionary field was a black man. Never mind the fact that the first Gentile convert we have recorded in the scriptures was a black man. Somehow we decided that it was a gospel imperative. You were messing with the very fabric. Of creation. Turns out not to be true also. In every generation We imagine that the thing that we divide over, the issue with which we stand against our brother or sister, that is the core gospel issue. And so we are justified. We have a right, an obligation to drive a wedge between ourselves and our brother and sister. But the point of the passage is that we ought not do that. We have to ask ourselves What is worth fighting for? And before you answer that question, even in your mind, I'm not going to lie, but even you want it. Do you recognize that the very question is flawed based on this text? For the premise of the text is not to answer the question, what are you fighting for? The premise of the text is: who are you fighting for? Are you fighting for the good of your brother or sister in Christ? So there will be times to talk about what is right and wrong. They will be legitimate. If a brother or sister is doing something wrong that would be a grave harm to their spiritual life, it's appropriate to talk about right and wrong. The passage isn't saying there is no right and wrong, and everybody can do what's right in their own eyes. It's saying that we must be driven by a concern for one another. And the vast majority of the time when we dispute doctrinal things, we do so for our own world. You know the old saying? There is no zealot like a convert. I was 15, I was in a youth group in my church. And I didn't even know who John Calvin was, never heard the term Calvinist, but in that year I became a Calvinist. I read through Romans, I saw Romans 9, it light bulb clicked. And I proceeded to destroy Hardy's grief over that issue. Was I doctorally right? Yeah. But I did it so that I would look smart. So that I would look insightful. So that I'd be the one who clearly understood the Bible when, you know, those beons didn't. And so many times, when we dig in, when we have the argument, that's really what's behind it. I want to be right. I want to be seen as right. I want to be perceived as smart. And we will fight for what is technically right, but at the destruction of the body of Christ. I've used this illustration often, but I cannot come up with a better one. My high school pep band was spite reading a new piece. of music and the student director missed a notation in the score. Most of the band followed the director, including the band teacher who was playing the sousaphone at the back of the room. The first trombonist, he followed the music and did so very loudly. He fought for what was right And he was technically correct. He followed the score, the student director did not. But where did he go wrong? His focus was on himself. His focus was on pointing out to everybody in the room that he was better at reading music than the student director was Isn't it interesting? The band teacher, the most gifted and experienced musician in the room, maybe in the entire city He saw the notation and followed the director. Why Because he understood that the harmony of the whole mattered more. The peace of the whole mattered more than him being right in that moment The director was musically strong and self-assured. And conflict. So much so that he understood what a mistake could be let go. Part of spiritual maturity, part of spiritual wisdom, part of doctrinal growth is coming to understand The doctrines for which you must absolutely contend and those which you can let go. And it turns out the list of the former is much shorter than most of us realize. And we fight over things we ought not to fight over. How sad That in many churches, those who come off founding the most biblically literate, those who make themselves seem the most spiritual, those who would feign strength in the faith They are so often the ones who are seeking to be white Instead, Paul argues the truly mature, the truly strong, are those who put the good of another ahead of any need to appear wise, of any need to seem learned. Those obsessed with the need to look strong rarely are strong. My brother's father-in-law, who years owned a Corvette. My brother talked about how interesting it was when he would borrow his father-in-law's Corvette, all of a sudden he had no need to drive fast. He knew he had the fastest car most anytime on any road. And there was no need to prove it. In fact, in his $400 hard to civic and he feels the need to go super fast. Yes, you own the $400 hard to civic. Spiritual maturity is a bit like that. When you feel the need to show it off, you probably are as mature today. Is there a time or place for debate areas? And even sometimes with those who are spiritually weak. Debating can refine thinking. Having a back and forth can be healthy. Having a discussion to grow toward mutual understanding, it has its place. Paul's not saying to never address any doctrinal issues, never to address any disagreements, never to talk about anything that might cause you to disagree How do we say at last to meet the call here is not for uniformity, but for unity So there is a tire place to have the discussions, but never if it endangers someone's faith. Remember, if you're having a doctrinal discussion, you ought to be fighting for that other person, not for your correctness. It was around A. D. 49, the Apostle Paul, same man who wrote Romans, Apostle Paul sent a letter to the Galatians, and in that letter he railed against circumcision, and I mean rail against circumcision. And in fact, he said this. Anybody who wants to get certified is certified. He did not say that, not even Greek. He said, anybody who wants to get circumcised is no man of God at all. And I will all the way just cut it all off Now that's some harsh language. Paul was adamantly opposed to the enforcement of circumcision upon Gentile believers. A year later the controversy had not settled down, and Paul went to the Council of Jerusalem, and he, and it was a long debate between the apostles and the elders, and back and forth. But Moses said we had to be circumcised as a Jewish Messiah, but yeah, but they're Gentiles, they're not Jews, and yeah, but back and forth, back and forth. And there was this big long debate Not over the color of the carpet, and not over what hymns to sing in the worship service, about a command of God to be circumcised. It was a big deal. And in the end, Peter stood up And Peter said, guys, we we're circumcised, we're Jews, we are circumcised. What good is it ever done us? We all depend on the grace of God. And Peter's argument won the day, and the council decided not to require circumcision, and in fact went so far as to say, do not have the Gentiles circumcised. A. D. 49, Paul rails against circumcision. A. D. 50, he argues with the Council of Jerusalem against circumcision, and they side with him. About three weeks later, Paul heads out on his second missionary journey and he takes the young man Timothy with him. The Jerusalem Council is in Acts chapter 15. In Acts Acts 16. 1, we're told that he heads up from a second missionary journey. And in Acts 16. 2, you know what we're told? Paul circumcised Timothy. You see, Paul was free from his freedom. Paul was not a slave to his own rights. He did not imagine that because circumcision should not be required, And he must therefore stand on that ground and alienate everybody. And he was going to have a ministry among Jews. And Timothy was born to a Jewish mother, and so he ought to be circumcised by their custom. He gave up, I guess Timothy gave up, his right to forego circumcision. So that it wouldn't be a stumbling block. The very man who argues so forcefully against the requirement of circumcision turns right around and circumcised as Timothy. for the peace of the church, so that he could have a conversation with these Jews who were weak, who thought circumcision was all that we wasn't And so it would not alienate them. Paul is not asking anything from us that he has himself not done. He repeatedly laid down important freedoms. When he got back to Jerusalem near the end of his ministry, there was this controversy about whether or not Paul was sufficiently Jewish. He goes to the temple and offers a sacrifice he didn't really need to offer. He was freed from that sacrifice. But he did it anyway. He took a vow he didn't really need to take. He was free from that, but he did it anyway. So that his brothers and sisters in the Lord would not stumble over his behavior. And that's what we are being called to do. So we have to ask ourselves, am I fighting for a concept of my broadcast? Look at verse 19. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upload. What is at stake? Is it my reputation or my sister's spiritual growth? 151. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak. Is it more important that I am right in this moment or that my brother is aided and helped? Look at 15, 2 Let each of us please his neighbors for his good to build him up This passage really is simple. If you think yourself strong in the faith, and who wouldn't want to be so And give up your freedom for your right. You are demanding always to be right Yours is not a strong faith, and in fact, it might be no faith at all. For in 1418, Paul says that whoever serves Christ by giving up freedom for his brother, that person is acceptable to God. What could be more dreadful than fighting for your view of doctrine? Only would be found unacceptable to God on the day of judgment. One of the great testimonies. To the truth of Romans 14 is the Nicene Creed. For all that we argue about, and there is much to argue about, the essential things, the things about which we can never compromise, never give ground, never leave open to debate, turn out to be very few. Please stand with me now And turning to the back cover of your hymnals, let's join in a confession of the essential, non-negotiable aspects of our faith. Christian, what do you believe? We believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. Of all things visible and invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of his Father before all worlds. God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father by whom all things were made, who for us and for our salvation came down from heaven. and was incarnate by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary, and was made man, and was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate. He suffered and was buried. And the third day he rose again according to the scriptures and ascended into heaven. and is seated at the right hand of the Father, and he shall come again with glory to judge both the living and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end. And we believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord and giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son. who with the Father and the Son together is worshiped and glorified, who spoke by the prophets. And we believe in one holy Catholic and apostolic church, and we acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins. And we look for the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come. Amen. You may be seated. On the night when Jesus was betrayed, at the Last Supper, he predicted his betrayal at the hands of Judas. And as Judas got up and stormed out to go off and betray him, the Apostle John records the following happen. When Judas had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. Once Judas left that room, humanly speaking, the die was cast. Apart from divine intervention and praise God, he did not intervene. But apart from divine intervention, Jesus' human faith was sealed. He was going to die. And it was in that death that he and his father would both be glorified. And then John records what Jesus said a moment later. A new commandment I give to you that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this, all people will know that you are my disciples If you have love for one another. You know, he was preparing to glorify the Father by his death And Jesus told his followers to glorify him in their lives. As much as Jesus railed against sin, and he did As much as he spoke against sin throughout his ministry, in this moment, at this table, on the last night he would have alone with the disciples With his dying breath, as it were, he doesn't say, get your doctrine straight. Live righteously, be perfect. He says instead, love one another. Love each other to the same degree that I love you. To what degree did Jesus love us? And I want you to stop for just a moment and back up. Because most of us, when we are asked that question, we say, well, he died for us. Would you ask any husband, would you jump in front of a bullet for your wife? Yes. Would you risk going in front of a speeding car to save her? Yes, without hesitation Will you turn off the football game to help her with the dishes? No. Because the reality is that frequently it is easier to die for someone than to live for them When we say that Jesus gave up his life for us, we do mean that he died for us. He is the sacrifice that paid for our sins. It was his broken body and spilled blood that are on the altar of heaven that make it possible for us to come into the presence of God. But he also lived for us. He gave up his life For us. He was the king of kings. He had no obligation to obey earthly authorities. Yet he did for our sake. He was the maker of all things. He had no need to set aside his glory. But he did for our sake. When we say that Jesus gave up his life for us We must grasp the double meaning of that. That he died for us. But also that the life he lived was lived for us. That's how he asks us to love one another. Not just to be willing to die for the church But to be willing to live for it. Not just that we would die for our brother or sister in Christ, but that we would live for them. That we would give up our rights. He who was the most free being in the universe gave up his freedom, put on this flesh, and walked among us. And he said, I want you to love each other the way I loved you. And so we're reminded weekly when we come to this table that our communion is with the Lord, yes, but also with each other. That we are made one with him, yes, but also with each other. Our God does not have bribes in the plural But a bride in the singular. Us together. Are we saved individually? Yes. But we are also saved collectively. We are in this together. And we must come to grips. With that reality, that we have an obligation to one another, to build them up for their own good, not to win arguments for the sake of our pride.