Romans 12 is one of the classic passages in any discussion of spiritual gifts. We read the other as our New Testament reading in 1 Corinthians 12. And yet it was interesting as I was studying this week, this may be the first time I have ever seen Romans 12 in its wider context. And it didn't say what I was expecting it to say about spiritual gifts. In fact, Paul's point about spiritual w gifts is quite unlike any sermon, any conference, any Sunday school lesson, or any workshop I've ever attended on the subject of spiritual gifts. But I have jumped ahead a little bit and we need to step back and take that passage in its context. Let's ask God's help before we jump into it. Spirit, we do need your guidance. We need you to open our ears and soften our hearts, to renew our minds, and transform us through your word. We need you to explain it to us. We need you to guide my lips, that I say only what is consistent with your word, and if I say anything out of a chord, that you strike it from our memories so that only your truth remains in us. Lord, in short, we need you in every way. So speak to us this morning through your word. Give us the humility to hear how it applies to our lives. Give us the wisdom to live accordingly. We ask this because we can in Jesus Christ. Amen. Romans 12, beginning in verse 1. This is the Word of God, and as such, it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. If we are to live gospel lies, then we must know this book I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice wholly and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. I appeal to you, therefore. This verse marks the pivot point of all of Romans. The whole of the letter is now going to take an entirely new direction, though not a disconnected direction. You see, until now, Romans has been largely a doctrinal treatise. That gives way now to an ethical discourse. Orthodoxy becomes orthopraxy. Having been gospalized, we need now to live a gospel life. And so Paul summarizes that in this way. Present your bodies as a living sacrifice wholly and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. You'll recall way back in Romans 1 that the thesis statement of Romans was that in the gospel there was a righteousness that came to us through Christ by faith. Yet Paul in no way finds that to be a cause for unrighteousness. Just because we have a righteousness in Christ doesn't mean that we shouldn't also strive for our own righteousness. In fact, quite the opposite. Having been made righteous in Jesus, we are to look like it this side of eternity. We are to be holy and acceptable to God. This Paul says is worship. The English word comes from worthy ship. When we live like righteousness does not matter, we are living like Christ does not matter. He is not worthy. Our personal efforts at righteousness are not in place of Christ's righteousness, nor do we repay him in any way. It is, however, our expression that we care about righteousness, which is why we cared about faith in Christ in the first place. To say we are holding to Christ for righteousness, but then to live like we don't give a flying hoot about righteousness is a contradiction. We must live holy and acceptable lives. And Paul says this is spiritual worship. Remember, Jesus told the woman at the well that true worshipers would worship in spirit and in truth. Righteousness, living a gospel life, is that spiritual worship, according to the apostle Now, of course, we know what that means, and in this uh modern American church, we know that if it's spiritual, then it's all about the emotions, right? It's actually not what Paul says here. Spiritual worship, according to Paul, does not begin, as many of us might wish, in the heart or the feelings, or emotions. No, he says, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. Remember, the gospel is news, it is information And as such, it must be processed in the mind, and it must have an impact on our mind before it can affect any other part of us. Now I know that there are a great many preachers and youth conference speakers who have made much hay out of the great distance between here and here, and how the gospel must move from our head to our hearts. And that is certainly true. It cannot be near cognition. It cannot be only something we know factually. But neither can it skip our mind. Neither do we go directly to the emotions. It begins in the mind, for only there are we transformed in our beings. We will make no apologies here at Shure Harvest. for the centrality of preaching in our worship services. For it is by words and logic and reasoning and persuasion that our minds are changed, that they are transformed. And if our minds are not renewed, then there is no hope for the rest of our being. Be transformed by the renewal of your mind. Now, if this transformation is happening inwardly in our minds, what does that look like outwardly? Well, Paul tells us, not being conformed any longer to the pattern of this world. Now that's actually more commonplace in apostolic preaching than you might at first realize. If you recall in the book of Acts. That the apostles preached basically this same message, only they didn't speak of it in those words. They didn't talk about no longer being conform to this world. Do you remember how the apostles preached it? They said, repent and believe. Repent and be baptized. Repentance was the watchword of the preaching of John and Peter and Stephen and Philip and all of the others in the book of Acts. No longer being conformed to this world is repentance. Our constitution of our church defines repentance in this way. It is a saving grace whereby a sinner, out of a true sense of his sin and apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ, does with grief and hatred of his sin turn from it unto God with full purpose of and endeavor after new obedience. We no longer live as this world lives, think as this world thinks, or care about the things this world cares about. We are not conformed to this world, but are transformed by the renewal of our mind. Thinking instead upon, Paul says, the mercy of God in Christ Jesus. I appeal to you, brothers, in view of God's mercy. The root of the transformation then is the gospel. It's the good news that there is in Jesus a righteousness which makes one acceptable to God. That righteousness is procured by faith, and it seals us in Christ, so that nothing can separate us from the love of God. Now that is mind-altering news. That is transforming news. Have you learned that? Students don't generally like tests, at least not in my experience as a teacher But they are useful for evaluating what has been learned, what has been internalized. Paul is a teacher in his own right, and he turns right away to the idea of testing. Look what he says there. Be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Until we are put to the test, everything is hypothetical. It is only in testing that we know we know, that we are sure we are sure. Faith in the Bible is always judged by times of testing. You see, anyone who claims to trust God with his eternal life Ought also be able to trust God with this life. Resting in Jesus alone for salvation is a scary proposition. Which is why humans are always tempted to add a little something, something to faith. But Paul is clear, it's not faith in Christ plus something, it's just faith in Christ. This idea that we would add to faith in Christ, Paul blasts that. It's called the book of Galatians. But if we are resting in Christ for our eternity, then trusting Christ for our here and now is small potatoes by comparison. For what are 70 years compared to all of eternity? You see, that's Paul's logic Basically, let's put it this way. Do you trust the teenage driver in your life? I don't really care what you say to that question. I care which side of the car you get into That's the testing of it. What do you actually do? It's the same thing here. If we're insisting in living our lives our way, how can we say we trust Jesus? So the test of our faith comes in discerning and doing His will, in doing what is good and acceptable and perfect. This appeal to God's mercy as the basis and the exhortation to do God's will as the proof or the test, this superintends everything else that's to come in the rest of the book of Romans. This is not the introduction merely to Romans 12. This is the introduction to Romans 12, 13, 14, and 15. 16 sets aside on its own. This is going to become for us the theme woven through these next eight sermons as we wrap up our time in the book of Romans. We must live the gospel life in view of God's mercy. And Paul is going to outline for us what that looks like. Today he begins with what is probably the greatest threat to gospel living. Pride. Pride is the root of all sin. It is the sin behind all other sins. Why did Adam stand at the tree in the garden and eat? Precisely because God told him not to. And who does God think he is to tell me what to do? And we see the fact that it was pride in the very way that God addresses it. It's lost in English because we don't hear the sound alike. But the name Adam sounds like dirt in Hebrew. Adama is the dirt. Adam is the man. And what does God say to him? Listen, dirt boy, from dust you were taken as if dust you will return. You're not all that. You're not God. I am. And I set the rules. And your pride has just cost you dearly. The very fact that forbidden fruit is alluring is precisely because Our pride wells up within us, and we act like who's got a right to tell us that's off limits. Pride is at the root of sin. When we think we're smarter or wiser than the person who set the rules and we ignore them, it is because of pride. And that's what's going to get us in trouble with faith. Resting in Christ's righteousness means it's not mine. And now my pride is damaged. And now my feelings are hurt. And so I act like I've got to add a little something to it. I've got to save a little face. I've got to compensate my ego. Pride undermines true faith. And it is pride that Paul goes after in the very first thing when he turns his attention now to Christian living, gospel life. But how he goes after it is very interesting. The way he addresses it. Look at verse 3 with me. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. So first off, he says, think about yourself rightly. A 2022 survey found that roughly 80% of Americans consider themselves friendly. That is exactly, that is almost exactly the same proportion of our population that lives in large metropolitan areas. So I think that explains why when you hear about a Black Friday brawl or a Starbucks-line melee, it's always in America's small towns. Eighty percent of us convinced we're friendly. How do those things always happen? Sixty-five percent of Americans think they have above average intelligence That number grows higher if you ask unmarried men. When two thousand Americans were asked to rate their personal physical appeal on a scale of one to ten. Their personal physical appeal on a scale of 1 to 10, 68% gave themselves a score of 6 or higher. So somehow, two-thirds of us are better looking than half of us. If that math is tripping you up, just ask the person near you because they're part of the 65 that's smarter than average. Now as fun and as funny as those stats might be, they become a real serious problem in a hurry. In my experience as a pastor, I'd guess that probably about 85 plus percent of divorces Nearly 100% of the parties blame the other person 90% of the time. The disconnect between reality and our perception isn't funny anymore. In the overwhelming majority of church discipline cases I've ever seen, everybody in the church is better equipped to make a judgment than the elders are. What was God thinking ordaining those guys? We think more highly of ourselves than we ought. If we assess ourselves with sober judgment We'd find a ruined sinner saved by grace in debt to mercy and therefore ready to show mercy. It's why Paul says, in view of God's mercy. Sober judgment apologizes a lot. Sober judgment makes amends. It seeks reconciliation and it asks for forgiveness. Because in light of sober judgment, we're not as great as we think we are. And here's where things get interesting. Here's the practical playing out of this that Paul points to. You see, it he finds this expression in spiritual gifts. As he does in 1 Corinthians in our New Testament reading. Paul uses an anatomical illustration, picking up in verse 4. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Hands and eyes and feet and elbows are all different, but all are part of the one whole. And they need each other and they depend on each other. So far, so good. Now look at verse 6. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. That word us there is a problem, I think. The NASB, the New American Standard Bible, renders it this way: let each use them. We'll come back to that in a moment. If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in his generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with Cheerfulness. Now, why did I like the New American Standards rendering of that let each exercise his gifts accordingly? What's the context? How did Paul open this section? Talking about pride. If Paul was merely talking about spiritual gifts, then what would that have to do with pride? It makes no sense for him to warn about pride, then immediately turn to spiritual gifts, unless the two are connected somehow, and they are. And it's in that issue right there of let each exercise according to his gifts. Remember the problem back in 1 Corinthians 12? How God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, notice the hierarchy Paul puts in here. God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers. And immediately I'm offended, right? I should be at the top of the list, but I'm only a preacher and a teacher, not an apostle or a prophet. Then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating in various kinds of tongues. All of this from 1 Corinthians 12. And all are all apostles, Paul asked rhetorically, are all prophets? Obviously not. Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? You see the problem, right? There's jealousy in the Corinthian church. Different gifts had different priorities, and I want the gift with the highest priority. I don't want my gift. I want that gift. I want my gift to be more than it is. I want my gift to be the most important. Paul says, but you weren't given those gifts. You were given the gifts God chose to give you, but I don't want the gifts God chose to give me. I want the better gifts. And jealousy is at work in the Corinthian church. And jealousy is a function of pride. So the spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians were creating pride problems. Now, how does Paul close 1 Corinthians 12? Here's the last verse of 1 Corinthians 12. But earnestly desire the higher gifts, and I will show you a still more excellent way. Now, even if you're not part of that 65% of Americans who are smarter than average, you can answer this question. What comes after 1 Corinthians 12? 1 Corinthians 13. And why is that a famous chapter? It's the love chapter. It's all about love. That's the more excellent way. Paul says, you Corinthians are arguing with each other about who's got the most important gifts, which gifts are the best. And I'm telling you, that's not the point. Love one another. Any guesses at what next week's sermon is about in Romans 12? It's love. Exactly the same sequence we see in 1 Corinthians. Spiritual gifts are causing pride problems in the church, but you gotta love one another. And that's where he's going here What's interesting then is Paul picks up again in 1 Corinthians 14 and he comes back around to this question of spiritual gifts. Having talked about love in 13, back in 14 he goes back to spiritual gifts. Now, was the problem that they wouldn't use their gifts? I don't know about you, but every spiritual gift seminar, workshop, Sunday school class I've ever been to was trying to get me to use my gifts. Paul's problem is the other way around. He can't get them to shut up. He can't get them to sit down. The problem wasn't getting them to use their gifts. It was getting them to stop using them. Paul says to the Corinthians, you all come together and everyone has a hymn or a revelation or a word and you all want to share and it's chaos. Everyone needs to wait their turn. And then he says something astounding. And if there's just not time, keep it to yourself. What? My gift isn't that important? My gift may not get shared in the in the church today? How can that be? And what is the last verse of 1 Corinthians 14? Let everything be done decently and in good order. You see, the problem with spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians was pride, and that's what we're talking about here. Notice how he talks about pride and then moves immediately into spiritual gifts. And he introduces the topic by saying, don't think too highly of yourself. And then he says Let each exercise them according to their giftedness. Let your brothers and sisters exercise their gifts. Let those around you use the gifts God has given them. Paul says, stay in your lane. He's not telling us to use our gifts so much as he's telling us to let others use theirs. If someone's gift is service, let them see serve rather than questioning why they serve that way, rather than disparaging the manner of their service, rather than setting up 12 subcommittees so that you have some power over their gift, just let them serve. If one has a gift of exhortation, that is preaching, let them exhort, he says. True story, I was at the back of a sanctuary one Sunday years ago Long before I was a preacher. After the service, and I'm not kidding about this, after the service, I heard a guy say to the preacher, that is probably the best sermon I have ever heard. Any guesses what the next word out of his mouth was? But. And then he explained to the preacher how he could have made the sermon better. Think about the pride that takes. That's the best sermon I've ever heard, but I could still improve it. We don't hire somebody to do the brakes on our car and then look over their shoulder and tell them how to do the brakes. Why is it we think we can tell our brothers and sisters in the church how to exercise their gifts? Paul talks about giving. Well, I was the administrator at Knox, a generous gift, and I'm talking like $35,000 type generous. was offered to the church to overhaul the coffee fellowship area, making it bigger, new counter, new flooring, new furniture, the whole mine yard. And you can guarantee you know full well what we heard after that. How the money should have been used differently, how it should have gone to this or that or the other thing. But it wasn't given for those things, it was offered to make the coffee area better. But somehow these people who did not give the money felt empowered to decide how other people's money would be spent And they felt like they could judge these things better than the leaders of the church, the elders and the deacons. Why do we have the audacity to think we can direct other people's generosity? Paul says to the one who contributes, let him do so in his generosity. You see, in our pride, we think we can do all things better than others. So we don't let leaders lead with zeal. No, we second guess every decision they make. And we make them regret ever volunteering to be leaders If the deacons give mercy money to the wrong person, we fault their acts of mercy and take all the cheerfulness out of being merciful. If you imagine that your opinion on church decor matters, first ask yourself if your tie matches your shirt and socks, and if any of them are from this country. We are all welcome to have a favorite hymn, but if we haven't got an ounce of musical ability, maybe it's not our call about how fast that hymn is sung. You know, Deacon Brad Sears was a competitive trap shooter. Don't know if you know this or not. Trap shooting, 35 to 50 yards with a shotgun. Drew is a certified sniper, a thousand yards with a rifle. In other words, they're both excellent shots, but neither one of them would presume to tell the other one how to shoot. While they're related disciplines, they're not the same thing. And it would be a phenomenally prideful thing for one of them to tell the other how to exercise his abilities. I swear it's only on the eastern shore of Maryland you can use shooting as an illustration for spiritual guests. Maybe being good at one type of shooting doesn't make you an expert at another Maybe the fact that you have a spiritual gift, or maybe three or four spiritual gifts, doesn't mean you're good at all of them. Now, on top of the innate tendencies towards self-aggrandizement, there is a complicating factor in the Roman Church. Go way back to September when we launched this series. You'll recall that we began in Romans 16. We began at the end Why? So that we would get a sense of the church. We'd get a feel for its racial, ethnic, and sociological makeup. And we were struck by the juxtaposition of the names. You'll recall that there were a great many names in Roman society that were only applied to slaves or freedmen, former slaves. And we saw those names aplenty in Romans 16. And yet we also saw in Romans 16 a handful of extremely wealthy people who were probably slave owners, at least at one time in their lives. So you've got the complicating factor in the Roman church that you've got slaves and slave owners sitting right next to each other in the pews in the same church So, imagine the gift of leadership was granted by God to a slave owner turned Christian. How would that go down with the slaves and freedmen in the congregation? Do you think there would be no resentment, no objection to that? This guy used to own people. And before his conversion, he almost certainly used them for his own perverse pleasure. And now we have to submit to his leadership in the church? Paul, you've got to be kidding me. But in view of God's mercy, let him lead if that's his gift. Imagine a wealthy woman accustomed to having everything done the way she wants. Now those who were once her slaves are making decisions, picking out the fabric of the church pews. Come on, they're slaves. They don't know how to pick out fabric. In view of God's mercy, let them exercise their gifts. Or the wealthy woman Who now has to tend to the dying slave as a sister in Christ has to treat the wounds and empty the bedpans and change the bandages. in a world where there was no sense of antibiotics or ster uh uh sterile conditions Do you see now why Paul thought it so important to drive home the point that everyone, through for all the book of Romans, he's been saying, everyone, Jew or Gentile, slave or free. Everyone was the same under sin, and everyone has received mercy the same way. There is no distinction. How many times has he said that? That's why he's been driving the point home. So when we get here, we'd understand So you see, whatever reason you might have for not following Paul's commands, I assure you his original audience had ten times more. And yet Paul has no place for such pride. And pride it is I'm the oldest of three children. My siblings and I, as adults, have talked with some sober judgment About the issues of pride which linger in our relationships. You see, mine is the pride of thinking that I'm all that You see, for the first 18-20 years of my life, I was just better than them at everything. I could run faster than they could run. I was driving while they were still riding bikes I was in more advanced classes, playing more advanced pieces in our piano lessons, accomplishing more advanced things on the athletic field, which is amazing because I'm not that athletic. But it wasn't better than I was just older But I foolishly took pride in it. I lacked sober judgment, and so I thought of myself more highly than I should have. And that pride of place clings to me all these years later. My siblings for their part. They've caught up to me, and in fact I've crested the hill and started heading down the other side, so they've surpassed me in most ways They find great pride in throwing off the overbearing older brother. They have found great pride in freeing themselves from my shadow, of doing without my help, of surpassing the bar that I had set. And that pride lingers for them. It's a struggle to admit That the other sibling might actually have a good idea. They can't have a good idea. They're the younger siblings. Scott can't possibly have a good idea because he just he's all fool of himself because he's the oldest sibling And in our pride, we think more highly of ourselves than we ought, and we think less of the other You see, that's what Paul is dealing with. These sorts of issues. And if that's the case In an older and younger sibling relationship, and by the way, my siblings and I have a pretty good adult relationship. Doesn't mean there aren't issues. But if that's the case in our relationship, how much more if you're talking about a slave and a slave owner in the same church? This is why Paul has to talk about pride. This is why he has to say, don't think more highly of yourself than you ought. And this is why he has to say, let each exercise their gifts according to the grace given them. If you find yourself having corrective opinions about every aspect of the church's ministry, Ask yourself soberly, am I really the most gifted person at all these things? Or am I just full of pride? Finally, notice how Paul, I think it's back up in verse 2, how Paul relates all of this to the measure of the faith we've been given. Why does one man constantly protect his reputation? Why is it that a woman a certain woman can never admit she's wrong? Such people are Perhaps unwittingly, they're relying on their own righteousness. They desperately need there to be some measure of worthiness in themselves. Why? Because they don't fully trust in the righteousness of Christ. This ability to judge ourselves soberly according to what is true, not more highly than we deserve, that stems from the confidence That no matter what we find inside, we know it's okay. That we have the righteousness of Christ. That when I find myself to be an ugly, prideful sinner I don't need to turn away from that. I just need to embrace Christ all the more And by the way, this doesn't mean you wallow in worthlessness either. Sober-minded judgment will find gifts. God has granted you some ability, some talent, some gifts to be used to the benefit of the church. We need you to be you, and to be you extremely well among us. But always being right, always having an opinion, always stepping in where others are trying to minister can be an indicator that you're desperately feeling the need to justify your existence And that you have not fully rested on the righteousness of Jesus. I say to everyone among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment. each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. You see, your righteousness, dear brother, is not in your talents No, those are the gifts from God, remember? For from him are all things. Instead, let Christ be your righteousness by faith And your worthiness, dear sister, is not in your opinions about the best way to run the nursery or the best way to decorate the lobby. It's in the fact that Christ died for you. You meant that much to him. He loved you that deeply. He foreknew you, for-loved you in that way. And so went to the grave for you. Think of Christ more highly, and of yourself soberly. And do not let pride tear apart the bride of Jesus. Amen.