Turn in your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter two. Acts chapter two will be looking at verses 1 through 21 this morning as we continue our sermon series entitled Acts, the Work Continues. We are taking a look at this record of the early church and how it is that by the power of the Holy Spirit Jesus continued to minister here on earth and to continue to equip his followers to accomplish his purposes. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice So that if you want to know what it is you should believe, if you want to know how it is that the church is able to do the daunting task that the Lord has given her. Then we must know God's Word. So I invite you now to hear the Word of Almighty God from Acts 2, verses 1 to 21. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear each of us in his own native language? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia. Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians We hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God. And all were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean? But others, mocking, said, They are all filled with new wine. But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them Men of Judea, and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. For these people are not drunk as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day That is 9 a. m. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. Even on my male servants and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes The great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray and ask His guidance in understanding it. Holy Spirit, even as we have read of your coming and indwelling the Church, we ask that you would come and indwell us this morning. Give us uh a special, full, complete, accurate, truthful insight into this your word. And that by understanding it we might understand it, we might understand you and the power that you give us. As the bride of Christ. We offer up this prayer in his name. Amen So we take a look at this passage this morning. There's uh a lot of details, and I've put an unusually uh thorough outline on page nine of the bulletin, and that might help you follow along a little more closely We're going to take a look first of all at some of the details of the setting. What is Pentecost? Who are the people being discussed? And where is this taking place? We're then going to take a look at the manifestations, the outward signs that accompanied uh the events of Pentecost. And then we're going to finally take a look at the meaning of this. And some of you will note that I have broken the text up in a in a kind of a strange way. I've broken it up in the middle of Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost. And yet I think what we see is that Peter actually preaches a two-part sermon. That he initially addresses the question that had been asked, what does this mean? And then he moves from that into the next part of his sermon talking about salvation in the day of the Lord and how that is brought about. And so we're going to look at it in those two parts. So first of all, looking at just really at some of the details in verse 1, chapter 2, verse 1, let's take a look at some of the things that are there. It says, when the day of Pentecost arrives. So very quickly a little detail about Pentecost. That is an English variation on the Greek word pentecostis. Pentecostis, you can hear the word penta meaning five. Pentecostis was the Greek word for fifty. Simply the Greek word for 50. And it is the name that was given to a feast in the Old Testament, often referred to as the Feast of Weeks. And it's a feast that came 50 days after, now there is some dispute even among Jews, fifty days after what? Usually it's celebrated 50 days after Passover, although not all Jews are agreed that that's the right way to understand it. It appears to have been this idea that it would come 50 days after the first fruits, the earliest days of the harvest, when the earliest barley grains ripened. You started marking off 50 days, and then you would have this Feast of Pentecost, the Feast of Weeks, which was initially a harvest festival. We see this in Exodus 34, 22, Numbers 28-26. And the feast of why 50 days? Well, if you are familiar with the Bible, you'll know the significance of the number seven, hence the name, the feast of weeks. It was seven weeks or seven sevens plus a day. Perfection times perfection, completeness times completeness, and then an extra day, just to be sure. And there was this symbolism of this measured out perfection, this completeness, the fullness of all the harvest, and that God has provided for His people. Over time, and the evidence suggests that by the time of Jesus this was true, that the the the Pentecost, the feast of weeks had evolved from being simply a harvest festival to also being a commemoration of the giving of the law at Mount Sinai. And so here at Pentecost, well we've got a couple of things going on. One, they are celebrating God's uh uh uh earthly provision After we collect our offering and we bring it back up here, we sing the doxology. We sing praises to God from whom all blessings flow. We acknowledge that the offering we've given has come from Him. And at the Feast of Pentecost, they were acknowledging that all that they had came from God. But they also were acknowledging that the law, not only the physical provision by which they might live, But the spiritual provision, for it was the Old Testament itself that said that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And so they celebrated at Pentecost. the physical provision of God, but also the spiritual provision of God in the giving of the law at Sinai And so it is that on this occasion that the Holy Spirit comes and indwells the church. It is an occasion to mark a new beginning Just as the Old Testament people of God were marked by the giving of the law, so the New Covenant people of God were to be marked on this same occasion by the giving of the law. of the Holy Spirit. And it is not that the Holy Spirit had not been among the people of God before, for if we search the Old Testament, we see repeatedly that uh uh uh Moses was filled with the Spirit, that the elders in uh Israel were filled with the Spirit, that David was filled with the Spirit, that Sam uh Samson was filled with the Spirit. But the difference here is one of all the church, all flesh, as Joel said, all believers having the Holy Spirit Now we're not going to be able to develop this idea fully today. There's not room in this sermon or even in this text to do so. But one of the things that we see is not, we tend as Americans to apply everything in the Bible individualistically. And what we see here is there is a corporate nature to this. Even the gifts of the Spirit we find in 1 Corinthians are given to the body of Christ as a corporate whole. that I am not equipped with all the necessary gifts to sustain the body. You are not equipped with all the necessary gifts to sustain the body. By the way, we're not equipped with all the necessary gifts to sustain ourselves individually It's why we have to be a part of the body of Christ. There is no place in the New Testament. There is never any occasion in the New Testament where there is any kind of Lone Ranger Christian. who is just gonna go it by on their own and just see it through by themselves. Always it is a corporate uh entity, the body of Christ. And we see the Spirit. So Pentecost marks out this new day for the people of God. Well who are those people? We said, when the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together. Who is they? Well, the antecedent to that pronoun we have to chase all the way back up to chapter 1, verse 15. is where we see, and it's all the believers gathered together, all of them. Appears to be the they to which Luke is pointing us. He tells us in verse 115 approximately 120 of them. So that all of the people, all of believers were gathered together. This is a unique time in the history of the church. An event never repeated. There is no other record or any suggestion of a point where every single believer on earth was gathered together in one place and one time. So the Pentecost is a unique event in church history, a never-repeated event. For if we were to say that the events of Pentecost are to be repeated, then we have to repeat the gathering of every believer in one place at one time. And that is something we just cannot imagine happening. Now, will there be Pentecostal-like gathering at the end? Yes, there will come a time when the Lord will return and he will gather up all who are his because he knows them But we do not and cannot gather them all in one place. Pentecost is unique in church history. The people that gather are all the believers. The place where they are gathered. is a great deal of dispute. Many have said that they're gathered in the temple. I agree, it appears that they end up in the temple, for at the end of chapter two we're going to see that they are in the temple. But the temple was not a place where people sat down. In fact, sitting in the temple was considered sacrilegious. It was an affront to the glory of God. And verse 2 tells us clearly that they were seated. the house in which they were sitting. So I don't think they're gathered in the temple. So where are they gathered? And the key is we don't know. We just don't know No. But somewhere, wherever they are, they gather, and then it's in that place that these things take place, and then it spills out of there And eventually ends up in a very public location, and eventually they migrate to the temple. Whether that public location is the temple, we don't know. The text is unclear. The event is Pentecost. It's a festival of harvest. It's a festival of the giving of God's law. The people are all 120 approximate believers. n uh that existed at that time and the place, well we don't know, but it starts out in some undisc undisclosed place and ends up eventually at the temple. And we looked at the manifestations. Verses 2 through 13, we see a list of the manifestations, the outward signs, the things that happened that accompanied this special event. Pentecost. First, we see a sound in verse 2. Not a wind. Nobody's papers were blown off the desk. Not that they could afford paper back then, but nobody's papers were blown off the desk. Nobody's hair is uh uh moving. This is not a wind, but rather it is a sound that Luke can best describe as being like a rushing wind, like a mighty wind. Now something interesting happens here. If you're familiar with the biblical languages, you may be aware that in both Hebrew and in Greek The word for wind is also the word generally used for spirit, so that throughout most of the New Testament, when we see the Holy Spirit It could be also translated the holy wind, the holy breath of God. This word is the same word in Greek. And Luke does something interesting here. This word wind is not that word. This word wind is not that word. For Luke wants to be sure that we do not confuse what is going on here. There is a sound, and the sound is like a wind, but the sound is not the Spirit Himself. The sound is rather something that accompanies the spirit, and is certainly meant to invoke a sense of the spirit, for they would have known the relationship between the word wind and the word spirit. For they were at this point all Jews steeped in the Old Testament and would have known that relationship. But Luke wants his Greek audience to understand that what they heard was actually a sound like a wind. This was not the we don't he doesn't want us to picture the spirit speaking and whispering into their ears or the spirits well. It's not, it's a different word he uses here. A very unusual word for wind that gets used here The sound was like that of a wind. You know, something interesting happens. This is never repeated anywhere in the New Testament. Never again do we see anything described as having this sound that fills the room that everyone there hears that is the sound of a mighty rushing wind. Again, I think the point is this, that Pentecost is a unique event in church history, a one-time occurrence. There's a sight. They see again, Luke is very clear, it is not fire, but not knowing how to describe it, he says, the best thing I can do is say it looked like fire. It was like these tongues of fire. And they came down and rested on the foreheads of each person there, all 120 of them. And again, the the the the sight of a fire-like, and kind of an unnatural fire. Would conjure up for them the image of the presence of God. For they were familiar with the fact that it was in this bizarre, unnatural fire that did not consume the burning bush. that God appeared to Moses. And it was in this bizarre column of fire that wandered over them in the wilderness that was the manifestation of the presence of God. It did not burn up the tent It did not burn them up, but it was this fire-like something that indicated God's presence. And it was a fire-like something that caused Solomon's temple to be filled with smoke when it was dedicated to the Lord. So that for these Jews, this fire-like substance is meant to invoke the presence of God. And again it is not repeated. Never again do we see this happening. There is no account of this. And by the way, Even among our Pentecostal brothers and sisters, they don't ever claim that these events have happened again, that all believers were gathered in one place, that they all heard a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and that fire something fire-like descended upon each of them. This is unique in church history, and we ought not to expect it to be repeated. We ought not to be pursuing, particularly pursuing any kind of individualistic Pentecost experience, for it was a corporate Unified whole that experienced it once for all time. The Spirit of God descended upon the church once for all time. There was speaking. There was a sound, there was a sight, and there was speaking. There was speaking in foreign languages. Now there are places in the New Testament where the word tongues may or may not be human language. In fact, later in the book of Acts, in in uh Acts chapter 8, and uh uh uh Acts 19, it's not clear that foreign languages are being spoken there. 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14, not clear that foreign languages are for human languages are being spoken there. But here it is clear, these are human. languages being spoken. There was speaking. Now again, this is mentioned as speaking in tongues, but it's not mentioned, it's not clear that it's foreign human languages But even though this is repeated, it is not consistently repeated. For we see in Acts 8 that the Holy Spirit came upon the Samaritans, and there is no record that they spoke in tongues. We see that the Holy Spirit came upon the Ethiopian official, court official, and there's no record that he spoke in tongues. And we see church after church, city after city, where Barnabas and Paul, Timothy and Paul, Apollos and others go into the synagogues and preach the Word of God, and many believe and come to faith. And there's no record that they speak in tongues. We ought not to expect this to be a consistent repeated thing in the church today when it wasn't even repeated in the church then. There was a sound, there was a sight, there was speaking. And there was sharing. Look at verses 5 through 11. Look what we see here. They have started out in a house, but now they have spilled out into some public location. And we see that others, now the word dwelling in Jerusalem, Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven, quick comment on this word dwelling. It's not 100% clear what this means. The the the the the the Greek word behind it kinda has the sense of dwelling in a permanent way, but it doesn't have to mean that. So some commentators have said, these are those who were part of the diaspora, part of the Jews spread around the Mediterranean world, and they have, in their devotion to God, picked up their stakes and moved back. to the Holy Land and now they live in Jerusalem. Others have said no, they are living for the moment in Jerusalem because Pentecost was one of the three pilgrimage festivals and devout Jews were supposed to come back. and make a pick up make a pilgrimage to the temple during Pentecost. We're not sure whether these are permanently living in Jerusalem or they have come back for a temporary time to make a pilgrimage. But Either way, they're there and they hear their languages being spoken, and there is this list of languages. So that the and the disciples, somewhere along the way, the disciples have spilled out into the streets. They have left the room where they were. And even if you make the argument that this occurred in the temple, it still wasn't a confined room initially. So they were in an antechamber of the temple. They were not out of the public place No matter where you think they started, in light of what had happened, in light of the power of the Spirit coming upon them, they began to fulfill the commission to go. To go. And they got up and they went out. And somewhere along the way they ended up in the streets. Or in the marketplace, or maybe in the temple courts, we don't know for sure. And they begin to preach the mighty works of God. Begin to preach the mighty works of God. We are so convinced that the worst thing you can do in evangelism is preaching. Boy, you don't want to preach. That's the last thing you want to do is preach. Invite people, trick them into coming with prizes and awards, con them, come up with, don't preach to them. Don't ever get preachy. And yet, it's interesting if you do a word study in the book of Acts. The word preaching is most commonly used in the context of unbelievers. And it's the word teaching that is most often used in the context of believers. Preaching involves an exhortation, a call to do something. And the call to them is an important part of preaching. So they have this desire to share. And I want to point out that this in the book of Acts is repeated over and over and over again. One of the marks of the Holy Spirit, and we're going to develop this more fully in Sunday school this morning, and I hope you'll be able to stay for that. It's going to be a, I think it should be an informative and helpful lesson. But we see in Acts 3 that Peter is preaching the gospel. In Acts 4, Peter and John preach to the Jewish Council. In Acts 5, Peter and John are set free so that they can go into the streets and speak to the people of all the words of life. In Acts 6, the deacons are appointed so that the apostles can preach the word. In Acts 7, we see Stephen preaching the Word. In Acts 8, Philip goes into Samaria and preaches the gospel. In Acts 9, Saul, a Christian killer, is recruited to become a missionary for the gospel and to preach the word. In Acts 10, Peter goes to the house of those Gentiles. And preaches the word. Sharing the gospel is a repeated mark of spirit filling It is something we see over and over, and it is something I think should be normative for the church. I have argued that the first three, the the the sound, the sight, and the speaking, are not necessarily normative. Those were unique to Pentecost. But now we see a repeated pattern throughout the rest of the New Testament. That where the Spirit is, there will be a desire To share the Word of God. Sharing is a part of what is normal for the church. And in the epistles, we see it developed this way. 1 Corinthians 12, 3 says this, no one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. John 15, Jesus said it this way: the Spirit of truth will bear witness about me. Not himself. John 16, Jesus said, the Spirit of Truth will glorify me, not himself. The clear continuing mark of one who is spirit-filled is not fire on the face or wind in the ears or even tongues on the tongue. The clear, consistent mark of one who is spirit-filled is Jesus on the mind, Jesus in the heart. Jesus on the tongue. Jesus in your ethics. Jesus in your workplace behavior. Jesus. at every turn. That's the mark of being spirit-filled. That's the mark that ought to be a continuing a distinction of the church. That if we are in fact filled with the Spirit, we are going to testify to the one to whom the Spirit testifies. Not only the desire to share, but we see the power to share. We see now that why does Luke list all these nations? You think about the things. If you were uh asking Luke to fill in the blanks Had he left out this list, if he'd just said there were foreigners there, you'd all gone, okay, who cares? What do you would ask about it? Tell me more about that fire Tell me more about those tongues. I want to know more about that rushing wind. What's really going on there? Those are the holes I want you to fill in, Luke, and Luke doesn't fill any of that in. But he gives us his list of countries that we couldn't possibly care less about. And the problem is what we choose to care about. You see, Luke is making this point that just a few days earlier, Jesus said, You are gonna go. to the very ends of the earth and proclaim my word. Proclaim the good news about me. And Luke is saying, it's happening. It's underway. It's already, you didn't know how you were going to do it, you 120 doubtful believers sitting there going, we ha we can't do this. And already it's happening. That's why Luke lists 17 distinct people groups to say they hadn't even left Jerusalem yet. And the ends of the earth were already being reached. That in the po the word power we sometimes Don't always understand what it means, but the Greek word behind the word power that we see in 1. 8, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, is simply the idea of ability, the ability to do something. The capability. That's really all it means. It's not this this word power doesn't mean some kind of amazing strength. And so that when the Spirit comes, the ability to overcome the barriers of human language are solved. When the Spirit comes, the shyness of Peter goes away. The one who denied Jesus in front of a 14-year-old girl is now publicly preaching him. In front of all the powers of Israel, the ability to do what you have to do Where the Holy Spirit resides, the ability to preach and teach with authority and power will reside. Where the Holy Spirit resides, the ability to translate the Word of God will reside. Where the Holy Spirit resides, the ability to contextualize the gospel in such a way that it can be understood will reside. And it will not necessarily reside with one person, but it will reside with one body, the body of Christ. It is why each of us matters. We don't know what we can't do when you're not here because you're not here. Each of us needs to be plugged in and bring the gifts that we've been given to make the ability of the whole church Better. And for sure, if you are unable to reach your family, unable to overcome the hurt that exists And that you can't let it go and you can't build bridges that speak the gospel of your family, then seek the Spirit's help. That's where that ability comes from Pray to and for the Spirit to fill you, not in a refilling or a in a in a Pentecostal type way here, Pentecost-type way. But rather to do so as we see repeatedly in the book of Acts when a particular ability, a particular power is needed. We hear the Spirit filling that person, and then they're able to do what they need to do. If you're afraid to tell your co-workers, unable to overcome barriers within your family, unsure how to share with your neighbors, seek the Spirit. We see a we read about a sound, about a sight, about speaking, about sharing. We read about seeking in verse 12. What does this mean? Some of them asked. We don't have time to develop this fully, but let me just say this. Wherever the Spirit is at work, there will be some who respond in this way. Some who will say, tell me more. I want to know more. It won't always be as many as we would like. It won't always be the pe the particular people we wish would respond this way. But when the Spirit is at work, his work will always be marked by some who are seeking. And finally, we see in verse 13, sneering. Some who are sneering, they're filled with new wine. They're drunk. That's what's going on here. And the truth is, whenever the spirit is at work, there will be those who will mock and who will sneer and who will scoff at it. The less problem we have with the world mocking us probably indicates that we've actually moved further from the message of the Holy Spirit. Now we can make up the world disliking us for all kinds of reasons. I'm not saying we should go out and seek opposition. We can incur the wrath of the world for all kinds of ungodly, unbiblical reasons. But when we are in the center of God's word and declaring Jesus Christ as the only way to salvation That will incur the wrath and the mocking and the sneering of this world. So the manifestations of the Spirit here in Acts 2 are a sound, a sight, there is speaking, there is sharing, there is seeking. And there is sneering. And the question has been asked, what does this mean? And Peter now stands up to answer. Peter, first of all, says what it doesn't mean. He rejects the sneering suggestion. It doesn't mean they're drunk. It's only 9 o'clock in the morning. To get drunk at this point, they'd have to start it at midnight. They're not drunk. That's not what's going on here. But notice what he does say. Look there At verse 17, where he begins to quote the prophet Joel, and in the last days it shall be. God declares. And he then sets forth all the things that are happening among them and says that these are the fulfillment of the prophet Joel. Peter says, here's what it means. The manifestation of the spirit, the sound and the sight and the sneaking, the seeking and the sneering and all the other stuff we've talked about, here's what it means. It means we've entered the last days Now some of us here this morning go, wait a second, Pastor, but the last days, you know, that's still out in our future. That's when uh you know there's gonna be weird volcanic eruptions and uh all kinds there's gonna be these bizarre wars and people are gonna come down and all this stuff. Maybe, maybe not, I don't know. But I know where we are in the last days because clearly that's what Peter is teaching here. So how are these the last days if they've been going on for two thousand years. Well first of all, nowhere in the scriptures does it say the last days will be just a few days. There is no limit on the last days ever set forth in the Word of God. So we have to be open to the possibility that the last days go on forever. You know, I don't want to, I've got to be a little careful here. I don't want this to don't take this analogy too far But I know some people who used to own their own furniture business, and for a variety of reasons it went under. And as they had to close down their business, they hired a company to help them liquidate the business And of course, everything was the last one in the store, the last sofa, the last in-table, the last lamp. In the store. Meanwhile, there were three trailer loads out back that had all this stuff repeated. And they would sell the last one in the store and then they'd go get another one and bring it in and put it in the store. I don't think that's what the Lord's doing here. I don't think he's just dragging this out. It's the last day. Oh, I'm kidding, yeah, there's another one But there is this sense that these are the last days of their type. That in the former days certain things were true, in the days before the Messiah came, and in the days after his coming, certain things become true, and that there will not be another set of days. There will not come another epoch or era where yet a whole nother set of things is true. These are the last days in the sense that after this comes no day whatsoever. After this comes either eternal daytime with no night, or eternal darkness with no daytime. But there will not be evening and morning another day. That we are in the last days. And that part of the meaning of that is that they can end at any time. That notification has been given. Notice has been posted. You have entered the last days, and you know that because my spirit has come and fulfilled the prophecy of Joel. And Peter says, I want you all to hear this. We have now entered the last days, and they can end with no further notice. And he says, how does he end his quote of Joel? He reads the last verse of Joel, and it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We're going to see next week that Peter's going to put a spin on this, that the Jews who were hearing this were they were thinking one thing when he said Lord, and he's going to preach a whole nother thing when he says Lord. We're going to see that next week. But the point here is that Peter says you've got to call upon the name of the Lord. Because we've entered the last days, they can end at any time. And if they end, and you have not called upon God. You are in trouble. For you look forward to a time when there will be darkness and no day The last days have come, and Peter says, for that reason, all. Not just Jews, all. Not just men, but all Not just the old folks. You know, some of the youth are sitting out there going, well, you know, uh Bible, Christianity, Jesus, that's that's for old people. I want to live my life, you know, build up a really cool testimony, and then later convert and come to Christ. You know, I need a life of drugs drugs and rock and roll so I can give a real testimony. Okay? And there are those among the old who say, well, I've lived out my life. I don't need the Lord. That's for young people. They're the ones who've got to be on fire for Jesus. They're the ones who've got to be enthusiastic for these things. Now Peter says, all. All must call upon the name of the Lord in order to be saved. We must know the last days are here. Some of the marks, by the way, what does Joel say there? You're saying, well, Pastor, come on, some of these signs haven't been fulfilled. And yet what are the things we see here? Uh the sun shall be turned to darkness. I'm sorry, what happened to the crucifixion? Did not it go dark at midday? You say, well, that was an eclipse, Pastor. No, it wasn't. Eclipses occur in the new moon. Passover is celebrated at the full moon. It was not an eclipse. And you say, well, it says there should be vapor of smoke and columns of smoke. And what if there was some kind of atmospheric disturbance that blocked out the sun at the day of the crucifixion? What will that do to the moonrise that night? When you have that kind of atmospheric disturbance, isn't the moonrise particularly red? I have no problem believing that these things were fulfilled At the crucifixion. And signs on the earth below what happened. The graves broke open and the dead got up and walked about. And Peter says, the prophecy of Joel of the last days has been fulfilled and is being fulfilled in your midst as the Spirit comes. You must hear this and know this. You must turn to Jesus and be saved. If you are here today and you have not called upon the name of Jesus Christ to be your Savior, Hear the warning that Peter gives. We are in the last days. They could go on for another 2,000 years, but they could end before I finish the next sentence. And therefore, you must call upon the name of the Lord. Lastly, I want us to see how Luke pulls this all together. Luke chooses particular things, and it's not that Luke's message contradicts Peter's, but rather woven into Peter's message, Luke says, Do you see how you the church? Remember He's writing to a believer, Theophilus, who's struggling in the faith. And he says to Theophilus, do you see how the church has been equipped to execute its mission? Do you see your doubting? You you Theopolis are struggling in the faith? You see how it is equipped, how from day one God equipped the church to fulfill the mission he gave it. And that right here at the outset We see Peter. We see the 12. We see the 120 acting in that power, acting in the ability they've been given. And beginning the process. To the unbeliever here, know that we've entered the last days, and you must call upon the name of the Lord. And to those here who have called upon his name, know that we have been equipped and are enabled and empowered. to go and accomplish the mission, so that in these last days many will be spared by the grace of God and the preaching of His gospel through us here at Short Harvest. Let's pray. Lord, help us to live as though these are the last days, not in the certainty of tomorrow, not in the confidence that we have another opportunity. But in the knowledge that you could bring it all to an end at any moment. Let us live with that kind of urgency and that kind of excitement and that kind of hope. And let us be a people who will share the warning. In love we will tell others about what is coming. If they do not call upon your name, help us to do that boldly, consistently, and faithfully. For Christ's sake and isn't in his name we pray. Amen.