I think many of you, perhaps not all, but many of you know our daughter-in-law Jill. What you may not have known is that she has six sisters. And they are functionally twins spread across 14 years. Each and every one of them are all tallish. They all talk with that same southern charm. All seven of them are fair-skinned and pretty and red-headed. Now picture Jill's wedding. They were all wearing the same bridesmaid dress. I couldn't tell them apart. And so, in my inability to make distinctions, I jumped to some faulty conclusions. Wow, that's like her sixth piece of cake. I think she's dancing cheek to cheek with a third different guy. In my inability to make the distinction between those sisters I came to some really bad conclusions. Our study of heaven can be like that. There are three things which are closely related, and they look very much alike. But if we're not careful, it's easy to confuse them. Last week we looked at heaven proper. This week we're taught we're taking up the question of the new earth. Next week we will look at New Jerusalem. These three things, like Jill and her sisters, are easily confused. But like Jill's sisters, if we allow our confusion to persist, we will draw some wrong conclusions. More importantly, in drawing the wrong conclusions, we're going to miss the correct ones We're going to miss the blessings that are contained in these passages, that are contained in these different entities, if we don't struggle to keep them straight in our mind. It's going to be critically important for us. to be able to distinguish between heaven, the new earth, and new Jerusalem. As we set out to do that, let's pray and ask God's help and guidance. Dear Spirit of God, guide this sermon. If there is anything I've written in my notes which is wrong, turn my eye away from it that it might not be said. If there is any truth I did not plan to say Please bring it to my mind. Let my words be yours and use them to foster our hope in heaven and in the life of the age to come. and secure us in Christ Jesus so that we will safely reach that shore. Amen. So here begins a somewhat long introduction on page 13 of the bulletin. It's actually marked as Sermon point number one, it really should have been set aside as an introduction, but here we go. We need to deal with this reality that heaven does not equal the new earth, which does not equal New Jerusalem. Those are three distinct things. Open your Bibles, please, to Revelation 4. Revelation 4, and then also to Revelation 21. The second one we'll be turning to frequently. You might want to put a little piece of paper or something in there. Revelation 4 and Revelation 21. Revelation 4, verses 1 and 2. Listen closely, following along carefully. After this, I, that's John the revelator, after this I looked and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. The remainder of chapter 4 is John's account of the worship which occurred around that throne, of the lightning which came from the throne, of the thunder which peeled above the throne. He tells us about the fabulous colors that emanated from the throne. What is John describing in Revelation 4? Well, he tells us plainly it is head then. And it fits with our understanding, what we learned about heaven last week, does it not? Heaven is the place where God's presence is manifest. And from the days of his meetings with Moses atop Mount Sinai, lightning and thunder have been telltale signs of God's presence. John was in the very presence of the of God. John was in heaven. Heaven was, for John, a present tense reality. It existed in his day, and it exists today also. Somewhere out there There is a place where God's presence is still manifest in the way that John describes. His presence is obvious and experienced. Heaven exists now. It's important that we notice what was said to John at his invitation to heaven. Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. John was to receive a revelation of future happenings. Pretty much everything in chapters 5 and following were in John's future. Now, sure, there are some interpreters who will say that some of these things are in our past, but we all interpreters agree they were in John's future. And all of the Church, the Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church, and the Protestant Church, all of the Church has always held universally. The chapters 21 and 22, and probably more, but for sure 21 and 22, are still in our future today. As they were in John's. So here's kind of the key take-home point. Heaven existed in John's day. But what he describes in Revelation 21 did not exist in his day. It was part of the revelation of things to come. So now turn over to Revelation 21. Flip over to Revelation 21. We'll read all seven of the first verses eventually, right now, verses 1 and 2. Revelation 21, verses 1 and 2. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. In our Old Testament reading God spoke through Isaiah and foretold a day when he would recreate the heavens and the earth, making them all new. John is seeing that same future reality. John is seeing what Isaiah foresaw. Now Stay with me here. This can get a little tricky. If you are inclined to write notes or make notes in your Bible, this should be a good time to make one. Look at the second part of verse 1 For the first heaven had passed away. Now what does verse 2 immediately say? And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, New Jerusalem, coming down out of Heaven. Heaven passed away, but then heaven is the source of the New Jerusalem. What's going on? Well remember last week when we looked at Psalm 8, we saw that the Bible uses the word heaven in at least three different ways. The Bible will speak of heaven as the abode of God. It will speak of heaven as the abode of the stars, and it will speak of heaven as the abode of the birds. Heaven proper, space, and the sky, respectively. The heaven which passed away here in this verse is not the abode of God. It is the realm of the created order which is often set in contrast to the earth. In other words, what was created in Genesis 1. 1, the heavens and the earth, now pass away and are recreated. Once, John says, God created all that there is, all of the stuff down here, all of the stuff up there. God made it all, and now God's going to remake it all. And how do we know that the heaven being remade is space? It is the cosmos, it is the expanse of the universe, and not the abode of God Well keep reading. What does he go on to say? He saw New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. You see how he associates this second heaven with the presence of God? So the abode of God, heaven proper, still exists at this point. And there is a new heaven and a new earth being made. What we have in view here is the recreation. of creation, the remaking, the renewal of all that is. Heaven proper, the abode of God, is not the same thing As the new heaven and the new earth. The new heaven and the new earth are a remaking of this creation We must keep those straight. They look very similar in many ways. There's going to be some overlapping features. They are a bit like Jill's sisters in this regard. But we must distinguish between them. The Bible does. Now keep reading. And I saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem coming down. Part of the new heavens and new earth is this thing called New Jerusalem. It's connected with, it's associated with the new earth, it's related, if you will, like Jill's sisters, but it's not synonymous with the new earth. You catch that? New Jerusalem is part of the New Earth, but not the same as the New Earth. Now verses 3 through 8, and we're going to come back to those in a moment, they're going to tell us more about the new earth. But look down at verse 9. Look down at Romans, uh, Romans, Revelation 21, 9 In 21. 9 through 22. 5, John's attention turns back to tell us more about the New Jerusalem. Do you see that in 9 and 10 if you scan that? You see how he now gives us more detail about New Jerusalem. This is reminiscent, and it's not a coincidence or an accidental echo. This is a purposeful echo of Genesis 1 and 2. That these last two chapters of the Bible have a literary parallel to the first two chapters of the Bible is incredibly important Well, do you recall how chapter 1 in Genesis plays out? It summarizes all of creation. It briefly mentions the creation of man. And then in two goes back and gives us more detail about the creation of man. Here we have a passing reference to New Jerusalem in verse 2. And then in verse 9 and following, we're going to get a more detailed reference to the creation of New Jerusalem, much of which we will look at more closely next week. We're still in the introduction. Heaven and the new earth and new Jerusalem are not the same things. But we're not done with our introduction, there's a bit more to be said about this. We have to answer the question, why does any of this matter Why would I spend this amount of time on the introduction, on the distinction between these things? Well, it's because we're at risk of making the false conclusions I made None of Jill's sisters had six pieces of cake, rather six sisters had a piece each. None of Jill's sisters were dancing cheek to cheek with three different guys, where there was three different sisters each dancing with her own husband. I wasn't careful in what I assigned to the individual sisters, and so I got things wrong. We, not we sure harvest, we the bigger church, have not been careful in how we exegete this passage and how we apply what is found in these passages, and we get things very, very wrong. We are going to talk about this in more detail next week, but I want to give you a little taste of it right now. Look down at Revelation 21, 21. Revelation 21, 21. And this is going to knock some of our socks off. Revelation 21, 21, and this is the only place in all of the Bible which says these things. And the twelve gates, twelve gates of what Where are we in the text? What is being described? Are we not in the section about New Jerusalem? We are. This is the New Jerusalem that's being described. And we've already established that the New Jerusalem is a future entity distinct from present heaven. So what is being described here is of the New Jerusalem and not of heaven. So let me continue. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city, the city, which is not heaven, it's New Jerusalem. The street of the city was pure gold. Let that sink in for a moment. One of the things that we all absolutely knew about heaven was that it had pearly gates and streets of gold. And it doesn't. And it doesn't. New Jerusalem does. But that's for next week. We don't even know if heaven proper has gates at all. Or streets at all. We have, as I mentioned last week, allowed ourselves to be taken in by a Looney Tunes exegesis Where everybody sits on clouds and stones harps and the gold streets are gold and the gates are pearly. But that's not what the Bible says about heaven. It's what the Bible says about new Jerusalem. This is why we need to be careful Careful exegesis, careful analysis of the passages. We need to read them with great attention. And again, please understand, I am not pointing this out so you can win some crazy game of Bible gotcha with your friends. That's not the point here. You see, by assigning these things to the wrong entity By the assign by assigning the beauty of these gates and the beauty of the golden streets to the wrong thing, we've missed the real message of Revelation 21. And I don't want us to miss it Again, we will expound on that next week. So our long introduction is finally coming to a close. And we move into the heart of today's sermon, the question of what is the new earth What is the new earth? Looking at Revelation 21, 1 through 7. I know the bulletin says 1 through 8, but upon further reflection, I think 8 is best left to a future sermon. We will come back to verse 8, just not today. Revelation 21, 1 to 7. First two verses we've already read. That I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more, and I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard him a voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. Just a reminder that in the New Testament era only sons could be inheritors of property. And so all human believers, all men and women who are in Christ Jesus by faith are called sons because we are all inheritors. This is not exclusive. of women, but inclusive in a way that that culture would not have foreseen. So let's take a look at this. John here joins Isaiah and Peter and he speaks specifically of the new heaven and the new earth And for the most part, I've been limiting my references to strictly the new earth. Am I a Bible denier? I hope not. The reason I'm doing this is to try to cut down on the confusion. I am a poor pastor trying to sort through a text that uses the word heaven in a whole bunch of different ways. And rather than having to sort out the meaning of that each and every time, I'm focusing on the idea of the new physical creation today. And so I'm going to talk a lot about the new earth as a way of getting our attention on the new physical creation. You see, um Peter and Isaiah and John the Revelator, when they talked about the new heaven, they weren't predicting a new abode for God, at least not in the way we typically think. They were reflecting that language back in Genesis 1. 1. The God who created everything is going to recreate everything. So let's take a look at some of this and try to get some of our basic facts in order here. John saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. Kind of working backwards through this. Will there be oceans upon the new earth? I absolutely believe there will be. Please notice we sometimes read this too quickly. This doesn't associate the lack of a C With the creation of the new heaven and the new earth, it associates it with the loss, the passing of the first heaven and the first earth. The first earth had passed away, and that sea was no more, and the sea was no more. For the ancient world, the sea was one of the most terrifying things that existed. People went to sail on the sea and were never heard from again. There were these creatures and these monsters that came up from the depths and they could never be studied or looked at, and they were terrifying. The sea was a source. And by the way, not just in pagan cultures, if you look at the Bible carefully, the sea in the Bible is a constant metaphor for that which is terrifying and beyond control It's why it was such a big deal when Jesus walked on the sea and calm the sea, because it was not imagined that that was ever possible. The point here is not talking about the new earth, it's talking about the former earth, the first earth. The terrifying thing of this earth will be removed. That's what he's saying. You see, later he's going to say, uh-uh-uh, you get down there about there are going to be no sun or moon or stars, but the phone with which we opened rhetorically says that the worship of the king, the the adoration of the great king, will last for as long as the moon lasts. Well, if we believe this to be literal, that there will be no moon, that means the moon's going to come to an end, and that means the praise of the great king will come to an end, according to the psalmist. Well, obviously that's not what the psalmist meant. Because the metaphor here is not the literal loss of the moon. Because it's in a description of New Jerusalem. And again, we'll come back to that next week. So, will there be a sea? Will there be oceans in the new earth? I absolutely believe there will be. Wyatt will still have a jar job as a Coast Guard. Oh, maybe the guard one of the Coast won't need guarding in the New World, so maybe he won't have a job. But you know, Charlie, Glenn, you guys can still enjoy your hobbies of sailing, and we will all have beach houses. The first heaven and the first earth had passed away. What does that mean? There's actually a great deal of debate over this. Some passages in the Bible seem to imply utter replacement, that the first heaven and the first earth will be completely destroyed and an entire new creation made. I tend to lean, as I do think most interpreters lean, in the second category. That what's in view here is not utter replacement, but utter restoration and renewal. Um you know that I work part-time with a local contractor. We rebuilt a house. In one sense, it's the same house that it's always been. In another sense, it's completely new We tore it down and put an all new plumbing and all new electrical and all new insulation and all new i it's totally new and yet the same house. I think that's a better picture of what's going on here. Whichever side you fall on, we're not going to start a new denomination over this issue. The Presbyterian Church of a restored and not replaced new earth. P C R N R N E. Anybody in with me on that one? No, we're not starting a new denomination over this issue. Whatever the case, there's going to be a new Earth. An Earth 2. 0. Notice the word also there, dwell. That we will dwell there, and that God will dwell there, to inhabit for a long time, to live upon. We will dwell upon the new earth as will God. More on that in a few minutes. You see, Earth 1. 0, this earth was created as mankind's dwelling place. So mankind is being redeemed and restored, Jesus being the first fruit of that completed reality. And so we are all going to need a new place to live, a redeemed and restored earth. So what does that mean? Well, in one sense, we're not going to live in heaven, not for all eternity. If you die before John's vision is fulfilled, you will spend some time in heaven, something we call the intermediate state, something that will be a future sermon. But only there for a little while. Remember, I shared with you the the uh comment that I so appreciated uh that kind of launched the sermon series. Pastor, I'm not sure I want to go to heaven. It seems kind of boring. Well, I got some interesting news for you. You're not going to spend eternity in heaven proper. You're going to spend eternity here on the earth. It will be a renewed earth. It will be a remade earth. But it will be this earth. But there is another sense that we have to consider. And this is where things can get a little sticky for us. Remember last week we asked the question: which aircraft is Air Force One? Well, technically it's whichever aircraft the president is on. What did we say was the definition of heaven? Isaiah and Moses and the chronicler all said that heaven was God's holy habitation. It's the place where God lives. And according to this passage, God's going to have a change of address. God is going to move to a new place. He is going to come and dwell upon this earth. And if this earth becomes the holy habitation of our God, then in a sense it becomes heaven, does it not? So there is some overlap of ideas here, and this is why there can be some confusion over these things God, you know, what do we have here? Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. There is a real sense that while we will not go to heaven as it is now, heaven will come to this earth someday. Why does this matter? What do we need to grasp from this? I think one of the fundamental things, again, we're going to see this more again in coming sermons, it's Eden reversed. It's Eden reversed. Remember what happened in Eden. We sinned, we defied God, we angered God, and he banished us from his presence. But upon the new earth, the opposite is going to happen. God is willingly going to come and make his presence among us. What was lost at Eden is going to be regained in eternity upon the new earth. Which kind of leads us into and kind of hints at the answer to our next question. What why is the new earth needed? Turn over now, if you would, to the other sermon text listed in the bulletin, Romans 8. And I'm going to shorten it just for the sake of time. Romans 8, I'm going to read 13 to 23. Romans 8, 13-23. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its Bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit We groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. Paul's words are different than the Revelator, but his meaning is not. Where John the Revelator speaks of the New heaven and the new earth, Paul the Apostle, he is the same apostle who who taught that if anyone is in Christ, he is a what? A new creation. The old has passed, behold the new has come. He uses that same language now for the wider creation. He's speaking of the new earth, but he's speaking speaking of it as a remade creation. And why? Why does creation need to be renewed and restored? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He then set about filling them. He created within them various domains. Do you recall the order of the days of creation? Day one, he created light and dark. Day two, waters above and waters below. He began to separate things and to bring order out of the chaos. Day three, land arose from the waters below, and vegetation grew on the land. These domains were established in these first three days of creation. Then in days four, five, and six, God revisited each domain and created a ruler. In the domain. On day four, he created the sun and the moon to rule, as it were, day and night. Day five, he created the birds to rule in the waters above, what we call the sky, and he created the fish to rule in the waters below, what we call the seas and the lakes and the oceans. And on day six, he created the animals which roamed the dry land, ruling over the domain of the land. Finally, God created man in his own image. In his image, he created him, male and female, he created them. Each domain had its ruler, and over all of them was placed man. to rule over and take dominion, cultivating and keeping all of it. We were responsible for everything. We had an obligation, a responsibility to all that God had made. And we led it astray. Birds and fish and plants cannot make moral decisions, but they are subject to moral consequences. Through their appointed decision makers. A college football team does not make a decision to break the NCAA recruiting rules. Its coach does. Teens don't make those kinds of decisions. But when the coach makes that decision, the whole team benefits briefly from the influx of talent and then suffers greatly. when there are sanctions and postseason bans, etc. In the next three to four years, the whole team eagerly awaits the restoration to its full status. God made man responsible for all creation and we led it astray. We polluted it with sin. And what was God's consequence? Cursed. Cursed is the ground because of you. Moral evil produced natural evil. Creation's goodness was upended by man's sin. Do not, do not try to make a one-to-one correlation. Do not imagine that you can point to this evil and that sin as its cause. That's not what I'm saying But in broad strokes, in worldwide generalities, our collective sin is the reason for the collective natural evil, all of the general suffering. And it's an astounding amount of natural evil. Astounding It was hard in some ways to prepare this sermon to have to think about these things. Do you know that every day Every single day. Twelve thousand children are born with birth defects. In a single day. 500 an hour. Babies born without feet who will never in this life run after a butterfly. Babies who don't have hands, who will never take a piece of tissue paper and make a flower on a Mother's Day card with it. Twelve thousand per day, five hundred per hour, eight babies per minute And the time it takes me to tell you these things, eight precious little children will be born deformed. Born without the nasal septum, born without sight, born without a fully developed brainstem. Babies who will be robbed of the precious joys of this life. And that's just scratching the surface. That's to say nothing of the 670 who just died Friday in a landslide in Papua New Guinea. That's to say nothing of the 58,000 who died last February in an earthquake in Turkey. If we knew a tiny fraction of all of the suffering, all of the natural evil and all of the consequences of all of the people facing starvation because the Rangers didn't come. It would break our hearts. We would vomit if we stayed conscious at all. This world was subjected to phenomenal natural evil. Cursed is the ground because of you. It is no wonder the creation waits with eager longing. But that drives us to a deeper question. Why? Why, God, you said that in the day that we eat of it, we will surely die. Why not just kill us? Why all of this? Why is there so much suffering and then death? Why does the creation groan? Why is there so much natural evil? To answer that, we need to step back, I think, for just a moment from the emotional roller coaster ride. We need to ask ourselves a bigger question. Not why is there natural evil, but why is there nature? Why does all of this exist? Why is there a universe out there at all? Clouds and a beautiful sky? Why are there those trees out there? Why are you and why am I? Boy, if there's one good thing about being Presbyterian, we know the answer to every why question. Why do humans exist? What is the chief end of man? It is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So, what is the chief end of nature? It was to serve as a dwelling place for man Nature was to be our abode, our grocery store, our fruit stand, our clothier, our playground, our realm of coexistence and co-presence with God the Almighty. It was to be our temple where we would worship. We exist to the glory of God, nature exists to the support of that end. And we see this, we know this because God was present with Adam in the garden pre-sinned. And God will be present with us all on the new earth post-sin. Nature exists so we could dwell with God. Nature supports us. We in turn use it to God's glory. And we still see that preserved even in this fallen, groaning, laboring natural world There is still evidence of the glory of God. The heavens declare the glory of God. The skies proclaim his handiwork. You see, all of these things were created to be the canvas upon which God would paint his glory, and we would do the same. And therefore, it became the canvas on which God painted the ugliness of sin. We don't feel the weight of sin like we ought. We probably don't even notice 90 plus percent of our sin. It passes simply as business as usual. But it offends the holiness of God. Created to exist with him, we routinely grieve him and offend him because we routinely sin. The creation was subjected to the travails of the curse so that we would have a visual image of sin. So that we can begin to get some sense of how serious it is. Just as he portrayed his glory in the natural world, so he has demonstrated his holiness in that same natural world. So when 58,000 people drop dead in an earthquake overnight, does that break your heart? It's because of sin. And it weighs on God's heart to that same degree and infinitely more. 12,000 birth defects per day. And we want to yell, stop! I can't take it anymore. It's overwhelming me. And that's how God feels about sin. Just stop it. The holiness of God, yes, God is love, yes, God is all these other things But it is the holiness of God which is the surpassing characteristic in the scriptures. It's this holiness which He's been trying to communicate to us from day one. You sin, you don't get to be in my presence anymore. Holiness. You build the temple to come meet with me? Curtain in front of the most holy place. Holiness! Don't step foot on the base of the mountain when I'm on top of it. Holiness. Peter catches an amazing catch of fish, and it dawns on him that this carpenter who guided him must be God. And he says, get away from me, Lord! I am a sinner. Natural evil is God's visual image of sin and how ugly it is. And how hurtful it is, and how detestable it is. So begin to connect those things, not as cause and effect, but as image and imagined. Is that gossip really worth twelve thousand birth effects? I understand, you know gossip is not going to make the birth effects go away. I understand that. But it paints the picture of how serious it is to God. What amount of momentary pleasure is worth 58,000 people dying in an earthquake? We have to get a hold of how brutal sin is, how deeply it offends a holy God, how horrible it is in his sight. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. Not just the sunsets that we like. But the natural evil we despise declares the glory of God's holiness. And God says, Listen, I've been trying for millennia to tell you that I am a holy God. I am the holy one of Israel. So look upon the turmoil of creation, the upheaval of the natural order, all of these natural disasters, all of this natural evil which inundates this world, and think about that next time you want to sin. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Maybe when you see how bad sin is, there will be some hope, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption. And this is an amazing sentence. And obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. I suspect I put my sermons out of order based on this verse. My apologies But look at that. The creation itself will be set free from its bondage through corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. To help you understand what this is saying, I first want to tell you what it is not saying. We've probably all heard what I'm about to say. I have sadly I have said what I'm about to say But this is the opposite of what's being said here. You see, I've made the mistake, I'm gonna guess some of you have as well, of saying things like this You find that to be a difficult thing in your life. You find that that uh uh personal defects to be weighing on you, you find the the uh uh uh the the the the the the uh disability of your niece or your nephew or your child your grandchild to be weighing on you. Well don't worry one day God is going to make the whole world new And subsumed in that, when he remakes everything, all your problems are going to be fixed. That's not what it says. It doesn't say God's going to fix the world And you're going to come along with it and be fixed. It says the opposite: that the creation will be will gain from the fixing of you. That what's going to come first is that we're going to be redeemed. We're going to be restored. We're going to be made back into what we always should have been. Perfect followers, perfect obeyers, fully in a right relationship with our God. And when that happens Then creation is going to follow. Creation followed us into the curse, and it will follow us into redemption. We were its leaders into evil, and we will, by God's grace, be its leaders into righteousness and glory. God made the corrupt the creation good and we corrupted it and subjected it to the curse, to the groaning, to the longing for restoration. And so God is not going to fix creation per se, he's going to fix us. And once we are humanity 2. 0, then we're going to need a new place to live. We will not be fixed to accommodate the new earth. The new earth will be fixed to accommodate us. For we are the children of God. We are an inheritance of inheritors of his righteousness, of his glory, of his riches, of his grace. Creation will obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. So what's that going to be like? What will the new earth be like? What will be there? And this is where a vision of cloud riding, harps drumming, people uh hovering above streets of gold goes so horribly wrong. Remember, we don't spend eternity in heaven proper, we spend eternity on the new earth. It will become Heaven by virtue of God's presence among us, but it will be this earth. So what will be here? What's here now? Imagine all the beauty, all the glory, all the complexity, all the wonder, with none of the danger, none of the threat, none of the disease, none of the downside. One of the first trips our family ever made to the ocean, to the beach We were a bunch of Midwesterners. We weren't familiar with all the fun of the ocean. And our kids were playing down on the beach, doing what kids do, and they buried Caleb up to his neck in the sand, and they were laughing and they were having fun. And all of a sudden There were some intense, serious calls for help. You see Lake Michigan, it's a great lake, but it doesn't have tides. And the tide was rolling in and Caleb was buried up to his neck. And there was a few brief moments of terror when I thought maybe I'd watch my son drown right in front of me while I was trying to save him. With the help of strangers, we dug him out and we got him out our way of that incoming tide. That'll be gone We're going to be able to go to the ocean and show everything about it with none of that threat, none of that danger, none of that fear. How much happier would the memory be without that? What's going to be there in the new heaven and the new earth? A vast universe to explore. But no one will ever die in a space shuttle explosion again. What will be there? Vast, untapped chemical possibilities. I thought about this because, you know, I don't think they're going to need pastors in the new heavens, new earth, so I've got to I'm going to be unemployed. So maybe I go back to being a chemist And what's going to be there? All kinds of ways to make new chemicals without accidentally making forever carcinogens. What will be there? Apples, but you'll never bite into one and find half a worm What will be there? Endless architectural possibilities, but no condo will ever collapse and kill peaceful sleepers. What will be there? All of the fun. All of the joy. All of the excitement. All of the discovery. all of the investigation, all of the construction, all of the new building. Remember, we were created to be image bearers of God. We were created to do what he did, to make things, to discover, to make new things. And now we will do it in a place without the disruption. So scientists from around the world will work together. Not against one another. There will be exploration to no end. There will be beauty. There will be artists. And there will be music. And phenomenal things with none of the downside. Whatever you love about this place, it's going to be there ten, a hundred, a thousand times over without the negative. And by the way, without this is kind of important. One of the reasons that I'm absolutely convinced of this Convinced that the new earth will just be the earth made new, is what God said about the first heaven and earth. And God looked at all that he had made, and it was good. To imagine that God will have judged it good and then do away with it is to imagine that he would decide his own goodness wasn't worth preserving. But the whole picture of this is not replacement, but recreation. God did not flatten, destroy, wipe out humanity, and replace us with some new image bearers. He's fixing us, restoring us, sanctifying us, and that's what's going to happen with this earth. What will not be there? Well that list is long, but here's a way to think about it. A couple of years back, there was a small in-home Bible study we were doing that dealt with this subject. And I know a few of you will have heard this before, but many of you will have not. We got on we got thinking about the new earth, the new heavens and the new earth. We got thinking about the new earth, and we decided to do this little exercise. Imagine this earth. With just one of the commandments perfectly kept. Imagine this earth with the eighth commandment, you shall not steal. Imagine how different this earth would be if that one commandment were kept. Can't find your car keys? Don't bother. There are no locks on your car. There's no ignition system because nobody will ever steal your car. Can't remember the PIN for your account? No need. Nobody's ever going to order things on your account because there's no stealing. Matt, you gotta uh secure those expensive digital scales in your chem lab? No need. Just leave them out all the time. Nobody's ever gonna steal them. Walk away from them. Dr. Hardy is probably gonna be unemployed because I don't think there's gonna be any need for orthopedists in the New Heaven. But if he were, there'd be no worry about HIPAA paperwork, because nobody's privacy would ever be stolen. Coast Guard Wyatt probably going to be unemployed as well, because I don't think there's going to be any cybersecurity needed in heaven, because there's no stealing. Na homie, you could just take your jewelry stand, set it up at a fair, and walk away, leave a little bucket there for an amount of money. Nobody would ever steal anything, they would all pay for it. If you just begin to think about that one commandment and how different this world would be, banks without vaults. Public places with no doors, no need to secure them, no locks. Everything would be radically different. There'd be no Ukraine war because Russia wouldn't be trying to take land that didn't belong to it. The list goes on and on and on. There could be no conspiracy theories about election stealing, because election stealing wouldn't be hypothetically possible. One commandment. And I will have begun to scratch the surface of that one commandment. How radically different our lives would be. Now multiply that by ten commandments. And extend it to all the nuanced issues and impacts of sin that I have not even thought of. There will be no sin on the new earth. It will be radically different, though it's going to be basically the same. Finally, who will be there? Obviously, we will be, as believers, the faithful throughout the ages, from Abel down to the very last man, woman, or child whom God redeems. All of these will inhabit the new earth, and we'll talk again more about that next week with New Jerusalem. So, yes, if you if your much-missed grandmother was a believer, and if you are, then you will see her again. Just think about the billions of believers, of Christians across the ages, across the nations, across the various ethnicities. Think about the stories they're going to be able to tell, about how they came to know the Lord. About how the Lord reached into them, to their uh village and found them. Think about all the wonderful children are going to just be able to say, you know what happened the way I was supposed to. Faithful parents raised me in a believing home. And I came to know the Lord, all the elect, from all the ages, from all the nations, from all people groups. And God. I will be with them and be their God. On Eden. Paradise regained. The fellowship which was broken will be restored. God and man present with each other So think about this, and I'm sad to confess, but when I was a practicing chemist, it never thought, it never crossed my mind to go to God and say, How did you make this work? Could you give me insight into this? But I'll be able to do that. Who doesn't like talking about the things they've made? Drew and I work with a man who gets joy, you ask him about some handiwork, some craftsmanship he's done, and his face lights up and he begins to tell you about it. And he goes, and this goes to this and this turns into here and this. He loves talking about the stuff he's made. I'm going to be able to go to God and say, what were you doing here? Why does this molecule work that way? It's tough to think of it. I I know you guys don't care about chemistry, but it's exciting for me. Whatever fun you've ever had in discovery, in exploration, in learning something new, in doing something new, in art, in craftiness, in making music, in making a visual art, whatever it is. You're going to get to enjoy it with the one who gave it to you. It's always more fun to share these things. And you're going to get to do it with God. We will be there. God will be there. There is one other who will be there. One of my all-time favorite extra-biblical quotes, and if you've been here for any length of time, you've heard this, but I'll say it again. One of my all-time favorite quotes goes like this. Hell is eternity in the presence of God. Hell is eternity in the presence of God. Heaven is eternity in the presence of God with a mediator. Jesus will be there. And because Jesus will be there, we can be there. And because Jesus will be there, God can be there. And one of the reasons That we have to believe that the new heaven and the new earth are physical realities is because of the investment God made in the physical us Jesus became physical. That's what the incarnation is all about. And to imagine eternity in some spiritual plane without the physical reality of Jesus is to imagine that what he did can be discarded, that it doesn't need to be preserved for all time. The new earth is the new earth, so that Jesus can come back to it. And be glorified in the way he deserves. You see, for all of eternity, I said the impacts of sin, the effects of sin are going to be removed, but we all know that's not entirely true. When you bump into Jesus in the marketplace and you shake his hand, you're gonna feel that hole, that star in his hand. It will be there. When you look him in the face, you're going to see the scars from the thorns on his forehead. They will be there. And for all of eternity, though our tears will be removed, though the grief will be removed, we will Still be amazed by the grace of God in the one who sent his son to become one of us, to live in the physical plane, and to bear that pain and to suffer in that way, so that we could live with him. Jesus will be there. And I'm not kidding about this next statement. If that's not exciting You're into this whole Christianity thing for the wrong reason. If you don't look forward to the day to be able to thank him personally, you're into this whole Christianity thing for the wrong reasons. Yes, we're going to enjoy the new heaven. Yes, we're going to enjoy the all the wonderful things we talked about. But it'll be available to us because of him. The new heavens and the new earth are the physical reality upon which He will, over which He will reign, upon which He will walk, and in which we will glorify and praise and thank Him. And I am convinced that one of the reasons that death will be no more and that sin will never enter again is because of that physical reality in front of us. We will remember what was, we will see what is, and we will be confronted routinely with the why behind it all. And we will never want to sin again. Lord, give us passion for the hope of the new earth. Give us a desire, a longing for the beauty, the the the intricacies, the the the the complexities for the the art, for the song, for the probably things we haven't even thought of yet. That will be ours to enjoy, ours to explore. Most of all, though, help us to long for the one who made this redemption possible. who himself looked at the brokenness of this earth, who looked at the curse upon this creation and said, I will do something about it. We thank you for him. We look forward to meeting him face to face. And until then, keep working in us. Keep hold of us Bring us safely to that shore. We pray this in his precious name. Amen.