Next week we begin a sermon series that I've been looking forward to with much excitement, much anticipation. It is a sermon series that I think quite possibly might be one of the most important I'll ever preach in my ministry. It's uh got to do with the nature of truth and how we know truth and the importance of truth and what truth is and who truth is. So I would encourage you to be here over next week and to be here all summer long as we consider these important truths. But today we get to wrap up this sermon series about heaven. We get to draw to a conclusion these things that we've been looking at with regard to the teaching, Bible's teachings about heaven. Heaven. This morning is not precisely a sermon about heaven, its nature, its place, its origins, all those things, but rather it's a reflection on our assurance of Heaven. Can we know that we are going there? Can we be sure that we have eternal life and that heaven awaits us? You see, it's really easy to be very wrong about the direction things are headed. In Paris, for our 25th anniversary, after much discussion, Becky and I got on the wrong subway train. Thankfully, a bilingual bystander was overhearing our conversation. He intervened and he put us on the right train, and our day at the Palace of Versailles was safe. There was a time I was coaching junior high girls basketball, and I set up the inbounding play with such intensity and confidence. That both of the referees and all ten players on the floor all followed my lead. It was only the opposing coach that noticed that I had everyone going the wrong direction My girls, we're gonna score on the other two fast. Of course, not everyone hees the warnings they receive. There is the hilarious scene in the movie Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, where Steve Martin and John Candy, they accidentally get on the wrong side of the highway. Driving against traffic into the oncoming traffic, and someone just sees it and wants to help them out, and he rolls down his window and he screams to them, you're headed the wrong way! And I think it was John Candy's character who turned to Steve Martin's character and said, How do they know which way we want to go? And ignored the warning, and of course, chaos and comedy ensued afterwards. You know, this series about heaven has been a blessing to me. I hope it has been a blessing to me To you as well. It has been a marvelous thing to think about the new earth upon which we will get to enjoy this life. As God intended it, not in the way that our sins have messed it all up. But we've also heard the warning about hell. Of course, that raises the question in our minds, can I be sure I am heaven-fine? I don't want to leave us wondering about that. You see, our ride out to Versailles was far more pleasant and enjoyable Because we were sure we were on the right train. Life is better with the assurance of salvation. Open your Bibles, please, to Matthew 7. 21. Matthew chapter 7, beginning in verse 21. John, well they're opening their Bibles. Am I doing something wrong? It feels like I'm cutting in and out here. Do I need to change something? I'll make some matter good. Okay. Well they were they were open to their Bibles and gave me an opportunity to ask, so. Alright. In your Bibles at Matthew chapter 7, beginning in verse 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord. Did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, but it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat against that house. And it fell, and great was the fall of it. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Let us hear you in this sermon, the Sermon on the Mount. Let us heed the warning that you gave to your followers those many years ago and which you still give to us today. And by your grace, let us be assured that we are in fact yours, that we might live in confidence that we are heaven-bound. For this grace we ask In your precious name. Amen. The doctrine of assurance, as it is called, is a doctrine, is a teaching that summarizes the Bible's instruction on the subject of knowing where we will end up. It is, in a manner of speaking, a sneak peek into the judgment day. Our confession of faith summarizes the doctrine of assurance in this way. From the Westminster Confession of Faith Such as truly believe in the Lord Jesus and love him in sincerity, endeavoring to walk in all good conscience before him. may in this life be certainly assured that they are in a state of grace, and may rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, which hope shall never make them ashamed. The doctrine of assurance is straightforward enough. We can be sure that we are on the right road, on the narrow way which leads. to life. We can be certain we are heaven-bound. Jesus' teaching that we have uh read addresses this question. Now these verses, this teaching, familiar I think to most of us, comes at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. Have you ever thought about that? Have you ever placed this teaching in that context? Jesus has preached this long and well-known sermon. And he brings it to conclusion with the exhortation we've just heard, with the warning we've just heard. The warning that many will claim Lord, Lord. And to some of them, you will say, away from me, I never knew you. You see, the Sermon on the Mount is an exhortation on the ethics of the Christian life. It includes the Beatitudes, Salt and Light, the true meaning of the law. It teaches about prayer and fasting and wars against hypocrisy It includes the golden rule. It includes the well-known, judge not lest you be judged. It is a sermon about how his followers were to live. Jesus closed that sermon with the dire warning that many will think they've done what he preached. They will think they lived exemplary Christian lives. Did we not prophesy in your name? We foretold the future and it came through. Did we not cast out demons in your name? We had phenomenal spiritual power. And did we not do many mighty works in your name? Then I will say to them, I never knew. Away from me, you workers of lawlessness. Dear brothers and sisters, Jesus' warning must give us pause. It forces us to sit up and take notice. For consider who Jesus was referencing to that first century Jewish audience when he spoke of prophesying in God's name. They thought of Moses, the preeminent and foremost of the prophets. Moses prophesied in God's name. Oh, you've done that as well? I don't care. Away from me. I never knew me. He speaks of mighty works. They would have, some of them at least would have thought of Joshua and his parting of the Jordan River, of his demolition of the fortified city Jericho. And Jesus says to them, You have done what Joshua did, you have displayed those kinds of mighty deeds. So what? Away from me, I never knew you. Can you imagine anyone thinking they were on a par with either Moses or Joshua? And to those who did, he said, not enough. No assurance there. Just because you compare favorably to the all-time grace of the faith doesn't mean you're one of mine. That has to shake us. That has to cause us to pause For which of us would be so arrogant as to say, oh, I've done even better things than Moses or Joshua, so I can be sure. Every introspective reflective Christian has wondered to his or herself at some point Am I going the right way? Is this the road I really want to be on? Can I be sure I'm heaven-bound? You know, the Bible is actually full of warnings about false assurance and misguided hope. To read the Bible thoughtfully is to have doubts about one's faith. Think about that sentence. I'm gonna say that sentence again. To read the Bible thoughtfully is to have doubts about one's faith. Ironically, the very book by which we gain saving faith does itself constantly challenge that faith and ask us to question it. I love one of the lines of the new hymn we've been learning, the hymn of heaven. I love one of the lines in there. It says, The songs of faith we sang through doubt and fear. There's a rich irony to that, is there not? But if we take the Bible seriously, and that's why I wanted to be a part of this church, because you do take the Bible seriously then we must admit that the Bible itself does not find faith and doubt to be mutually exclusive. In fact, the Bible encourages doubt as a way to build faith. You see, when we ask the question, are you sure where you're headed? Are you sure you're on the right road? Are you sure you've been known by Jesus? It actually strengthens us. As most of you know, I am a scientist by training and by practice through these first few years of my adult life. And part of good science is embracing skepticism and doubt. Is that really true? Have they analyzed that data correctly? Is that really the right explanation? Doubt is the stock and trade of the scientists. Why? Because we want to be sure. Scientists don't doubt in order to live in doubt. We doubt in order to live with confidence. It was the grandfather of modern science, Sir Francis Bacon, who once said, if a man begin with certainty, he shall end in doubt. But if he will content to begin with doubt, he shall end in certainties. Many of us are so afraid of admitting and confronting doubt That one of two things happen. Either we live our lives unsure of anything, always with the nagging question at the back of our head, always uncertain. Of where we're going. Or else we don't question anything and we throw our lock into anything, everything that comes along, and so we live lives confident in the wrong things. Jesus preaches a sermon on how to live the Christian life, and he ends it by saying, you better wonder where you're headed. You better be sure. You better check yourself so that you can have a life that's built on rock, on a solid foundation. Rather than one that will be tossed aside by the storms of this life. So doubt, question, ask Jesus stirs this up precisely so that we will explore our inner life of faith, and so that we can arise out of that sure and confident of our salvation. See, the doctrine of assurance is not a doctrine devoid of doubt, but it is a doctrine that teaches us how to respond to those doubts so that we can have confidence. You see, life's storms are scary, no matter how your foundation is built. But if your foundation is the rock of the assurance we can have from the Bible, The storms are scary, but they will not take you out. The doctrine of assurance has been downplayed by some There are some who argue that this will foster complacency, spiritually speaking. Well, our boys were in the army, uh. They complained about a lot of the civilian contractors food service, those sorts of things. And they said it was often difficult to work with them precisely because they had total assurance of their job It was a government position, it was a union position, they pretty much weren't getting fired no matter what. And so they had no attitude of customer service, no desire to be helpful, they just had assurance of their job. Many have speculated that the doctrine of assurance will cause Christians to take that attitude. That Christians will go through life going, I don't have to worry about, I don't have to do anything. I'm sure of my salvation. Did you hear what a New Testament reading said about that? What Peter had to say in our New Testament reading? He said exactly the opposite. He wrote that making one's calling and watching sure would, and I quote, keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Peter found assurance to be a boon to the Christian life, not a hindrance. It wouldn't foster complacency, it fosters truthfulness. But here's another thing to think about, another thing to consider when we ponder the doctrine of assurance. You see, comparing it to the food service of an army base misses the point. We are not employees. We are children. What earthly parent would ever say, if you wish to remain ashaw, then you'd better do this or that On the contrary, for my mother, it was the other way around. You see, Tanya sit in my face Sixth grade, walking home from school, Tanya spit in my face. So I punched her in hers. And my mother was having none of that. I was going to apologize because in this family we don't punch girls. But mom, she spit in my face, in this family we don't punch girls Mom, my face! Listen to me very carefully. I don't care what they do in that household, but no son of mine Is going to go around punching girls. You see, it wasn't that I needed to become a Shah by virtue of my behavior, rather, my behavior was to be based upon my absolute an unshakable place as Nancy Shaw's son. I will spare you the rest of my protestations and tell you two historical facts. I apologize, and I never punched another girl. Peter said that the uncertain Christian was an ineffective Christian. Jesus said the unsure Christian was living a life as though it was built on sand and at risk of collapse anytime. But this is the same Jesus who raised the doubt in the first place, because he wants us to probe our assurance. So let's look at the biblical basis for assurance of salvation. The spiritual rock of assurance, if I can mix my metaphor with that of the scriptures. The spiritual rock of assurance is a three-legged stool. Each of those legs will be a point in the remainder of this sermon. So the first thing we recognize is that we can be sure because of God. We can be sure of our salvation because we are sure of our God. I read our confession a moment ago, but here is the next sentence from that confession. This certainty of salvation is not a bare conjectural or probable persuasion grounded upon a fallible hope. In other words, we're not hoping in our hope. We're not just making this up out of nowhere. Some years back, there was a celebrity book published called The Audacity of Hope. That book espouse a hope in hope. Such a position, if it is examined closely, if it is doubted, it comes crumbling down. It is built on sand. Our hope, says our confession of faith, is not like that. We aren't just making this up to get through for the next 60, 70, 80 years. This is not just a pep talk. So that you have a little enthusiasm and you make it to the finish line. No! There's a real basis for the hope. And our confession goes on. It says this. An infallible assurance of faith founded upon the divine truth of the promises of salvation. The first legs of our assurance of salvation are the divine promises. We are sure of God. When you or I want to be sure of another person, we look at their track record. This, of course, is the basis for credit scores. I was told by a banker once, and a little quick look on the internet seems to support his numbers as I recall them. I was told by a banker once that if a borrower has a 750 FICO sore That the probability that borrower will default on the mortgage in the next ten years is one in thirty seven hundred If that credit score goes down to 450, the probability the borrow borrower will default in the next 10 years is 182 Our track record matters. What we've done in the past matters. It gives confidence on what we might do in the future. It reflects who we are. God invites such a historical analysis of Himself. You see, only from day one, when God finally called a people out, when the church began to be established in the aftermath of Egypt. How does God refer to himself? As he goes to give the Ten Commandments, how does he identify himself? I am Yahweh, your God, who brought you out of Egypt. And for the rest of time, he is constantly referencing his past acts. as reason to have confidence in him. Across all the rest of the pages of Scripture, God will be the God who did this or did that or did the other things who established David or who showed hims uh uh goodness to Solomon or who did he will be the god of a history of faithfulness You see, God's track record gives us every confidence that we can believe in. Him. But God goes beyond that. He doesn't just say, look at my history. He also says, look at me. Look at who I am and believe. You know, Becky and I changed trains based on the word of a complete stranger. Right? There was no time to study his track records. Couldn't say, excuse him, Wall. Have you any history with the Metro? Have you ever gotten on the wrong train? Why did we believe him? Why did we act in faith and confidence? Because of who he was. He was a Frenchman, and we were not. The probability lie lay in his favor that he probably knew the subway system better than we did, and he could probably read the sign up there on the wall better than we could. Because of who he was, we believed him. Last summer, we looked at a sermon series entitled God Can't Do That. It was a discussion of the limitations and inabilities of God. And we saw things like God cannot lie. He cannot break his covenants. He cannot be unfaithful to his word. You see, we have God's track record, but we also have theology. We have the study of God Himself. an analysis of who he is as a being. Because if he is God, if there is a God and he is God, He is the supreme being, and if he is supreme, he is supreme in his perfections, including supreme in his honesty, in his truthfulness, in his reliability If God is not to be trusted in those things, he's not to be trusted at all. You see, we know God's track record, but we also know God. There is one other thing that we must look at. There is one other aspect of who God is and what He's done that's important as we look for assurance of our salvation. It is God's surety, God's downpayment. Imagine going into the bank with an 850 credit score. You're going to get the loan. Imagine going into the bank with an 850 credit score and having 90% to put down on the loan. You're going to get the loan, they're going to trust you. That's what we have in Jesus Christ. That's the advantage that is ours living after the cross. For what does Paul say in Romans 8:32? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? And of course, it's a rhetorical question. Of course, Paul's point is obvious. He's already sacrificed his son. He's already made the payment for your salvation. Why would he do that? and not follow through, and not bring you home, and not bring you into glory, and not make you his, and not give you the rewards that Christ purchased. For God to bail out now on the covenant he has made through Jesus Christ would be for God to dishonor God. It would be for the father to make null and void the work of the son. That cannot happen. The assurance of our salvation rests in no small part upon the reputation of our God, upon the nature of our God And upon the down payment that our God has already made in Jesus Christ. But we also have a second leg to the stool. We have the assurance that we find in the Holy Spirit. You see, our confession notes this as well, because the scriptures do. Infallible assurance of faith is founded upon the divine truth of the promises of salvation and the inward evidence of those graces unto which these promises are made. The testimony of the spirit of adoption, witnessing with our spirits that we are the children of God. Comes straight out of Romans 8. 16. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. So what does that look like? What does it mean to have the spirit of adoption bear witness with our spirit? Not many of you ran away from home as a child. I mean, really, truly ran away Many of you may have thought about it, but in the end you didn't and couldn't. Why not? Well at some point, no matter how frustrated you might have been, that was your family. It was who you were Ironically, while mom was instilling in me the virtue of not punching girls, she was also instilling in me an identity. And a place of belonging. I knew I was a Shah. And to the consternation of many, I couldn't be otherwise. You didn't run away from home because you couldn't be anything other than who you are. In his book, A Severe Mercy, Sheldon Benoken tells a similar tale of his spiritual life. Ban, as he was known. met and married a one a young woman named Davy. Her name was Davis, they called her Davy. They had a powerful and profound love. Actually some of the love stories in the book is really quite Fascinating. While studying at Oxford, this mid-West American couple became friends with none other than C. S. Lewis. And through Lewis, these agnostics became believers in Jesus Christ. They became Christians. They returned to the United States and Van took up a professorship at a Virginia College and uh uh things seemed to be going along fine, and all of a sudden his wife became sick and she died Not yet 40, biologically speaking, and only just a couple of years old spiritually speaking, he lost his wife. And Ban was convinced that he had been sold a bill of goods. What kind of God is this who will not save the life of a young woman, who will not save the life of a new child who has claimed faith in him? And so Van decided that he was going to renounce his Christianity. Being something of a romantic and a passionate man, he decided to drive out into the countryside to a place where he and Davy had picnicked frequently And when he arrived there, he was going to get out of his car, denounce God, denounce Christianity, and drive home in Athens. Couldn't do it. He couldn't bring himself to say it. Despite all of his anger at God, despite all of his frustration, despite all of the hurt, he was a Christian, like it or not. He could not not be a child of God. That's the internal testimony of the Holy Spirit. That's the spirit of adoption, the spirit which bears witness. That we are children of God. Not to that degree. I've had the same experience, similar experience. I already mentioned I'm a scientist. We're told to doubt things. And they were told to believe only that which we can verify in the laboratory. And I can't put God under the microscope. And so I myself have wondered: should I just give it all up? Should I walk away from this Christianity, this monitor of Christianity? Should I run away from my spiritual home and just go full-tilt atheist naturalists, atheistic naturalist? What's amazing, every time those doubts arise, I can't do it. I can't. I can't not be who I am. You see, my doubts don't change who I really am. My struggles with my own confidence don't change the fact. That I am a child of God. And it's exactly in those moments of doubt when I come to the edge and realize I cannot step outside of the faith. That I actually find great reassurance that for some reason my Heavenly Father is holding on to me. And bringing me back around. The spirit of adoption says to my spirit, you are a child of God. You see, my doubts gave rise to assurance. You know, Van Auken was not affirmed in his faith through ease and comfort, but through adversity. Think about it. Physical structural things, advancements in engineering, are not trusted by this use, but by extreme use. It is only by doubting a new bridge design and testing it to the extreme that we gain the confidence to drive over it. Anything which is going to be propelled into space is severely tested so that the astronaut trusts it. This is going to sound strange. But if you can leave the Christian faith, maybe you should. God's children cannot Because the spirit of adoption bears witness to their spirit that they are the children of God. If you are still here today, still claiming Christ, still holding fast to him who holds fast to you. After all of those doubts, after all of those questions, after all of those temptations to walk away, let that be for you with great confidence. Let that be for you great assurance that your Heavenly Father has told you you're one of his. Finally, we have assurance based on our lives. We have assurance based on God and who he is and what he's done. We have assurance because of the testimony internally of the Holy Spirit, but we also have assurance. Based on our lives. Jesus and Peter offer us one last source of assurance And it's captured also in our confession. I read this earlier. Such as truly believe in the Lord Jesus and love him in sincerity, endeavoring to walk in all good conscience before him May in this life be certainly assured. You know, on the road of life, if one wants to be sure he or she is heaven-bound They should assess their personal holiness. Now there is an irony to this. You see, we are not saved by works. But through faith. Yet the assurance of saving faith is not found in heaping up more faith and just telling myself I believe and trying to believe harder. But in actually doing the work. As we noted, Jesus' warning about false assurance comes at the end of a sermon in which he was explaining the ethical standards of his followers. And so he closes, everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man. The solid foundation of assurance is not found in the mighty works. You can cast out demons, you can prophesy, you can do all these mighty things. And Jesus still will say to you, I don't know who you are. It's not in the big things that we find our assurance, but in the little ones. There really is some truth to that old saying that the devil is in the details. Are you living the ethical life laid out in the Sermon on the Mount, or at least are you still to do so? If so, then you have a solid faith foundation. You can rest assured in the sorts of life. You see, Jesus is not saying that salvation is found in faithful Christian living. But that assurance of salvation is found in faithful Christian living. Look at how Peter explained it in our New Testament reading. By the way, this reading comes out of Peter's second letter, and it opens just two verses higher on the page, it opens this way. To those, listen carefully, to those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. Peter is not teaching salvation by works. He is not at all proposing that. It is plain. Righteousness comes through Jesus, he says. And yet, what does he say in our reading? Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, You will never fall. And he lists the qualities: virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness. brotherly affection and love. Notice what he doesn't put there. There's nothing in there about how you must be this profound figure in the history of the church. There's nothing there about how you must prophesy in a way that others just. There's nothing there about how you have to teach Sunday school or be a deacon or be an elder. It's about building up the qualities of godliness. Love, joy, peace, patience, self-control, those things, he has several of those same ones on his the typical list that Paul has for us, Peter has an overlapping list Self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, and love. You see, salvation comes through Christ Assurance of salvation comes through Christ like this. It was Jesus' younger brother who wrote: just as the body without breath is dead So, faith without works is dead. Certain traits of biological life are called vital signs. We use them to assess life. And James is saying that when in the spiritual life, good works are one of the vital signs If you're looking at somebody's life and there's no good works, there's no evidence of growth, if they're not making progress in personal holiness, if they're not progressing in love and self-control and All these other things, then they may not be spiritually alive. Just as the body without breath is dead, so faith without works is dead James and Peter and Jesus and Paul and John and all the prophets, they all taught that assurance of salvation was found in one's life and behavior. Why? Why is it that we can be assured based on our behavior, based on our life, even if that's not the grounds of our salvation? You see, mom was telling me what it meant to be her son. So what would it mean if I kept ignoring her? What would it have meant if I had kept punching girls? No son of mine was going to punch girls Well maybe I don't want to be yours. A refusal To do what God says discloses a person who's not really one of his children, who doesn't really want to be one of his children. Oh, they may bear the name Christian, but they have taken that name in vain. Should that person have any hope of heaven? Should such a person imagine that he has a place in the Father's house? Should such a person have any confidence that she is heaven-bound? Our obedience does not save us, but it confirms that we want to be his child. It confirms that we want to be like him. I wanted to be Nancy Shaw's son, so I stopped punching girls. Obedience does not save us, but disobedience suggests that we don't really want to be who he's trying to make us to be. That we don't really want to resemble the family. By the way This really is the underlying reality behind the practice of excommunication. You see, when the elders of your church, the spiritual older brothers among us, when they look at your life and say, we're not really sure you're one of us. That ought to scare the hell out of you, literally What would it mean if my brother and sister and their spouses said, Scott, you're not acting like a show It's like you don't want to be one of us. It's like you don't even want to be part of a family. You're not even trying. What would that say about me? And at that point am I going to say, well, I get to decide what is shawlness? No, that's not how that works. The practice of church discipline is supposed to scare us into self-examination. Into saying, where have I gone wrong? Into humbly pleading, please show me. Please help me. I want to be a child of God Help me do that. So if we want to gain assurance that we are heaven-bound, we need to test ourselves Yes, we need to know who God is. Yes, we need to know his promises. Yes, we can hope that we have and have had the testimony of the Holy Spirit within us, but we also need to test ourselves I don't know what that test may be for you. I suspect for each of us it's going to be a little different. Because we are all wrestling with different things. There are different places where this world tugs at us, different sins which our flesh drags us into. But let me pick one as an illustration. This summer, while you're going on vacation, will you worship? And it's not one off. Does it annoy you that God takes time out of your vacation? Why is that? Is it just too much to plan time for God while you're on vacation? Would you fail to plan time to be with your spouse or children on vacation? Isn't that interesting? When we plan our vacations, we make sure we have fun things to do with the kids. And we make sure we have fun things to do together with our spouses. Why does it annoy us and bother us that we should do the same with our Lord? What does that say about us if we're not willing to do it You see, many of us can learn something about our assurance of salvation by a simple little text like this. You see, the simple act of carving out time for God, if it angers you, if it frustrates you, if it annoys you Then why would you want to spend eternity with him? You see, here's what's going to happen for most of us, for all of you I think. You're going to say, huh. Never really thought about worship and education in that context before. Never really put it all together that way. I'm going to do it this summer. I'm going to worship for him on vacation. I'm going to make the plan. I'm going to do the work. I'm going to put the effort in. You know, something interesting is going to happen. When I do loving things for my wife, and yes, I do loving things for my wife. When I do loving things for my wife, some of them initially annoy me. I don't want to watch that movie Nobody is going to get killed. There are going to be no car cases. What fun is that? I don't want to go to that place for dinner I don't want to control myself. And I demand. And something amazing happens. When the movie's over, I find myself going, hmm, I really do love it. I really do love her. My decision to act toward her with love affirms for me that I love her. That's the assurance of savage. That's the experience you're going to have. Whatever it is for you, whatever little area of difficulty you have expressing your love for God. Whether it is worshiping on vacation, whether it's giving a faithful tithe, whether it's, I don't know what, serving the church the way you ought to be serving the church, whatever it is. Test yourself in that. And I think what you're going to find is not a breath, but lesson. I love God more than I thought I did. I'm blessed by this more than I ever thought I would be. I really do want to be with him. And you will have the assurance of salvation That will allow you sure walk into this. Why you don't have every cover that's in that Lord, it is amazing that you chose to save sinners at such a high cost. It's also quite a blessing that you have created ways by which we might be sure of that salvation. by which we might have every confidence that we are and that we are heaven-bound. And so in the midst of our doubts and our fears, even as the storms of this life challenge us, help us to grow evermore sure. That you are ours and we are yours. That you are the one who is holding fast to us. And that we absolutely are heaven by Let us rejoice in that assurance. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.