We are in Hebrews 13. We're continuing kind of this little mini-series to close out the book of Hebrews as we look at the various ways that our author encourages us to live out the Christian life and what that looks like in practical ways. Hebrews 13 is uh something of the kind of like the cream filling of a sandwich cookie. We've got this little literary structure called an inclusio. We've got The end of chapter 12, in light of all the doctrine that has been preached to us, our author says, therefore, we ought to worship God in a way that is pleasing and acceptable to Him. 13 ends with a benediction in which we are promised, we are given the good word, we are given the hope that God Himself will enable us to be pleasing and acceptable to Him. And so in between these statements, this command to be pleasing, this assurance that we will be pleasing, we really do have kind of a summary of what it means to be pleasing to God. That really is what we find here in Hebrews 13. And the summary of that summary, we found last week or two weeks ago, I guess it was, in Hebrews 13, 1. Brotherly love must continue. Recall that we saw that the Greek grammar is not that of mere permission, let love continue. In other words, it's a it's the the the structure is that of requirement, brotherly love must continue. We are not merely commanded to allow love, we are commanded to love. We saw in verses 2 and 3 that there were illustrations of how that love might actually play out among us. In verse 2, we were told to be hospitable, to take in those who need to be taken in. And in verse 3, we were told to have compassion, particularly on those who were imprisoned. This morning we look at another application of brotherly love, another way in which this call, this command to love one another plays out among us. And it is that of marital love. So look with me at Hebrews 13, verse 4. Hebrews 13, 4. And again, the word let really might be taken better as a command. We're being told to do this. Let marriage be held in honor among all. And let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous This is the Word of God, and we know that it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So let us consider carefully. Now, with God's own help, how we would fulfill this command. Let's pray. Spirit of God, we do ask that you would show us how to live this out. If this is part of what it means to be pleasing to you, then we want to be the people who do these things Teach us how to honor marriage, how to keep the marriage bed pure, how to uh uh uh refrain from sexual immorality and adultery So that we would not be judged by you, condemned by you, but that you would declare to us, well done, good and faithful servant. We seek this for the glory of Christ. We seek this in the power of Christ. We seek this through Christ. And we do so in His name. Amen. Part of sermon preparation is studying the text, considering it, pondering it, praying over it, meditating on it, reflecting on it. But part of the wisdom of sermon preparation is admitting that no matter how much time I spend on the text, I will never think of all the possible things that might be brought out from it. And so any wise pastor will go and consider what others have said about the text. And so it is a routine part of my week. That I work in opportunity to listen to other preachers preach on any given text that we're going to consider As I drive in the car, I listen to sermons from other pastors on the next on the upcoming text. As I'm walking the dog, I am listening to sermons. As I'm out going for my runs. I listen to sermons, so that I hear many other preachers and what they have to say on any given text. The general rule, those things are incredibly helpful They do allow me to see aspects of the text I might not have seen on my own, and therefore bring a better message to you, the people of God. But this week, this particular week, this particular verse, this particular sermon, I was disappointed in the sermons I listened to. I was stunned that many of these preachers, men whom I regard very highly, men whose ministries I could never even hope to emulate. Men who I know love the Lord and know I I know they love his word and considered it closely. They miss the message. of Hebrews 13, 4. And I understand why. I get it. This is a difficult verse to preach as it was intended. You see, the vast majority of the sermons I heard on this verse did not speak to you and me. Rather, they spoke to those people out there. The majority of the sermons were uh uh well uh uh well prepared, they were moving, they were insightful, they were helpful, they were true But they addressed what was out there. There were sermons on the evils of homosexual marriage. Now, to be sure, that is not honoring marriage. Homosexual marriage is a violation of this verse. But is that really something we're struggling with, that we're wrestling with here? Many of these sermons spoke about the need to properly handle questions of gender and sexual identity as we train up the next generation of America's youth that we can't lead them astray with the transgender movement, and that's all true. But are we wrestling with that here in this church? These pastors are conservative pastors. They are men who are in pulpits of very conservative Bible-believing churches. I don't think their congregations were wrestling with those issues. So why did they preach those sermons? Because we're dealing with a question that is very personal And very sensitive, and very delicate, and very difficult to address. And when things are that personal, when they are that sensitive, When they strike that close to who we are as human beings, it can be difficult to address them directly. You see, when we preach against all the evil out there, we get a lot of amens. We get a lot of heads that nod in agreement. We get a lot of congratulations in the line afterwards, and all of that makes us feel good as preachers. But that's not the flock in our churches. Those aren't the issues of marriage that we are struggling with. You see, it's not fun to be told that we're wrong. And that we need to change, and that we need to handle issues differently. And so this morning I don't want to look at all the evil out there in the world. Oh, there's a great deal of it. And they are wrong. And it will be judged. But the message of God's word is not to them. It's never been to them. Stop and think about that. To whom is the Word of God given? It is generally not to the unbeliever. In fact, Moses went to Pharaoh and said, Let my people go. But pretty much everything he said after that was to the people of God. And to whom did the prophets speak? Even Obadiah, he preached against, he prophesied against Edom. But there's no evidence the message was ever given to Edom. It was given to the people of God, to Israel and Judah. Nahum preached against Nineveh, but there's no evidence that Nineveh ever got that message. It was given to the people of God To whom are the one another passages in the New Testament addressed? It is to the people of God, over and over and over again. The warnings in Thessalonians are given not to the general population of Thessalonica, but to the church in Thessalonica. The challenges of the Book of Romans were not given to all those in Rome, but rather they were given to all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. And when Peter, when Peter said to the church that they that uh uh when he commanded them to show hospitality, he spoke to the elect. Exiles, those who were believers. And clearly, when James commanded us to pray for one another, he was speaking to the church. One of the things that we have to come to grips with is that the commands of Hebrews 13 aren't for them. They're for us. We have got to take a look at how these things speak to us. And so how do we consider this? How do we look at this verse And think about it in the context of our lives, of our homes, of our marriages. Or perhaps in the context of our singleness. How does this speak to us? You see, it's easier to talk about them out there because it doesn't strike so close to home. And as a pastor, let's face it, I worry about how things are going to be taken. Why did he use that illustration? Is my pastor really struggling with that temptation? Ew Why did he pick that comment to make about wives? Poor Becky, how did she live with him? You see the problems. You see the challenges. You see the way that this becomes easy to keep at arm's length and to make it about them. We need to make it about us. We need to humble ourselves before this verse and ask how it speaks to me. Let's see if we can't unravel some of that this morning. Let's see if we can't figure out how to bring to bear on our own marriages and on our own singleness. the import of this passage. I actually want to work backwards through the verse, because while our author presupposes some knowledge that his audience would have had We aren't quite as thoroughly steeped in the Old Testament as his congregation was. And so I want to work at the end and kind of move our way back up through the verse. God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. We are made in God's image. And while it would take days and days and weeks and months and perhaps a lifetime to fully unpack the full then the the fullness or the meaning of being God creating God's image, there's really one key part of it we need this morning. We are made in the image of God, and God is triune. God is three in one. God is three persons, one essence. By definition, that requires some sort of relationship within the Godhead. God relates. Now, to be sure, the nature of the divine relationship, of the way that one person of the Trinity connects and interacts with another is beyond the scope of this sermon and it's beyond the scope of my mind. I can't wrap my head around it. And yet that doesn't change the fact that relationship Is an essential part of who God is. And we are made in His image. The essence of deity is the same among all three persons. They are co-equal. Last week we went through the Athanasian Creed, which drives that point home in seven different ways, and I love it for that reason. The members of the Trinity are co-equal. They are all essentially in their essence of their nature, they are God. And yet they are distinct in their personhood. What is at the very heart of marriage? How was it set forth in our Old Testament reading this morning? How did the first married man speak of the issue? Now she shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. For all the differences and distinctions which would have existed, which would have been obvious to Adam the first time he saw. Eve, he didn't focus on those distinctions. Rather, he recognized the essential thingness. We are at our core, at the very essence of who we are, the same. Co-equal, both human We are both image bearers of God. Back in chapter 1, when God is summarizing the creation before Adam is speaking into it, God says. You know, let us create man in our image, male and female, he created them. In the image of God, he created them. And Adam recognizes it instantly. She's me. She's made of the same stuff I'm made of. We are essentially the same. Marriage fundamentally acknowledges that there are two persons Just as there is Father, Son, and Spirit in the Godhead, three distinct persons, so there is in marriage two distinct persons. And yet it turns right around and says, what? For this reason. Because of their essential humanity, because of their co-equality, for this reason, man shall leave his father and mother. And the two shall become one. You see, in marriage, there is a the representation, the image of God. In our humanity, two persons distinct in their personhood, united in their essence. Now I'm not going to go you can get real trouble carrying that too far. And yet the scriptures are clear that we're created in the image of God, and the scriptures are clear about the nature of the Trinity of God, and the Scriptures are clear about the an essential nature of marriage. So without pushing the details or risking going off the edge by going too far in the analogy, nevertheless, the fundamental reality is there. Part of what happens in marriage is an expression of the image of God. It was for this reason that God Himself, not Adam, God said, It's not good that he's alone. He cannot be my image bearer on the earth if he doesn't have that sort of relationship that I have. Within the Trinity, there is relationship. And for mankind to be the image-bearers of God, there needs to be a structure, a context For that kind of relationship. Adam's reflection of the divine person meant that he was made to enjoy relationships. Deep, personal, intimate, abiding. Knowing and being known. Now it is common For people to say that ultimately God fulfills all such needs in us. That in God we find our ultimate need for relationship. Then in God we find our ultimate fulfillment of all of this incompleteness that Adam had by himself. That sounds so profound. It sounds so spiritual. In God, we have all that we need. But that's not how God saw it. For as profound as that sounds, it directly contradicts God Himself. He stood in the garden with Adam in a relationship that was unmarred by sin, unbroken by the fall. Adam enjoyed a relationship that none of the rest of us will until we get into heaven. He had that kind of relationship with God, and despite that God said, This is a not good situation. Why do I bring that out? Because it is very easy to dishonor marriage by saying we don't really need it. To spiritualize our dishonoring of marriage, to make it out to be something profound that it really isn't We must not dishonor marriage by imagining that we don't actually benefit from it, that we might not actually need it. You see, God created us to be married. It's the oldest institution among mankind, and it was ordained and established by God. Prior to the fall. It is not a consequence of our fallen condition. It is not an outcome of sin. It is not an accommodation for our brokenness. It predates all of those things. Marriage is not some substitute or crutch. It gets at the very nature. of being human. Intimate, personal, sorry, closeness. And thus to mock it is to mock our humanity Inward personal closeness is then supposed to be outwardly manifested in physical intimacy. So when we take the physical intimacy and throw it around as if it means nothing, we reduce our humanity, our inherent godlikeness To nothing. This is what our world is quickly doing. The atheistic, materialistic approach to origin Darwinism and all of the related issues has concluded that we are essentially animals, not essentially God's image-bearers. And if we are essentially animals, then we can mate like they mate. And we have mocked God, mocked his image in us, we are throwing contempt and scorn upon the very aspect of human relationship that he intended might be a joy, a pleasure, a happiness, but a outcropping of the deeper reality of human connections. So yeah, God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous When we degrade the fraternity that was intended and make it all about fraternizing, when we grab for the pleasure of intimacy with no real intimacy. When we make the image of God out to be one of fleeting relationships with which serve the self God's going to judge that. God will judge the sexually impure and adulterous. I don't want to spend too terribly long on those two words, and I don't really need to. The second word is clear enough, adultery. We know what that is. It's pretty well defined. It is a sexual relationship with anyone other than your spouse. It is a fundamental violation of God's created order. You know what's interesting, any culture that's ever been studied up until the last what 50 years, any culture that's ever been studied has had some form of marriage. It's inherent in our humanity. Even those societies which have long since lost any knowledge of their creator retain the institution that he created. It is inherently a part of who we are. And to violate that, to commit adultery Is, gets at, strikes at, mocks our uh uh nature as human beings, in need of that intimacy and closeness Of that relationship we have with another person. The other term that's used here The sexually impure can be explained simply by me pronouncing the Greek word it translates. The Greek word which lies behind that is this one, pornos. If you want to think about what that word idea means of sexually impure. There is one clear, obvious thing which dominates our society. It is pornography. It is the embodiment of sexual impurity. It is the pollution of our minds and of God's intention for us. While there are a lot of things that might be a part of sexual impurity, the overwhelming Majority of us struggle with this one issue. Pornography. Much of it takes the form of images But do not be fooled into thinking that is the only way it comes at us. At the root of pornography, at the root of this, is a desire for one who is not our spouse. When you read certain romance novels, when you watch certain romantic movies, you are stirred to precisely that same set. Longing for the ideal man riding in on the white horse and saving you and whisking you off to a happily ever after is longing for one who is not your spouse. The sin here is clear that we cannot imagine, desire, wish, lust for anyone who is not ours. If this is a problem for you, whatever form it takes in your life, I'm not going to imagine that for a moment this one sermon is going to cure it. I do want to tell you this, that your elders are willing to help. If you would like help in this area, seek one of us out. Whichever one you're most comfortable speaking to. If you would prefer not to speak to one of the men, address one of our wives. Your name will go no further than the person you tell. But there are ways that we can come alongside you and help you wrestle against this sin. God will judge the sexually impure. And the adulterous. Now we back up to the beginning of the verse. Marriage is to be held in honor by all. No question that that is a true statement universally, but in the context of Hebrews, he is not looking universally. This preacher, this pastor, is speaking to a particular congregation of the saints. Everything in this book has been focused on believers. Let's assume that this is as well. And so the statement to us here, the warning to us here, is that marriage is to be held in honor among us, in the church, as believers. So it asks, it begs the question, in what ways might we dishonor marriage? How are we getting this wrong? Let me dispatch a few that are not directly a threat, I don't think, to this congregation. And yet they seem to come up encyclical over the centuries. I want to talk about a couple of them real quickly. One of them is monasticism Whatever the form it takes, whatever this, there are sects, there are cults, there are leaders who every few hundred years seem to resurrect this idea. That ultimate spiritual fullness will be found when you set aside all of the trappings of this life, when you isolate yourself from this world and focus fully on God. They don't always call it a monastery, they don't always call it becoming a monk, but that's the essential idea. Isolate yourself. That's how you're really going to get in touch with God. That's not what God said. He said, It ain't good for the man to be alone. Now, if it wasn't good for Adam to be alone in a perfect world. How much worse is it for us in the midst of our sinfulness and brokenness? We must reject Monasticism, however it crops up. It dishonors marriage. The idea of the celibate clergy The Roman Catholic idea that you've got to be married to the church and to your work, and it's got to be all about that, and you know, uh wives and children and all those things, they distract you from your work There is simply no biblical basis for that. Moses, the first prophet, married. Aaron, the first high priest, married. David, the exemplar of kings, married too many times. All of these were married. Isaiah married. Peter had a mother-in-law whom Jesus cured. If Peter had a mother-in-law, guess what he had? A wife. Paul talks about how many of his fellow ministers took their wives along with them when they went on the road to minister. He doesn't specify who it is. Maybe it's Barnabas, maybe it's Timothy, we don't know. But apparently many who were co-ministers with Paul were married. Paul himself describes himself as an exemplar among the Pharisees once upon a time, a Pharisee of Pharisees. And it was standard practice for the Pharisees to be married men, and generally they were always married. He was probably married once upon a time. There is nothing in scriptures that suggest that a minister should not be married. Those are ways that the church has historically dishonored marriage, and every so often those things come back. But set those aside, though. And look at some of the things that are a greater threat to us. We don't generally promote singleness under the guise of monasticism. We don't generally promote singleness under the guise of a celibate clergy, but we do dishonor marriage in some of the ways that we handle the issue of singleness. You see, it can be hard to be single. It can be difficult to be not married for whatever the reason, whether because of youth. Because of divorce, because of the death of a spouse, whatever the reason, it can be very difficult to be not married. And sometimes in our effort to comfort those who are struggling with their unmarried status, we inadvertently dishonor Marriage. You see, the exaltation of singleness is not the solution. Our world celebrates singleness, but sadly many in the church have followed suit. It's an easy thing to simply go online and do a little search. The advantage of being single, you'll find countless online websites by the supposed experts, the mental health experts out there, the the uh Sociological experts out there, they will begin to count out for you all the great ways that singleness is an advantage over marriedness. I found one, the one that popped up first on my search was from Time magazine. It was an article entitled, Nine Ways Being Single Can Improve Your Life. Time magazine, God. God, Time magazine. God said it is not good for the man to be alone. So let's just start right there. We don't even need to delve into the why of it. But as we begin to unpack it, as we begin to look at their reasons, it always comes back to me. And what I want, and what I can do in my self-centeredness. When you're single you have more money. When you're single, you have more time. When you're single, you have more freedom of thought. When you're single, you don't have to schedule around other people. When you're single, you have that and the list goes on and on and on about how you can serve you by being single Isn't it possible? Maybe, just maybe, when God said it was not good for the man to be alone, that was part of what he had in mind? That we really aren't supposed to be focused on ourselves? That we really are supposed to develop an awareness of the other? And to make an effort to share a relationship with them. Now to be sure, it's not an inherent sin to be single. I'm not suggesting it's wrong to not have a spouse. God is in control of these things, and he will ordain singleness for some of us. And Paul himself says there are legitimate reasons to be single. It's not sinful to be single. It's sinful to comfort ourselves by dishonoring marriage. Don't drag down God's institution of marriage to feel better about the fact that you're single. You see, the irony of this is very often when we're hurting We find it easy to bash the one that seems responsible for our pain. When I was the headmaster at the school up in Pennsylvania, we begin to notice a pattern over time. I and some of the other admissions uh people that before a parent could pull their kid out of our school, they were going to pull out for financial reasons, or they were going to pull out for sports reasons, or whatever reason they're going to pull their kid out of the school, it was amazing how many parents couldn't just withdraw their student. They first spend three, four, eight months bashing the school and talking about how terrible it was and how bad it was and how wrong it was, so that they could then justify themselves in taking their kid out of the school Don't do that to marriage. Don't run it down so you feel better about being single. Don't exalt singleness above marriage because you are uneasy being single. You see one of the great ironies of being Presbyterian, of having a high view of the sovereignty of God, of actually comprehending That God is in control of every little detail all the time is that it makes pain like that harder to take. What is God doing? He said that my singleness is not a good situation. He said it's not good for a man to be alone. So why is he letting me be alone? Is he not really in control of these things? Or has he just decided that I am so unworthy and unlovable? That he can't provide for me a spouse. It is difficult to be single. It can be. But that is not justification for bashing the institution. Of marriage. Let marriage be held in honor among all. We must never run this down. A couple of quick comments before we move on. I I actually already mentioned this one. Um when you look at those lists and all those things that the world talks about about the greatness of being single, and even many in the church, you go on Christian websites and they'll start talking about how wonderful it is to be single. Look closely at the list they give you And begin to notice how selfish it is. If you're single, if you're content in being single, if God has ordained that you be single at this point in your life, be content in it. Accept that God has put you there. But don't do so with an eye towards selfishness. Don't do so with an eye that says, ha ha, now I can serve self. That is never what God wants out of us. Secondly, I will remind you That while our culture might celebrate and exalt singleness, it knows it's a lie Take a look at pop culture. Think back over pop culture. Consider just the sitcoms on television over the ages. In the early days, they were all about family structure. The honeymooners, I Love Lucy, The Dick Van Dyke Show. Family ties. The Cosby Show. I can't even I'm sure I'm missing some good ones. They were all family. They were all married couples. They were all people. And it was rooted in this the joy, the pleasure, and the difficulties of relationship. And then someone came along and said, This is just wrong. I mean, come on, we can't just keep we I mean that's just that's old school, that's old 1950s church thinking that you would talk about marriage. We need to let people be individuals Individualism. And so what do we do? We came up with a whole bunch of TV shows where there were cool, hip, good-looking, individual, single people. Seinfeld. Friends. How I met your mother. Probably a bunch of others I'm also forgetting. You know what they all have in common? They're trying to get a relationship. I'm not sure I've ever seen an episode of Seinfeld or Friends that wasn't based on somebody trying to get a relationship. Our world says that you shouldn't need other people, but it turns right around and acknowledges we all need other people. And God created marriage for that purpose. Let's hold it in high regard. As we think about how we dishonor marriage, it's not limited to the single. It's not limited to those who are not married. Many of us in our marriages dishonor marriage. When our writer says this, he immediately turns to the one key issue that of sex. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and the bed kept marriage bad kept pure. He looks immediately at the physical manifestation of the intimacy that ought to exist. And so it is completely possible for married people to violate this as well. When we are told to hold in high regard marriage, we need to do it within our marriages also. So what can this look like? How can we dishonor marriage within marriage? It can take extreme forms. I am aware of a situation where a pastor, a ministry of a very large church began to unravel, and as things began to unravel, various things came to light And one of the things that came to light was that that pastor was making his wife dress up and act like other women in the church. We must be careful. The world says that role-playing in the bedroom can be a fun way to spice things up. But we're back to that question. Who do you really want to be intimate with? Is it your spouse? And why do you want them to act and look like somebody else? What does it reveal about us? When we give in to the world's comments about sexuality, and we decide that role-playing in the bedroom is okay We must never dishonor marriage in that way. But we can dishonor marriage in ways that are far less stark, that aren't quite so obviously egregious If your spouse becomes for you, and again, I apologize that I'm sticking to these bedroom themes, but this is where our author points us. And so it seems like this is where I should address things. If your spouse is for you little more than a tool for stress relief, there is a problem. Go back to this question. Does your sexual activity seek to find pleasure in joy? in the closeness of two distinct persons joined as an as as essential co-equals. In other words, does your sexual activity celebrate and enjoy The reflection of the Trinity in you. Now that's kind of a strange thing to think about But if we're getting on board with this idea that the two become one because we are image-bearers of God, Then we have to get on board with the idea that he gave us sexual relations within the marriage to be a source of pleasure, of joy, of outward manifestation, of an inward reality. We have to think about how we handle that. And does it dishonor the image of God in us? And of course, the opposite, nonsex, doesn't necessarily solve the problem. It can dishonor marriage just as much. You see, if we think to ourselves that, well, we're not going to have sexual relations because we've got this screwed-up intimacy in our marriage, and therefore we're going to discontinue all sexual relations, that isn't honoring marriage either. Because all that says is that we're not even going to bother to try to enjoy that which God ordained. Tell me, parent, gift giver, whether you're a parent or not, if you give someone a gift meant for them to enjoy And they stick it in the attic and never enjoy it. Have they honored your gift? If we decide that we are not going to have sex within our marriages because, well, we're doing it wrong, our whole attitude or approach towards sex has been wrong, and therefore we we're just going to discontinue it, we're not honoring marriage. We're not honoring the gift that God has given us. You see, one of the great challenges of relationships is the very fact that you're different. The very fact that you come at these things from a different approach. That perhaps one of the spouses, spice, Spouse? I don't know, what's the plural spouses, right? Yeah. I don't know why that threw me off there for a minute. One of the one of the realities of marriage is that you are two different relations, two different people in the relationship So perhaps one of the spouses needs the emotional and inward intimacy to come before the outward physical intimacy But perhaps the other needs the opposite. I'm not willing to get close to you without some sense of the joy of that first. And so there is this delicate, difficult uh balance in a relationship. Of I have to put myself out there a little bit and take a risk. I've got to put myself out there emotionally. And that's risky for me. I've got to put myself out there physically, and that's risky for me. And when we get caught up in the idea that we're not going to do that, we're not going to take the emotional risk, we're not going to take the physical risk, we're not going to work on becoming closer to our spouse. That is the ultimate form of dishonoring marriage. For it brings us back around to where we began. It was created so that we might experience that which the Trinity experiences. Closeness, relationship, fellowship, knowing and being known We must honor this. We must support it whenever we can. We must talk up marriage, be positive about marriage Make marriage a priority within our lives and within our church. Encourage those who are single. If they wish to find marriage, help them do so. Pray for our marriages. Pray for each other's marriages. Support one another's marriages. Encourage them. Come alongside them as you are able to do so. Those of us who have been married a while, are you thinking about your marriage as a ministry to the younger marriages among us? Are you trying to live with your spouse in such a way that it would encourage the others around you to live rightly with their spouse, whether they have one now or they may have one in the future? I can't tell you how many times different marriages in this congregation have blessed me and challenged me. As I've gotten to know you better, and I'm not going to name any names or point to any particular marriages, but off the top of my head without even working on it, I can think of four. Not even any making an effort. Okay? Of ways that some of your marriages, little things you do, comments you make, the gifts you buy each other, the things you say about your husband or wife. Make me go, wow, I gotta do a better job. My marriage needs to be more like that. That's beautiful. I want that Are we honoring marriage? Because it is a gift God gave us to be fully human, to experience relationship with intimacy, with joy, with pleasure Let marriage be held in honor among all. Let's pray. Lord, relationships are difficult. Human life is difficult. And so there is so much that we have not even begun to talk about today. And yet, Lord, we do want to come back to this fundamental thing that our author has summed up for us. Lord, we want to honor marriage. So take away our inclination to talk it down, to exalt a self over unity to to uh um bash the institution when our own relationship is struggling Out of a love for you, out of respect for what you have done, out of a uh out of a desire to please you. We want to honor the fundamental institution that you have created for our existence. Let us be a church together and individuals separately. Who honor marriage, who uphold it, who with high regard, who make it a top priority in all that we do. And let this be done for the glory of Christ, in whom we pray. Amen.