We turn our attention now to the word of the Lord in Psalm nineteen verses one to six, if you would open there, Psalm nineteen, one to six, as we continue our summer summer sermon series on the importance of the truth There are certain things, certain situations, certain people with whom you do not want to mess. This morning, as we consider the baptism of Alora, I'm reminded that if you mess with a mama's baby, that mama's going to come after you. That mom is going to be up in your face in a hurry. Why? Because that baby is central to that mother's purpose and identity. When I was the headmaster at the Christian school, most of my 37 employees were similarly protective of their babies. The soccer coach, if I messed with soccer practice, I heard about it. If I changed the kindergarten budget, I heard about it from the kindergarten teacher. Every single one of them was defensive of their purpose, of their reason for being there. How important then is the truth? Jesus was on trial for his life And he said to his judge, for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Now if a soccer coach will defend soccer and a kindergarten teacher defend kindergarten, will not Jesus defend the truth? He also went so far as to identify as the truth. Jesus said, I am the truth. Now, if you mess with a cub, you get a face full of mama. If you mess with the truth, you had better expect that God is not going to be happy about that. That God is going to be riled up when we do not care about truth. And we should not want to rile God up. We've been reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. And in a healthy, loving relationship, each one adopts the interests of the others. At least I hope so. What is important to a husband becomes important to the wife. And I hope vice versa as well So if we are now God's friends, part of his family, members of his household, whatever matters to him should matter to us, and the truth matters to God. It is his identity. It was Jesus' reason for coming to the earth. We want to be right about the truth. Now, we learned that most of the truth that you and I know individually is learned by being told. We don't have direct first-hand knowledge of most of the things we know. We have not seen atoms or germs. I have only been to one of the four oceans of the world. And yet I believe the others exist because people have told me about them. Individually, human knowledge is reliant upon what we are told by others. But when we look at the collective of all of human knowledge, that ratio gets flipped around. The vast majority of what we know was not told to us, but rather discovered by us Open with me to Psalm 19. Psalm 19, verses 1 to 6. Our son Caleb was deployed for a brief time to the plains of the Middle East with part of the army, and he was not very far at all from Israel. One of the things that struck Caleb at being in that part of the world was the brilliance of the night sky. It was overwhelmingly filled with stars. Now go back 3,000 years before there was any air pollution, before there were any city lights to dim those stars. One spring night, for that's when the Ewes were birthing their lambs, David, the son of Jesse, laid on a grassy hillside under that sky, and saw the starry host of heaven beyond even what Caleb saw. And then, for all of its brilliance and glory, he was amazed at how the sun would rise every morning and overwhelm all those beautiful stars, shining even more brightly That young boy composed this song. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day-to-day pours out speech and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words No voice is heard, yet their voice goes out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun. Which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy. Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden From its feet. Let's pray. O Lord, the God of David and our God Grant that we might appreciate the profound revelation you have made in the things you created. Give us a desire to know this created world with precision, with accuracy, with thoroughness, so that we might know you more fully. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ our Savior. Amen. It was God's design from the very beginning that we human beings would be learners. He did not create us endowed with all knowledge, but left us to learn things along the way. And it was his plan that much of what we would learn, we would learn on our own. Now, I pointed out a couple of weeks ago that God walked in the garden in the evening with Adam and Eve, and that there they were strolling along with truth himself, and they could ask him anything. And they could have learned whatever they wanted to reliably. But that's the evening. What was going on the rest of the day? They were expected to rule over, to take dominion God did not create a world that was utterly ordered and then just simply hand the reins over to them. No, he gave them a small garden that was ordered, and they were to expand it They were to take control of the rest of creation. They were to figure these things out for themselves. And as a sign that they were to relearn these things and be responsible for ruling over and taking the earth, the first record we have of any of their activity is that God brings to them all the animals of the earth. And he does not tell Adam the names of the animals, but rather leaves it to Adam to name the animals. Now there is a lot of dominion symbolism in the naming of the animals, but let's not miss this simple fact. That's biology 101. The naming, the classification, the categorization of knowledge is the basics of science. And right from the get-go, we see Adam and Eve were told to be masters of the knowledge of this world. And so it was that they eventually discovered that trees were good for wood, which was good for building, and engineering was born. At some point along the way, they had to figure out the right mix of iron ore and coal and limestone so that steel came out and chemistry was born. And they had to pass along what they knew to others, and so writing and storytelling were born. You see, God did not create human culture. He created humans and he created the environment and he directed us to create our culture It's something we call the creation mandate. That we would rule over and subdue, that we would create culture, that we would come to know things. And pass along that knowledge by virtue of our interacting with his world. But it turns out that learning things through experience is a risky proposition. Learning things through our collective interaction with the world is not as easy and straightforward as it might at first appear. Let me see if I can illustrate this for us. I was teaching algebra 2 for the very first time, and though I thought the semester was off to a good start, When that first re- that unit exam, that review exam at the beginning of September, when that test rolled around, the girls in my class bombed that exam. And I was trying to figure out why when I was grading Heather's exam, and I had a good relationship with Heather, so I was looking at her exam and I noticed that Heather had erased all of the correct work that led to the correct answer and had substituted wrong work that led to a wrong answer. And I was bewildered and I pulled Heather aside and I said, Heather, why? This was right. Why do you erase it? And she said to me, because x equals a fraction. And I was like, what? She was like, well, x can't be a fraction. I was like, what do you mean x can't be a fraction? If 3x plus 7 equals 12, then x has to be 5 thirds. We worked it together. We got the answer. x equals 5 thirds. We plugged it back in. 3 times 5 thirds is 5 plus 7. Does in fact equal 12? There it is, Heather. x equals a fraction, 5 thirds. And she scrunched up her face and she looked at me and she was like, I didn't think that was possible. Now, I hadn't taught them algebra one. But it turns out that Heather and all of her classmates, all of the girls, had come to the conclusion that X could never be a fraction. Because the algebra one textbook the school had chosen always had x equaling a whole number. Now that's terrible pedagogy on the part of the textbook publisher. And it was a terrible choice in our curriculum committee to pick that book. But it was also a terrible conclusion on the part of these young women that because they never saw x equaling a fraction, they jumped to the conclusion that x could not equal a fraction Now, in their defense, they had literally hundreds, maybe thousands of points of data in their favor, and yet they still came to the wrong conclusion. And right there in that simple example, you see the crux of the human condition. We are to learn through our experience But those experiences can lead to all sorts of wrong conclusions. Heather and her classmates had an entire year's worth of experience in Algebra 1, every data point, every Single data point supported their conclusion, but the conclusion was wrong. How are we supposed to live in a world Where that is possible. And how are we supposed to be learners in that world? How are we to carry out our creation mandate? To rule over and subdue when we can so easily come to wrong conclusions. Before we answer the question of how I want to remind ourselves of why the question even matters, why it is important. Another illustration. In the early days of Pandora Online Radio, I stumbled upon a Christian singer and I thought that A wife who I will not name to protect the guilty. I thought that some wife of mine, just some random wife of mine, would enjoy a particular artist's CD. So a few clicks later, I'm on Amazon, bam, bam, boom, the CD is ordered, and I had it shipped to I'm sorry, to an unnamed wife's address. The package was addressed to her. I put a gift receipt in there. I put a little note in there about how much I loved her. Weeks went by and there was nothing, no acknowledgement that the CD had been received, and I eventually broached the subject and said to her, Have you received a CD? I mean, I don't know what I expected. I'm not sure I expected her to, you know, thank me, but you know, some acknowledgment, some basic thank you would have been nice. And she said, oh yeah, we're not a CD. I suck it on the shelf with the other CDs. I forgot to tell you that it came. It was like it wasn't for me. It was for you. It was addressed to you. There was this wonderful note inside for you. It was a demonstration of what a spectacular husband he that guy is. We don't know who it is. You know, it's anonymous. But that's a spectacular husband. You see the problem? When we don't interpret data properly, when we don't use information correctly, We run the risk of not assigning to God the glory due His name. Paul tells us in our New Testament reading that God has made clear who he is through creation. But if we don't handle that information rightly, we're not going to honor the kindness, the goodness the the uh the the various resources he's provided us that we might live well in this world. We're not going to marvel in him as we ought You see, ours was to be a journey of discovery, each new encounter causing us to look at God and say, wow, how did you think of that? Now, if we miss the message in creation because we read only the logo on the packaging and draw wrong conclusions, we fail to appreciate what a wonderful God God is. You see, the girls of my algebra 2 class did not appreciate the power of algebra because they drew wrong conclusions. They did not properly understand algebra because they jumped to a fact that wasn't valid. And a certain pastor's wife, who remains nameless, did not appreciate how wonderful her husband was, because she misinterpreted the logo on the package as it must necessarily be for him and not me. Coming to proper conclusions from the data in the world around us turns out to be hard to do. And yet, truth matters to God. And truth matters to our ability to conduct ourselves as the caretakers of His creation. We have to be able to get after the truth. You see, wrong conclusions about the world are not a new thing. You know, for centuries, of course, everybody knew the sun goes around the earth. Duh. It's not like we're moving, are we? You see, science is, to date at least, the best mechanism we have for drawing justified conclusions from the data around us. The girls in my algebra 2 class drew wrong conclusions, which might have been avoided if they had applied the scientific method. If one of them had asked another question, if one of them had looked at it from another angle. So I want us to ask and answer four quick questions about science and its relationship to us as Christians And then I want us to briefly consider some suggestions for thinking about science as a non-scientist. And finally, I want us to wrap back around to our sermon text and see how this all ties together. Four quick questions about the relationship between science and the Christian. Question number one: Isn't science inherently anti-Christian? Is science inherently anti-Christian? Well, first of all, the word science simply means knowledge. That's all the word means. Omniscience, omniscience, all-knowing, all-knowledge. Science means knowledge. The scientific method is a way of arriving at reliably true knowledge. So I guess at its core, science is an effort to know the Truth and knowing the truth is thoroughly Christian. I shared with this shared with you before As when I teach part-time at the community college, students are dumbfounded that I'm a science professor, and then they find out that my full-time job is as a pastor, and always somebody says, how can that be? And I say I see no conflict. The two serve the same purpose to get at the truth through two different avenues. Science is not anti-Christian, it is thoroughly Christian. And since God is the God of truth and He's the creator of all those scientific laws out there, the efforts which reveal the truth about his creation reveal his glory, which is the psalm we read this morning. And how did our Old Testament reading say it? Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them. Johannes Kepler, the scientific revolutionary and a Christian man, once famously quipped that the pursuit of science was the effort to think God's thoughts after him. Nothing could be more Christian. Science is not inherently anti-Christian. Greater the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them. Question number two: how can science be believed? It's always changing. Now, to be sure, scientific theories do change often, even contradicting them each other occasionally. You may recall that in the very earliest days of the COVID pandemic The World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and these are two world-leading scientific bodies, they discouraged wearing masks. Before eventually recommending mask mandates. They contradict it themselves. But you see, rather than undermining our confidence in science and our respect for science, as Christians Particularly as Reformed Christians, that should enhance our confidence in science. Let me say that again That science changes its position is a reason for Christians to admire science. You see the ever changing face of science as consistent with our biblical worldview We know that we are finite creatures trying to wrap our heads around an infinite God in his creation. We know that's going to be a difficult task. We know we're going to get it wrong a lot. The fact that science changes its position should give us the confidence that eventually there's a hope they'll arrive at the right one. How arrogant would it be to imagine that we're going to get it right right out of the gate every time? We must understand that the scientific method was founded by Christians and it has built into it an acknowledgement that we're going to fail to grasp things. And so there are things like peer review and all that goes into refining a theory. You see, God said it this way. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Our scientific efforts are also hindered by the fact that we are fallen mankind. We are sinful. Our capacity to reason has been corrupted. by the fall. And scientists are not exempt from this. And so as a result, laboratory staff will falsify crime scene analysis in order to get the conviction they want to get Corporate scientists will uh publish tainted data to make it look like their company is not a polluter. These are realities. Scientists like the rest of us are sinners. Thus, the conclusions arising out of the scientific method frequently need to be corrected. And by the way, science is not the only reason that science has a flip-flop reputation. We have a 24-7 news cycle. We have a public that is incredibly impatient. And so germinal theories, theories that are only just beginning to take shape, immediately get distributed to a wide audience without discernment, without any care for how that's handled. Predictably, corrections will soon follow. And then we're all shocked that science is always changing. As Christians, we need to understand that the scientists are limited, finite, fallen beings trying to comprehend an infinite God. We should understand that the process is going to be slow. We could wish that the first answer was always the right one. But that's not going to happen. And I suspect that wasn't going to happen even in a perfect unfallen world We will always be finite. God will always be infinite. Question number three: Do scientific conclusions contradict the Bible Should we believe science since its conclusions seem to contradict the Bible? I'm going to suggest that we need to be very careful with this one. It could be argued, and I think it should be argued, that since both special revelation, the Bible, And general revelation, creation, since they are both authored by the same God, and he does not contradict himself, That in reality, there are ultimately no contradictions between science and the Bible. And yet, there sure appear to be. So what's going on there? Well, we have to realize That neither the science nor the Bible, as we use them in everyday lives, are objective realities. No, they are handled by us subjectively So that we have famous cases where we come to wrong conclusions about our biblical interpretation. After all, the psalmist clearly says, Psalm 104 verse 5, He has set the earth upon its foundation, it cannot be moved. Clearly, that means the earth is the center of the universe and the sun goes around it. And lo and behold, the telescope is invented, it's pointed at the sky, and we find out that is not the case at all. We had taken this poetic statement and we had tried to apply it in a technical way. Poetry is not the language of science. And we should never have made it so. The problem was not science versus the Bible, it was our interpretation of the Bible. And that is always subject to error. Of course, there are times it goes the other way around. I shared a couple of weeks ago that for about 150 years, the scientists who dig things up, called archaeologists, they were pretty sure King David must have been a myth, because there was no evidence of King David. Until in the 1960s, a tablet was uncovered that made reference to the house of David, a tablet that dated back to 800 B. C. And there we have archaeological evidence for the house of David. You see, the problem again wasn't the Bible or the science, it was the interpretation of the science. From a lack of data, they made a conclusion they had no justification for making The Bible and Science both are authored by the same God They will ultimately agree with one another, though we may sometimes struggle to see how Now, obviously, the most significant and persistent church science conflict has surrounded the question of evolution. I'm not about to rehash that here. Don't have the skills or the time. Is it possible we've interpreted the Bible in an overly literal way? I suppose. But my bigger concern Is that mankind is sinful and desires to throw off any responsibility to the Creator Atheistic materialism and its insistence upon random forces giving rise to the cosmos may not be the product of science per se so much as it arises out of reprobate man. Trying to throw off God. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? There are apparent conflicts between science and the Bible, but those are almost always, and I'm going to argue they are always due to our interpretation of one or the other. We ought not throw away science because we don't like the outcome. Our fourth and final question on this subject. If scientists are sinners who are messed up and if they get things wrong, is science even worth the effort? And I would argue that science in its pure essence is the pursuit of truth, back to where we began. thoroughly Christian endeavor, and so it is absolutely worth the effort. And yet science is never a pure thing, as we just discussed. So why wouldn't we just ignore it altogether? Well let me ask you these questions Can art be put to bad use? Music, which maybe should be bring comfort It should uh uh help soothe the soul of a teenage girl who is struggling with her growing up process. Could music be used to comfort her? Sure. Is music also used to objectify her and cause some of her heartache? Absolutely Do we throw music out because it gets used badly? The printing press mass-produced the Bible And it wasn't just a few years later, it was mass-producing pornography. Do we get rid of the printing press? The weapons which help a hunter provide food for his family can also be trained on his fellow man. You see the point. The misuse of a tool does not invalidate the tool. The tool's not the problem. Science is not the problem. The problem is that we Christians have largely abandoned science. We've given it over to the atheists. We've given it over to unbelievers. We've allowed them to control the narrative and how the science is interpreted. And we need to do a better job of taking back a discipline which was initially Christian. And we need to regain the lead in that regard. Far from rejecting or maligning science, we Christians need to uphold it. For in it, we find medical advances that allow us to do what Jesus did in his miracles and reverse the curse. We find through science the ability to safely love our neighbor and respect his life even amid a widespread contagion. Science can invent industrial processes by which we can take dominion over the creation while also being responsible stewards of the environment. You see, science is a tool, the proper use of which better equips us to glorify God and enjoy Him. It is not Christian to ignore all of that. So, how do we sort through this mess? How do we handle this? Pastor, that's all well and good, but I'm not a scientist. How do I make sense? of all of these conflicting claims, these changing theories, these conclusions that seem to contradict the Bible, how do I actually live with those issues and try to gather truth from science. Let me give you a few questions that you can use to help you sift through these things. And by the way, I'm always a phone call away. You can give me a call, I'll give you my opinion. I'm never shy with my opinion. Question number one. How long has the scientific conclusion been around? How long has it stood? Now this is not a foolproof test. But it's a good place to start. We said that scientific theories are often changing, but they tend to change frequently in the beginning. And then they tend to settle in to some accepted status quo. Over time, the amount of change lessens So, you know, here's a real practical one from a couple of years ago. Were you wondering if masks were really effective against the spread of disease? I don't know. How long have surgeons been wearing masks to keep germs out of open wounds? Been around for a little while, hasn't it? Maybe there's some validity to it. When a scientific conclusion has stood the test of time, it is likely a good one. Number two, where did the scientific data come from? If you're reading two scientific reports about pollution in the Chesapeake Bay, and one of them is out of the University of Maryland, and the other one was published by the very company accused of being the polluter Maybe you pick the one over the other. Again, not foolproof, but reputable institutions tend to produce reputable and reliable results And additionally, as reputable sources begin to agree, results become increasingly reliable. In other words, when UMD and Johns Hopkins and Howard University are all coming to the same conclusion about pollution in the Chesapeake Bay. Pretty good chance it's valid. It's true. Number three, what is the source of the opposition to the scientific claim? Is someone throwing shade on a scientific theory? And is that someone a known conspiracist? Ignore it. Is it a politician looking to get votes? Ignore it. Is it your own desire to not live with the results of that science? Perhaps you need to reevaluate the science on its own merits. When we tend to argue science, it's frequently rooted in our own stubbornness. And don't get me started on this idea of conspiracy theories, because I could go on a long time. We'll come back to some of that next week. Number four. Is uh uh ask yourself this question when you're not sure what to believe, how to c how to deal with the science, is the science truly contradicting the Bible. You know, I can respect the fact that many Christians believe that the earth is six to ten thousand years old. I know why based on the Bible. But I will turn around and point out that while you can draw that inference from the Bible, the Bible never actually says how old the earth is. So maybe there's room to have different thoughts on that subject. Maybe there's room to be unsure. Since it's not spelled out in any concrete way. Jesus came to bear witness to the truth. It's important. He said he was the truth. It's important. The truth matters. Truth can be revealed to us, told to us, and that's the Bible. And Jesus said to the Father, Your word is truth. We saw last time how there was much warrant to base our lives on the Bible But the truth is also written in creation. When we get that truth wrong, we hamper our ability To fulfill the creation mandate. We slow the process by which we take dominion and rule over creation. But more than that, when we draw wrong conclusions from the data We do not ascribe to God the glory to him. Worse yet, we might even ascribe to him something horrible. Let me illustrate. Four, five, six times in the early part of this sermon I made reference to the girls in my algebra class. How the girls drew a wrong conclusion. How the girls bombed the exam. I'm going to guess that a couple of you are kind of riled up at this moment. But unless you draw the wrong conclusion from insufficient data, let me share this fact with you. Small schools, like that one, often have quirky schedules. And in that particular year, they had added a new elective PE class, women's weightlifting. And eight of the young women who signed up for the new elective PE class also wanted to take algebra 2, which was then offered in exactly the same time slot. The principal, wanting to let the girls take PE and wanting them to also take elgebra two, came to me and said, hey, I've got these eight girls who have a scheduling conflict. All eight of them happen to be from your volleyball team. You know them, they know you. Would you like to teach an algebra 2 class? I said, sure, it'd be a lot of fun. You see, when I said the girls bombed the exam, it wasn't because I was saying the boys didn't. I didn't have any boys in the class. I had eight students and they were all girls. You see the risk of jumping to a conclusion. This, by the way Is why we have elders in the plural always. Because if we were a pastor-led church, I'd be the one jumping to those conclusions. And praise God, I have a teacher who is an elder who would say, Scott, have you thought at all about what the class may have been composed like? And I have an engineer on the session who says, Scott, have you thought about how these things are going to affect and come out over here? And I've got a uh a former administrator on the session who says, Have you thought about all that's going to work together? We're going to be able to schedule all that and get it all done And all of them are inclined to say, have you thought about how this person might be thinking? Have you thought about how that might affect that person? Have you thought about how they're going to hear that or how they're going to read that? Have you thought about, have you thought about? Have you thought about You see, we individually, no matter how well-intentioned we might be, cannot interpret and handle all the data of this overwhelming world. We have to go through it, sit through it, work through it together. We desperately need something like science. to keep us from jumping to wrong conclusions, to keep us from ascribing to the creatures what rightly belongs to the Creator. The moon does not determine our behavior, despite the term lunacy. Our astrological sign is not controlling our destiny. That belongs to God and not us. And if we on our own say, well, I've got a dozen friends who are nurses who will tell you the ER is crazy when there's a full moon, we're missing the data And a proper interpretation of it. We have to humble ourselves. We have to ask each other. We have to come together and understand the truth. You know, it's an amazing thing how the psalmist concludes this psalm. Look down at verses 12, 13, and 14. I hope you kept your Bibles open. I should have told you to. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. He back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Isn't it amazing how this verse fits into that psalm? As David is looking at creation as he's blown away by all that God has made, as he reflects on the glory of God. in all of the creation. What does he do? He says, don't let me make presumptuous sins. Don't let me jump to wrong conclusions. Don't let me presume that I know you, or that I fully understand your creation. Every time humanity encounters God, this is the result Isaiah in the temple. Woe to me, I am undone. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the Lord. Peter on the shore recognizes that it is God standing before him in human flesh, and he falls at his feet and says, Away from me, Lord, I am a sinner. And when we look at creation, when we put things under a microscope, when we point a telescope at the stars, when we evaluate all that's out there, we ought to come to this same conclusion. God, you are so much bigger. And I am so much smaller. And I don't want to sin by being presumptive. I don't want to interpret the data incorrectly I don't want to draw untrue conclusions from the truth you have shown in your creation. The role of science for the Christian is the role of correcting our thinking. So that we rightly understand who God is and what he has done, so that we will be in awe of him. So that we will rightly glorify him. Let's pray. Or your world is big because you are bigger than we can imagine. And in this huge world, there is so much information, so much data, so much that we might want to think we know and conclusions to which we might jump. Keep us back from that kind of presumptive sin. Give us always a humility To admit that we might be wrong, that we may have misinterpreted things, that we may have mishandled the information before us. Never let us imagine that we as mere finite beings can master the understanding of your infinite creation. And let us be in awe of you because of it. Wowed by you. Staggered. Knocked off our feet. Humble, even made to feel small at times, so that we will rightly ascribe to you The glory do your name. We grant, we ask that you grant this to us. Because we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.