Hannah is very poor. She's a young widow living in ancient Israel while they are wandering in the wilderness. She has a young child left from her marriage. Her only hedge against starvation has been the nanny goat that God has provided. A reliable source of protein from its milk, a small bit of income every day with the milk she's able to sell. Every so often, every twice a year, she's able to shear that goat and take the mohair and make a garment and sell that for some income as well. And in the spring, that goat gives birth to two or three kids. She keeps one and sells the others for another bit of income. But that's it, that's all she has And the one she keeps is not for sentimentality, nor is it to build wealth. It is for sacrifice. The nanny goat provides for her physically, its offspring provides for her spiritually. This antigoat is quite literally the difference between life and death for Hannah and her child Early one morning, Hannah walks outside and the goat is gone, and in a panic, in an understandable panic, she begins to scour everywhere looking for that goat. And she finds it in the pen of a neighbor, Leah. Hannah confronts Leah, but Leah denies Hannah's claims to the goat, saying she bought the goat from Hannah. Of course, there's an argument, but it goes nowhere. Eventually, this she said, she said case ends up in court. Leah has been more devious than Hannah imagined, forging a bill of sale, even tagging the goat's ear. The court hears the case. Now those elders in that court in ancient Israel are acting in good faith, sincerely trying to do what is right. And the evidence points away from Hannah's claim and toward Leah's. It is the word of one woman against another. And Leah has that bill of sale, while Hannah has nothing but pleas and tears. So I ask you this incredibly difficult question Whose goat is it? What's the truth? Look with me at Exodus chapter 18 beginning in verse 13. Exodus 18 beginning in verse 13. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. There's a lot of consequences of that belief, but one of them is that if we are going to conduct ourselves rightly in this world, if we are going to live justly and peaceably in this world, then we must know this book. Hear now the word of God. Exodus 18, 13. The next day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from morning till evening. When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, What is this that you're doing for the people? Why do you sit alone and all the people stand around you from morning till evening? And Moses said to his father-in-law, because the people come to me to inquire of God. When they have a dispute, they come to me. And I decide between one person and another, and I make them know the statutes of God and his laws. I just want to pause there and point out that we sometimes think the elders of the church, their principal job, is to settle matters of theology. But this is matters of practical daily living. These are disputes among the people within the household of God, within Israel. Verse 17, Moses' father-in-law said to him, what you are doing is not good. It's not that he thinks settling disputes is bad. It's the way these disputes are being settled is the problem. You and the people with you will certainly wear yourselves out, for the thing is too heavy for you. You are not able to do it alone. Now obey my voice. I will give you advice, and God be with you. I will pause here in case you don't know the backstory and remind you that Moses' father-in-law, Jethro, is himself a priest of God most high. We were told that back in chapters 3 and 4 of the book of Exodus. So this is a man of God speaking to a man of God. You shall rep represent the people before God and bring their cases to God, and you shall warn them about the statutes and the laws and make them know the way in which they must work. Walk in what they must do. You, Moses, should teach and instruct. You should be a pastor to the people. Verse 21. Moreover Look for able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bribe And place such men over the people, as chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties and of tens And let them judge the people at all times. Every great matter they shall bring to you, but any small matter they shall decide themselves. so it will be easier for you and they will bear the burden with you. If you do this, God will direct you. You will be able to endure and all this people also will go to their place in peace. Let's pray. Lord, show us this morning the single greatest threat to your people, to the church. And show us the way out from underneath that threat, the way to be safe even in its shadow. Give us a grace to humbly submit to the protection, to the plan that you have put in place. So that we might live peaceably as your church. We pray this for Christ's sake. Amen. We have seen this summer that Jesus is the truth, the embodiment of truth itself. In him all things hold together. He is behind and under everything. If we dig for truth, we eventually hit Jesus We have seen that some of that truth is told to us, revealed to us in the Word of God, in which there is much warrant to hold to and believe the Bible and to use it as a foundation for establishing our lives. We have also seen that there is a great deal of other truth that is made known in creation and must be studied and understood through observation and experience. And we've seen the danger of trying to interpret that on our own and coming to false conclusions. We need something like the scientific process to correct our thinking about these things. But there is a third category of truth that does not easily fit into either of those. It is not plainly revealed in the scriptures to us, nor is it easily studied by science. It is this question of his history. What happened? Whose goat is it? You know, as a young man, Exodus eighteen always seemed out of place to me. A boring intrusion of administrative minutiae. into an otherwise pretty exciting book of Exodus. Have you ever thought about the tension and the unfolding drama of the book of Exodus? It begins with Pharaoh threatening the people of God by killing their firstborn. But God wins a victory by saving Moses. Then Moses is forced to flee because he commits a murder, and it appears that Pharaoh's gods have won a victory. Then Moses comes back, and God says, Let my people go. And he does these plagues, these signs to warn Pharaoh, and yet every single one of them is mimicked by the priests, by the gods of Egypt. And we seem to have this tie in God versus God. Finally, Yahweh, the God of Israel, strikes a blow by killing the firstborn of Egypt. And the people are set free only to run into the shore of the Dead Sea with Pharaoh's chariots coming down hard behind them. Their destruction seems inevitable. But their God comes through by parting the sea. They go to the other side. The celebration is short-lived. For they immediately realize they are out there with no water. God provides by turning a pond of bitter water sweet. Then there's no food. So what good is water if you're going to die of starvation? So God sends manna Great, we have manna, we've picked up, we've moved on, we've got some strength. Now we're in a new place, and there's no water again. And Moses strikes the rock, and water flows out. It's one existential threat after another. Will these people make it? Then they are wandering on their way to the mountain to meet their God, the reason they've been set free to go worship him, and they are attacked by the Amalekites. The Israelites have no weapons, they have no training, they have no army, there is no organization to them, they appear to be doomed yet again, and their God saves them When they finally arrive at Sinai, they're more terrified than ever. They quickly realize the single biggest threat to their existence is their own God. Who thunders from atop the mountain, who brings upon them sincere fear. It is a very dramatic, edge of your seat, tension-filled, suspense-filled, 20 chapters. Except for number 18. Number 18, I often have wondered if it was like the biggest editorial mistake in all of ancient literature. Who put this here? It's boring. It's bureaucracy. It's it's administration. I'm older now and hopefully wiser. And I've come to understand that for the church today, Exodus 18 is the threat. It is the place where we are likely to be wiped out. You see, we are not Threatened with martyrdom for our faith. We don't need God to part a sea and save us from the forces of this world, militarily speaking. We have the rich food of our confession, our catechisms, reformed teachings. We are well-fed. We don't need that miracle of manna. We drink of Christ on a routine basis. We don't need the water to spring out of the rock. What threatens us is internal strife, dissension, disagreement. That's what threatens the church in America today. And yet I don't know about your experience, but my experience has been that of all the different things that occur in the aftermath of the Exodus, I've heard them all taught in Sunday school, I've heard them all preached except for Exodus 18. Too boring? I don't know. But I've been in Moses' shoes, just in some small way. I've been in leadership. And I will tell you without hesitation, give me the enemy out there. Give me an attacking army. Give me starvation. We can bind, bond together. We can come together to fight the enemy out there. The enemy that threatens us is the one within. It's the enemy that rises up because we disagree with each other. Many of us would like this enemy to be solved in the miraculous ways of the others, wouldn't we? Wouldn't we don't we wish that God would part the sea to solve the problem? That if a pastor just held his arms up, there'd be no disputes in the church and we would defeat the Amalekites? That's the way we want problems solved. And we find this description of the courts to be kind of boring. Yet the mundane, the boring, can save us. You've probably heard about the guy who was sitting atop his roof during the flood, and he's offered a ride from a passing boat. And he says, no, no, no, no, appreciate the offer, but I'm praying. I have faith, I believe in God, and God will save me The same thing had happened hours earlier before the river crested. A police car came by and offered to drive him away, but he refused. I'm a Christian. I believe God will save me. Finally, after the police car, after the boat, with the water at the eaves of his house, with him right on the very peak, clinging to his chimney, a helicopter comes by and offers to lift him to safety. Again, he refuses. I'm a steadfast believer. I've been praying for hours. I know God will save me. Thanks, but no thanks. The man drowns and he goes to heaven and he complains to God. I was so sure you would save me. And God says, I sent the police, a boat, and a helicopter. What are you doing here? The mundane things of God can be our salvation. It is not always through the miraculous. It is not always through the stunning. In the bureaucracy of Exodus 18, in the administration of a court, we can be saved from ourselves and the threat we pose. We've been talking about truth over the last many weeks, and what we realize is that a dispute Is rooted in a question of truth, of historical facts. What really happened And if we could get at the truth of what happened, and if we would live by that truth, then disputes would cease amongst us. And no longer be a threat to us. So let's look at this question of establishing historical truth. Before we get back into Exodus 18, I want to jump back to our Old Testament reading, Deuteronomy 19. It's in your bulletin on page 6. Deuteronomy 19, looking at verse 15. Follow along here. A single witness shall not suffice against a person. I'm going to stop right there and say we have the first point we need to make this morning about the establishing of historical truth. Gossip is not truth. Gossip is not truth. If a single witness, a witness Will not suffice. Surely hearsay and secondhand chat-chat is not acceptable. Gossip is not historical truth. Now, someone will say, Pastor, some gossip is true. I'm going to respond to that in a way that you're going to find a little shocking, but stay with me. Here's the shocking thing. The factual content of gossip is irrelevant. The factual content of gossip is irrelevant Its accuracy is not the point. In fact, it's completely beside the point. Gossip is not truth, regardless of its content. Do an electronic Bible study, Bible search this afternoon, Biblegateway. com or some such website. And search the New Testament for the word gossip, and you're going to find something astounding. It routinely appears on the list of most grievous sins. When the New Testament writers are cataloging the worst possible things that humans can do: murder, adultery, etc. , gossip is on those lists. It doesn't seem to us to rise to the level of murder, of adultery, but it sure did to the New Testament writers. They always put it on those lists. Why? Because it disrupts the peace. It disrupts the unity. It tears apart the fabric of Christian society. It rips apart churches. When we hear gossip, we should not be asking ourselves, oh, could this actually be true? No. The question is Is this a verifiable, confirmable fact? If not, then it shall not suffice. Now I know that doesn't sit well with us in one sense. But again, I'm going to ask you to stay with. You're going to see as we come around the end of this sermon and come back around to all that is being said. That there's more going on here than just factual content. So our first point in the determination of historical truth is that gossip is not truth Let's keep reading. Deuteronomy 19:15. A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed, only on the evidence of two witnesses Or this is a Hebrew way of saying, better yet, three witnesses shall a charge be established Our second point this morning is that the determination of historical truth must be verifiable. It must be corroborated. It must be substantiated. Forget the bigger picture of the church for a moment and just boil this down to our marriages. Do you know how much marital strife would vanish if we abided by this simple reality? Honey, You said blue. No, I said red. No, you said blue. No, I know what I said, and I said red. Here's the biblical principle. If you can't verify it, if you can't substantiate it, if you can't provide a second confirmation, then there's no historical truth to be established there. Let it go. Drop it. And don't drop it with a muttering under your breath. Well, I know I said that. Why would I say blue? Blue's is stupid. Why would I say No The point here is that we sit there saying, well, I know what I said, I know what I heard. The whole point here is historical truths have to be verified. We don't believe just one testimony. We're not to accept that even our own testimony. You see the problem that underlies this? It's pride. Every person I've ever met, every person I've ever met, even the most ardent atheists out there, they will all confess. In the abstract, oh yeah, I can be wrong. Yeah, I'm not I'm not I'm not I'm not perfect, I'm fallible, I know that. But when it gets down to the nuts and bolts of a specific situation of saying right here, right now, I might be wrong. Were all the fonds. Remember the fonds from Happy Days? You know, he couldn't say he couldn't get the word out. I'm wrong. Honey, maybe you did say red and I just misheard you. I can't establish the historical accuracy of either position. Deer, I might have said blue, and maybe I just don't remember And like that, the strife is gone. If we will just admit that we don't know for certain what happened By the way, these kind of illustrations make it really hard to preach when your wife is in the congregation. Because now I've got to own this and live this. But isn't that the issue of pride right there? We have to be willing to be wrong about what we think we remember Of history. Truth, historical truth, has to be verifiable. Two or better yet, three witnesses. Point number three Historical truth must be carefully determined, particularly as it's more important Historical truth, important historical truth, must be carefully, diligently determined. Look down at verse 18 in that Old Testament reading. The judges shall inquire diligently. Those judges, which were set up back in Exodus eighteen, And now here in the Deuteronomy passage, we're being flushed out with some details, they were to hear more than one witness, but they were also to examine those witnesses very carefully. Yes, historical truth must be corroborated, but the quality of that corroboration matters. Even if there are two witnesses, doubts about either one of them is reason enough to pause. So where do we stand? Gossip is not truth. Historical truth must be corroborated. Historical truth must be diligently examined and carefully assessed. So let's pause for a moment and put these into practice. There's another point we're going to add in a minute here, but let's just pause. If you're at the water cooler at work and you hear a rumor that the boss has acted inappropriately toward the 21-year-old intern, That's not truth. Regardless of the factual accuracy, that does not suffice for you to convict in your own mind. You can't move forward with your future interactions with that boss based on that information alone. Now When the secretary comes forward and says that the same thing happened to her, human resources had better jump into action. Now we have corroboration. And let's take it to the next level. When a politician or a movie producer is accused by six, thirteen, twenty different women. That's a historical fact. At that point, it has got biblical grounds for believing it to be true. At that point, if we're going to begin to say, well, all those women are lying, we've got it. The burden of proof is not on us. Biblically speaking, when it is corroborated over and over and over again, it is true. And we must learn to live in light of that truth. When thirteen women are accusing some guy of whatever. Then historically speaking, biblically speaking, that man is a pig and must be thought of as such There is another application of these biblical principles. Historical truth is established positively That is, evidence must be presented for something, in support of something, not merely against something else. Twelve men testify to having walked on the moon. Six others will testify to the fact that they were orbiting the moon while it was happening. There are several thousand engineers who will say that they helped build the rockets and the landers and the communications that made it all possible. And there are hundreds who will testify to the fact that they were in the control room in Houston when Neil Armstrong stepped off that lander onto the moon. Yes, you may have found a website that can poke holes in all of that. But that's not how truth is established, biblically speaking. Biblically speaking, truth requires a witness to testify. Is there even one who will say, I was in the room when the conspiracy was conceived, when they all agreed to lie and to fake the landing? I saw it happen. Do you see the difference between a conspiracy theory and historical fact? Conspiracy theories are built on naysaying, tearing down another. But biblically speaking, if you can tear down A, that doesn't make not A true. It must be built up with positive evidence This matters. This matters to us as Christians. That we would hold to conspiracy theories is not a trivial thing. Stop and think about it for a moment. The unbelieving world out there thinks that the resurrection of Jesus is the greatest conspiracy of all time. When we question the moon landing, deny the Holocaust, support anti-vaxxers, imagine that Paul McCartney died, but Elvis didn't. When we get behind that kind of stuff, we damage the glory of Jesus Christ and his power over death. We must be careful handlers of truth, if for no other reason that we don't want to give a toehold to anyone who would say that Jesus' followers faked the resurrection. We are ambassadors for the most important truth in history. If we follow every conspiracy out there, it looks like the resurrection is just one more of them. The biblical principle for historical truth is that it is established by the testimony of witnesses corroborating each other. Conspiracies do not, they cannot do that. We must live in the truth, not in conspiratorial lies. Historical truth is not established by gossip, it needs corroboration. And an important historical truth must be examined diligently and carefully. Now here is that fourth principle I said was coming. Look back at Exodus 18, verse 21. Moreover, look for able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bribe, and place such men over the people. Those who judge others must themselves be judged worthy. This is exactly the principle we see Paul giving to Timothy and Titus in the New Testament. That elders must be men abo above reproach. They must be men of good character. They must not be uh drunkards or else they will make bad decisions. They must not be lovers of money or else they will make false decisions and be susceptible to bribes. The elders in the church must be these kind of men And so the question becomes, is he a godly man? Is he is he a careful man? Is he a wise man? Does he appear to be living according to biblical standards? When you look at this man, do you say to yourself, I wish my life were more like his? I wish I obeyed God the way He does And that's why we submit ourselves to that, to those to such men, to those men. That's why we follow their judgments, heed their opinions. It is supreme arrogancy to look at the session of a church, to look at its elders And say all of those godly men are wrong, and I'm right And some of you will be thinking to yourself, well, that's easy for you to say, Pastor, you're one of the elders. I will tell you, I can list specific examples. where every single one of your elders has submitted to the others in the room. Where he believes that what we are doing is actually wrong. But the other elders don't agree with him. He does not see himself as being above their judgment. And he submits and goes along. Every single elder of this church, and by the way, of my previous church, at one point or another. Has done exactly that. We must be in submission to those whom God puts over us. That was the point of our New Testament reading. We must recognize that it is God who ordains. And we must Follow. How did Paul say in Romans 13? Whoever resists the authorities, resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. When the elders of your church say you sinned in doing X The prudent thing, the wise thing, is not to argue, but to repent. The same applies, of course, in the civil arena. God, when he was establishing elders in Israel, was doing so for the sake of civil government also. Historical truth is to be determined by trustworthy people, diligently examining the evidence, requiring at least two independent corroborations. So, as believers in the truth himself, as those who desire to live in the truth, we must submit to this system of judgment If a court says that a man is guilty of murder, he is guilty. When a presidential commission says that Oswald shot President Kennedy, he shot President Kennedy And when 63 courts agree on the outcome of any historical event, then we know the truth of that historical event. In his word, God has showed us. How we can know historical truth through trustworthy people examining the evidence and making a decision about it diligently and carefully. Y'all are a smart group, and so I have no doubt that at least a few of you are thinking to yourselves, but wait a second here, Pastor. Even the best court, even the most well-intentioned people can get things wrong. How can that be the truth if it's factually wrong? Let me offer a quick illustration, and then I will get back around to answering that question. I shared this before, but I can't ever come up with a better illustration, so I'll use it again. My high school pet band was sight reading a new piece of music. The student director missed the little retardando over the last what six measures or whatever it was, and kept going the same pace right to the end Most of the band, including the teacher who was playing the sousaphone in the back row, most of the band followed the student director at the same pace to the end. The first trombone saw the retardando and loudly and dramatically slowed down as we ended. And what happened? Well the wheels came off and all fell apart and it sounded terrible Who was right? Factually, the first trombone was, wasn't he? The retardando was there. The director jumped to the defense of the student director. The teacher, van teacher, jumped to the defense of the student director. Because had we gotten it wrong together, we'd have sounded okay. Had we stayed in harmony, had we stayed together, had we followed our leadership, even when they were wrong? We'd have sounded better. So whose goat is it That nanny goat, which sustained Hannah and her son, which Leah stole, whose goat is it? What is the historical truth? How should that society move forward? What is the basis for future actions? If we follow the principles set forth in the Bible, Hannah would take her complaint to the elders, to those established by Moses to settle disputes among the people. Those elders would hear Hannah's accusation against Leah. She stole my goat They would examine the situation diligently, and they would ask Hannah if she has any corroboration for her accusation And what would they do? What should they conclude? Look back with me at our Old Testament reading in the bulletin, Deuteronomy 19, 15. Look back with me at that verse. A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense. That he has committed. Did you catch that that verse assumes the guilt of the party? It doesn't say of any offense he's accused of committing, or that he may have committed. It's saying he committed it. But because there's only one witness against him, you should not convict him. It's not easy to accept, but the goat belongs to Leo It goes against every fiber of my being. I tend to be a guy who really likes justice and that feels unjust to me. And a younger Scott probably would have snuck out it in the dark and stolen the goat from Leah and given it back to Hannah. And I've been wrong to do so. The court said it belonged to Leah. Acting in good faith, following the biblical principles that are set forth, they establish the truth that the goat is Leah's What's Hannah to do This is the people of God, period. There isn't a church down the block. They're in the wilderness. There's no place to go. And she feels like she's been done wrong, and since she has been done wrong, she has no choice Life is found only in the people of God. Life is found only in submission to His Word and to His law and to His rules. She has to live at peace in that society. God knew full well that even the best elders would make wrong decisions, catastrophically wrong decisions. Nevertheless, he ordained a system of determining historical truth, which rests upon such elders and such courts doing the best they can. And here's what we struggle to understand. In the long run, we're better off accepting a wrong done to us Then we are walking away from the body of Christ. The greatest wrong of all time Was the ruling of a court that Jesus of Nazareth deserved death And more than any other person in history, he had the power within himself to overturn that court's ruling. But for the sake of peace, peace between God and man, he accepted a wrong verdict and bore the price. In so doing, he trusted the Father to work it out for his own good. Not taking matters into his own hands. We as the body of Christ should mimic his prioritization of peace. We should mimic the faith he showed in the Father, believing in the end it will all work for our good. We all love that verse in Romans 8. It's on our refrigerator magnets, it's on our pillows, it's on our bumper stickers, all things work together for good But it can't possibly mean that when something I don't like goes down. That can't be it. I gotta fix that The truth himself, the truth personified, submitted to factual error in the service of a greater truth. When we are unwilling to do the same, it may indicate that we don't really understand the gospel. We should never imagine that historical truth resides in gossip. We should never we should always understand that it needs to be substantiated and corroborated. We should diligently examine the evidence about historical reality, and we should always submit to the men whom God ordains over us Perhaps most importantly of all, we have to prioritize our subjection to authority. That what got us into this mess in the first place was our unwillingness to accept God's authority over us. That at the tree we said to ourselves, what right does he have to tell me what I can and cannot eat? The same question stands before us today. Will I accept the authority that God places over my life Or will I fight it? Argue against it. Dig in my heels. Cause disruption. Rend the body of Christ and the social fabric therein for the sake of my pride. We've got to join Hannah and say with conviction the goat belongs to Leah. Let's pray. Lord, this is hard. This is hard teaching. We are not prepared in ourselves to accept it readily. To go along quietly, to be at peace with decisions we just know are factually incorrect. Help us. We can't do this on our own. Work humility in us that we will admit that maybe we don't know what's best. And in the midst of a dark time, in the midst of a time when when there's when the world seems to be going against us, when our own church maybe seems to be going against us, you are still in control. And you will work this for our good. Help us to believe that. Help us to remember that that is why Christ stayed on the cross For the joy set before him, for the hope of reconciliation between you and us, he endured great wrong done to him. Let us be like him, even in this way. We pray this for his glory and in his name. Amen.