We begin this sermon series, what, seven weeks ago now, eight weeks ago, something like that. We begin by noting the fundamental importance. Truth. We saw how John's gospel opens by saying that Jesus is the Word. He is the Logos It is that Greek idea of the underpinning, the fundamental support behind everything. That Jesus, in Jesus, all things hold together, Paul told the uh church in Colossae, and we've seen that in John's Gospel. We saw how John recorded for us that True worshipers would worship in the truth. That Jesus wanted his followers to walk in the truth, that Jesus claimed to be the truth. And we opened with Jesus' trial before Pontius Pilate, wherein he told Pontius Pilate that he had come to bear witness. To the truth. It was the central reason for his life. The truth is incredibly important. We also saw that the truth has a personal element to it We asked the question, why is there a tea kettle of water boiling on the stove? Well we said, oh sure you could talk about the chemical reaction of natural gas and oxygen and heat being released and molecules moving faster, but ultimately Truth is personal. There's a tea kettle boiling on the stove because I want oatmeal for breakfast And we saw that in one sense all of truth goes back to the person of Jesus Christ and what he wanted. And what pleased him. Truth is personal. Now our world recognizes that. We we Spent a few uh a little while dabbling our toes in some philosophy and seeing how the world has drawn the conclusion that you must live by faith. Nothing can be proved with certainty, not even our own individual existence. And so that we have to make an assumption of some truth and build our lives Off from that. We saw how the philosopher Soren Kierkegaard called that a leap of faith. But we also saw that there is a better way. That rather than blindly leaping into something and hoping it's true, that we ought to actually seek out that which has some warrant, some justification, some logical basis for believing it. And so we looked in like the third or fourth week of the series at how the Bible has great warrant for believing it. It's not illogical at all to hold to the Bible as the starting place, the fundamental truth upon which we build our lives. We came back around to that theme last week and looked at one particular thing in some more detail. The outrageous claim of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That the Bible, Christianity, lives or dies with that claim And we saw that there is phenomenal historical reasons to believe it to be objectively true. We don't hold to the resurrection as some metaphor for hope and new life. We hold to the resurrection because it happened. And if that amazing thing turns out to be true, then we would be fools not to look at all the rest. That Christianity has to say to us. And so we have been wrestling with this question of truth this summer. And we conclude that series this morning by asking this question How do we live in the truth? How do we live in the truth? If the truth is that important, if it is so central to Christ's ministry, if it's what he wanted his followers to walk in, how do we do it? How do we actually execute? That. I invite you to open your Bibles to the third epistle of John. I'm throwing a curveball. I know what the bulletin says. But as I kept trying to pull together a sermon by what the bulletin says, and I kept getting kicked back to 3 John. We're going to go with 3 John. Open your Bibles to the third epistle of John. Revelation is the last book of the Bible. Right before that is Jude. Right before that is third John. I also am drawn here, I think it fits our series extremely well. I think it addresses this question better than any other scripture, but I also have to admit I've been in the church 57 years. I don't think I've ever heard a sermon on 3 John. And I thought, huh, it's a great opportunity to preach this little book of the Bible. I may never have another opportunity like this So here we are looking at 3 John. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible, including the little books like 3 John, to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. If you want to know the truth and how to walk in the truth, then you have to know this book. So hear now the word of Almighty God. And since we have not prepped this book study the way we do some others, I will intersperse the reading of 3 John with a few comments about it, and then we'll come back and look at the sermon from it. Third John beginning in verse one. The elder to the beloved Gaius The elder has traditionally been held to be the Apostle John, and we'll see in a moment why he calls himself the elder rather than the apostle Gaius is a common name in the ancient world, and we're not sure which Gaius this is, but we think he was probably an elder in the church of Ephesus. Hence John's use of the title elder. He is relating to this man. He is not coming to him and saying, Well, I'm an apostle and above you, but rather with you, I am a fellow elder, servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. the elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. And there you see that key word and why I was drawn here. You'll see it some more. Beloved, and that is how John in his first letter addressed the church, but here is singular, he's speaking to this one man Gaius. Beloved beloved I pray that all may go well with you, and that you may be in good health as it goes well with your soul For I rejoice greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth. As indeed you are walking in the truth, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, who testify to your love before the church You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God. For they have gone out for the sake of the name, that would be the name of Jesus. accepting nothing from the Gentiles. That was an early term for unbelievers. Therefore, we ought to support people like these that we may be fellow workers for the truth. I have written something to the church that Deotrephis, who likes to put himself first does not acknowledge our authority. So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us Not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church. Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God, whoever does evil has not seen God. And that verse alone would be reason enough to think John wrote this. That is echoing the language of his first epistle. Verse 12. Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone and from the truth itself John has guided Gainus away from this man named Diotrepus and points him instead to this man Demetrius We're not sure, but probably Demetrius was one of the leaders of this traveling group of preachers that we're going to learn more about in a moment. We also have our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true. I have much to write to you. But I would rather not write with pen and ink. I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face. Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends, each by name. Holy Spirit, though it was the pen of John who wrote this letter, we understand that it was you who were who was behind it. Who led him to write it, who set it forth in his mind, who inspired it and made it true. And so we ask for your help in understanding it. We see the truth stated over and over and over again here, and we recognize how important that was to John and to this man Gaius. We recognize how important it is for us. And so we ask that you would help us to come to understand how to be like Deus, a man who walks in the truth, who lives in the truth. That we might please you even the way he pleased John. For this grace in our lives, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. John, as you can understand full well, studied under Jesus. In fact, he was the one who was the disciple whom Jesus loved. There was some kind of special relationship there. John was probably the youngest of the disciples, almost certainly the youngest of the disciples. And maybe Jesus took a just a he had a tender spot in Jesus' heart because he was this young man and learning so much and soaking it up. Whatever the case, there was a neat relationship there And John has turned around now in his old age and seems to have that same sort of relationship with this man Gaius, whom he calls beloved. Whom he loves in a special way. And he is excited here that Gaius is walking in the truth. John takes great joy that Gaius is walking in the truth. I promise you that I, as your pastor and my fellow elders with me, that is what we want. For you, for all of us here at Shore Harvest, to be men and women, brothers and sisters who walk in the truth, who are known for standing in the truth. Of whom these things might one day be said about us. And so we look at this epistle of 3rd John as a way perhaps for us to better understand How to live lives in the truth. There are only 15 verses in 3 John, and the word truth is used five times. The word true is used once, and the word faithful is used once. Seven times in 15 verses, there is this idea of the importance of that which is true. It mattered to John, it must matter to us. Gaius walked in the truth. Diotrathus did not. The latter man, John rejects, the former he commends and calls beloved. Jesus told Pontius Pilate that his followers would walk in the truth. We want to be more like Deus. We want to be good followers of Jesus. So let's see what we can draw out of this. What can we, what lessons can we learn? We're gonna see basically. finesse a few more out of here, but I would argue that in essence there are four things we need to draw. Two of them are stated in the positive. Two ways that we ought to be more like gaists. And two ways in which we ought to be less like the Diotrephis. I I was mispronouncing his name in my head all week, and I'm going to mispronounce it today. My apologies So the first thing, the first positive statement we see is that that which is the tribe of Gaius, walking in the truth Means listening to others. Walking in the truth means we have to listen to others. Look at verses 5 and 6. The love, that is Gaius, it's a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are, who testified to your love before the church. Now let's see if we can make a little sense of this. In the early church, they did not, and that's going to be shocked to you, they didn't have social media. They didn't even have the internet I know. I know. I know. It's tough. And so communication was a problem. They didn't even have the printing press. Books were outrageously expensive. A single copy of the Old Testament would run you roughly the equivalent of today, about $80,000. Many churches did not even have a copy of the Bible. And they were somewhat isolated. The Christian community was tiny. And so it was these individual small churches isolated from one another Could easily go astray. They could be wrestling with the doctrine of Christianity and misunderstanding it and not know that they were misunderstanding it. Because they had nothing to check themselves against. And so it seems we have other places where we draw these conclusions, but for sure here, it seems that there were traveling preachers who would go from town to town and share the truth of the Word of God, so that things could be communicated between these different churches in a way as to refine their doctrine, to refine their understanding, to strengthen them. See, we've got to remember, when this is being written, the New Testament doesn't exist. So they've got the Old Testament, maybe. Probably had to go to the synagogue to read it. And by this point, some of them are being kicked out of the synagogue, so they may not even have the Old Testament. So these traveling preachers became a valuable way for the truth to be disseminated within the church. So the local elders would hear some preacher come in, perhaps with a note from John or Paul or Peter saying, hey, this guy is trustworthy, you should listen to him. And he would get up and preach And the elders of that church would go, hmm, that is not at all how we were thinking about that. And you'd have to refine your thinking. You'd have to rethink what you thought about the doctrine. And that seems to be what's going on here. Gaya seems to openly accept that. He wants to walk in the truth. He's willing to admit, hey, I might be wrong about some of these things. Though I am an elder in the church, though I'm ordained by God, that doesn't make me infallible. I have to hear What my fellow brothers and sisters in the Lord have to say about these things. Iron sharpens iron. Gaius wanted to walk in the truth, and so he welcomed these men, though they were strangers apparently, unknown to him. And from that we draw an obvious conclusion. If we are going to live lies in the truth, it must be lies of consensus. Lives of listening to one another, of hearing other believers and what they have to say about the Word of God. You know, there's a reason that in the Christian community we have multiple different publishers who have put out international commentaries on the Bible. Shocking as it may be, we Americans have not quartered the market on Christianity. And so there are learned, wise godly men and women in the what seem to us the far-flung places of the globe, who have thought about the Bible, who have prayed with the Bible, who have wrestled with it, who have studied it, and they have things to say about it. And in these international commentary series, we get multiple viewpoints. But it's not just a question of multiple nationalities or ethnicities. We have to also be open to the idea of the fact that there are brothers and sisters who love the Lord as much as we do, maybe more than we do, who don't call themselves Presbyter. But that one set in for sink in for a moment. And so it was a few years ago. That I was blessed to be part of a small Bible study here at the church where a couple of your deacons and elders got together and we studied a book written by a Baptist seminary professor. Was it because we give it up on Presbyterianism? Not at all. But rather we recognize that there are other views on these things. And guess what? He had some amazing things to say about the church. And those of us who were part of that study, I think, would say to a man, we were blessed to learn from him We must be open to hearing truths about the Word of God from others. Christianity has never been me and my Bible. It has never been just me and God. There is no such thing as a lone ranger Christian who just goes it alone out there and gets it all right all the time. That's utter foolishness. Now, I don't want to go too far the other way. Let's put this into context. Is John just saying we should listen to everyone indiscriminately? Well, I don't think he wants Gaius to listen to this diatrophies fellow, does he? Pretty clear that's not a guy he should be listening to. So there are some limits on this. There are people we ought not entertain How do we decide? How do we know who we should listen to and who we shouldn't? Well, when in doubt, the scriptures always take us back to the person's lifestyle. What did Jeffro a few weeks ago we saw how did Jethro counsel um uh Moses, the young Moses? He said, find men of good reputation. Men who are regarded in the community, men who hate bribes and make them judges over the people. How does Paul instruct the young preacher, Timothy? How do you find an elder in the church? Find a man of a good reputation. A man whose wife loves and respects him, a man whose children listen to him don't listen to Drew. You look at the lifestyle of the person. And if there's a godliness there, if there's a wisdom there, then you say maybe I can learn something from them. Maybe I should be open to being instructed. We must, if we're going to walk in the truth, admit that we will never get there on our own. And we must hear what others have to say about the truth Let's keep going through this, looking at verse 6b, and then also in verse 8. What do we read there in 6b? You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God. And in verse 8 Therefore, we ought to support people like these that we may be fellow workers for the truth. John does not just commend Gaius for listening to these preachers. He also commends Gaius for supporting these preachers. For furthering their work, for putting them up while they were in Ephesus, for feeding them, for giving them money for their journey, for sending them on their way in good shape. Gaius also supports The preaching of the Word of God. He does not merely listen to it. I commend you for that very same thing, for supporting the proclamation of the truth. With your prayers, they are deeply appreciated. Thank you for praying so faithfully for your church. I commend you for the way that you give of your time and of your money to arrive as early as I do on Sunday morning and find five or six others here before me. Is is a blessing. I know sometimes you feel like it's not appreciated because I don't say it like I ought to, but it's a blessing To see you caring about your church and supporting its effort to proclaim the truth of God. Your giving, your sacrifice, your service in support of the preaching of the truth. Many years back, my parents were moving. It's not uncommon that there are things that have got to be done in the place that you're moving from, and there are things that have got to be done in the place you're moving to And so my mom went on ahead, dad stayed behind while they each took care of the business in the different places. And mom went to a local church a few times, and she said the first week She said she went, it was the people were wonderfully friendly, uh uh uh the music was excellent, she she was the sermon was was uh easy to listen to, and she and so she went back the next week. But she she said all week long During the week, something was bothering her. She went, I couldn't even put my finger on it, but there was something not right in that church. She went back the next week, had another great experience And in the middle of the sermon, it dawned on her. This was the second consecutive week where the pastor, the preacher, did not even open the Bible. The sermon were his thoughts about what ought to be good rather than the word of God. You would never put up with that, and I thank you and commend you for it. John says to Gaius, you have been one who has supported the preaching of the truth, of the Word of God. These men did not come to preach their feelings, they came to preach God's word, and you got behind them. For that Deus is commended, for that you are to be commended. Kindness is wonderful, but it's not the most important thing. Music is a phenomenal blessing, and it is incredibly important, but it's not the most important thing We have to be behind as supporters of truth proclaimers, adherents to faithful preaching. By the way, not for nothing. Did you catch what John said to Gaius about that? Did you catch the end of verse 8? By supporting those who preach the truth, we become, what does he say, fellow workers for the truth. One of the great blessings of the Protestant Reformation was the idea of the value of vocation, no matter what it was. The preacher alone, the priest alone, is not the one who works for God alone. Oh, his work for God may be more obvious. Well without carpenters and doctors and teachers and plumbers, there'd be no way to support the work of the church. When we support our church, we are together co-workers for the truth. John tells Gaius. What could be better than that? Now we see some examples of how we ought not to live. How what it what living in the truth does not look like. He's told us a couple of things about this man Gaius, and now we're going to learn a couple of things about the counterpart Diodrismus. Look in verse 9. I have written something to the church, but Diocratus, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. Why is John writing this letter to an individual? His first epistle was to a body of believers and the pronouns are plural. His second epistle seems to have been to a house church and many of the pronouns are plural. This one is to an individual and all the pronouns are singular Why? Well, it appears that he tried to write to the church, and this diocratus intercepted the letter, got a hold of it before it got to the church. And said, who is this, John? An apostle? I don't care. We're not going to listen to him. And set it aside so it wouldn't get to the church. And so John is writing to this elder Gaius We see in Gaius the model of what we ought to do, and we see in Diotrephus the example of what not to do. And what was Diotrephus doing besides the fact that he was squelting the truth? If we read there, he was talking wicked nonsense against us, probably against John and Gates. And that's a lesson we ought to take right there. If we want to walk in the truth, it starts with speaking sense, not nonsense. Sense. Things that make sense. Things that actually fit in with reality. Things that accord with what we see around us. Things that accord with the foundation we have in the scriptures. I used the illustration last week of moon landing deniers. They speak nonsense Because all of the evidence is in favor of the reality that 12 men walked on the moon. It happened. And so it is with the resurrection. Those who would speak against it, it's a historical reality, historical certainty. We can be as sure of it as any other fact from the ancient world. To speak against it is to speak nonsense. At a minimum, to be those who adhere to the truth begins with what we see way back in our first sermon, the idea of the correspondence. Truth ought to align with what is in reality. Truth of that is also not just historical, but doctrinal. There are going to be certain doctrines that are hard to take. But when we begin to look at the scriptures and page after page after page, we begin to see the same thing. We've got to change our doctrine so that it aligns with the truth. Otherwise, we speak nonsense. God called Abraham. Abraham did not go looking for God. God found Moses out tending the sheep at the burning bush. Moses did not go looking for that bush. to be on fire. Gideon was not lining up to lead God's army. David did not want to be king. Elijah never asked to be a prophet. Peter, John, and Paul never said, hey, I want to be an apostle At some point, if we keep saying, well, God's just up there waiting for me to come to him, we're speaking nonsense. If we're going to be in the truth, what we say has to align with the Word of God. Here, of course, is the problem, right? Most people who speak nonsense don't want to admit that they're speaking nonsense. They're trying to say, well, no, I'm right, and you are the one who's messed up So how do we move one who is speaking nonsense to a place where they would understand that they're speaking nonsense? Sometimes I'm not sure we can. It's a sad state of affairs in America right now. As most of you know, I spent a big chunk of my early adult life in the educational system. We've got a few of you here who are still a part of it. I think you would testify to the same thing. I'm astounded By the turn we've taken toward never telling anybody they're wrong about anything And then we're shocked when we've got a culture that can't admit that it's wrong about something. So if you misspell a word, we'll just label that creative. If 2 plus 2 equals 5, but you're close to that for try. But there are things that are just wrong. And we have to be willing to admit that we're wrong, or else we risk speaking nonsense. To all of us who work with little ones, whether as grandparents or parents, perhaps as Sunday school teachers, whatever the venue. I'm not recommending harshness. I'm not saying that you ought to scream wrong every time a kid makes a mistake. But I do think we ought to be training them to graciously accept the fact that they're going to be wrong occasionally. I know they're really cute right now, and it's hard to believe, Grandma. But that grandchild is gonna be wrong, I can't tell him. And if we teach them to be wrong with grace, we will keep them from being nonsense speakers. And there is great value in that. Diotrepies, uh um uh uh diotrapus, see I know the floor gotta mispronounce his name. Also opposed the very work for which Gaussi was commended. Not only does he not welcome these traveling preachers, but he drives out of the church those who would. So he's not only not supporting their work, he's openly opposing their work. In the end, it's his view or no view. It's his way or the highway. He doesn't want to submit to anyone else's view. He's unwilling to hear another side of the story. I will warn you, as I have in the past, that while social media is not inherently evil, it's got great value in many ways. We have to have the wisdom to recognize how it's set up. It's designed to give you what you want to hear. To give you more of the saying so that you'll click some more, so they can sell more advertising dollars. They don't care a whit about whether or not you're refining your understanding of the truth They only care that you're clicking and they're getting advertising dollars. Are you doing anything to hear the other side of any issue We're in the midst of a political season. Maybe, just maybe, we shouldn't let Fox News define liberals. And maybe we shouldn't let NPR define informatives. There might be some value in actually listening to somebody else. Do we find our own understanding? For sure that's true in doctrine and in biblical studies and in theology. We've got to be open to the others. Our fourth point is that we must never reject authority. Gaius was willing to listen to the preaching of the truth. He went further and supported the preaching of the truth. Diotre was unwilling to do that and he would refuse to listen to the other side and we also see that he refused to submit. To authority. Look back at verse 9. I have written something to the church, but Diodratus, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. I once encountered, it's a true story, I once encountered a church woman in a coffee shop, and I stopped by her table to say hello, and she was working on a Bible study. Wonderful. I know many people in this church and other churches will have Bible studies beyond their church, right? Maybe a Bible study at work, maybe one in your neighborhood. Those are good things. Didn't recognize the Bible study she was working on it, being a part of the church we were at, we were a part of. So I asked her, oh, what are you doing there? Her answer just floored me. I was completely unready for what she said. I'm preparing a Bible study to do in my home where the elders can't tell me what to say. I didn't know what to say. I didn't know how to respond. The only thing going through my head was, what? Are you kidding me? You don't get to sin in private because it's your own home. You can't have an affair in your own bedroom and tell the elders to butter off. You can't abuse your children at home and tell the elders it's none of their business. Sin in private is still sin. By the way, I wish I just said that. As bad as it was, I said nothing at all. But think about that. I knew she was a member of that church. She'd taken a vow to submit herself to the governance of that church. But her point was they're not going to tell me what to say about the Bible. Brothers and sisters, if you ever find yourself tempted to feel that way, to say that kind of thing. Remind yourself of Diocratus. John says he will not acknowledge our authority. He is therefore the evil example that gave us not the fault. I mentioned that we're going to be starting a new Sunday school class next week. John is an intelligent man. Fairly well read, got some wisdom to him. He's a deacon in our church, he's ordained by God. Guess what? He submitted what he wanted to do to the elders There has, so long as I'm aware, there has never been a Sunday school class or a sermon series even presented in this church apart from the approval of the elders Because we have to? No! Because we get to. We get to submit. We get to have somebody else double check it for us. We get that assurance that maybe they'll catch us and we don't go wrong. For James warns us that who would ever teach is going to be subject to more judgment. Why would I risk more severe judgment before the Almighty without being willing to say to my brothers Am I on the right track here? No, the elders don't approve the content of every single sermon before I preach it, but they approve every sermon series And if I say something astray or go wrong in the pulpit, they let me know. Scott, last week you said this, do you really mean that? What a blessing! What a beautiful thing! Why would we not submit to the authority over us? Diotrepas would not acknowledge the authority of an apostle, and so he could not, was not walking in the truth. Gaius, by contrast, receives John's instruction, admits John's authority, and comes under John's tutelage, so that the beloved apostle calls Gaius beloved and commends him. To walk in the truth, we must hear the truth. We should support the truth. We should never be speaking nonsense or untruths. And we should never reject the authority over us. It is God Himself Who disciplines us through authority, who guides us and keeps us from harming ourselves and others. It's his church, not ours. To walk in the truth, we must walk in the Word of God, in the body of Christ, interpreted and handled by all of us through the wisdom to grasp us. Let's pray. Lord, keep us from going astray Keep us from wandering into nonsense. Keep us from ever rejecting authority. Let us be men and women who say we want to be guided by others. Into a better understanding, into a more refined understanding of the truth of your word. Lord, we wish to be like Gaius, not like Diatraphus. We don't want to be rejected by you someday. We want to hear you say, well done, you good and faithful servant. Give us the grace to submit to you in these things. It's in the name of Christ we pray. Amen.