Lord, we would ask that we would give more love to you by submitting ourselves now to your word, to understanding the essential role that it plays in our lives, that we would humble ourselves. and come under your instruction as a sign of our love and affection for you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You please be seated. This is not going to come as any tremendous shock to you, but I'm going to make this important statement. We human beings are susceptible to deceit. We tend to believe lies, whether it's magic diet pills or Bernie Madoff or the Nigerian prince who just needs your bank account information. We are easily pulled in by deception. If that weren't the case, if we weren't susceptible and liable to lies Well, there would be about 90% fewer political ads this season. We fall for what is false far too easily. Why is it that we so easily succumb to what is untrue? You ask that question in a room like this full of good Reformed Presbyterians, and somebody is bound to say it's because we're sinners. And we are, to be sure, sinners. And I think our sinfulness is why we will hold on to a lie longer than we should But I'm not sure it explains our inherent susceptibility to lies. Let me see if I can explain that. So I just recently came across some interesting research. Professor Nathan Walter at Northwestern University is a leading figure in the field of what's called neuropsychology. He and others have been studying this question of why human beings believe lies so easily. And what they are finding is that the world is simply too big for us to question everything. Rigorous skepticism would paralyze us. We would be functionally worthless. Just think about the first couple metypical morning. Alexa, what's the weather going to be today? And we get dressed accordingly. We believe whatever she says. Now imagine if we didn't. What would you do? How does Alexa know that? I wonder what weather model she's using Should I also check the weather channel? But I don't know what weather model they're using. And I don't even know if those weather models are valid. And what are they based on how the you could it would never be you would never end. We're back to the question of turtles all the way down. Where's the foundation? What do we believe? Our day starts with an act of faith. At its faith all day long. You see, what Professor Walter and the others are finding, what they're showing, is what we said from the beginning. You see, we're prone to believe whatever it is we're told. Professor Walter isn't saying that we're hardwired to believe lies. He's finding that we're simply hardwired to believe. And if we weren't, we couldn't function. Think about it this afternoon. Is this food safe to eat? I know my traffic light is green, but am I sure that theirs is red? Is it safe to go? We act on faith all the time, every day, because we cannot confirm everything, all the data that's out there. The world is an overwhelming place full of data. We have to be believers. It's kind of a weird thing to think about. Every day, in every way, we take as true a million data points which we couldn't verify if we had endless time and money. All our lives are lived on faith. Now, one of you might say to me, Pastor, that's interesting, but those scientists, they're studying sinful brains. They're researching the brains as they are today. Our first answer, therefore, Pastor, still stands. Our sinfulness is why we believe all these things we shouldn't believe because sin has messed with our brains. Again, it's true that sin has messed with our brains, but I think we need to dig a little deeper. In 1 Timothy, Paul writes Adam was deceived, but the woman was I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived, that is, she believed a falsehood. and became a transgressor. You see, Paul is telling Timothy, Eve didn't uh believe a lie, and I'm sorry, didn't bec didn't become a lie believer because she sinned. She sinned because she first believed a lie. Her susceptibility to deception predated her sinfulness. We were by default from day one, I guess day six, from day six, we were by default created as beings who believed what we were told. Now, why would God create us that way? Why would God make us inclined to believe wise and then call that good? He didn't. He didn't create us inclined to believe lies. He created us inclined to believe. We were supposed to walk in the garden with truth himself. We were supposed to walk with God the Son. We were supposed to ask Him why the sunset was red, why this or that happened, and He would tell us the truth. We were created to be believers because we were created to be in fellowship with the truth. We wouldn't have needed any skepticism. We wouldn't have needed any doubt. We wouldn't have needed to question anything we were told Had we simply walked in faithful fellowship with the truth himself? But we now live in a world of lies. Fellowship with the Father has been broken. It is being reconnected, re-established through Christ Reconciliation is happening, but until the new earth, we're not back to that identic state yet. And so we have to live in this world. We have to live here and now amongst all these lies, and yet we know the truth to be of paramount importance. Jesus told Pilate, He came to bear witness to the truth. The Proverbs tell us, I truth, and not let it go. And yet we are susceptible to falsehood. You see, that's why this sermon series matters so much. Now, think about this. Have you ever thought about how you know most of what you know? Have you ever thought about how you know what you know? So far as I can tell, there are only three sources of knowledge. Just three ways that you know anything. There is the conscience. Conscience with knowledge. We come pre-wired with a certain amount of inborn knowledge. Romans chapter 2, Paul says that even the pagans and the atheists, they convict themselves by their own conscience. We know, and this is moral knowledge, it's limited to moral knowledge. We know there is right and wrong in the world. You know, for all the screaming that the world does about how religion tramples personal freedom, it suppresses our desires, that Christianity stomps out the good pleasure of mankind That same world turns right around and imposes the most rigid and arbitrary set of moral standards upon us. We cannot live as immoral or amoral beings. We are inherently moral. And if you sin against the moral standards, you will never be forgiven. Don't ever run for office if you get one of those things wrong. You see, we may rebel at God's moral standards, but we are inherently moral beings. And this is a truth that transcends every culture, boundary, ethnicity, and people group that has ever been studied. Homo sapiens? Contemplative man, maybe Homo moralis? Absolutely. We are moral human beings. In addition to our conscience, we acquire knowledge. And hopefully truth through observation and experience. The sun rises, the day gets warmer We step into the shade, we're cooler. I'm going to guess it didn't take ancient man very long to figure out that the sun was a source of heat. That wasn't inborn. We didn't know that from the day we were born, but we learned it very quickly and easily through observation and experience. Obviously the list of the truths that we acquire in this way is long. You know, by observation we learn the truth that that sticky string we so often encounter turns out to be spider's silk. That the itchy bump on our arm, that's a mosquito bite. And of course, through observation and experience, it is self-evident that the sun goes around the earth. More on our observations next week. We are not done thinking about how we learn truth through our observations and experiences. Today I want us to focus on the third source of knowledge. I would argue it's the single most important way we know anything we know. For most of us, it's the single biggest in terms of volume by terms of the source of truth. It's one that we will not be done with just today. We will come back to it again later this summer. I'd like everyone, I don't do this very often, you're gonna have to just go along with me here. I need everybody to put a hand in the air right now. Everybody put a hand up. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, you resistors back there. It's like we're in an old camp meeting. I see that hand, is there another? Alright, now keep your hand up if you have first-hand experience of the Eiffel Tower. You've seen it with your own eyes, touched it, gone up in it, been there. Okay. Alright. Keep your hand up if you can say the same of the Great Wall of China. Two things we all know to be true, and after just two of them Look at how limited our experience of them is. I didn't even get into some of the more exotic things. I didn't ask which of you knows with your own eyes that there is a backside to the moon. I didn't ask which one of you has plumbed the depths of the ocean. I didn't ask which of you has seen an atom or a virus. You see my point? The vast majority of what we know, somebody else told us Somebody else made us aware of it. We don't actually know all that much through first-hand knowledge. We must be told what is true. The vast majority of truth comes to us through revelation. You see, our world is simply too big. It's too vast. It's too overwhelming to experience it all firsthand. Our knowledge of practically everything, from faraway planets To what is the healthiest diet? To the assassination attempt on a former president. All of those things we know to be true Through the testimony of someone else. Someone revealed it to us. We were told But just stop for a moment and let that sink in. It's actually a profound thing. The truths upon which we build our lives are known to us through others and not by first-hand knowledge. And I hope you're beginning to see the problem we face. The overwhelming majority of what we know is told to us by others, but we're susceptible to believe falsehood. Jesus said we must live in the truth, but most truth we know by what we're told, and we can't verify it on our own. Do you begin to see why I said a couple of weeks ago this may be the most important sermon series we ever consider? We are in an epistemological conundrum. We have to know the truth. But we come to know the truth through others. Like I said, we're going to come back to this and talk more about it later in the summer. Jesus said he came to reveal the truth. He said that we must live in the truth. He said he was the truth. And so we've got to look at how we get to know the truth. Now wait, that's not all the depressing or discouraging news for the morning. I've got some more bad news for you. You see, we're not the first people to face this issue of how we know things and how we can be sure of them. You've probably heard of the French mathematician and philosopher René Descartes. Descartes was struggling with this same epistemological doubt which is besetting us this morning. He asked himself, how can I be sure of anything? No for certain, even a single datum is true. And so he subjected everything he thought and everything he believed to radical doubt. Tore down everything he thought about the world. And he couldn't find an answer for a while. And it dawned on him: well, the very fact that I'm thinking about all these things, though I can't actually come up with an answer for them. That proves that I exist because I'm thinking about them. Hence the famous dictum, I think, therefore I am. Right about now you're having flashbacks back to why you hated freshman philosophy. Here's the problem. Turns out Descartes was wrong. David Hume, just a few years later, said, uh-uh. Thinking does not prove there is a thinker. It only proves there are thoughts. Descartes cannot know for certain that he's not thinking because another thinker is thinking of him thinking. Just because you think doesn't prove you exist. It just proves that thoughts exist. So there might be another thinker behind your thoughts, you're not really existing at all, they're dreaming of you thinking. An on it that goes back forevermore. And we're back to the question of turtles all the way down. What do we base anything on? Where's the foundation? Where do we get a grip on reality? How do we grasp hold of the truth? David Hume ripped the rug out from underneath the philosophical world. And it's 300 years since David Hume Almost. And to my knowledge, no one has been able to refute him. We live in a world Which cannot grasp hold of any concrete foundational truth But you can't live that way. You can't function in that way. To try to get through life as though there is nothing concrete and nothing that is absolutely true is impossible. A few have tried. Most of them either did extensive drugs, committed suicide, or just went mad. You can't live that way. So what do you do? Well, the Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard, he recognized this problem. And he said, you don't have to live like nothing's true, you just have to claim something as true and believe it and live, go forward from there. He called it his leap of faith Just find something to grasp hold of and build your life up from there. Now, while Kierkegaard, I think, a little bit I've read of him, I think he believed in absolute truth, but he laid the foundation. for what we live with today. For the idea that there is your truth and there is my truth That you have to construct what is true for you and I construct what is true for me. And even if they seem to contradict each other, we're going to allow them both to exist and both call themselves truth Because David Hume said there is no place we can grasp hold of anything concrete. Kierkegaard said you just got to take a hold of something, and the world has evolved to think that, well, we all can just take hold of whatever we want to take hold of. And that's the world we live in today. And I want to point something out. Not because this is going to move the needle in our broader culture, but because I want you To have a little bit of confidence in what you believe. The academic world, the intelligentsia, they mock Christianity. That you're going to say that Jesus is the truth, that Jesus is what holds everything together, that in him and through him and for him are all things? That's absurd. But what is their response? What is their answer? Well, we can't actually know any truth. We each just have to hold on to, claim some truth for ourselves. So just pick something, so long as it's not Jesus, and believe it. We get ridiculed for our position, but theirs is even more absurd. And that's why we live in a time where there is no contemplation, where there is no reflection. It's one of the reasons we love all the distractions of our smartphones and everything else. Because if we had to actually stop and look in the mirror and contemplate what our lives were right now. now we'd be back to being on drugs, committing suicide, or going mad. That's the world we live in. So, where do we go from there? There was a 20th-century philosopher named Elvin Pantaguff Uh-uh. He was a leading philosopher in the second half of the 2030, but he was also a Christian man. And he thought about these things from a Christian. He even published a book called Reform. I'm going to get it wrong now. Reformed epistemology. He was a Christian Reformed thinker. He's still a leading thinker. And he talked a lot about what he called warrant. He granted, he accepted what David Hume said. You can't prove anything on your own for sure. You have to live your life by faith. So you ought to live by faith in that which has the most warrant. It's the most faith-worthy thing. It is the most belief-worthy, confidence-worthy thing out there. Let me see if I can illustrate what he was talking about. The Christian apologist and a PCA brother with us named Francis Schaefer. Many of you have heard of him. He lived in the Swiss Alps for many years, and he used to use this illustration of the idea of Christian warrant for faith. You see, Schaefer would say, imagine yourself caught on some ledge, some precipice in the Swiss Alps. Night has fallen and there's a severe snowstorm swirling all around you. You cannot stay where you are. You will certainly freeze to death before morning comes. So, what do you do? Now you could, in the dark, feel around, find your way to the edge of the precipice, the edge of the ledge, and drop over the edge. In the hopes that maybe there's a ledge below that'll be sheltered from the storm. That's Kierkegaard. That's the leap of faith. That's the just find your way to some point and hope in it. But Schaeffer said That there's another way. He said, You're on this ledge in this storm, and all of a sudden, over the howling of the wind, over the crunching of the snow, you hear a voice call out to you. I see you. I know your predicament. I am familiar with your situation. Let me tell you where to go. There is a safe place. Let me talk you through it, and you can hide there till morning, and I will get you. Now Schaefer says you don't just jump off in the dark because a voice says to. You ask the voice questions. What is your name? If the boy says Yoder, he's lying, walk away. It's a name that maybe sounds Swiss, but there are no Yoders who live in that region of the Alps. But if he says his name is Mueller or Zimmerman or Braun, You can probably believe him. You then ask him information about this ledge that he claims to be familiar with. And if he's able to describe the boulders and the crevices and all the things that are around you with some accuracy, then you begin to think maybe he does know what he's talking about. And eventually you ask some questions, not to the point of absolute certainty. Because if you keep asking all night long, you're going to die in the storm. But you ask for a time until you have warrant, reasonable justification, logical validation to then do what he says. And he guides you to the edge of the precipice. You hang over in the dark. And you let go. And you fall on that ledge, and you're safe there till morning, and he comes and gets you. That's the idea of living a life of faith Not blindly in the manner of Kierkegaard, but with warrant, with reason behind it, with something upholding it. And I want to take a look very briefly at some of the warrant for believing the Bible, for letting it be the foundation for our lives. For taking this question of all this doubt about how we can know anything, how we can establish any truth, and saying we're going to take the Bible as our source of truth. And from that, build everything else. Seven quick arguments, and we will not spend very long on any of them. A couple of them we will revisit later in the summer. First of all, the Bible claims to be from God, what I might call the biblical argument for the warrant of believing the Bible. The Bible claims to be From God. It begins with God. It is with God. And everything in between is about God and claims to be from God. The apostles tend to have spoken for God. The Aprophets said they got their message from God. Moses met with God. And on and on and on the list goes Now you can say to yourself, and skeptics will say, but any book could claim to be from God, but I'll point out how few actually do. There really aren't that many books out there that claim to be from God. And if you're going to base your life on something, starting with something that says it's from the supreme being seems like a pretty good place to go. Now, by itself, that's not enough. By itself, that seems a little bit circular. But as we begin to think about the other reasons, as the external evidence begins to affirm the Bible, then all of a sudden the internal evidence becomes a little more convincing. So if we're going to look for some foundation for our lives, how did Schaefer say it? Ask who's talking to you. And when the one claims to be the supreme being of all the world, of all the cosmos, maybe that's worth listening a little more. Maybe there's some warrant to following that. All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for improvement, for correction, and for training in righteousness. In other words, the Scripture is a great foundation for life. That's the biblical argument in a nutshell. There is the documentary argument. Basically that goes like this. There is more evidence for the Bible from ancient history than any other book ever. Let me give you some comparisons When it comes to ancient manuscripts of Homer's Odyssey, I think there are like 40 in existence. We have over 15,000 manuscripts testifying to the New Testament The oldest extant copies of Plato's Republic go back to about 600 years after Plato. The earliest test uh fragments pointing to the validity of the New Testament, 40 years after the writing of the New Testament. When we talk about the documentary evidence for the news for the Bible, we are talking about the fact that that book in your lap, that that Bible on your phone You can be sure it is what was originally written down. We have phenomenal proof of that Between the Leningrad Codex of the Old Testament and the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's over a thousand-year gap between them And when that was discovered, it was assumed there'd be just difference after difference after difference after difference. And you know what the differences are? Spelling I'm not kidding. Thousand years and the copies of the Old Testament are as reliable as they ever were. You can be confident there is warrant in believing that the Bible in your lap is the scripture actually given from God to man. There is the historical argument, Schaefer said, that this voice ought to be able to describe everything around you if he knows what's going on. Does God, does the Bible describe accurately his this is an interesting one. You see, with the explosion of archaeology in the late 18th century, modern man had his first objective insight into the ancient world. And modern man utterly forgot that while the data is objective, the interpretation is subjective. Archaeology, drawing conclusions from archaeology, is a bit like having maybe a hundred words out of a history book randomly taken from different chapters and then trying to reconstruct all of history from those hundred words It only has little tiny snapshots of information. So for about a hundred years, archaeology found no evidence of King David. None. And most academics were beginning to conclude that David was the Hebraic King Arthur, the thing of legend, of myth. Until the late 1960s, an 8th century B. C. , tablet was on earth that made reference to the house of David. And on and on and on the list goes. There is no, and I'm not kidding about this, there is no archaeological evidence for camels in Canaan at the time of Abraham. The Bible talks about Abraham having lots of camels. But then we're reminded the Bible also says he didn't come from Canaan. He came from Mesopotamia. And guess what archaeology has just recently found? There is evidence of domesticated camels in Mesopotamia at the time of Abraham. So imagine that. He took camels with him to Canaan. If you did through a junkyard in Easton 100 years from now, you're not going to find any right-hand drive cars. But I've seen some on the road. Just because you don't find it in the historical evidence doesn't mean it didn't exist. And as it turns out, and well of course, by the way, we also got to remind ourselves: what happens? For the mid-part of the 20th century, when many of you and many of us were young people, every time archaeology disproved the Bible, that made the front page of the newspaper. Twelve years later, when they realized that they had misinterpreted the data, when they realized that it was a premature conclusion and they had to do a retraction, did that make the front page? No. That's on page C17. And so we have this appearance that archaeology, that science undermines the Bible. But it really doesn't. More and more and more, we're seeing it affirmed and confirmed. There is a warning right here. We must have the humility that we're asking the archaeologists to have. We must be willing to admit that our interpretation of things is not always correct either. So, for example, It turns out there is no geological evidence for a worldwide flood, at least not yet. What do we do with that? Well, it turns out if we go back and read Genesis carefully Moses speaks of all the world coming to Pharaoh to get food. Do we really think somebody sailed down from Britain to Egypt to get food during that famine? It's hyperbole. Moses speaks of all the world coming under, I can't remember there was some other, coming under some promise. In context, it's just Canaan. Moses is an easterner, not a westerner. He doesn't speak in the literal terms that we use. Perhaps when he says all the world was under a flood, he means all of that area. And there is a lot of geological evidence for that We have and I'm by the way, I there are some reasons, I'm not going to get into it all. I could be very wrong about that view also. So, but my point is this. When we take our interpretation of the Bible and make it sacrosanct, we have put ourselves above the Bible. We must always be willing to be reinterpreted. and to re understand. Reformed and always reforming. So we have the the uh uh uh The the uh uh uh lost my place. Um sorry Anyway, um moving on. A fourth argument for the warrant in believing the empirical argument. This is the argument from experience. People read the Bible. They come to believe the Bible, and it radically changes their lives. They experience the Bible. We have to be careful with this one. There are a lot of things that can radically change your life. Becoming a vegan will radically change your life. It would radically change mine anyway. But that's not quite the same as the change that something happens when we encounter the Bible. Veganism doesn't cause murderers to repent. Veganism doesn't cause thieves to give back their loot. The Bible does. It upends people's lives, and that grants to it some warrant for belief. Now we have to be careful. We have to admit, Islam has the same impact. Many people have radically turned around their lives and created a more moral existence because of Islam. But that shouldn't upset us overly much either. For if the Bible is true, and if it does in fact change lives, then we fully expect Expect that the father of lies would duplicate it, would imitate it, would create something like it So the fact that the Bible changes lives doesn't prove that it's true, but it does give us some warrant for believing it. It claims to be from God. It claims to show us how to be reconciled to God. It ought to actually cause some of those things to happen. And it does. And there is the logical argument. In short, it is this. If you take the most liberal anti-Bible view, You're going to conclude that the Bible was written over about 800 years, give or take. Most conservative scholars would argue the Bible was written across 1,500 years. But either way, that's a long time span for it to all agree with itself, for it to follow the same thread of thinking. Oh, there are a few hiccups and bumps here and there that we do have to wrestle with. But all in all, the Bible is consistent, and you're looking at somewhere upwards of 40 different human writers across 1500 years. The fact that there is a logical thread through the Bible is shocking. And it is warrant to believe it. The next two are perhaps my favorite The sixth one I want to briefly touch on, and again we will come back to both of these later in the summer, is the anthropological argument. Anthropology is the study of humanity. You ever stop to think about how the Bible handles its anthropology? All the belief systems out there All of those different things that vie for our attention, which call out to us, hey, believe in me, do any of the others Speak as honestly about the human condition as does the Bible. Only the Bible paints our situation as utterly bleak. Hopeless and helpless. Only the Bible says we're dead in sin, unable to aid our condition in any way, deserving of eternal death in hell. Only the Bible portrays his leading figures in such depressing and dark ways. Abraham is a rapist Moses an explosive hothead. David is a terrible father. Solomon is a philanderer. Elijah a doubter. Peter is Mr. Impulsive wishy-washy and an anti-Gentile bigot. And Paul a murderer. If you were to suggest any of those things about the Prophet Muhammad, you'd be killed in many countries of this earth. But the Bible openly admits these things about its leading figures. The Bible is brutally honest About the human condition. And more than its description of individuals, the book offers humanity no hope within itself. Islam says that if you pray these prayers five times a day and you make these pilgrimages and you give alms to the poor and you do more good than evil, you can save yourself. Buddhism says, don't even need to bother being saved. Don't worry about salvation. Just accept what is. Stop the fight. Stop the battle. Just be zen about the whole thing and just enjoy the life you have. But in all of them, and by the way, in the false versions of Christianity, in all of them, we can fix it for ourselves. It is only the Bible that says, no, you can't. You are messed up, and there's nothing you can do for yourself. It's the Bible that takes a brutally honest look at humanity Now, do you imagine that human, merely human authors, would have written that about us? Does that not suggest that there was the influence of some outside objective observer guiding the formation of the Bible? The Bible's anthropology gives it warrant for being believed, for being the foundation of our lives. The next and final argument is perhaps the most important, and again, it will be developed more fully in another sermon later this summer. But it's the last point we're going to look at today, and it is the point that finally brings us back around to our sermon text. It's what I might call the Christological argument. John 17, 17, Jesus is praying to the Father, and he says, your word is truth. Jesus lived a perfect life. He proved he was God by his uh control of the created order through his miracles. He proved that he was God by conquering death, by rising from the grave. And he said to the Father, Your word is truth He told Pontius Pilate that he came to bear witness to the truth. And he says to the Father, Your word is truth. Jesus treated the people of the Bible as historical realities. He treated the events of the Bible as Historical facts. He pointed to the prophecies of the Bible as having been fulfilled in him or going to be fulfilled after him. Jesus' attitude toward the Bible was only ever But it was absolutely true. The warrant for believing that Jesus is God, that we will come back to later this summer. But because he is God, his confidence in the Word of God is warrant for us having confidence in the Bible. Your word is truth. You see, the greatest human thinkers who have ever lived Have concluded that we cannot on our own establish truth. We begin by believing something. And almost everything we know, almost everything that we would believe in, has been told to us by others, and we have very limited first-hand knowledge of the world. So we are stuck in a place where we are inclined to have to believe others, and what do we find in the modern research? We're inclined to believe without discrimination, without care. We can be susceptible to lies If we are to live lives of purpose, if we are to live lives in the truth. If we are to live lives that begin with and build upon and point to that which is truly true, If we are to be certain that below all the metaphorical turtles is Jesus, in whom all things hold together. We've got to know what to believe, where to get started. And it turns out there is warrant for believing the Bible, for basing our lives on it. You see, the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. It is the foundation with more warrant. for belief than any other thing out there. Lord, your word is truth