Open your Bibles if you would to John chapter six. John six. The bulletin marks out uh four specific verses that were going to be this morning's sermon But the reality is the more I wrestle with these verses, the more I realize that they depend on the context. And so we are actually going to look at all of John 6. Let's pray and ask God's help in understanding this and its message for us at this Christmas season. Lord, we do come to you and ask that you would send your Spirit upon us, that He would work in each of our hearts and minds, and grant us understanding. Grant us a willingness to obey and to believe. Grant me the words that accurately reflect Jesus' message. Grant all of us hearts that desire to follow Him. We pray this in his name. Amen. John 6 is an interesting chapter in many ways. It is a uh uh the second longest, if my count is correct, it is the second longest chapter in the New Testament, and there's a lot going on in it. But most notably, John 6 has always fascinated me as the record of Jesus' colossal failure. Jesus just ruins the church at this point. If any pastor were to do what Jesus did, he'd be fired. He'd be out on his ear. For the opening of John 6, we have the account of Jesus feeding the 5,000. And it notes that there are 5,000 men. When you consider the demographics of the day and you factor in their households, we're looking at probably a church on the order of 25,000 people. Had Jesus seized the moment, he would have had a huge following. He would have rivaled any megachurch we have ever seen. And yet, as John 6 unfolds, what we see is not a growing, booming movement. But people just falling away, unable to follow this man and the crazy things he says. So that the close of John 6, as we're going to see, he is standing alone with just the twelve. That was supposed to be at later point when I made the very main point of the sermon. Then the meat trumpets come in. We tried. At the close of John 6, we see Jesus standing with the twelve. And he turns to them and says, Are you also going to leave me? In the course of 36 hours, Jesus takes this crowd of 5,000, plus their wives, plus their children, plus their servants. 25,000 easily, and he whittles it down to 12. If you're doing the math, that's a 99. 95% reduction in attendance And I'm telling you, if any pastor ever trimmed his church by 99. 95%, he'd be gone. He'd be fired. What happens? What's going on in the midst of John 6 Well, first, let me share with you what's going on in the midst of Shore Harvest. We're stepping back from our study in the book of Hebrews to take a look at three claims that Jesus makes about himself. These are not the things that the prophet says about the Lord Jesus Christ, though those are important. These are not the things that his opponents say about him, though those are informative. These are not the things that the Twelve or the New Testament writers would say about Jesus, though those are inspired by the Holy Spirit. These are claims that Jesus made about himself. And he made many claims, far more than just three, but I have chosen these three because they specifically address the why and the how and the what of his first coming. of the first advent of Christmas. Jesus addresses why he came to be among us. and what we need to know about it. And so let's look now at John 6. I'm going to, it's a long chapter, but I'm going to read through it, comment here and there along the way. We are going to stop then and look at some of the key points and try to understand the message that Jesus has for us. John 6, verse 1. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias, and a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, two hundred denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little So the denarii would be about seven months wages for a common day laborer back then. So that's a fair chunk of change. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many? First comment is this, that we are told that it's the time of the Passover, it's springtime, it's on the cusp of the Passover feast. And we must remind ourselves of what happened in and around Passover, for it is central to this passage. Passover was a meal that commemorated God freeing his people from Egypt. Do you recall? So Passover occurs in Exodus chapter 13 Do you recall what happened in Exodus 14, the very next chapter? That's the account of the people trapped against the Red Sea. And God taking them across the sea as if on dry land, so that they would cross the sea. That's going to be important in this chapter. File that away. Exodus 13 is the Passover. Exodus 14 is the crossing of the Red Sea. Exodus 15 is Moses celebrating the crossing of the Red Sea. And Exodus 16, the very first thing that occurs on the other side of the sea is the people complaining that they have no fruit. Now, the Passover was a symbol of God's provision for them. It was a festival of food But they have already forgotten that Passover meal, and they stand on the far side of the Red Sea and are complaining that they have no food. And what happens? Mana comes down from heaven. The people are given bread by a miraculous act of God. Do you begin to see now where we are headed? You know the story. You know what's going to happen. Now we begin to see how it ties in to the Passover. That Jesus is going to do for them what God did for them. Back in the wilderness, he is going to paint himself as the new and superior Moses who will set his people free. Let's keep reading. Verse 10. Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about five thousand in number. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up. and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. Make note of that. The people saw the sign. They recognized what was going on, that this was a miracle pointing to something. That's what signs do. They point to something. This isn't he the prophet who is to come into the world. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Verse 16. When evening came, His disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing. Clearly, we have here a picture Of those who belong to the Lord, endangered by the sea. They are at risk of losing their lives Because of the sea. And just as Moses lifted up his hand, and the waters parted so that the people could cross the sea and escape Egypt We now have that miracle also reenacted here. When they had verse 19, when they had rode about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking. on the sea, coming near the boat, and they were frightened. But he said to them, It is I, do not be afraid. Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land To which they were going. The people have been fed miraculously in the wilderness, and the sea has been crossed. Verse 22. On the next day, the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples But that his disciples had gone away alone. In other words, they're able to piece together that something weird has happened. Other boats from Tiberius came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, that means teacher, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them Truly, truly, I say to you, you uh uh sorry, I got lost my life. There we go. Rabbi, when did you come here? And notice uh Jesus did, by the way, if you study Jesus He so frequently doesn't answer the question asked. And and kind of drives me crazy at times a little bit. You know, just what Answer what they're asking, but he's gonna get there right now. He doesn't answer about where, you know, when he got here or how where he came from or anything else He simply says, Truly, truly I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. You have come for more free food The tone here is clearly one of mild scolding. This is not Jesus saying, well, whatever the reason, I'm glad you came. This really is a chastisement. You have come for the wrong reasons. The first thing we need to recognize is this question of why we go to Jesus, why we celebrate Christmas, why we come to church. why we read the Bible, if in fact we do. Is it to get something from God? Is it so that God will meet your temporal needs? Now, to be sure, it's not wrong to want that from God. Jesus Himself told the disciples to pray for daily bread. It is right and appropriate to find in God the provision for our need But if that is the only motivating factor, if that is the only underlying issue, if that is the sum and substance of your relationship to the Almighty that He would do for you, The things you want in the here and now. It is a relationship that is fraught with difficulty. It is not the right way to seek Christ Uh picking up my place. Verse 27. Do not work for the food that perishes. but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them, this is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He has sent. If you're familiar with the Gospel of John, you this may ring in your ears. This is an echo of what just occurred a few chapters earlier. For in John 4 Jesus meets a woman who wants water, and he says to her, I can give you the streams of living water, and you will never be thirsty again. And here he's telling these people, I can provide food for you and you will never be hungry again. Don't pursue. Food that only has value in this life. It is the echo of the Lord's comments in Deuteronomy. Man does not live by bread alone. He is telling them to pursue something more. And they say, okay, we're on board, sure. Much like the woman at the well says, give me that water. I don't want to come to this dumb well every day. These people say the same thing. Tell us, tell us. We're listening. We're here. We're open-minded We have hearts that want to follow you. Tell us what to do. He doesn't say you gotta go Take care of this thing or go do that good work or go. He says, believe in the one whom God has sent. Believe in the one whom the Father has sent. Now perhaps at this moment it is not clear to them who that is, but it will become clear Verse 30. They've got an inkling where he's pointing. They suspect that he's talking about himself, and look what they say. So they said to him. Then what sign do you do that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? You catch the the hypocrisy, the irony They have seen the signs. They recognized the day before the feeding of the 5,000. They saw it as a sign. They called it a sign. But this thing you're asking of us that we would believe in you, that we would trust you, that we would rely on you That's a bit much. We're going to need something more. And again we hear the echoes of the very first Passover You have set us free from Egypt only to die on the shore of the Red Sea. We need something more. You have taken us across the sea only to starve to death in the wilderness. We need something more. And the people here are saying to Jesus, You have reenacted our freedom from Egypt. You have walked across the sea. You have fed us miraculously with bread from heaven. But we need something more I was going through a particularly difficult time in my personal life, and I was very down and discouraged. And a brother in the church told me to to not so many words, but kind of buck up, feel better about things. You're a child of God, and he clearly will take care of you. He's got something better in store for you. And I know that he was reflecting the common uh language of the 21st century American church. But in my bitterness I spat back. Did you see what he did to his own son? There is this idea that we always need something more from God in this life. That we always want Him to give us something else. That we need that job, that car, that income, that house, that spouse, that whatever. There is that quip that's out there. I don't know who originated it, but I like it a lot. When asked, how are you doing, there are those who will reply, better than I deserve. It is the reminder that God owes us nothing. It's not that he owes us more. It's not that he doesn't owe us more. It's that he owes us nothing. That he has given us anything. Had he freed them from Egypt to die at the shore of the Red Sea, they would have gotten more than they deserved. Had he taken them across the sea to die of starvation in the wilderness, that would have been more than they deserved. If I am a believer in Jesus Christ and saved from the consequences of my sin, if I live under an overpass in a cardboard box and eat out of a garbage can I am doing better than I deserve. God does not owe us more. Because He doesn't owe us anything. These people reflect humanity across the ages. They reflect us to a large degree. That we are not satisfied with what we have in the Lord, but want more. What sign do you do that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness as it is written. He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gave you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst But I said to you that you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out, for I have come down from heaven Not to do my own will but the will of Him who sent me. And this is the will of Him who sent me that I should lose nothing of all that He has given me, but raise it up on the last day, for this is the will of my Father, that every one who looks on the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last. At this point, Jesus makes the comment that drew me to this chapter. This is what ties us into the theme of this little mini-series. This little Christmas Christology series that we're doing. What did Jesus say about himself here? He says, I came down from heaven. We need to wrestle a little bit with that. We need to make some sense of that. First I want to point out that in one sense, every baby is a gift from heaven, every baby is a gift from God, every baby is ordained by God And Jesus, the baby born of the Virgin Mary in Bethlehem, laid in that manger, is no exception to that. He certainly was planned and ordained by God. You are not here by accident. By the way, while this is certainly not the main point of the sermon, quick aside right here, I understand Our need mathematically, our need to talk about things like chance and and probability and randomness And I understand how we can't predict the future. We can't see how that next coin is going to land, how the next die is going to roll, how the next uh a genetic crossing of such and such a plant is going to produce certain offspring. And so we model these things with the language of probability, of mathematics But don't imagine for a moment that they are governed by chance That they're governed by some inanimate, unthinking, impersonal force out there. Every detail is governed by providence. The seed of your father and the egg of your mother did not unite by accident. God intended for you to have exactly the 46 chromosomes you have. To grow up in the house you grew up in, that formed the personality that you had, that gave you the spiritual foundation or not, that has been laid for your present-day understanding. I get that the providence of God masks himself behind things that appear random. And appear to be by chance. And the best we can do is guess at what's going to happen based on those probabilities But don't confuse that with the real force behind all of it and it worked through it. This baby Jesus was ordained by God to be exactly who he was, just as you and I were. So when he says he came down from heaven, what does he mean by this? Well we don't have a lot of comparison, but let's take a look at a few things that are comparison. Let's look specifically at those who be closest to Jesus. First of all, his half-brother, his younger brother, James. If you flip over to the book of James, I think it's James 1. 17, we see James saying this. That every good and every perfect gift comes down from above. Now, what does James mean by that? How is he using that? Well he doesn't mean that they literally fall out of the sky. That if you get some wonderful blessing in your life You do get the money you need to pay the rent unexpectedly at the last moment, and it's a great blessing to you. The check didn't literally fall out of heaven. It's clear that what James means by that is that that blessing in your life, that gift in your life, was ordained and brought about and caused by God. That God was the one at work to make it happen. We see Jesus Himself. Using the language this way, in Matthew, when Jesus says to the Pharisees, I ask you a question: the baptism of John. Did it come down from heaven or is it of man? And again, Jesus doesn't literally mean that John dropped out of the sky baptizing people. The point is, what's the underlying source? So one of the things we have to realize is that when Jesus makes this claim here, That I came down from heaven, he is pointing to the underlying cause of his existence among them The the root uh uh power at work. That he is who he is, where he is, when he is By the design and plan of God, that God the Father put Jesus of Nazareth there then with a plan in place. That Jesus is saying, just as the wisdom from above that James described is this, this, and this, so I am from above. I came from God in that sense. That just as the baptism of John came from God, I came from God in that sense. But Jesus is actually going to say more than that, as we will see here in a moment. Picking up in verse oh uh uh uh picking up in verse 41. By the way, there's a taunt here in John 6. There's a ton of stuff we could get us into the doctrine of the sovereignty of God and those sorts of issues. We don't have time to tackle all of those this morning. I want to stay focused on this. I came down from heaven Verse forty one. So the Jews grumbled about uh about him, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say I have come down from heaven? You see what they're doing there? They've got the same thing. He didn't drop out of the sky. He didn't just suddenly appear among mankind. Remember the account of uh of Paul and Barnabas go into a a city in in modern-day Turkey and they they uh perform some miracles and the local pagans are like, oh, it's Zeus and Hermes have just dropped out of the sky among us. Jesus isn't saying that about himself. And they're looking at him going, how can he say that he's come from heaven? We know who his parents are. We know his background. Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. Second reference to the end time, second left ref second reference to the final resurrection. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Now immediately Jesus is beginning to say, wait a second here, people have got to be listening, going, wait a second here. You're saying no one's seen the Father except the one who's come from the Father, and you're saying you came down from heaven, which of course is synonymous with coming from God, coming from the Father. You're beginning to make a claim that you have seen God. Yourself now in John eight, when Jesus makes the bold claim before Abraham I am The people recognize instantly what he's claiming: that he is God. And they pick up stones to stone him for his blasphemy. But here they don't. John paints a picture of a people very confused. They haven't yet put all the pieces together. It's still in their head, they're still spinning, going, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What are you claiming? But slowly, over the next couple of days in Jesus' earthly ministry, they're going to begin to put the pieces together. Wait a second. You're saying you came down from heaven? You're saying the only one who's ever seen God is the one who came down from heaven. So you're saying you're the only one who's ever seen God. But no mere mortal can see God and live. That's well established in the Hebrew scriptures. So you're making a claim to be more than just mortal. And we begin to see how it's piecing together. That It wasn't God. It wasn't Moses. It was God. It wasn't Moses who gave you the bread from heaven. It wasn't Moses who took you across the sea. It was my father who did those things. And now I'm doing them in your presence. I'm feeding the 5,000. I'm crossing the Sea of Galilee. I am co-equal with the Father who freed you from Egypt. This really is a bold set of claims, if not yet a crystal clear set of claims. He goes on, verse 48. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I'm pretty sure he's pointing to himself at the moment he says that This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. What happens at Passover? If you've never actually witnessed a Seder, I encourage you to do so. It's really informative. But one of the things that happens is the very intentional, very purposeful handling of the different breads that are involved in the meal. Bread is central to the Passover meal And it is broken at different places in the Passover meal. And he is standing, putting himself squarely in the midst of the Passover And claiming to be the sustenance provided by God. I am the bread of life. And it's my flesh. He begins to unfold how it's going to happen Something about the body, the actual physical body of Christ, of Jesus of Nazareth, is going to play a role in how these things happen. The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Third reference to the Final resurrection. For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. And the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came to me. Came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. Here he is saying, I am the source of life. Yes, he will later in John 14 say that blatantly: I am the way, the truth, and the life. But he's saying it right here. That my body is going to be the source of life. That my blood is going to nourish you. Now they've all got to be scratching their heads at this point, going, what is he talking about? And John himself will talk about later in the Gospel of John, he'll talk about how the disciples didn't understand, but it made sense later. And we certainly ought to be able to understand better that he's pointing forward to the crucifixion. That he really is the only one who ever came for the purpose of dying. That he alone in the history of humanity was born not to live, but to die. We die because we deserve to, because we've been we we're cursed because we sin. But that's not the way it's supposed to be. We're supposed to be born to live. This one was born to die. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about him, this is probably not the twelve, this is the wider circle of disciples, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if we were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? I came down from heaven, I'm going to go back to heaven. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you, they are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted in by the Father. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. What caused the crowds to vanish? What caused the five thousand to become twelve? It was the presentation of the gospel message that you cannot save yourself That it has to come down from heaven. That you need something outside of yourself You cannot lift yourself up by your bootstraps, not you individually, and not you collectively as humanity. Our problem is not inherently a systemic problem. We have a deeper issue. Fixing our government is not going to fix us. Fixing our schools is not going to fix us. Fixing our workplaces is not going to fix us. The salvation of humanity does not lie in humanity's collective effort to fix itself If you want real life, it's in me, Jesus says. And I didn't come from among you, I came from heaven. This ties back into the other place we see that used. Back in John chapter 3. One of the better-known chapters of the Bible. Nicodemus the Pharisee comes to Jesus, wants to meet with him at night, not yet willing to go public with his views on this Jesus guy He says to Jesus, he sits down with Jesus, he pays Jesus the compliment. Rabbi, we know you're from God. No one could do the signs, the things you do if God wasn't with him. Jesus doesn't say, hey, thanks, appreciate you noticing. He says, listen, one cannot even see the kingdom of God unless he is born again. Unless he is born from a child. That's literally the meaning of those words in the Greek text They're exactly the same words that James uses. Every good and every perfect gift comes from above. Exactly the same word that Jesus uses with Nicodemus and John 3. Unless you are born from above He says to Nicodemus, do you understand? You can't possibly comprehend what you're saying unless God works in you, unless He gives you life. It's not that you are seeking out God and He's just waiting there for you to find Him and pray that prayer, raise your hand at that camp meeting, and then He'll save you. You can't see the kingdom unless you're born from above, unless you're given life by God. Unless it comes down from my Father in heaven. You can't pursue the kingdom, you can't seek the kingdom, you can't go after the kingdom, because you can't even see it. Unless you're born from above. And there is the background. This is what Jesus is talking about. You all can't fix yourselves. You can't save yourselves. Christmas is not the time for humanity to throw a little extra money in the red bucket and think that's going to make us all better. Christmas is not the time to appease our consciences by being extra nice to our neighbors. Now it is a time, as every day should be, it is a time to reach out, to be nice, to bless one another, to give gifts, these sorts of things. That's all fine, but don't imagine for a moment that any of that is fixing you or fixing us Don't imagine for a moment that if you have an Ebenezer Scrooge Epiphany, that everything's going to be all better. That you just simply need to have the spirit of Christmas in your life all the time. That's not what this man is saying. The one born at Christmas is saying no You've got to have the life that comes from above. You've got to have the bread that comes from above. You've got to have the sustenance that comes from above. You've got to have me Notice how it closes out. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. I'm in verse 66, 67. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus didn't destroy the church in John 6 Jesus did not get rid of 99. 95% of the congregation. He simply whittled down the visible church to the invisible. He simply cut back all that was fluff, all that was not really his. So that those who were would learn, would understand, would believe And for all of their doubts, for all of their difficulties, for all the times they couldn't walk in the water, for all the miracles they couldn't do, in the final analysis, Peter sums up where eleven of the twelve stood. Yeah, your teaching is bewildering. Yes, we do not understand how you can be the bread of life. We don't at the moment stand here pretending to understand how your flesh is food and your blood is drink, but we believe you. And we have no other place to go. That's an encouragement to all of us. Do I want you to have good doctrine? Absolutely. Work on it, wrestle with it. For by it you can praise God better. By it you understand Him better. By it you can live better. But in the final analysis, the doctrine Is it what saves you? Holding to Christ says In the midst of doubt, holding to him saves. In the midst of uncertainty and confusion, holding to him saves. Peter says, Yeah, we're wobbly. I understand why you asked that question, Jesus. But we're here. We're yours. We're going to follow you. We're going to cling to you. Because you have a worship life. A baby-born Christmas draws a lot of people so long as he stays a baby. The baby-born Christmas draws a lot of people, so long as it's a feel-good, happy, brotherhood of all humanity view of things. But we must be the twelfth. We must be those who understand that he didn't come to be a baby. He came to be the Savior of the world. And when he died, and as the blood poured out of him, in there was life. That is what he meant by all of this. That in his sacrifice we have hope. He came down from heaven by the plan of God, as a gift from God, as the one given by God. So that he could be the savior of the world, so that he could be the sustenance for those who would have real life, so that he could be the bread of life. Hold to him. Believe in him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for this amazing teaching in the context of Passover, in the context of all these miracles, you show yourself to be the miracle worker, the one who has the power to save. And it wasn't Moses who freed your people, it was you who freed your people from Egypt. And on that mountain, on that day, you did all of those things again. To tell us again that you are the one who saved your people. And then you died. Because that was the way of salvation. Because in your death atonement was made. A price was paid. A ransom was put forth. And so we, in our confusion sometimes, in our distraction during Christmas, we want to be like Peter. And come to you saying we have no other place we can go. For you alone have the words of life. Give us this faith. Give us this abiding sense of the reality of your purpose among us, why God, why the Father sent you here. We pray this in your beautiful name. Amen. We're going to close our worship together by uh standing and singing What Child Is This? Page 10 of the bulletin or 230 in our hymnal, please stand