I invite you to open your Bibles, if you would please, to Matthew chapter 10, Matthew 10, verses 34 to 39. Matthew 10, verses 34. If you're using that red pew Bible in front of you, it's on page 969. We're taking a short break. from our Hebrews Sermon series to look at Jesus' view of Christmas. What did the Christ have to say about the Christ's Mass, the Christmas? Last week we saw Jesus address the question of where he came from. And he described how, like the manna which sustained Israel in the wilderness, he also had come down. From heaven to be the sustenance for God's people, to be that by which real life was given. This week we don't look so much at the question of where he came from, though Jesus will touch on that again, but we look more at the why he came. What is the reason for the season, according to Jesus himself? And there could be several passages we would look to that would answer this question. There are probably a dozen or more where Jesus gives reasons for his coming. But we look particularly this morning at the passage in Matthew 10 where he addresses this matter of peace. With regard to peace, why did I come? Why do I bring that up? Why did I choose that of all the claims that Jesus made about his coming? Well, because at Christmas time, peace becomes a very prominent word. It's featured on our Christmas cards, our gift wraps, it's even in the front lawn, the signs and front lawns of some people. It's on our Starbucks coffee cups this time of year. The word peace is everywhere. Peace is in our celebrity sentiments about the season. Peace is even part of the secular songs of the holiday season. To be sure, much of that piece, that theme of peace, is actually backed up By the Bible. It's got its root in the scriptures. Our Old Testament reading portrayed a picture of peace. Of the wolf and the lamb lying down together, of a lion and an oxen grazing together. It was a portrait of peace. That same prophet Isaiah a couple chapters earlier called the Messiah the Prince of Peace. And in our New Testament reading, what did we see? What did we hear? That the angels, the hosts of heaven, declared peace upon the earth, goodwill to men. And of course, that peace has permeated much of our society. In no small part, thank you to Charlie Brown reading that passage of Luke 2 every year to us. And we hear the message of peace. And yet, the very one that was foretold by the prophets, that Prince of Peace that Isaiah told us was coming, when he came. He said something startling in Matthew 10, 34. And here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible Not our Christmas cards, not our coffee cups, not even Charlie Brown Christmas. It is the Bible, which is the only authoritative a word from God by which we might believe the right things, know the right things, and live the right things. So if we want to understand the peace of Christmas We must understand God's Word. Follow along now as we pick up reading in Matthew 10, 34. It's Jesus speaking, and he said. Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I hath come to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law And a person's enemies will be those of his own household. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it. And whoever loses his life, for my sake, will find it. Let's pray. Lord, show us the sword of Christmas. Show us the division you came to make. Show us that that the peace, that you did not sow peace just willy-nilly in and of itself. That by your grace you came to divide humanity. Help us to understand this. And to live in light of the profound things that you have set forth in this passage. We pray this by your grace and in your name. Amen. This passage in Matthew 10 is one of the greatest ironies, I think, in all of Jesus' earthly ministry. We saw last week how there were huge crowds following Jesus, more than 5,000 men, he said, by the Sea of Galilee. And we saw in that passage how at the end of that day, after he performed that obvious miracle, that sign in front of them, That they were ready to take him and by force make him king. This was in keeping with their messianic understandings. For the prophets had foretold, as we saw in our Old Testament reading in Isaiah 11, that from the stump of Jesse, now who's Jesse? Jesse was the father of King David, the gold standard of earthly kings. From the stump of Jesse Was to come a sheet. In other words, there was to come a new David. There was to be another who was alike unto King David himself. And so they believed that a king was coming. And what do kings do? Kings defend their people, kings ward off the enemy, kings overthrow oppressive forces. And so the assumption was that the Messiah would come in great fanfare and glory and power. He would raise the sword To throw off Rome, to set Israel free, and to rule over them as the new King David. By the way, this view was so prevalent that after Jesus' earthly ministry was nearly done, in Acts chapter 1, verse 6, Jesus has risen from the dead. He is getting ready to depart and to go into heaven. And what does Luke record there for us? The disciples turn to Jesus and what do they say? Is now finally the time when you're going to restore the kingdom of Israel. Even his own disciples, the twelve, that was their prevailing mindset. That the true Messiah would come in glory and power and rule the earth. They weren't actually totally wrong. They were just a little confused on the time image. He is going to come in glory and power and rule the earth. He is going to come as king, and he is going to reign over all the earth. Turns out that's at his second coming. Jesus was setting the stage here, explaining to them a little more about his first coming. And so what happened? As Jesus would refuse this urge to make him king, as we saw in John 6 last week, he slipped away in the night so the crowds could not make him king And he kept hiding from them. And when he would heal people, he would say, Keep it to yourself, don't tell anybody. When he would teach his disciples about his future reign, he would say, Keep it to yourself and don't tell anybody. He didn't want to be crowned king at his first coming. He didn't come in the humility of the manger to fulfill his role as a glorious king. He came for a different purpose. And so the crowds turned on him. One of the reasons we see at the end of his earthly ministry so many people willing to stand there and yell, crucify him! Is that they feel disappointed. They feel let down, they feel betrayed We believed in you. We thought you were the Messiah. We thought you were going to be the one who was going to save us from Rome. And you wouldn't do it. Crucified. You know, there's a great irony to this passage, as I mentioned. The crowds demanded he take up the sword. What do we all want today from Jesus? Peace. No sword. We don't want a Jesus that has a sword. We don't want that kind of Messiah. We want one who's all about the peace. And what do we have in teaching here? He's saying, I came to do exactly what the crowds want me to do: wield the sword. I gotta believe the disciples are kind of scratching their hands going, then why don't you? I wonder sometimes if this teaching was in Peter's mind when, in the Garden of Gethsemane, when Judas brings a whole band of professional soldiers onto the seat. And what does Peter do? Do you remember? His best buddy John records it for us. And Peter, having a sword, the only one of the group that did, pulled it off, took a swing, and what's the best he could do? Cut off a guy's ear. That's how good Peter was at wielding a sword. What did Peter think? That he with a sword by himself was going to conquer this band of soul-professional soldiers? That's exactly what I think he was thinking. That he would realize this is my Gideon moment. I know the story of Gideon. I know how God took the army and shrunk them down to 300 so that the victory would be his. That's what Jesus has been doing. Duh! That's why he didn't take the throne when the 5,000 were following him. Because now in this moment I'm going to pull out my sword. He said he came to bring a sword. And I'm going to wield my sword. And it's going to be a glorious victory. And I'm going to be part of it. I suspect that was going through his head. I didn't come to bring peace, I came to bring a sword But how do we take all of it? And clearly, obviously the rest of the story. Obviously, we know that's not what happened to Gethsemane. Jesus told him to put away the sword, and in fact, Jesus reattaches the boy's ear and heals him. But he doesn't want that to be how things play out. And yet the Prince of Peace did really say, I didn't come to bring peace. How do we put this all together? Well, for starters, look back up at the top of Matthew 10 in your Bible there. Just like we saw last week, that what he said about his coming, I came from heaven, fit into the wider context Of the scripture, so it is the same here. We're not going to read all of it, but we are going to hit some highlights. Look at Matthew 10, verse 1. And he called to him his twelve disciples. And gave them authority over unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal every disease and every affliction. So what do we have going on here? We really have the transition of these men from students to interns Remember the word disciple means student, follower, learner. Okay? And now they're becoming active in the ministry that Jesus has been doing. Now they're going to participate. He's sending them out to do these things at the top of Matthew 10. They're becoming interns. In Mark, when Mark records this same series of events, Mark adds a little parenthetical phrase. And Jesus appointed them apostles. Ones who have authority, ones who can act in the name of and behalf of. This was the beginning of their apostleship They were beginning to make the transition from mere students to those who would have to carry on the work of Jesus after he left. the earth. So that's the context in which Jesus says these words in Matthew 10. Look down at Matthew 10 verse 5. These twelve Jesus sent out instructing them. Comma, quotation mark Now I'm not ordinarily a huge fan of red letter Bibles, but in this instance it's helpful. Because in my red letter Bible, what I recognize is all the rest of Matthew 10 is red. And that lets me know at a moment's glance that all the rest of Matthew 10 is the instruction being given to the twelve. So, this passage that we read fits in to the instruction to the apostles. He's training them. He's teaching them. He's preparing them to be his servants, his representatives. Upon the earth. So let's take a look at this instruction. Let's break it down a little bit. So first, I want to note, and we're not going to spend a long time here because it was kind of a topic last week, but I do want to note that Jesus came. Three times Jesus says this, verse 34, I have come. Verse 34, I did not come. Verse 35, I have come. That may not jump out at you at first glance. But it actually is striking, and let me illustrate how. If I say to you that I have come to Shore Harvest to do this or that, Or I came to Maryland for this reason or that reason, all of that sounds completely normal to you. But if I were to say, I have come to the earth. To do this or that. I came to the earth for this reason. That would strike you with odd. That phrasing would be weird. You'd be like going Winsepton here. Why? Because there's a distinction between the verb come and the verb of being. If I say I am here for a particular purpose, I am on the earth, I state a verb of being, I exist for this reason. When I say I have come, the implication is that I existed before also So it's okay for me to say I have come to Maryland because you know I pre-existed in another place. But when I say I have come to the earth, that's a little odd. But that's what Jesus says. And again, we talked about this more last week, so I'm not going to go into this any deeper today, but I do want to point out that we have another time, another occasion of Jesus making the same basic point. I pre-existed. There is some aspect of my being, of my person, that transcends your mere human experience. John tells us what it was. The word became flesh. It's called the incarnation. The divine put on the human. Jesus says, I have come. He pre-existed before being there. The other thing that I want to point out here, the second thing, so Jesus came, that's the kind of the first point. He pre-existed and then moved to a new location. The second thing is of the heart of the sermon, the main heart of the text, Jesus did not come to bring peace. Contrary to every Christmas card, Jesus did not come to bring peace. Now, if he didn't come to bring peace, and he came instead to bring a sword, if that's the question of why he came, Then it doesn't make a lot of sense at first glance that he didn't come to rule Israel's throne and be the king of the Jews right then, right there. There's got to be a disconnect in the mind of the disciples, and I hope there's a little disconnect in our brains. I hope it doesn't work, this is a little confusing. He didn't come to bring peace. He came to bring a sword, but he's not, and we know he's the king of the Jews, and we know he's the one that's going to rule on David's throne, but he didn't come to bring the sword and do that. What's going on? In this explanation of Christmas, twice Jesus states the negative: I did not come to bring peace. And he's recalibrating expectations. He's resetting the disciples' understandings. I hope. Pretty good illustration, I think, of this. So when it became clear that Becky and I were going to get married way back in college, I immediately began setting about Uh and trying to establish that that prospect was going to be bleaker than she could possibly imagine. And it wasn't because I had this long line of it wasn't like there was anybody in line behind Becky. You know, if she bailed on our on our plans, it wasn't like there was anybody else that was going to have me. That's not why I did it, because there was this deep bench of would-be wives. No. We were poor. We were poor as dirt and probably not as pretty. We were broke. We were still in college. It wasn't like we were getting our feet and getting the first job. No, we were still college students, working part-time jobs and racking up a mountain of student debt. Those were the conditions we were going to live under. And if she didn't come into this marriage with a clear understanding of that, we're going to be in trouble. Now, in hindsight, I didn't give her enough credit. She has been misfaithful for 35 years, and there's never been any question of where she stood on these issues. But I wasn't sure of that back then. We aren't that faithful. We do not stick with our God the way my wife has stuck with me. And Jesus knows that about his disciples. That if he doesn't paint a clear and forthright picture of reality for them, they're going to be disappointed. Disappointment is always a function of the expectations and reality not lining up. Reality can be terrible so long as the expectations were lower, but we're not disappointed. And reality can be great, but if the expectations were a little higher, which we are disappointed. Jesus is ratcheting back the expectations of their disciples. Guys, do not imagine for a moment that following me is going to be easy. You're in for a rough ride. Remember, this is in the midst of apostolic training. He's getting these guys geared up to be his representatives. So how can it be that the Prince of Peace is going to say these things? Well, he's basically saying, you know, uh uh the basically the question of peace lays on two different levels. He's talking about what it's going to be like in this world. He's not saying there will never be peace. But you have to understand, he says to the twelve, that peace is out in your future. It ain't gonna happen here and now, and you better be prepared for that. You know, John Lennon, famous John Lennon, seriously, so a couple weeks ago I'm quoting Beyonce and now I'm quoting John Lennon. We just like down the rabbit holes here, you know John Lennon famously saying, imagine there's no heaven. It's easy if you try. No hell below us, above us, only sky. John Lennon's song asks us to picture a world without religion. Why? Well, he goes on to explain. To what end does John Lennon want us to imagine this? He tells us. Lenin hoped someday we'd join him and all the world would be as one Lenin's argument basically was that religion divides people, that humanity is the only hope of being united as one, and to be at peace is if we jettisoned all religion. That's kind of Jesus' point here. That religion divides. He's actually in agreement with John Lennon at this point. That religion divides, and that the true religion truly divides. Jesus, by the way, always speaks of humanity in a divided way. Every time. He speaks of those who are with us and against us, those who are on the wide way and those on the narrow way. Those who are the sheep and those who are the goats, those that belong to his flock and those who do not, those who are called by his father and those who are not. But this was on and on. Jesus always speaks of a divided humanity. And he sums it up in his teaching to Nicodemus in John 3 on the roof that night, where he says this to Nicodemus. Here's the underlying key distinction. Here's the bottom line of that division. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. That's it, Jesus says to Nicodemus. There are two categories of people, the condemned and the not condemned. The condemned and the redeemed, the redeemed and the reprobate, that's us. That's all there is. And the distinction between them is how they think about me. If they have believed in me, whom the Father sent They are not condemned. They're among the redeemed. They are among the saved. But if they do not, they stand condemned already. So John Leonard was right, religion divides. And some of you are going to wrestle with that in the days to come, over the next couple of weeks. You're going to travel to be with family. Your family is going to travel to be with you. And you're going to experience the division of which Lenin sang and Jesus spoke. Some of you have shared with me how you are the only Christians in your family. Or there may be others who claim the name of Christ. But give no outward evidence of trying to live according to his word. And you are going to feel isolated and alone in those settings. You're going to find yourself among those who do not see Christmas the way you do. And you're going to be presented with a challenge. Do I go along to get along? Do I just keep my mouth shut? Do I just ride low, stay quiet, and just get out of here, put my tail between my legs and head home? Do I live at peace? And so you might say, hey, why don't we read the Christmas story? Why don't we read Luke 2 before we open our gifts? Some of you will get open objection. Some of you might get a respectful tolerance. Sure, mom. We can read loop to you because it's our family tradition. And in that moment, you're going to have to wrestle with what do I do or say right now? Are we reading this because it's merely a family tradition? Is that what the Word of God has become to me? Just a tradition? Am I merely a cultural Christian? Or does it have a real impact and a real meaning in my life? Look up a couple of verses before our section. Look at Matthew 10, 32 and 33. What does Jesus say there? Whoever acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father, who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father, who is in heaven. Jesus' warning is clear. We are to speak up on his behalf. And what does he say to follow up what we have already read? I have come to set a man against his father and his daughter against her mother. A person's enemies will be those of his own household. There it is, religion divides, Christianity divides, it makes us at odds with the world around us. It drives peace right out the door And so we're back to the question of do we keep our mouths shut and say nothing? Sure, reading the Christmas story is a family tradition. Yeah, I guess it is that, so you know why argue about it? You know, John Kelvin once quipped, even a dog barks when his master is threatened. And our master is threatened as a mere tradition, as a mere cultural entity. As a mere function of what we've collectively decided to believe Go ahead. Read the scripture as a family tradition. Do we dare say more? Do we dare tack on? By the way, honey, I appreciate you respecting me and being willing to read it, but do you understand? That's the Word of God. That's not our family tradition. That's the Almighty speaking into our family. Do I dare say that? They just gonna roll their eyes at me? They're gonna get frustrated and disgusted? Is that gonna be the straw that breaks the camel's back and the pieces disrupted? And now we have this big argument and they're mad that I came for Christmas. What do I do at that point? Pastor G for you to say, hey, you should say something, but you don't own my family. You're right, I don't. Jesus does. Imagine this scenario. Some of you know I work a part-time job in construction. Imagine this scenario. So Becky and I have already talked that we're going to make some little Christmas cookies or something and share with the guys at work. So I take these cookies into work and I share them with the guys at work and they start going on about how terrible these cookies are No, no, no, my wife makes XL cookies. But imagine they're complaining about how terrible cookies are Imagine I say to Becky, I let it go. They said all kinds of terrible things about you, but I let it go. Because you know I want to keep a relationship with those guys so that someday I can tell them how wonderful you are. She shouldn't be looking at me like, what? You had an opportunity to tell them how wonderful I am. You had an opportunity to say, guys, whether the cookies are bad or not, she bade them for you. How can you not be appreciative? But you pass up that opportunity so that someday you become a wonderful life. That's what we're doing. I don't want to breach the peace with my family. I don't want to breach the peace with my co-workers because I got to keep this relationship so I can witness to them. That was the opportunity to witness to them. When they said that the Word of God was merely a family tradition, there's the opportunity. And that's Jesus' point right here. Look at how he explains it. Look at how he outlines it. Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. Whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Whoever Uh does not take up his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Now this is shocking language. First, this slips our American view of the gospel on its head How do we present Jesus to an unbeliever? Don't we spend all the time trying to convince them that Jesus is worthy of their faith? We spend over time trying to prove the worthiness of Jesus, and he's not worried about that one bit. The question is not, is Jesus worthy of you? The question here is, are you worthy of him? And that's a stunning statement. Now, some of you are you've got a room full of good reform believers right here. A lot of you, your brains are spinning, you're out ahead of me already, you're going, whoa, Pastor, wait a second here. Sounds like you're about to preach the gospel of works. Sounds like you're getting dangerously close to saying that we have to be worthy of Jesus. Well, first of all, I'll point this out. I'm not the one preaching as Jesus is. I didn't paraphrase him. That wasn't my illustration. That wasn't my wording. Those are exactly his words. Secondly, what's he saying? I really do think the final sentence is key. Look down at that last sentence And I didn't highlight it here, so I may not be able to find it exactly. Let me just I will be paraphrasing this since I can't find it exactly in front of me. That final sentence of this section, Jesus says, He basically makes the argument: the one who would find his life will lose it, but whoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. You see, too often we read that this way: whoever will die for me. It's not what Jesus says He's not asking you to die for him, though that might be required of you. He's asking you to lose your life for him. In other words, he's asking you to live a life that's not going to be the one you thought you were going to live. He's asking you to live a life that turns out and plays out the way he wants it to. You see, in the final analysis, when I don't defend Becky to my co-workers, it's because I want that relationship. It's because I want that to be a smooth, I don't want the awkwardness of work. I don't want it to be weird when I go in. It becomes about me and what I want for my life. When we won't stand up for Jesus, it's because we want, I want that relationship to be a quiet and peaceful one. In other words, I want to make me happy I want to make me happy. I want my life to go the way I want my life to go. And I don't care in that moment if it ain't If it hurts Jesus, if it disappoints Jesus I want what I want. I want peace in all my earthly relationships. And so we genocide our religion to obtain the peace that John Levin promises. When Jesus is saying, if you have truly gone all in on me, if you are believing in me, if you have trusted your life to me If you love me, in that moment you will make the decision that pleases me. Honey, I know we have a tradition of reading the Christmas story, but we're not reading it because it's our tradition. We're reading it because it is the word of God. I don't think you need to drive it out. I'm not saying go on and on, and for sure I'm not saying die on some other hill. If that crazy uncle in your family, be he as Arminian as possible, a John Calvin hating guy, he's a total Baptist who thinks we're all wrong to baptize our baby He hates Presbyterian form of government. That guy can mock this church as much as he wants if he claims Jesus Christ is his Savior. If he's on board with something as boiled down and as concise as the apostles creed, then he is your brother in the Lord, and you don't need to have the argument with him. I'm not talking about debating doctrine and theology. And neither is Jesus. Don't pick a fight where you don't need to pick a fight. But stand your ground on the question of who Jesus is, the Christ of Christmas. And he says, that's an expression of faith. That's the subtle clue that you love me more than me. That you're willing to alienate them to stand up for me. By the way, I also point out Jesus isn't talking about perfection in this, that will never drop the ball, that will never get it wrong. One of the guys listening to this is a guy named Peter who does what famously? He denies Jesus three times So this is not. So we're gonna just say, oh Peter's not worthy of Jesus, so Peter's in hell today. I don't think that's a valid conclusion. This is not about perfection in this. But it does mean that we can't have an O4 record either. If we have net burn If we have never, if we won't ever, if it's always more important that we have the peace in the here and now, and we are never willing to risk the peace in the here and now for the sake of the truth of Jesus Christ And maybe we don't really understand that truth. That's what Jesus is proclaiming here. That's what he's setting before his disciples. And he's saying, that's the sword I brought. And by the way, I want to make sure you understand, it's a gracious sword. And at that point the movie, you get some of it, especially if we put this online, as some stranger listens to go, wait a second here. You can't have such a thing as a gracious sword. Oh yes, she can. You see, we're back to the truth of John Lennon's statement. If we all imagine there is no heaven and no hell, if there we all imagine there is no God, if we all imagine That there is no religion. We will be at peace with one another and headed to hell. At odds with God. His enemies. And we will live out a peaceable life. Actually, don't think we will, but hypothetically, we can live out a peaceable life on this earth. And come to a rude awakening. The sword that Jesus brought was a sort of division, not a sort of killing. A sort of cutting away. Not a sort of lopping off heads, but a sort of cutting away a remnant. Cutting away a piece to be saved. Cutting off a portion that won't be lumped in with the rest and go to hell. This is why the Bible can talk about him being the Prince of Peace, and he can say he didn't come to bring peace. Because he says, I didn't come to bring peace with you and your fellow man. I didn't come that you could have it easy with every person you're ever going to meet I didn't come so that you could live your best life now and your most comfortable existence now and be at peace now. I came so you could be at peace with God. But the moment I cut you away from this ragtag band of hell-bound sinners, they're going to hate me. Because they hate me. By the way, Matthew 10 is the same passage where Jesus says: if they have called the head of the household beelzebub, what are they going to do to you? They're calling me Satan. They're certainly calling you some names. Jesus' sword is a gracious sword. If he does not cut us off from humanity, then we go to hell with humanity. If he does not separate us from our unsaved co-workers and family members, then we go to hell with our unsaved co-workers and family members. He has graciously carved out of fallen humanity a remnant for himself. God has ordained a people that will be to the glory of the Son who died and saved them. Be a peace with that. Enjoy that peace. And be willing to proclaim it. Go tell an alarm. Go sing the truth of the Christ who came at Christmas. Explain to people the hope that exists when we are divided from the world and drawn to Christ. And saved in him. I did not come to bring peace between you and your fellow man in the here and now. I brought a sword to divide you. So that the people of your own household will be your enemies. But if you're willing to lose the life you thought you were going to live, And accept the life I'm offering you, then you will live forever at peace with God. According to Jesus, that's the reason for the season. That's why he came. To carve us out. From hellbound humanity to the praise of his gloriousness. Let's pray. Lord, this is a hard message. This is a difficult thing to hear, that we would have to risk relationships with those we love and care about. But we do love you. We do understand what you have done for us. We do take to heart. The hostility that you bore so that we could be saved. Help us to love you more than we love those around us. Help us to be more worried in that moment about how we might please you. Than how we might please them. And so let us be willing to lose the life we thought we were going to live in order to gain the life that you have set aside for us. Not because we will have earned it, not because we will have worked our way there, but because that will be the expression of our true faith in you. We pray this in your name. Amen.