Please turn in your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter 1, the first chapter of Acts. This is our third Sunday in a series on the book of Acts, and we're still in chapter one, and there are 28 chapters. So let's see, 3 times 20. We're going to be at this for a little while, I think. But here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So, if it takes a little while to get through it, it's worth it, because it's the only source for truth. It's the only way we can know how to live and how to think and what to believe. So I invite you to follow along as I start reading in verse 12. Acts 1, verse 12, and I'll be reading through the end of the chapter. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room where they were staying Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas the son of James. All these, with one accord, were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and his brothers In those days, Peter stood up among the brothers, the company of persons was in all about 120, and he said, Brothers, the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus. For he was numbered among us. and was allotted his share in this ministry. Now this man acquired a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong he burst open in the middle And all his bowels gushed out, and it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own language a keldamah, that is, field of blood. Now picking up with Peter again. For it is written in the book of Psalms, May his camp become desolate, let there be no one to dwell in it, and let another take his office. So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us. One of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection. And they put forward two Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justice, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You, Lord, know the hearts of all. Show which one of these two. Sorry, show which one of these two you have chosen. To take the place in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place. And they cast lots for them, and the lot fellow Matthias. And he was numbered with the eleven apostles. Let's pray. Spirit of God, reveal to us The meaning of this passage, this message for us, so that we might grow in an understanding of what you have called us to be, that we might grow in an understanding of who you are. And that our faith in you would be nourished through your word this morning. We pray this in Christ. Amen. Any historian, when they go to tell the story of history, makes choices about what to include and what to leave out. what to put in and what not to talk about. There has to be some editorial choice. You can't talk about everything that happens in any given period of time, no matter how hard you might try Luke is such a historian. He has made choices about what to include and what to leave out. But the choice of including this passage here has been somewhat of a head scratcher for many. Why of all the things that Luke put in, why this? Why is this here? Now some might think to themselves, well, he did it to kind of fill out the picture, to kind of fill in the holes. He did it so we would know what happened. You can't just leave the account of Judas hanging. Well, I'm not sure that's true. I don't think that's necessarily a good explanation of why this is here. After all, he leaves us hanging with regard to the outcome of Peter's life He leaves us hanging with the outcome of John's life. And in fact, the second half of the book is given over to Paul Not only does he leave us hanging with regard to what happens in Paul's life, he leaves us hanging in the middle of Paul's trial and doesn't even tell us the outcome of the trial, let alone his life. Luke was not worried about giving a complete picture of the lives of people. That's not why he put this in here. And some will say, yeah, but it's just part of what happened during that period of time, and he wanted to fill in the holes. But if you put the book of Acts against a timeline, you discover something interesting. There's a period from AD 36 through 47, 10 years. Where there is maybe three verses that address anything that happened in those ten years. He's almost silent on an entire decade. So not only was Luke not worried about filling out the pictures of people's lives, he wasn't particularly worried about filling in all of the chronology. No, no, no. Luke picked his stories. He picked his events for a particular reason. We must not lose sight of what that is, or we will not understand the text before us. So now imagine for a moment that you are church hunting. My guess is that most of the adults in this room have at one time or another gone church hunting. You move to a new geographic area, it's no longer practical to be part of your old church. and you have to go find a new church. And you find a church. It's a smallish church. Just a little over a hundred people. But you like the people. And you start out of this church and then you start hearing things. This church, its pastor, was just murdered. And maybe not murdered so much as executed. Charged with a capital crime, he was tried and convicted, found guilty, and put to death. Now that might cause you to pull up short on joining that church. The pastor was convicted of a capital crime. But don't worry, many in the church are telling you it was a false accusation. He didn't really deserve. It was really a a sham trial and and they were out, the officials were out to get him. Oh, okay, if that's true, so what happened? Well, one of our elders set him up and turned him over to the officials. That you now you're no longer feeling good about that church again, are ya? Okay, so maybe the pastor wasn't guilty, but one of the elders sold him out? Either this pastor didn't understand people well enough to pick his elders, or he picked a good elder and then drove him away drove a wedge this is a mess it that situation you would struggle to join a church facing that situation And that's why Luke writes this. Because that's the struggle Theophilus is having. The man to whom he writes seems to be a a a new convert or maybe is still on the path to conversion and needs to have some assurance in the Christian faith He is uncertain. And in fact, we see at the end of the book of Acts, Paul says in Acts 28 that this Christian faith is spoken against everywhere. So Theophilus is struggling. Everyone is running down Christianity. Why should I be a Christian? And by the way, the Christian Church is a mess. Why should I be a part of it? I'm always amazed. You'll talk to somebody that find out, oh, what church you go to? Oh, you're a Christian, I'm a Christian. What church you go to? I go to the church over there. What kind of church is it? Oh, we're we're not a denominational church. We're j we're just trying to be of the New Testament church. We just want to be a New Testament church. And I want to look at them and say, really, which New Testament church? Galatians with all of its legalism? You're trying to be Corinthians with all of its sin? You're trying to be the one where Ananias and Sapphira lied to the apostles. Which New Testament church are you trying to be? I mean, come on, the New Testament Church is a train wreck. And Theophilus is struggling. And that's why this account is included. It is into this doubt, into this uncertainty, that Luke shares this story. So let's consider the aspects of it. Looking first at verses 12 through 14, we notice that they pray. And I have to wonder a little bit about what they're praying about or why they're praying. Now, I do want to make one quick note. To whom are they most certainly not praying? Have you thought about who's listed in the room there? The eleven, the brothers of Jesus, and his mom and some other women. I guarantee you they are not praying to Mary or any of the saints. They're praying with Mary and many of the saints. But they're not praying to Mary or any of the saints. So they have gathered in this room, and we wonder what are they praying about, or what are they praying for? Why are they praying? Well, I've heard some say they were their prayer is what brought about the Holy Spirit in chapter 2. This prayer meeting is what brought the Holy Spirit in chapter 2. I don't know. I start with a little bit since Jesus has already told them back up in verses 5 and 8 that the Holy Spirit's coming. He's already told them that's coming. I'm not certain this prayer meeting is what brought about the Holy Spirit. Are they praying for guidance as to what they should do? In reality, they're already doing it. Back in verse 4, Jesus had told them to go back to Jerusalem and wait. We just read that they went back to Jerusalem and are waiting. I'm not sure they're looking for guidance so much. They're already doing what they've been told to do Uh um are they wondering what they're supposed to do next? Well they've been told that too. They're going to be witnesses. Verse 8. You will be my witnesses. Maybe they're praying for Jesus' return. And that's certainly a possibility based on what we saw the angels say in verse 11. Remember last week we saw where they're standing watching Jesus be taken away and all of a sudden somebody starts talking to them, somebody appears there and says, Hey guys, what are you doing? Why are you standing there looking into the heavens? He'll come back So maybe that's a possibility. Maybe they're going, hey, let's have them come back now. I could see them doing that. But if we really boil down, why are they praying? And I'm going to guess it's because they're living in the midst of uncertainty. Everything is topsy-turvy. Their leader is gone, their number incomplete. Their future uncertain. They've been promised a gift of the Holy Spirit, but they're not exactly certain what that's all about. What is that going to mean? What is that going to look like? Are we going to look like the prophets of the Old Testament when the Spirit came upon them? Are we going to look like David when the Spirit came upon him? What is it going to be like? There's a great deal of uncertainty. And yes, we've come back here to wait and we know we're supposed to be witnesses. But really, witnesses? We have no credibility in the society around us. None. They scoff at us. They laugh at us. We're going to go out there and tell them Jesus has been raised from the dead? But he's not even here with us to prove it. And the angels have said that he's coming back, but when? Apparently it's going to be a bit of a time because he's going to send the Holy Spirit. If he were coming right back, well, we could probably get through, muddle through without the Holy Spirit. So something's going on. There's a great deal of uncertainty. And that's why they're praying. And that's why Luke shares this with Theophilus. Theophilos, you are not certain. You're in the midst of uncertainty. You have doubts. You're wondering what the Lord is calling you to do. You're wondering what you should believe. Pray. Don't run away from God and try to figure it out on your own and then come back and re-engage with the Christian faith. No, run to God in prayer. Go to Him. Ask Him to prove Himself to you and to take away your doubts and to build your faith. And that's the same message that is for every Christian today. For every one of us who has doubts, who lives in the midst of uncertainty. Lord, I tried to obey you in this regard, and it went horribly. Why? What do I go from here? What do I do next? And there is uncertainty. And we turn to all manner of things To deal with that fear and that angst that comes. If every moment of of inactivity is filled with something to take away that that feeling I I I I gotta have a glass in my hand. I gotta have a snack in my lap. I've I gotta have this game going on my phone. I gotta have something to distract me in this moment. I can't just sit and be in the midst of my life because it terrifies me. And Luke says to each of us, like he said to Theophilus, look what they did. In the midst of their uncertainty, they prayed. They went to God and spoke with him. And then in verses 15 through 20, we see that there that Peter gets up and addresses the crowd. Now I'll remind you, this is actually, if you read the the Luke Acts, the two-volume work straight through You're going to realize that this is the first time that Peter has appeared in the Luke-Acts series since his betrayal, his denial of Jesus. Now you remember that was, you can understand, that was a pretty terrifying situation. You know, Peter was faced with certain death if he owned Jesus. No, he was facing a young girl. In a private meeting in a courtyard. And she really put him on the spot. You're a Galilean, aren't you? Oh, no, no, no, I'm not one of them. Big old brave Peter, big bold Peter, Peter who will tell Jesus that Jesus is wrong, was so scared in front of a young girl that he couldn't own the savior. This is the next time we see Peter in the Luke-Acts series. And Peter steps up and he begins to address the gathering. There does seem to be a passage of time from verse 15 to 16. I'm sorry, from uh 14 to 15. From 14 to 16. 15 that in those days, I don't know that we're supposed to see that this is the same prayer meeting that he's addressing. Rather, I think we're meant to see this as uh some few days later. Peter stands up and addresses the group and appears to be the whole group is gathered now, the 120. And Peter begins to try to rally them. And what does he rally them around? Does he rally them around himself? No, he doesn't. He doesn't even bother to try. He knows that he has little to no credibility right now. Does he rally them around the scriptures per se? Well, sort of And that's certainly the way I was headed when I first started working on this sermon. And it's kind of what drove some of the music selection. But the more I wrestle with this, I realized Peter's really not even trying to get them to rally around the scriptures. Absolutely, it's essential that you see the scriptures as true, for though everything he has to say falls apart if it isn't true. But that's not his main point. What is Peter's point? What does he address? What does he want them to understand? He wants them to understand the implication of the scriptures being true. That back in the Psalms, the Psalm that we read in our Old Testament reading. It was foretold that these unsettling events were going to occur. God had given them a heads up that this was coming. That one of their own would betray Jesus. Now when you read these passages in the Psalms You at first you can go, well, you know, Peter's just pulling this out, plucking it out of context, making it apply to Jesus. It doesn't really apply. But when you go, there's two different psalms that are referenced here, and when you go and you look at them in context, you begin to realize that while they start out Sounding an awful lot like David, they end up sounding an awful lot like Jesus. That as the psalm unfolds, you see more and more and more that applies to Jesus And less and less and less of it applies to David. And you begin to realize that Peter is not making this up. He's not inventing this, that it's really there hundreds of years earlier It was really there and foretold. And the message is to Theophilus and Peter's message to the the 119 others that are gathered there, and Luke's message to Theophilus and to us. Is to realize that in the midst of your uncertainty, God is still in control. God being in control is not something that is true when you like what He's doing. It's not something that is only true when things go the way you wanted them to go. You've heard me take issue with this before. I'll take it again and say I really am thankful. I don't hear this kind of terminology used here. But I've been around Christians. I've been amongst believers. Something positive will happen in their lives. They'll they'll they'll get an unexpected check in the mail. They'll have a close call non-accident out on the highway Something positive will happen in their lives and they'll say, it was a God thing. It's true, but it's really misleading. For if they had had the accident on the highway, does it imply that God was not in control? That was not a God thing. Had they gotten a bill in the mail rather than a check? Would that have not been a God thing? That God was not in control of that? God controls checks. He can't control the bills. Clearly, that's not how it goes. Either he's in control or he's not in control. Either he has absolute sovereignty or he does not. And what we see here is Peter saying to the uncertain brethren, to the men and women who are gathered there, he says to them, let's not lose faith. We know that what Judas did, while it was of Judas's own free will, while it was Judas's own sin, nevertheless, it was ordained by Judah. God. And he brought it about. Our uncertainty is the certain place we were supposed to be in God's plan. Our doubts were always sure in God's mind That at this moment, in this place, and in this time, we together are here by God's directive. That He ordered it to be so. For Theophilus, this had to be a great encouragement, and it ought to be the same for you and me. I get that doesn't mean you're always going to be happy. I think Job understood the sovereignty of God. He was still pretty frustrated about his situation. I know Paul was sure that God was in control of all things. He still wanted the thorn in his flesh to be taken away. I'm not saying that you should be happy about the difficulties in your life, the uncertainties in your life, the things that cause your world to be topsy-turvy, what I am saying Is that even in the midst of your frustration and your discouragement, don't doubt that God is bringing them around for His purposes in you. And that it will finally, ultimately, be for your own good as well. Then we see in verses 21 through 26 that Peter, having explained from the scriptures what is going on, that this was foreseen, that this did not surprise God, that this was He concludes quoting the psalm that we read, let another take his office. And so he begins to explain how they've got to find a replacement. They've got to prepare to do the things that Jesus told them we were going to do. We're going to go be witnesses. We've got to get ready for that. We can't just sit here in our uncertainty and doubts and wring our hands and bemoan our situation, we know what we're going to do next. We're going to be witnesses. And that means that we need to be ready, which means we need to replace Judas. Let's talk briefly about what we see happening there. As they begin to set aside or s sorry, begin to uh set aside those men who could replace uh Judas, some interesting things are said. He says, Peter says there that uh uh these need to be men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out of the among us, beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us A couple of comments there. It's interesting some of the names that are not put forth. If you were to read forward into the book of Acts and to the rest of the New Testament, there are some prominent names who would have witnessed all of these things. Who are not put forward right here. Most notably, James, the half-brother of Jesus, and Jude, the half-brother of Jesus. They're both gathered here. They have both witnessed all the things that have been talked about, but they're not put up as candidates because of the way that Peter words it. My version said they had to accompany us. Some versions said they had to be with us. It's the idea that not that they merely are witnesses. But that they had been on board, that they had been believers, that they had been disciples and followers through all of that time. And we know from Matthew and Mark that the half-brothers of Jesus were not. They were not believers. They scoffed and mocked their older brother. until after the resurrection. So two names are put up. One whose name is Joseph, called Bar Sabbath, son of son of the Sabbath, and his name is also Justice. and I think they simply voted him down because it was too hard to write all those names on the ballot. Um No, that's not what's going on there. They have these two names and they cast lots, and we'll talk more in Sunday school about the details of that. They cast lots for them, and Matthias is chosen. I want us to think a little bit about why they did this here, why they replaced the way they did. So Peter outlines two requirements. You know, that they have uh or basically uh one requirement that they have been witnesses are well, how you gonna say it? Two witnesses of all these things have happened that have been with us throughout all of this And they choose. Are those, and Peter talks later on about apostleship down in the last verse, so are those the requirements to be an apostle, capital A? I'm going to suggest they are not. That these men here are apostles, but this is not The definition of apostle, rather, this is what's required to replace Judas. This is not necessarily the definition of apostle. For what we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and chapter 15 where Paul talks what about what an apostle is, one who is ordained and sent by God to have a particular ministry and who has seen the resurrected Jesus. seen the resurrected Jesus and sent by Jesus to go have a particular ministry. That is part of the reason That they handle the selection the way they do, so that it meets those requirements. But there's more going on here. This is not simply the appointment of an apostle, this is a replacement of one of the twelve. For what is in view here is a bigger picture. There is an eschatological duty of the twelve. When the inn rolls around, the twelve have a responsibility that other apostles do not have. You recall what it is? In Matthew 19, verse 28, we read this. Jesus said to them, the 12. Truly I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me, see Peter's requirement? You who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Judging the twelve tribes of Israel. That's why these particular requirements are in place for this replacement. This is also why you don't see the others replaced later on. When James is beheaded in Acts chapter 12, there's no replacement for him, James the brother of John. When he's beheaded in Acts, there's no replacement. Because He still is one of the twelve, and he can still be a judge of Israel. Judas was no longer one of the twelve. He had to be replaced. And so that's why they take this up. It's also interesting when you look at verse 22, the wording there. What is the point? of these twelve. What are they going to do? Well we look in verse 22 and we see something interesting. Peter is speaking. One of these m men Now, okay, so what are the requirements? They had to be they had to be uh uh uh accomp they had to accompany us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us. Okay They had to have been they had to be part of all of that. Now he says this, one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection. Become a witness to his resurrection. That changes totally our understanding of what they're going to be doing. This is not about what's happened in the past. The key aspect of their calling and of their duty is not about the past. It's not about what they saw back then. Yes, they need to have witnessed all of those things So that they can become a witness. Now, none of them could go back into the past and become witnesses of all those things. There's two different meanings of the word witness. And we must see that. What they have witnessed, they need to witness about. That which they have seen, they need to testify to. That which they have observed, they need to share with others. And that the key here is this idea of that they will become a witness. You see, not only are they going to be judges of Israel by function of their of their duty among the twelve, they're going to be judges of Israel. because they're going to be able to give a first-hand account about what happened in response to their message. Matthias one day will sit on the throne and judge one of the tribes of Israel, and he'll be able to say, no, no, no, no, I saw with my own eyes. how you rejected the message. I came to your village and I told you myself about the Messiah, the promised one of Israel, and you didn't believe They are going to become witnesses who tell. And to Theophilus And to us, Luke is pointing out what the church becomes, not with the authority of the judges of Israel that the twelve had Not with the authority that we can speak inerrantly the Word of God as the authors of the New Testament had, but we must also become witnesses. For the New Testament goes on to say that we will all judge. We will all be among those who will testify. in the last day that we will say, I'm sorry, dear friend, but I told you I told you. You remember that day you gave me the tomatoes out of your garden and we stood at the fence? And I told you. And you wouldn't listen. You wouldn't hear. I invited you repeatedly to come to church, and you wouldn't do it We will all become witnesses. We are uncertain often. We are doubting often. Our church seems small the task beyond us. And we should pray. Absolutely, we should be praying. And we should prepare. But we must also become witnesses. For part of what we have is the entirety of the book of Acts. We know where it's headed. We know that this unsure band of 120 eventually takes the gospel into the heart of Rome. We wonder if we can even penetrate Talbot, Dorchester, Cambridge. the counties around us. They took it all the way to Rome. We too, if we become witnesses, if we pray faithfully, if we prepare in a biblical, godly way We too, by the same Holy Spirit that they had, we have, and the message can get to Annapolis, and to DC, and to the capitals around the world. If we become witnesses. Let's pray. Lord equip us to share your word. Let us be a people. Who on the last day, when judgment is pronounced, are not ashamed of how few we told That there would not be people who look at us and say, You never warned me. That when you give us the right To judge. It's because we will have done everything you equipped us to do. We will have made every connection, called out every opportunity By your grace, to share your word with the lost. Let us be like this church, a church that in the midst of its doubts runs to you in prayer. A church that in the midst of its uncertainty sees your hand in control. A church that prepares witnesses to tell the world. We pray this blessing on our church for the purpose of your kingdom, for the glory of our Savior. In whose name we pray. Amen.