Invite you to turn in your Bibles to Mark 14. We'll be beginning in verse 27, going through verse 52. Mark 14, 27 through 52. As you turn there, I want to share with you a little something about the Shaw family. We've got uh uh one of our little catchphrases, one of the little things that we say in our family that might mean Little to anybody else is the phrase, we're gonna waste you guys. We're gonna waste you guys. A little taunt, a little gamesmanship. You see, some years ago, my my sister's son, she's got four wonderful children. Two younger are boys, and at the time they were in their mid-teens. And as mid-teen boys will do, they were feeling the need to prove their manliness. And to do so, they decided to challenge their uncles, me and my brother. And they first challenged their uncles to some card games, some games of euchre. And uh we beat them soundly and repeatedly. Then they decided to challenge their uncles to something more physical. Clearly those old guys can't keep up that great, so the old guys can play cards But they can't keep up on the uh sports field. So we went out in the driveway to play some two-on-two basketball. And my brother and I won again. So we went home. Some months later we're back over probably a year later we're back over at my sister's house. And in the meantime, the boys had gotten a foosball table. If you're not familiar with foosball, it is that game where plastic men are impaled on a pole They spin around, kick a ball. It sort of looks like soccer on a table. And the boys, my nephews, had had that foosball table for a little while. They'd been practicing up, and they decided that this was the game where they could beat the uncles. You see, in this game, hand-to-eye coordination mattered, and there's no way those old guys could could have that. And in this game, you know, size won't matter. You know, in the basketball port the uh court, those old guys they threw around their spare tire But here, the nephews are going to win it. And that's what prompted the brag from the youngest one, Samuel. Some of you met Samuel right before Christmas. That's what prompted the brag. We're going to waste you guys. We went down, we played a game of foothball, and it was close. We beat them 10 to nothing. We played four more games that weekend, and I think the cumulative score over the whole weekend, I think, was something like 50 to 12. Good for the old guys. Now those two young boys are now in their early twenties. They're both college athletes, and my brother and I have wisely decided that we no longer have anything to prove. So we don't challenge them anymore. We're gonna waste you guys. That brag is cute and it's fun. When is a couple of nephews having fun with their uncles at a family get together? It's actually a lot of fun, and there's nothing wrong with it. But when we have that kind of pride in other places in our lives, that kind of self-assurance in places that matter In the things where we don't have any ability, it's no longer cute teenage fun. It becomes deadly foolishness The text that we are about to read is an account of the Apostle Peter and his foolish belief that he had the ability to accomplish Accomplish what was well beyond his means. And as we read through it, I want us to consider how often we put ourselves in the place of Peter, how often we think that we can take on that which is well beyond our reach. The text is a In some ways, a very sobering, very difficult reminder of our frailty and our limitations as human beings. But it is also a beautiful picture of what can be done about that. Let's consider Mark 14, beginning in verse 27. I remind us often that if the that we believe the only infallible rule for faith and for practice is the Bible. That if you want to know God, if you want to know what He expects of us, if you we want to know how it is that we are to overcome the difficulties in our life, then we have to know his word. So hear now the word of God from Mark 14. And Jesus said to them You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not. And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me. three times. But he said emphatically, If I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same. And they went to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled, and he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, sor sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little further, he fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will And he came and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough. The hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See My betrayer is at hand. And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard. And when he came he went up to him at once and said, Rabbi, and he kissed him. And they laid hands on him and seized him. But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. And Jesus said to them, Have you come out against Have you come out as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the scriptures be fulfilled. And they all left him and fled. And a young man followed him with nothing but a linen cloth about his body, and they seized him, but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through your word this morning. Let us hear its message And by your gracious hand, may it be applied to our lives, that we would be conformed into the image of the one who died in our place We pray this in his name and for his sake. Amen. We have skipped a little ahead in the Gospel of Mark. We have Gone over some passages. We are going to come back and take a look at those. We're not leaving out any portion of Mark. And we will consider some of the texts that have been omitted during Holy Week. But this morning we've jumped forward to this account of this interaction between Peter and Jesus. Peter shows a self-assurance, a self-confidence that is akin to my nephew's. He doesn't use the line, we'll waste you guys. But rather he says in his heart what many of us have said. I've got this. I'm on top of it I can handle it. I'm good to go. I don't need any help. I've got this. And that is the attitude that Peter brings into this text. It's actually an amazing account of human arrogance. For we're reminded that Peter is the one who has been so wrong so often It was Peter who argued with Jesus that day on the shore of Galilee when Jesus, the creator of the fish, the creator of the sea, said, throw your net on the other side. And Peter said Ah, I'm a lifelong fisherman, I know what I'm doing. It's gonna do no good. It was Peter Who got out of the boat and took a step of faith and began to walk on the water, but sank immediately because of his unwillingness to trust. It was Peter, who by the grace of God was able to say, You are the Christ, but then turned right around and argued with Jesus about what it meant to be the Christ. The Christ doesn't die, the Christ is victorious. Messiah, he's the victorious leader of his people. Peter has been wrong time after time after time. Jesus turned to the disciples, and Peter was among them when Jesus said, Feed this crowd. And Peter was one of those who said, It's not possible. And moments later, Jesus demonstrated how possible it was. was. Peter ought to by this point know his own human limitations. He ought to realize that when the Word of God speaks into his life, through this one he calls Jesus, through this friend of his, when the Word of God comes, he needs to humble himself before it and say, you're right, that's who I am. And Jesus has said to Peter, You are all going to fall away. But Peter, in his arrogance, and his pride, and his Self-assurance says, no, no chance. I've got this. I'm on top of it. I can handle it. I'm ready to go. I'll even die for you. We are all Peter. We've all done that. We have all looked to the Lord and said, no, no, no, you don't need to warn me about that. I'm good. Oh yeah I know, do not covet, but that's not even a real commandment. I mean what is coveting? I don't really know. I'm not worried about I'm not coveting. I didn't want a new grand Cherokee anyway, my stupid neighbor. He didn't need to buy that big vehicle. I don't need warning about coveting, Lord. Don't talk to me about adultery. Those hundred magazines in the checkout line at the store, those covers don't tempt me in any way. I don't need your warning about that. I've got this, Lord. I'm on top of it. I don't want to hear your law about lying, Lord. I'm a perfectly honest person. Look how true I'm being with you right now, explaining how good I am. I've got this. I'm on top of it. I've got it all taken care of. Peter exemplifies the foolishness of our human process. And he does so in vivid reality here. Now, some of you will sit there and you'll say to me, Pastor, you've got to understand, I'm not Peter. Peter was, he's kind of a Self-assured, stubborn, hard-headed guy, and you know, I'm not like that. I can admit when I'm wrong. And the moment you say that, you prove that you are exactly like Peter. You've just shown that you can't see your own shortcomings. Each of us is at least as prideful as Peter. If not more. I've got this. I can take care of it. And so Peter leaves that scene, enters the garden with Jesus. And has nothing to pray about in his mind. Not sure what to do. He can't stay focused on prayer. There's really nothing to pray about. And he falls asleep. sleep. And some will say, well maybe he had too much of the fresh f fresh baked bread that they had just eaten a short time earlier. Maybe he had one more glass of wine than he should have had. So he's a little groggy and that's why. Maybe they had just switched over to daylight savings time and he's behind an hour. But the reality is that those who are worried don't sleep. But the confident do. And Peter goes into that garden, and in his confidence Sees nothing to worry about, nothing to pray about. And he falls asleep, though Jesus had told him. You say, well, Pastor, I thought we weren't supposed to worry. I thought worrying was a bad thing. Absolutely, we're not supposed to worry about the things that are outside of our control. We can't worry about tomorrow because we have no ability to impact tomorrow We can't worry about where our next meal comes from because we can't control that. And we needn't worry one iota about our eternal surety in Christ because He's got that. But we do need to be concerned about sin in our life We do need to give attention to the warnings that Jesus gives. We do need to be afraid of falling. And afraid, and attention, and concern are all synonyms for worrying. There is a place to recognize our frailty And to worry about it. And Jesus told Peter to pray. He's just, what should Peter be praying about? What should Peter be doing in this moment? Jesus has just told me I'm going to be betray him. Lord, I don't think that's me. I don't think that that's who I am. I want to be faithful to this Jesus. I love him. I want to follow him to death. But I Also know that your word resides in him, and he's just said, I'm going to betray him. Lord, may it not be so So if there be another path for me, if there be a path of faithfulness, take me on it. And some would say, well, that's just foolish prayer. If it's been predicted, then that's the way it is. But we're reminded Jeremiah makes it very clear, Jeremiah. eighteen says very clearly that there are things that the Lord prophesies that he foretells not because it's a certainty to come true, but because it's a test, it's a warning about what will come true if we can remain on that path Jeremiah says that if I prophesied good for a nation, but that nation turned to wickedness, I will withdraw the good that I promised them. Jeremiah says that if I prophesied disaster to a nation and they repent and return to me, I will relent of my anger and be gracious to them. Peter should be on his knees in the garden saying, Lord, I don't want to do what Jesus just said I'm going to do. If there be any other path For me. Help me find it. Lead me in faithfulness. Give me assurance that I can get through this night, following the one I love. But that's not what he does. And in his confidence and in his self-assuredness, he says, I've got this. And he falls asleep. Judas and the armed guards of the high priest arrive on the scene. And Jesus had just told the three that the betrayer was coming, that the moment was coming. Jesus has been telling them repeatedly that he's headed to Jerusalem. We saw back in Mark 10 and Mark 11. Where Jesus tells them he's going to Jerusalem to die. He's just earlier, even though we did not read this, just earlier in this night, he has told them that his body is to be broken and his blood poured out. And now he says, look, the moment is at hand. My betrayer is here. If they've been paying attention, they should know that what comes next has been ordained by God and foretold to them by Jesus. It is the moment where he enters into his final passion. And yet Peter, not doing what was commanded, not doing what was asked of him, decides to strike out on his own and do his own good deeds. Now Peter's not named in this text, but we know from John's account that it's Peter who draws the sword and lops off the servant's ear. That is so again like us. We don't do the things we're told to do, but instead we make up our own good deeds. Because the things we make up are so much easier for us to keep. He didn't pray when he was told to pray, and now he's told to do, he does he does what he was never told to do And you say, well yes, but he's zealous for Jesus. Look at him, he's he's standing up for Jesus. But I'm going to say the account suggests that it was mere adrenaline. For in just a few moments, Moments he is going to flee with all the rest. That in his zeal he does the wrong thing. What has Jesus told him to do? To pray. What should he be doing in this moment when the betrayer comes? Pray. Lord, I don't want to fall away. Father, don't let me fall away. More than that, Lord, I know you've told us through through Jesus what's the coming in the next few hours for him. Be with him. Be with my friend. See him through this. But that's not what Peter does. He doesn't do what he's commanded. We do this all the time. We cannot keep God's righteous standard, and so we set It aside and create a new standard of our own. We are unwilling to admit that we cannot attain his standards for sexual purity. And so we redefine what is right in those regards. And we say: the only thing that matters is that you do whatever pleases you, you do whatever pleasures you In that moment. We cannot adhere to God's standards when it comes to letting our yes be yes. So we have all kinds of clever ways of saying, well, she shouldn't have to repay that loan. Those big evil banks are corrupt anyway and they got more money than know what to do with, and it's not her response And we justify all manner of sin, and we actually turn it into something good, so that we can make up good deeds never once required of us by our God. Friday morning in the deacons training, the men and I were going, we were going through uh the men and I, I'm one of the men, I'm not a different category. We were going through the training together and we were looking at the Westminster Confession and there's that beautiful paragraph in there that says, Good deeds are only such as God has ordained in his word. Of course, the worst of it all is we have invented all manner of saving the world apart from Jesus. Recycling is going to save the planet. Shrinking your carbon footprint is going to save the planet Fixing all the social ills of this world is going to save the planet. When there is only one Savior. There is only one hope for this world. And we preach a gospel which is no good news at all, and we jettison the Christ, because we do not want to Humble ourselves and admit our need for him. Peter did not do what was commanded and instead replaced that good work with something else that he made up, something of his own inventing. So that he could feel good in that moment doing something for Jesus. The adrenaline wears off And we read that they quickly flee. We see there in verse 50, and they all left him and fled. Fled. Peter has been the leader among the twelve, apart from Jesus. He's been a leader among the twelve at every turn, and you can be assured that he was the leader here. That when the adrenaline of the moment had worn off, he dropped that sword and beat a path out of that garden along with the rest of them, probably out in front of them. And he flees. All of his good intentions, all of his words meant nothing in this moment. And he leaves. To give you some sense of how uh badly the disciples wanted to get away from that, Mark tacks on two interesting reasons. verses there. Many scholars, because the wording there, young man, is a wording often used of teenagers. Mark would have been roughly a teenager. We know from other passages of Scripture that Mark was a follower of Jesus during his earthly ministry. And so many scholars believe that these note these two verses are autobiographical, that Mark is telling us something about himself. But nevertheless, Mark does point a picture, point a portrait, paint a portrait of how badly they wanted to get out of there. About public nudity. The Jewish culture cared a great deal about it. Jews did not participate in the Roman bathhouses. Jews had no place in their society for any form of public nudity. In fact, it was a great shame. It was a great dishonor. And that's why Mark puts this in here. That's how badly they wanted to get away. That this conscientious, observant young Jew was willing to shed his clothing and to run away naked. So as to get away from that situation. They weren't willing to stay with Jesus. They weren't even willing to stay with their clothes They got out of there. The frailness of humanity is on vivid display throughout this passage. Peter opens up with, I've got this Then he fails in prayer. Then he replaces it with some false good deed that is not good at all. And in the end, he does exactly the sin that Jesus had foretold. Jesus, by contrast, is an interesting picture in this passage. Did you catch what he's doing? His track record is not one of failure. He's not Peter. When the crowds needed to be fed, he didn't fail in faith. He fed the crowds. When he needed to cross the sea, he didn't sink because he didn't believe. He walked on the water. At every turn, Jesus has been nothing but a success spiritually. With regard to the law, he bested the Pharisees. With regard to knowledge of the Word, he bested the scribes. With regard to doctrine, he bested the Sadducees. Jesus has had victory after victory. After victory. And he doesn't for one moment say, I've got this. I'm good to go. I got it nailed down. He falls on his knees and says, Father, help me. I do not want to face what's coming. Help me. And while it is not the main point of the sermon, I think it's worth commenting on this. I don't know how any preacher or book writer with a clear conscience can have a name it and claim it philosophy. of prayer. If you just pray with enough faith, you'll get whatever you ask for. I don't see how that's possible unless you're ready to prepare, you're prepared to say that Jesus of Nazareth lacked faith. For he did not get what he prayed for in this moment. The cup was not taken from him. The hour did not pass by him. Rather, he faced all that he did not want to face. I'm not prepared for one moment to suggest that Jesus lacked faith. Rather, he came to God with true faith. And he did, as our catechism said, offer up to God his desires in prayer. But he also recognized that God's desires are the ones that matter. If it be your will, take this hour from me, but not my will And the Savior, who would know no failure, even as a human being, in his humanity, is on his knees praying for help to get through the moment before him. And the picture for us is clear. Are we going to stand there in the face of of our sin and our flesh and the world's pressures and the devil's temptations and say, I've got this. I'm good to go. I don't need any help. Or are we like our Savior? Going to fall down and humbly say, please help me. Father, see me through this. You said that my sin is this and that and the other thing, but that's not what I want it to be. Take me on another path. Lead me away from temptation. And deliver me on the other side by your power. It was fun. And it was cute. One of our nephews said, We'll waste you guys. It's not cute. It's not funny. It's not it it is nothing short of Of deadly foolishness when we think that our own, we can destroy our flesh, we can destroy the influence of this world, we can destroy the power of the devil. We need to take this to Jesus because he's the one who will waste those guys. He's the one who has all power and will see us through the times of our temptation, the times of our temptation Our failings, the times of our shortcomings, the times of our pride and our arrogance. And in all of those, we need to go to Him in prayer. Just as he went to his father in his darkest hour. Let's pray. Lord teach us to pray. Teach us not only how to pray, but teach us to pray. Show us our need, remind us through this text. That we cannot vest the enemies that are all around us and within us, but that we must fall on you In prayer, relying on your strength to see us through these things. Forgive us for not praying as we ought. Give us a new desire to see your face in the quiet times of our lives. Make us a congregation who longs to be in your presence through prayer, that we might be empowered. So that we will not flee from you when the world presses in around us. But we will stand firm in the faith you've given us. As a testimony to your glory and grace. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.