Turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 5. Acts 5. We'll pick up reading in a moment here at verse 12 and be reading through the end of Acts 5. Acts 5, 12 through the end of the chapter. As you turn there, share a quote with you that I've heard a lot over the years, read a lot over the years, and some of you may be familiar with it. The quote goes like this. Preach the gospel at all times. Use words if necessary. Preach the gospel at all times. Use words if necessary. Now it's often quoted, it's often used to make it sound as if living life rightly is infinitely more important than words, than mere words. But of course, putting a right life in contrast or in opposition to right words is a bit like saying that one wing of an airplane is more important than the other. There is no flight without both of them. The quote implies that if you're a gifted pilot, then you don't really need the right wing. You could just fly on the left one. Preach the gospel at all times, use words if necessary. It's often attributed to Francis of Assisi, but there is absolutely zero evidence that he ever said it or anything like it. And in fact, Francis belonged to an order, founded an order of preachers. Three preachers. He would not be opposed to the idea of preaching. We must keep in mind that the gospel, preach the gospel at all times, use words if necessary. The gospel, the word gospel literally means good news. And news, by definition, has content. There's information there. Imagine for a moment that you finished dinner and you went into the family room and you kicked your feet up and you turned on your favorite six o'clock newscast and the anchor tried to live out the news in front of you Wouldn't be terribly informative, would it? It wouldn't be terribly helpful. You might be able to figure out from this weird game of charades that there had been maybe a murder somewhere. But you wouldn't know any of the key details. You might uh well the other night we were trying to watch a football game and the stinking weather tornado warning thing interrupted the football. Come on, what really matters? Don't they understand? Now imagine that the weatherman had sat there and spun in circles. We might have figured out there was a tornado, but would we have known that it was coming for us? Let me alter the quote. Preach the gospel at all times. Use words because they are necessary. The text before us this morning paints a picture of those who are arrested and imprisoned because of the words they spoke. They are then set free. And told to go out and speak the words again. Don't back away. Don't look for an alternative. There is no top secret mission. On behalf of, you know, Jesus commissioned me to be a secret agent for him. I'm a secret missionary. I could tell you I'm a Christian, but then I'd have to kill you. That's not how it works. In fact, Jesus said, those who are ashamed of me before men, I will be ashamed of them before my Father in heaven. Let's take a look at this text. And look how it is essential that the words be preached. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what it is, you must communicate to other people. Then you must know his word. Hear now the Word of God from Acts 5, beginning in verse 12. Now many signs and wonders were regularly done among the people by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon's portico. None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high esteem, and more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women. Some interesting wording there. Notice that the people are being added to the Lord. Often in the book of Acts, it's say they're added to the number, or added to the body, or added to the church. But here they're added to the Lord. We must remember that we are his great inheritance. We are his reward for the work he has done. He died to redeem many peoples and nations and tribes and tongues and we are his Picking up there in ver uh verse fifteen uh uh sorry, back to fourteen, and more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women, so that they even carried out the sick into the streets and laid them on cock The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed. But the high priest rose up, and all who were within, that is, the party of the Sadducees, shameless plug more on them in Sunday school. And filled with jealousy, they arrested the apostles and put them in the public prison. Stop for a moment. What is going on here? There is a power struggle in Jerusalem. The people hold in high esteem the apostles. These who claim that Jesus of Nazareth is the Messiah, the promised one, he's come. And the people are holding them in high esteem. And the leaders of the Jews are jealous. They're losing their influence. They're losing their power. They're afraid of losing control of Jerusalem. And so they take a public action. They put these apostles in the public prison. Probably something akin to the old debtor's prison in the town square, where you were to be shamed. You were to be there for everybody to see They've been put in this situation, and it's going to backfire badly on the high priest, because now it's going to be publicly known what happens next. We continue to read once I find my place again. There we go. Verse 19. But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out and said, Go and stand in the temple and stand in the temple. Speak to the people and use words if necessary. That is not what my text says It says, go and stand and speak in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life. All of the words of this life. Sooner or later, you've got to find a way to communicate all the truth. That because God created us, and we can dispute how long ago he created us and the exact mechanism of the creation, but he created us. And because he created us, we're obligated to him. He has a claim on us because he made us Speak those words of this life. And we sinned against him, and we continue to sin against him. He has a right to demand things of us, and we violate what he demands. Speak those words of this life. And yet he did not leave us in our sin. He sent a Savior, one who both lived out the obligation we were under, though he wasn't. And died the death that we owe, though he didn't. Speak those words of this life. But God overturned the verdict of man and raised him from the dead and said, No, he does not deserve to die. He's been made alive. Speak those words of this life. And he's been raised into heaven and seated at the right hand of God Almighty. From where he will return to judge all the peoples. Speak those words of this life. We continue to pick up there, verse 21. And when they heard this, the apostles, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach. Gee, I wonder what they had to talk about that morning. Now when the high priest came and those who were with him, they called together the council, all the Senate of the people of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported. Luke seems to be painting a bit of a comical picture here. Setting in contrast these rubes from Galilee against the educated and august body of the Council in Jerusalem And the tables are completely slipped. It's the council in Jerusalem that look like bumbling knuckleheads, and those rude from Galilee look like a well-oiled machine and are back at their work. There's a comical nature to what is being portrayed here. But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported, we found the prison securely locked. Don't blame us. It was locked. The guards standing at the doors. We did a breathalyzer. They weren't drunk. But when we opened them, we found no one inside. Now, when the captain of the temple and the chief priest heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to. And then someone pointed out in the midst of it, they're all scratching their heads, by the way, what we don't know from this text, the the council, the Sanhedrin met in a place called the uh the the Room of Hewn Stones. It was an annex to the temple In other words, what's going on is right outside their window. So they're in this room of the hewn stones and it's an annex to the temple, wondering, scratching their heads, going, so what happened to these guys? And somebody looks up and goes, I I think I can answer that They're right there. They're right there. And someone came and told them, look, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people Then the captain with the officers went and brought them, but not by force, for they were afraid of being stoned by the people. And when they had brought Then they set them before the council, and the high priest questioned them, saying, We strictly charge you not to teach in this name Yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood upon us. We've seen how Peter keeps preaching, and we're going to hear him do it again in a moment. Over and over and over again, Peter has preached with something akin to this. This Jesus, whom you crucified God raised from the dead. And they're tired of the accusation. You're trying to bring this man's blood upon us. Stop it. Knock it off! I think of the scene from what may be my all-time favorite movie, The Princess Bride, where the man keeps saying, inconceivable, and they finally say, We do not think that word means what you think it means Stop saying it and then the then the next year uh sorry, there's the wrong scene. I actually get the wrong C in my head. The one where the uh the the guy's fighting is the the guy who killed his father. That's the one I wanted And he's yeah, Inigo Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die. And the guy keeps saying he keeps repeating it over to the guy saying, Stop saying that! Stop with the accusation against me. I know too many scenes from that movie by memory, and I got them a little confused there, sorry. Hey, that's what you got going on here. Stop accusing us. Stop saying that. It's interesting how quickly we forget. Everyone in this council meeting was alive and probably in Jerusalem when this court met just a few months earlier to convict Jesus of Nazareth And to turn him over to Pilate. And the odds are good that everyone in this meeting was there when Pilate came back out and said, I find no fault in him that he should be killed. And they said, Crucify him. And Pilate said, I wash my hands. of this man's blood, and he visibly, ceremonially washed in front of them. And do you remember how they responded to Pilate? Because they've forgotten. Matthew 27, 25 tells us. They cried out in unison, let this man's blood be upon our heads and our children's heads. And here we are just a few months later. They're going, stop saying that. Stop accusing us of killing him. And it's beginning to chip away at them. Peter's message is beginning to have an impact on them. First of all, if you do not confront your sin, you cannot repent from your sin. You cannot confess sin that you won't even admit happened. And yet we're going to see that as we go through the book of Acts that Peter's constant message, this Jesus whom you crucified, is beginning to have an effect. And in fact, we're going to see in a few moments its effect. Stop saying that. We pick up in verse 29. But Peter and the apostles answered, we must obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers. Collectively, all of our fathers, you Jews on the Council and us apostles, all had the same God in the past, but you haven't recognized how He has come to us now. The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed, by hanging him on a tree. God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins, and we are witnesses to these things. And so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them. In a nutshell, part of the enraging is this comment about being a leader, that Jesus is the leader. They are the leaders. In their minds, they're the leaders. You're going to propose that Jesus is the leader? Some translations off the word prince, also an excellent translation. They saw themselves as the princes, not princesses. Princes, plural of prince. That's a weird word. Uh-uh saw themselves as the leaders of the people of Israel They were in rage. Verse 34. But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, held in honor by all the people, stood up and gave orders to put them in outside for a little while. And he said to them, Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men, for before these days Theodus rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing. After him, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him. He too perished, and all who followed him were scattered. So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan of of I'm sorry. For if this plan or this undertaking is of man, it will fail, but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God. The message of Peter is beginning to have its impact. There are now cracks in the opposition to Jesus. Amaliel, we're going to look at his thinking more in a moment. It's not completely sound. But Gamaliel is beginning to go, he's beginning to have doubts. Maybe we should hit the brakes and not condemn these men quite so quickly. Christian tradition holds that he eventually converted to Christianity and died as a martyr. Picking up there. So they took his advice, and when they had called in the apostles, they beat them for breaking the earlier direct directive. And charged them again not to speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. Not dishonor for their own obnoxiousness, nor do they seek out a suffering for its own sake. But when it came, they did not back down, and they rejoiced in it. And every day in the temple from how and from house to house they did not cease teaching and preaching that the Christ is Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, open our minds to the message of this text. Strip away our fear and timidity. Let us be like these men, bold in our proclamation of the truth. Of your good news. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Preach the gospel at all times. If necessary, use words. I already talked about that. But I want to look now, and I said we're going to change it and preach the gospel at all times, and because they are necessary, use words. And I want us to look a little bit about how that breaks out in this text. And I want us to first consider the importance of preaching the gospel, looking at verses 12 through the first half of 21, 12 through 21A, we see the importance of preaching the gospel. It opens up with a reference to signs and wonders. Verse 12. Now signs and wonders were regularly done among the people. And I will remind all of us that signs were meant to point to something. If they don't point to something, they're not effective as a sign. So that we have seen repeatedly we talked even last week about the fact that when there are miracles, they're always followed by a sermon two weeks ago. The sign by itself is meaningless. It points to something. So that we must not read a passage like this and think to ourselves, well, there ought to still be miracles happening in the church. If we still have this kind of power and we believe in this same God, why? Why aren't these miracles happening? Because God has pointed to the thing He wanted us to be to see. He's established it. He's pointed it out by these miracles and need not do so any longer. Does not need to continue. And by the way, we see that even while amongst these people, it did not continue. It's not like they had a better faith and we don't. We're weak and they were strong. For how is it that these apostles die? In fact, history holds that eleven of the twelve died a martyr's death. In other words, they were captured, imprisoned, and not set free. So we look at this and go, oh, we're going to be set free from prison. No. It was that in its infancy, the church could not yet survive without these apostles. They had not yet done the role for which God called them. And so he set them free that they might continue to teach and to testify to the resurrection, so that the church might be established. For what is Gamaliel going to say? If it is of God, it will not be overthrown. And this movement was of God. And locking up the apostles is not about to derail it in its infancy. But eleven of these twelve eventually are locked up and not released. We do not lack faith. We are not weak in the Spirit of God because we can't do these miracles. Rather, these were signs, and they pointed to something, and that something has been pointed out. to us. And there were wonders. They caused us to sit up and to listen and to pay attention. Something amazing was happening. And so we tune in to it. And being freed by an angel from a locked prison is pretty amazing. And they sat up and they listened. And they preach. Verse 21, we see that. They go back out and they preach. And when they heard this, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach. What have you been set free from? By the grace of God in your life, what are you not that you would have been otherwise? You tell people about that freedom. I'm sure that one of the things that was being discussed that morning in the Temple Courts was Hey, you remember yesterday we were out here preaching? Remember they locked us up last night? Look at us, we're free this morning. That's our God. That's who he is. Are you telling people that? In my own flesh I was addicted to, but by God's grace I have been set free, let me tell you about it. By my in my own flesh, I would be given to this lust, but by God's grace it has not overtaken me. Let me tell you about it. I was bowled over by this sin in my life, but God has set me free from it. Let me tell you about it. And if all else fails, be reminded of this. I was under the curse of the law, doomed to eternal hell. And that's no longer where I'm headed. I am free from the judgment of God against sin. Let me tell you about it. We must preach the good news of the gospel, for it is of God. Look at what we see here. Look at the things that have unfolded. Why has Gameliel backed off? Why is he suddenly not so interested in killing these men? And by the way, lest we think Gamelio is just this kind-hearted gentleman, let's be reminded of who his most famous student was. You ever wonder about how all the apostles have been kicked out in the lobby? The council is meeting. How does Luke know what was said in the room? How can Luke power this is, he made this up! No. Emilio's most famous student is a man named Saul. He grew up in Tarsus, moved to Jerusalem, and studied, according to Acts 23, studied at the feet of Gamel. Later took on the name Paul, his Roman Latin name. Today we call him Saint Paul the Apostle. He's the guy that used to kill Christians. Gameliel was a zealot. Not the political party of the zealots, but he was zealous. for his pharisaic approach to the law, and he raised his student to be that way, so that Saul of Tarsus was actively killing Christians. First of all, that's how Luke knows what was said in the Rome, because he got it, you know, Saul got it directly, Paul got it directly from Gamelio. But it's also a picture of what kind of teacher and what kind of opponent he this man was of Christianity. That his students would be that way. The student reflects the teacher. And Gameliel is now beginning to have doubts. Because it is of God. And Peter says we must obey God rather than men in verse 29. And he says, listen, this God, our God, the God of our fathers, he raised Jesus. God has exalted Jesus as leader and savior. Think about what's wrapped up in there. We now have a repeated theme of the judgment of this council The Sanhedrin is gathered, the council judged Jesus to be worthy of death, God stepped in, overturned the verdict, and raised him from the dead Oh, and by the way, this council now judged us to be worthy of locked up. God being locked up. God stepped in, overturned the verdict, and set us free. At some point, guys, you've got to begin to realize that you don't know what you're talking about And God keeps stepping in and overturning your judgments. It is of God. Gamelliel, remember, that's what signs point to. The power of God at work. And Gameliel is beginning to realize it. Exalted as leader and savior. Throughout most of the New Testament, Jesus is current called by the term kurios, the Greek word curios for Lord. And it was an affront to Caesar. Because Caesar is Lord. Caesar is curios. But here Luke, Peter, and Luke don't use that word kurios, they use this word for leader, for prince. Because the affront, the contrast is not against Caesar, the contrast is with the high priest. The contrast is to the Sanhedrin. Who thought they were the leaders of the people of God. And Peter is beginning to say, you don't understand, the people of God are shifting and changing. You're going to cease to be the leaders of the people of God, even if you continue to be the leaders of the Sanhedrin. Because the people of God are headed after Jesus of Nazareth, and you are not. And that's part of the outrage here. In verse 31b, we says that the repentance and forgiveness of sins is one of the reasons we said already Peter keeps hammering this whom you crucified message so that they will repent. So they will recognize what they have done and turn from it. And then notice in verse 32, God has provided witnesses. This has been testified to you. And we are witnesses to these things. The courts in Jerusalem, the courts in Israel, according to Old Testament law, needed two or sometimes three witnesses if one of those two was a little shady. Two or three witnesses to establish a legal fact. Peter stands in front of the council there, in front of the court of Israel, and says, There are twelve of us We have six times the legal number of witnesses to establish the fact, the historicity, the reality of his resurrection. And oh by the way, not a one of you is actually challenging it because you know it to be true. Notice that they never once challenged the reality of the resurrection. They don't like the implications of the resurrection. They don't want to submit to the raised one. But they never dispute the reality of the resurrection. It happened. It's indisputable. Had they had access to fake news, maybe they would have used it. But they didn't. So it's what they had. It is of God, and he keeps pointing that out to you. He keeps testifying to it by the signs and the wonders. And oh, by the way, how did this whole thing get started? His Holy Spirit came down and testified, and you all saw the impact of his Holy Spirit at Pentecost. And that's part of the reason the crowds keep coming to us, because that's how it all got started, Peter says. And then Gameliel says, if it is of God. It will not be overthrown. Emilio, whether or not he is yet a believer in his heart at the moment he says this, speaks an important truth. If it is of God, it will not be overthrown. But we've got to be careful approaching things in that regard. For that is not a healthy way to seek out the truth. You know, I'm gonna wait and see on this whole internet thing. I'm gonna give it a few years and see if it really has any legs to it. I'm going to wait and see. I'm not 100% certain about atomic theory. I'm not going to investigate it. I'm just going to wait and see if it comes to be. It's not a healthy way. Especially as a teacher of Israel's law, Gameliel should have said, let's go to the scriptures. Let's go investigate and find out if this really is of God. A wait and see approach is not an effective way to weed things out. For if we take that approach, we're going to have some issues. What are they? Well, there are a whole lot of things that aren't true. They've been around a very long time. There are a whole lot of things that are false that have been around for centuries and millennia. So are they true? Well the answer is no, they are not, for they will one day fall. But taking this approach to get at truth is not a healthy one, or you may not live long enough to see the outcome. And when the outcome is revealed at the final judgment, you're going to be on the wrong side of the aisle. And you're going to be standing there going, I never held on to Jesus. I never put my faith in him. I was waiting to see if this whole Christianity thing was true. Well now that we're seeing the final judgment and I see Jesus sitting on the throne, I I I'm on board now. I see it's true. I'd like to change sides of the aisle Too late. It is at that time too late. For that judgment is called final for a reason. We go on picking up in verse 33 to 42 at the end of it. We see Gameliel's advice that it will not be overthrown. If it is of God, it will not be overthrown. And as we said, that part of the advice is solid. He's right about that. That it will not be overthrown. But he says that if it is of man, it will fail. And we've already said that's a problem. For yes, it will fail, but it may not fail in a way that is timely for those of us trying to find the truth. Rather, we need to search the scriptures. We need to look at the source of truth and see if Jesus really is who he claims to be. It's interesting. We look at Gameliel's words. If it is of God, it will not be overthrown. And we want to take those words and we want to apply them to the things that matter to us. And we want to say, well, my marriage is of God, so it could never fail. Sure Harvest Church is of God, so it could never fail. But that's not what is being said here. This is not a guarantee. A Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church will never be overthrown. For we will overthrow it ourselves if we are not careful. Our own animosity, our own selfishness, our own sin will derail this church. For the promise is not that a particular church in a particular place. Will not be overthrown. The statement is that the truth of God will not fail. It's the truth of God that we must be proclaiming. We should not, we must not advance the cause of Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church. As if it is somehow the standard that will not fail. We must seek To put forth the Word of God. For that is what the prophet Isaiah said, will never return void in our Old Testament reading. That's what will never come back empty. That's what will always accomplish the purpose for which God set it forth. We at Shore Harvest will not always accomplish the purposes we're supposed to accomplish. We ought to make every human effort and empowered by the Spirit to do so, but that's not the promise here. The promise here is that the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ and salvation in his name and grace through him, that message will never be overthrown. And all who oppose it will be overthrown. All who speak against it will one day have to confess they were wrong. We must proclaim these things clearly, boldly, powerfully, over and over and over again, with all the words of this life. So that we will have given our lives to something lasting. So that we will have given our money to something lasting. So that we will have given our talents and skills to something lasting. Because it will not be overthrown if it is of God. And it is. For the signs and the wonders are all there. The Holy Spirit has come and he is there testifying. Our lives are being constantly changed as a testimony to the work of God. It is of God and therefore will not be overthrown. Let's pray. Lord, convince us of these things. Convince us that it is worth giving up everything to advance the cause of your word. For the things that we give up in the process will be taken away from us anyway one day. For the the the pettiness that we set aside, for the self-centeredness that we abandon, for the sin that pleases now but hurts in eternity? All of that is actually worth setting aside for the advancement of your kingdom in the pursuit of your word. So let us be about that. Let us return every day to the temple courts and proclaim the good news. At work, in our families, over at the dinner table, to ourselves as we're driving along and thinking. Let us examine ourselves Point out to us all the ways that we are not accomplishing these purposes. So that what matters to us will be what matters to you. And we will have all the confidence that that will never be overthrown. Because it is of God And it is a gospel we must preach. We pray this in his name. Amen.