Children of God. Isn't that what Pastor Shaw said we were just two weeks ago at our Christmas Eve service? He said, we were adopted into God's family, given all the rights, all the privileges, all the advantages of being one of God's children. The children of God. Yet that's not what it feels like most of the time. So here we sit in Jerusalem. It's been seventeen years since Cyrus the Persian set us free, so we could come back to Jerusalem. We sit in rubble. There is no wall, and because there is no wall, there is no defense. And because there is no defense, we spend an exorbitant amount of our uh income protecting ourselves so we can't build our homes. We can't live our lives in peace. Is this really what it means to be a child of God? Because if this is what it means to be a child of God, then I think he's forgotten us. We are overrun with fear, overrun with anxiety, beset with all manner of trouble. And I think some of you know what I talk about. Your lives, I suspect, don't always feel like you're a child of God. Like you've been adopted and granted all the privileges of his family. Maybe you're aware of some of the stories of our brothers and sisters who claim the faith we claim. You know of Shaheed Abedini. Shaheed was a a Persian, um uh uh what you would call an Iranian. And he was a Muslim. And he converted to Christianity along with his wife. Anyone who converts Anything does so because they think the new will be better than the old. If you change the brand of uh of cleaner you use, you do it because you believe the new one's going to be better So he converted from Islam to Christianity. And he wanted to share the good news of faith in a God who saves. Yahweh saves. Yeshua. For you Greek speakers, it's Jesus. Yahweh saves. So he wanted to take that news back to his Persian homeland, to sorry, what do you call it, Iran. And share it. And for that he spent four years in a Persian prison, separated from his wife and his children. I suspected during that time he doubted the promises of his new God. He wondered if he really was a child of that God. Is this really what it means to be a child of God? It has to get better. Maybe you've heard of a rule. A rule is a pastor of a small church in a small town in India. In the middle of his sermon, mid-sermon, thirty armed Hindus came in and they dragged him out of his church in front of his congregation and they beat him in the street until he was dead. What do you think his congregation felt? Did they feel like the children of God? Is this really what it means to be a child of God? You know, sometimes when bad things happen in our lives, it's because of our own sin. We lose a job because we argued with the boss. We were insubordinate. It hurts, it's painful, but we recognize that the failing is ours. And we don't blame God for it. Perhaps a friendship dissolves, but we say, we look at it and go, well, I really said some unkind words. It's my fault. that friendship dissolved and we don't blame God. But what about all those times that the pain in our lives doesn't seem to be related to anything we've done? A young woman, true story. A young woman professes the faith that we profess. She marries a man who professes the faith that we profess. They have a child together. They they they uh it's not circumcision uh uh baptize. They baptize that child into the faith And then she finds out her husband is having an affair. And he's unrepentant. And he's not going to quit. And he leaves her and the new baby for this other woman. She had to be asking herself, is this really what it means to be a child of God? Her suffering was not of her own making. It wasn't her sin. For some of you it's not the pain of relationships, but the lack of relationship. Dear father, why won't you give me anybody? Why don't I have someone to love? You put Adam in the garden. The world was perfect. He got to talk to you face to face. And even in that context, you recognize that it wasn't good for him to be alone. So why am I Is it really that I'm that unlovable? That there's nobody out there for me In this broken world, you don't think I need somebody a hundred times more than Adam needed him? God, I'm your child, and you've forgotten me, and I'm lonely, and it hurts. Is this really what it means to be the children of God? Sometimes it's not your relationships or lack of relationships, but the relationships of others that hurt you. Mom and dad, get a divorce. And the pain lingers and lingers and lingers. And it makes it hard to trust, hard to believe that you can have a meaningful relationship. Maybe it's the relationship of a child, a spiritual relationship of a child. Dear Father, I raised them in your church. I taught him the ways of the Lord. I showed her your word. Why isn't she walking with you? Why is he estranged? And Lord, if hell is in his future, send me in his place. Don't send my child to hell. Why is this happening? If I'm your child, why don't you care about my child? Is this really what it means to be a child of God? With so much pain and so much suffering and so much hurt. What's the point of believing? Why cling to this faith that we claim? Maybe it's pain in the physical realm and not relationships or spiritual. A brother gets cancer. Will he have the days that he hoped to have? Will he reach the seventy or eighty that Moses wrote about? Or will his life be cut short? And if he has those days, is he going to get to spend them in joyous fellowship with his family and friends, or is it going to be in the hospital and sick and medications and tests and this Why does that happen, Lord? And it's not like this person did anything, Lord. They lived a life that seemed to be in accord with your word. Why is it happening? We can have all the debates we want to have about whether God causes cancer or allows cancer, but if we believe He is supreme, we believe He could have stopped it. And He didn't. Is this really what it means to be a child of God? Ah, but at least we have the church, right? I said there was no wall in Jerusalem, and that we're sitting in the rubble of our homes, and we are unprotected and undefended, but I didn't tell you the worst part. There's no church. The reason we gave up the security and the comfort of Babylon was because of a renewed messianic zeal. We believed that the Messiah was coming. We saw the end of the 70 years prophesied by Jeremiah. We saw it coming to a conclusion and we got excited. And we said, we want to be a part of that. We want to go to Jerusalem when these things happen. And I'm willing to risk the insecurity and I'm willing to risk the economic hardship. I want to be there when the Messiah comes. And it's 17 years later, and he hasn't come. Not only is he not come, we can't worship. We have no temple. Oh sure. Seventeen years ago they started it, and there's a few rocks over there that kind of sort of resemble a foundation. It's no church. It's no place to worship. It's no place to gather in fellowship. We don't even have the spiritual life we want to have. And from what I hear, I suspect you have some of the same experience. You go to your church expecting, well that's where people are going to treat me well. Because they're brothers and sisters in the Lord. That's where I'm going to be accepted, and it doesn't happen. And there is pain and there is hurt. And there is gossip and there is facbiting. And and and you say, Really, are these the children of God? Do I really want to be a part of them? But at least when I go to church, I get to hear God speak. And then the pastor gets up there. And you wonder if this guy really is the mouthpiece of God, the messenger of God, the bringer of God's word? Because if he is, either he or God have lost sight of where you really are. Because the message doesn't hit home. It doesn't speak to your needs. It doesn't address where you're hurting. You walk out going, was God there? Did I even meet with Him? Your lives are a shambles And your church is a wreck. And you wonder if this is really what it means to be a child of God. We don't have pastors in our day. We have priests. And our high priest, his name is Joshua Yeshua. Again, you know it is the name Jesus. It means Yahweh safe. Yahweh is salvation. And our our priest is supposed to be our representative to God. He's the one that goes for us on our behalf to God. But we look at his name and it's a mockery. What salvation do we have in Yahweh? Marauding bands? They invade anytime they want. False religions, there's nothing to stop them. What salvation is there in Yahweh? What who is this Joshua, this high priest But in the middle of our doubts, God sent a man named Zechariah. And I want you to hear about Zechariah. Because in the midst of my doubts, in the midst of our doubts, in the midst of our questioning, our place as God's children, Zachariah stepped in. And he brought wonderful, amazing encouragement from the Lord. Hope is what he brought. Now he's couched it in some funny visions. The Lord revealed it in some strange ways. But it's a message of hope. And in fact, it's such a good message that I have written down a portion of it. I want to read it to you right now so that you can share with me the hope we have in Zechariah. Zachariah's first sermon to us in Jerusalem went like this. Bakodesh Hashimini Bishnat Shetiaim oh sorry the English version In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Zachariah, the son of Barekiah, the son of Ido, probably the famous seer of that name. That's why his grandfather is listed there. Saying, the Lord was very angry with your fathers. Let me take just a moment and tell you a little bit about that anger over the years. The Lord was very angry with our fathers You see, the reason we are questioning our faith, the reason we are sitting here in Jerusalem doubting it, is because over the centuries God has made a number of promises to us. And it doesn't seem like any of them have come true. Way back about 1500 years ago God came to a man named Abram and took Abram out of this very land where we've just come out of. And he took Abram to the land we call the promised land, which you call Israel. And God put Abram there and changed Abram's name to Abraham and said to Abraham, I will be your God. And you will walk in my ways, you and your children after you, and I will be a blessing to them. And I will bless you, and I will make you great, make you more numerous than the sands of the seashore. And I will give you this land, you and your descendants. And God reiterated that promise. To Abraham's children, his sons, Isaac, and his grandson, Jacob. And in Jacob's old age, the clan Moved to Egypt, having never possessed anything except a grave in the Promised Land. But at least they were numerous, right? That was the promise. Promised land and a lot of descendants. But they numbered only 70. I don't know what kind of seashores you go to. But that doesn't seem to align with what God's promise was. Not only do they not possess the land, but they go into slavery in Egypt. But some uh 600 years later, uh 600 years after Abraham, 400 years after the they enter Egypt, God God raises up a man named Moses. Perhaps you've heard of him. And through Moses, he takes the people out of Egypt and is going to return them to the promised land. And we get all excited that it's finally the promises are going to come true. And God stops along the way, and at a mountain named Sinai, he reiterates those promises. He enters into yet another covenant with us, his people. Again makes promises of land, again makes promises of being our God. And we enter the land and never possess it. Oh, portions of it here and there are under our control. But the majority of it stays under the control of the surrounding nations. And for 400 more years, this goes on. We are beset by our enemies. Then God raises up a man named David. He makes David king. And he reinstitutes a covenant yet another time. And he promises to David that you and your sons after you will rule on the throne forever. And that you will have peace from all the surrounding nations, and that all will go well with you. And then David's life goes spectacularly well. You see, after that, after that covenant He has an affair with Bathsheba and their son dies. After the covenant, his oldest son rapes one of his sisters, one of David's daughters. It's after that covenant that David's general kills David's son. It's after the covenant that David is driven out of Jerusalem by his own sons, who are going to attempt a coup. It's after that covenant that seventy thousand of David's people die because of his sin. All of this after God promised. Bless him. By the way, those were the good years of our kingdom. It went downhill from there. Until as was read to you earlier, we fell to the Babylonians and were hauled off as slaves yet again. When Zachariah says that God was angry with our fathers, this is what he's talking about. The promises have never been fulfilled. They've never come true to us. And so we doubt. Let me keep reading from Zechariah's sermon. The Lord was very angry with your fathers. Therefore say to them, Thus declares the Lord of hosts, Lord of armies. Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, thus says the Lord of hosts. Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds, but they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the Lord. Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever? But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants, the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So that they repented and said, As the Lord of hosts proposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so he has dealt with us. This is the reading of the Word of Almighty God. Praise be to God. I told you that Zechariah brought us hope. I don't know if you heard the hope in there, because it kind of sounds like warning. I was angry with your fathers, and you can't be like your fathers, and you can't you can't run away from the prophets. But did you hear the hope? You see, Zechariah speaks to us and he answers the question we've been asking. Is this really what it means to be the children of God? And Zechariah says, yes! When you're disobedient. This is precisely what it means to be the children of God living in a sinful world. Whether the sin is of your own doing or someone else's, this is exactly what it looks like to be the children of God. Zachariah doesn't say, well, you've misunderstood the promises or you've just got to believe. No, he says you've got to understand this is precisely how it's going to play out. God foretold it. Wasn't this what was promised to your fathers? That if they did X, Y, and Z, then the following consequences would occur. They did X, Y, and Z, the consequences occur. Hasn't it played out precisely? The way that it was foretold. You see, in what's happened to us is consistent What God has said. It is the proof that his word is true. You see, our fathers And many of your own spiritual fathers and some of your spiritual brothers and sisters in the world today have said, we're going to go another way. Yahweh isn't delivering. He isn't providing. He isn't giving us the salvation we want. And we're going to turn off this path. And we're going to go another way. And it only gets worse. Now better never gets better. The promise is always of it's going to be better on the other path, but it never gets better. It only ever gets worse, and that's precisely what God had foretold. So the predictions of our fathers were wrong. It didn't get better. And the predictions of our God were true. It got worse. So the question before us is who are we going to follow? Which of the paths are we going to take? Are we going to follow the path of this world that says if you abandon God, you know, if we all work together, if we all just pitch in, we can make humanity better. I've only been in town for a short time, but I was reading about a company named Google, I think it is, and they say Hebrew sounds funny. Reading about a company named Google who is claiming that within the next generation they're going to be able to extend human life to 500 years It's a pretty amazing promise. It's a pretty interesting promise. But think about it for a moment. First of all, isn't that just the pursuit of the fountain of youth? And hasn't humanity been trying to pursue the fountain of youth for about 10,000 years? And have we ever succeeded in finding it? Secondly, let's assume for a moment that they deliver on it. Most of us are pretty fed up with our lives after 80 years. Do we really want to live in this world for 500? We forget that when God put the angel at Eden, it was an act of mercy. So we did not reach out and eat from the tree of life and live forever in this world. Who would want to do that? The promise of Google is 500 years in this life. The promise that's going to come from God through Zechariah is eternity. In a world made perfect. In a world where everything is set right. That's the promise we see from Zachariah. So your choice is this. Are you gonna follow this world and the promises it offers, but with no guarantee they can actually deliver on those promises? And even if they deliver on those promises, they're pretty lame. For what is five hundred years against eternity? And what is 500 years of misery in this life compared to an eternity where everything is restored and made right? Child of God, don't look at your circumstance and question your status as a child. Look at your circumstance and go, this is precisely what the father said would happen. In this life there will be pain. This is exactly what was foretold. God has never said that this life would be easy or fun. or perfect or fair or righteous or any other good trait. He's never said that So the promises of this world pale in comparison to the promises of God. And the description of this world that is offered by the secular society doesn't line up with what we see. It ain't that great. But what God has foretold is precisely what's happening to us. You know, I met briefly with your pastor, and he told me an interesting story about his childhood. He said that he was uh uh uh about four years old and his aunt was spending the time with his mom, her older sister, and his aunt was going to put him to bed. And uh he wouldn't go to bed. And the aunt went down to her older sister and said, He won't go to bed. And his mom says, Why? And his aunt says, Because apparently you told him he had to get a spanking. And he hasn't gotten it, so he won't go to bed until he gets his spanking. Your pastor's not a bright guy. And his mom went up and spanked him. Apparently at the story he had misbehaved and there was that promise of spanking. You say, wow, that's a weird story to tell, but it's a story of promises fulfilled Because your pastor tells about that same set of parents who would do things like drive straight from the airport in their business suit with all their luggage in the rental car to come see his game because they said they'd Those who keep their promises on the one side tend to be those who keep their promises on the other. God has told us, because we live in a broken, fallen, uh sinful world, that there's going to be difficulty. And that's exactly what we see. Google keeps telling us that we can make this world perfect, and we've never seen that. So the question is, which path are you going to follow? This is where Zachariah offers a tremendous amount of hope. Did you hear what he said? Turn to the Lord, and he will turn to you. He doesn't say sinners you go to God, he's going to shut the door in your face. Zechariah doesn't say Well, your father's got it wrong and you're getting it wrong and you're doubting God and you're living in fear and you're living in doubt, and therefore you can't go to God. You've got to fix yourself first and then No, he says, go to God Go to God, and He'll take you, He'll accept you. You won't have to live a life of shame and of misery. You won't have to fix yourself first. He says, go to this God. And he'll receive you. That's the message of hope with which Zechariah opens. You may have doubted your status as God's child. But cling to him anyway. Hang on in the sincere belief and in the hope that all the promises we're about to hear from Zachariah are going to come true someday. And live a life that clings to these things, even when the world is a dark and despairing. Where there is hope, there can be true happiness. Where there is hope There can be sincere, honest friendships. Where there is hope, there can be fellowship that binds us to one another. Yahweh does change. Jesus is a real, true word. We're going to see that throughout the prophecies and sermons of Zachariah. Let me pray for you now as you look forward to hearing his message. Almighty God, come upon these people and speak to them through your prophet Zechariah. Let them hear the hope that he brings. And amidst their discouragement, as they doubt their status as the children of God Let them be renewed and reassured. Let them look upon the difficulties of this life. And see that you foretold these. See that everything is going exactly as your word predicts. Even in the midst of despairing times, let that be encouragement. That we can be sure there is coming a day when things will turn around exactly as your word predicts. Where you will send your salvation back to this earth To claim your own, to make everything right, to grant us eternal life with you. We pray this in the hope that Zechariah preached and the Messiah he foretold. Amen.