Last week we asked the rhetorical question, could eight point two billion people all be wrong? And we saw from the pages of the book of Romans. But the answer is a resounding yes. Praise God, there is 8. 2 billion and one. That there was that one who was perfect and holy. Open your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter 3 Verse 21, Romans 3, beginning in verse 21, to page 1118, if you're using that Pew Bible in front of you. Romans 3. 21, page 1118. We're going to read Romans 3. 21 through verse 26. Join me now in listening to God's word. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness. Because in his divine forbearance, he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice And that means that if we want to know how a sinner is made righteous before God, then we must know this book. Let's seek God's help in rightly understanding it. Lord, we do come to you through your word this morning, asking you to speak to us, asking you to reveal your righteousness to us. A righteousness found in Jesus Christ, the righteousness in which we might stand by faith and be made right with you. And as we seek this good news this morning, as we hear it put forth from your word. We ask, Lord, that you would apply it to us, and that by faith we would receive it, and that we would understand the great joy. of being in Christ Jesus, of having His death pay for our sins, of having His life count as our good deeds, so that we might know that we are right with you through Him. We ask this because you are a merciful God who offers it to those who ask. And we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Olivia, young woman who suffered the olfactory effects of COVID. And yet, for some reason, she took great offense when her husband said she didn't smell good. Come on. I called Becky the other day on my way home from work and asked her to put dinner on. She felt held her phone up to the meatloaf. We were all out of pumpkin spice this morning, so I dropped my coffee on the floor. It gave it a nice fall flavor. Just a couple more. Becky asked me to help clean the other day, so I polished off a bag of Oreos. This is the last one, I promise. Giuseppe was limping. He strained something making pasta. Come on. You know, those jokes all have a couple things in common. First, they were hilarious, whether you think so or not. Secondly, they subvert the expectation of what the words were saying. They take a set of words that are going one direction and flip it and go the other way. This isn't always done for humorous effects. Sometimes it's done to raise the emotional response. For example, the boyfriend of a long time might lower his gaze and quietly say, I don't think we should go on dating. And then with a twinkle in his eye say, Will you marry me? The set of words that take us one way and then flip things around. Create an emotional response, and that's what Paul does for us here in this point in Romans You heard me last week express the fact that I was becoming exhausted with his drumbeat That because God is righteous, because he is just, because he is fair, because he does not play favorites No one was just going to slip through on their own. No one was going to be okay with God just because they were a good person. Or just because they were a religious person, not even because they were a Jew. He would not treat anybody with regard to their personal status. And yet we see now, Paul begins this verse here by hitting this drumbeat again. The righteousness of God is revealed, and we're saying, yes, we know, Paul, we did it. You've been telling us about this. You know that feeling of beginning to choose somebody out? And once you get done chewing them out, they stop and they say, well, before you cut me off, what I was going to say was there's some good news on this front. That's what happens here. I'm sick and tired of the bleak news. I am weighed down by all that Paul has been telling us, and I'm about ready to yell at the text You said it. I did it. God is righteous, and so because he's righteous, he will judge all people with fairness and with equity. Enough already. And Paul subverts my expectations of where he's going with this and flips all of human history on its head. This is good news. This is good news. I don't often open my sermons with jokes, but if there was ever a time to be joyous, it's in the middle of Romans chapter 3. We have finally some really good news. But to help us understand what he says here, let's go back to where we were a few weeks ago in Romans chapter 1. Let's remember Paul's own summary of this letter back in Romans chapter 1. In verse 15, he began this way, I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. and in eastern Maryland. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For it is the righteousness, for in it the righteousness of God Is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. That was Paul's introductory summation And we saw that that phrase, the righteousness of God, a phrase that really doesn't appear all that often in the rest of the New Testament, but is incredibly important in the book of Romans. That phrase has at least three layers of meaning to it. We touched on these ever so briefly about four or five weeks ago, now I've lost track of the time But now we begin to dig into them more fully, and in the weeks to come, Paul is going to explore them even more. So let's begin to unpack this phrase, the righteousness of God, and see how it fits into this passage. One aspect of the righteousness of God, one that I've already alluded to, one that has been Paul's main theme for the last several pages, has been the equitable justice of God. God is fair in his justice. He is even handed in his justice. He plays no favorites in his judgments Back in chapter 1, the sexually immoral pagan was going to be condemned by God. But then in chapter 2, the upright but irreligious man was going to be condemned by God on his own. In the second half of chapter 2, The religious man was going to be condemned by God on his own. In the beginning of chapter 3, even the Jew was going to be condemned by God Has been this steady drumbeat. God is just. And He treats all people according to that justice. And so when we read about the righteousness of God, we have to hear the idea of justice. It's what they would have heard. Remember, we saw a few weeks ago, we saw that archaeology has uncovered that there was a coin being minted at exactly the time that Romans was being written, and that coin had a uh an image of the goddess Equitas Equality, fairness. She was holding the scales of justice, and over her head was emblazoned the word righteousness. Righteousness in that culture had a sense of justice to it. So let's reread this paragraph, putting the word justice in place of the word righteousness, and see how it goes. But now the justice of God. Has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets, they bear witness to it. But justice of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. There is that emphasis on equality, on equity, on justice. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's justice. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his justice at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. It is 100% clear that in this paragraph, in this context, the idea of God's justice fits. It belongs. It's part of what's being talked about. The paragraph makes complete sense with the word justice in place of the word righteousness. That would not be true if Paul didn't have some measure of justice in mind as he wrote the word righteousness. And so to bring it home, and the very last uh was it the last two sentences there? Why did Jesus die? Because God had allowed sins to go unpunished. You see, Abraham was a moon worshiper. He married his sister. He then prostituted her to Pharaoh. He then had a concubine on the side all along. He was not an inherently good man. And yet he was called the friend of God. How can a just God call a man like Abraham his friend? That's the question Paul is anticipating, and that's the question he's going to begin to answer here. King David had ten, and somehow that wasn't enough, so he went and had an affair with Bathsheba and he killed her husband. He was not a good man. And yet he was a man after God's own heart. Paul is anticipating our objections. How can a God call himself just Who puts up with men like David and Abraham? Who puts up with you and me? That's what's being anticipated here. That's what Paul is answering. That's why Jesus had to die. God doesn't sweep sin under the rug. He doesn't just let it go. There's no wink, wink, nudge, nudge. It has to be paid for. And that's the key word in here. A word we have to understand. It's the word propitiation. It's not a word used commonly in the Bible. In fact, this morning we've seen two out of its three occurrences. In here, in our New Testament reading from 1 John, it occurs also in the book of Hebrews. That's it. And yet it's an incredibly important concept even if the word is not used all that often. It's concepts across all the pages of the scriptures. We have to understand propitiation. And we actually do, even if we don't know the word. All of us have propitiated ourselves. Husbands propitiate themselves to their wives, children, to their parents, uh employers, to their bosses. Propitiation is commonplace, so let's see if we can't unpack it and understand it First, we need to understand a related word, expiation. Expiation. The concepts are closely related. And to try to understand propitiation without expiation is a bit like trying to understand darkness without light. You gotta have both. So what is expiation? Okay, so as a child, I threw a baseball through Mr. Clapper's bedroom window, our next door neighbor. Mr. Clopper had every right to be angry with me. I had broken his window, shattered all of the glass. I had incurred a debt with regard to Mr. Clapper. I owed him the price of a window. Now if I dug into my paper route money, and I did, and I went to the hardware store, and I did, and I bought a new window pane and installed it in Mr. Clapper's window, which I did. Then I would at that point have expiated myself with regard to Mr. Clapper. I paid what I owed. I settled my debt. X, the prefix ex means to go out. Exit, you go out of the room when you walk through the exit. I would take myself out from underneath my debt to Mr. Clapper by fixing the window. The score was even. We cannot be propitiated, which the text talks about, without first being expiated. First, the score has to be even. The debt has to be paid. In his suffering, in this life In his suffering, because his mother yelled at him when he did nothing wrong. In his suffering, because he might have been abused. In his suffering. because customers took things from his carpentry shop and never paid what they owed. In his suffering because his stepfather Joseph died at a young age, leaving the family impoverished and fatherless. In his suffering because the courts were injust. Unjust to him. In his suffering upon the cross, the beatings that he took on his way to the cross, the suffering of the suffocation on the cross. And in his suffering ultimately, because the Father in heaven, with whom he had had perfect relationship, perfect fellowship, suddenly turned his back on him. And it's why we read Psalm 22, Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? In all of that suffering, what theologians call the passive obedience of Christ. He paid the price for sin, but he didn't owe it. He had never sinned. And therefore the price he paid could be applied to others. The price he paid Could be paid on your behalf, on my behalf. His passive obedience, his suffering the consequences of sin Settled the score. It got him out from underneath the debt. Got us not him. Got us out from underneath that debt. That's expiation. Now be careful. So far I've not defined propitiation, which is the word we need to get to. I've defined only expiation. But it's an important step in the process. You see, the text says that God is just and he won't let sin go unpunished. Why did Jesus have to die? Because those sins before had gone unpunished. And now there had to be a price paid for them. Why was Abraham in good standing with God? Because Jesus died for Abraham's sins. Why would King David be in good standing with God? Because Jesus died. For David's sins. Why can you and I be in good standing with God? Because Jesus dies for the sins of those who believe in him. And we are expiated. We are out from underneath the debt we owe. But at best, and this is our second point this morning. So when we see the justice of God, the righteousness of God is his justice, there's also an aspect of God's righteousness, which is his moral uprightness. God's moral uprightness. When we speak of the righteousness of God, think of things like the estate of James Smith. It's that which belonged to Jane and which she could give to whomever she pleased It was hers to give away. That's the second sense of the righteousness of God. That it is something which God can give away. Where do we see that in the in the introduction? Well remember, I'm jumping ahead. We're going to see that later in Zero. We're going to introduce it right now, my mistake, my apologies. Let's see if we can't unwrap this a little bit more. You see, Jesus dying for our sins, Jesus expiating us, technically leaves us neutral with God. We are out from underneath the debt we owe for sin. But neutrality with God is not satisfactory. Adam was not told to live on this earth, do whatever you want, just don't eat of that tree. He was given a prohibition. Don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But he was given positive requirements also. Be fruitful, increase in number, fill the earth, rule over, have dominion. To satisfy God, he needed not only to do what was for to not do what was forbidden, he also needed to positively do what was required. You see, we need more than the death of Jesus if we are to be made right with God. We need the life of Jesus. We need his righteousness, his goodness. You see, the one who is in Christ by faith gets counted as being under Christ. What he did is counted to us. So his death is counted as my payment for sin But his life is counted as my righteousness. When Jesus was compassionate to the weak, I was compassionate to the weak. When Jesus took pity on thieves and prostitutes, I took pity on thieves and prostitutes. When Jesus repented, going to the baptism of John, repented for sin he didn't commit, he was repenting for the sins I would commit. Jesus was standing in my place, doing all that the law of God required. He passively accepted the penalty for sin in his death. But long before that cross, he had actively lived out a life of obedience. And being in him, and that's a concept that we're going to struggle with. We're going to look at it more in the weeks to come. Okay? But being in him by faith means not only does his death pay for my sin, but his life Counts as my righteousness. A righteousness from God is revealed. A righteousness which God has a right to give away, which He can bestow, which He can put on whomever He wants to put It's why on multiple occasions the heavens open up and declare God's satisfaction with Jesus at his baptism. This is my son, in whom I am well pleased. At the transfiguration. This is my son, in whom I'm well pleased. On the cross When he died, tombs opened up. Because God was saying to the earth, That was my son. If he's going to die, he's going to die for a cause, and it'll be to bring life. And that his resurrection. As we will see in a couple of weeks, Paul's going to make a big deal out of this. At his resurrection, God said, That's my son, in whom I am well pleased. And because he pleased God, and because we are in him, we please God. You see, propitiation is the pro. If X means out from, pro means in favor of or toward something. Expiation got us out from underneath our debt. Propitiation makes us makes God inclined toward us Imagine that I'm standing at the hardware store and I not only buy the window pane that I need to fix the clapper's window, but I remember hearing Mrs. Clapper saying she wished flowers And there's some nice flower boxes and I go to their window because I'm buying a pane and I measure the flower boxes and they're going to fit underneath their windows. And I buy these flower boxes and I put some top folio in there and I buy some flowers and I put them in there and when I Fix the window pane. I mount the flower boxes under her window. I'm not only gotta, I didn't do that. I did fix the window, I didn't put the flower boxes in. I not only got out from underneath the debt I had to the clappers, but I would have inclined the clappers to like me, to be favorably disposed toward me. In fixing the window, I expiated myself with regard to the clappers. Had I mounted the flower boxes, I would have propitiated myself with regard to the clappers. You see why we have to both have to have both concepts? Had I just mounted the flower boxes and not fixed the window, that wouldn't have done it The window had to be fixed. Sin has to be paid for. We have to be expiated. But that's not where it ends. Jesus went further and we were propitiated. We see this concept all throughout the Old Testament sacrificial system. We see that the sacrifices did not just anticipate the payment for sin. They anticipated making God happy, pleasing him. It's clear in a lot of places, I think it's simplest in the end of chapter 8 of Genesis God was discouraged, displeased, angry at the world because of the sin of mankind. And he sent a flood, and he saved Noah and Noah's family, but he sends a flood. And the flood wipes the earth clean. It kills all of the wicked people. It expiated the earth. It got the earth out from underneath this obligation of sin. But that's not where the story ends. At the end of chapter 8 of Genesis, we have a profound couple of verses. Let me read them to you, 8. 20, Genesis 8:20. Then Noah built an altar to the Lord. It took some of every clean animal, some of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, The Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. That's propitiation. That what was done on that altar didn't just what was done in the flood is what expiated. That took away the debt, although people paid the price. But what pleased God, what disposed him favorably toward mankind, was the work of Noah. to offer this sacrifice. And of course Noah foreshadows the Christ. He is a type of the one who would dec would come after him. And the Christ does not merely pay the price for our sins, he also satisfies God's desire for righteousness. And God is pleased with him, and so in us. God and so in him God is pleased with us because we belong to God We see here that Paul has laid out two aspects of the righteousness of God. That it is a justice, a fairness, and equity. with which he would uh judge all mankind not based on their social standing, not based on their their their wealth, not based on anything else other than the fact that they are sinners. But that's but and I forgot to emphasize this earlier and I shouldn't have done this. Um it's important to note that Paul turns right around and says, But the goodness of God, the gift of God, the gift of God, his grace is also given out freely without regard to anyone's personal standing. The grace that comes in Jesus Christ is not saved for middle-class Presbyterians The grace which comes in Jesus Christ is not just for the poor or just for the rich. It's not just for whites or blacks or anyone else. The grace that comes in Jesus Christ is for all who would believe God's justice is served in his righteousness, which is revealed in the gospel. And it's a grace, it's a righteousness which is also found as that which belongs to God, which he bestows on those who believe in him. So that when he looks at us, He sees actual goodness. That was Jesus and gets counted as ours. It's why when we talk about propitiation, some theologians will use the term alien righteousness. It's this righteousness which didn't come from me, it doesn't belong to me, it comes in from the outside, gets put on me It becomes his righteousness countered as mine. There's a third aspect to this phrase, the righteousness of God. It is not only God's equity and justice. It is not only the quality of God which He has a right to bestow, but it is also the power of God to say It is God's saving power. Back in chapter 1, verse 17, we had set forth the righteousness of God. Now I didn't read this, but in the very next verse in chapter in verse 18, you may recall from a couple of weeks ago. Paul writes that the wrath of God is being revealed. And he goes on to explain that that wrath being revealed was condemnation for the unrighteous. Well, there's a parallel there. If the wrath of God is this condemnation, then the righteousness of God is salvation. Which is why Paul words it this way: I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation. In it, the righteousness of God is revealed. So the righteousness of God is also this quality of mercy and of compassion, that He didn't simply condemn all humanity to hell, though that is what we deserved. But he took pity on us and he showed mercy and had compassion. He saved us, and that is righteous. So we reread the paragraph now and substitute the word salvation. And it makes just as much sense. But now the salvation of God has been manifested apart from the law Although the law and the prophets bore witness to it. The salvation of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, because there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's salvation, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins It was to show his salvation at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. You see, Paul is making a clear case that this idea of the righteousness of God has all three of these ideas rolled into it. All three of these layers are a part of this wonderful, beautiful cake. This good news that is the gospel. David's sins were not merely ignored or swept under the rug. They were paid for in Jesus' suffering. And David's goodness was provided in Jesus' obedience. But a God who takes your sin away who provides to you a righteousness, who bequeaths it to you as something that belongs to him and he can give away as he pleases Well that God will necessarily save you. Last summer we took a A little different approach to a study of theology, we looked at the things that God cannot do, God's divine limitations. And we saw that because of God's own character, there are certain things he will not and cannot do. And one of those would be to condemn anybody who stood in Jesus Christ by faith. He must necessarily save those who are in Christ Jesus by faith For to do otherwise would be to dishonor his own son. And that's the point Paul is going to make over and over again in the rest of Romans. We can have absolute assurance of salvation because God loves Jesus. He respects Jesus. He honors Jesus. And he looks at Jesus and says, you lived out this perfect life and died anyway. You died this death and suffered all these things. Things, though you didn't deserve it. And you said that you want to give it, you want to bestow it. It's a righteousness you're going to give to others. The Father cannot look on you or me And ignore Jesus. He has to save us. It's the only thing that's consistent with his character at that point. That is incredibly good news. For salvation does not rest with you or me. It does not rest with our ability to hold on or get our doctrine right or our theology straight. It doesn't uh rest with you or me and our ability to to get every nuance of our behavior just so if we are in Jesus A thing we're not sure of because of our confidence, a thing we're not sure of because of how we walked this week, a thing we are sure of only because we have the hope that maybe we can be sure of it. That in the very idea that there's even this dinkling in the back of our head, that's the gift of God to us. For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith, and that not of yourself, it is the gift of God. Not of works so that no one can boast. God bestows on us faith. As weak as it is, as shaky as it is, as feeble as it is, the fact there at all is that reminder, powerful good news. That God is seeing Jesus' suffering in place of my sin. That he is counting Jesus' righteousness in place of my unrighteousness. And that because of his perfect character, because of his good justice, he would never condemn someone who stood in Christ. For sure, Romans has turned toward good news, finally For sure, we ought to be getting excited about how this play out? What are the details? What are the inner workings of it? And that's what Paul is going to lay forth for the rest of this letter. He's going to talk about the inner workings of the doctrine and the theology, about how it all fits together. He's then going to look at the practical implications of it for our lives and how we ought to live in light of it But the bottom line is: this is good news. That there is one who will propitiate us. Who will make us make God favorably inclined toward us? He expiated us with his death on the cross. With his perfect, sinless obedience through an entire lifetime, he propitiated us. And when we stand in Christ by faith, we stand in that certainty. Paul wrote, and I absolutely second it, I am eager to preach the gospel to you. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed. Let's pray. God, we are overwhelmed. This is phenomenal news. For sure we found ourselves among the many who should be condemned. Some of us saw ourselves in chapter one among the unrighteous, wicked pagans. Some of us were once in chapter two among the upright but irreligious. Many of us have grown up in church, in the religion, and our hope was in that. But you said we stand condemned even though we are religious. But lest we despair, and lest we give up hope, you have now turned the corner and shown us the good news of Christ Jesus. And it's not because of who we are and our social standing. It is not because of what group we belong to. It is because of Jesus. Because he satisfied the requirements of your righteousness and chooses to bestow it on us. It is because of Jesus, because he died in our place and for our sin and chooses to count his death for us. And for these reasons, and in these things, and in these ways, and ways that we are going to just joyfully dive into in the weeks to come, we are excited to be in Jesus. To be counted as his, to have him, his good deeds count as ours. Lord, we ask that you bathe us in these things in the weeks to come. Grow us in an understanding of this. Enrich us in a desire for this. That we might rejoice in this gospel. For it is good news. It is the power of God, the righteousness of God revealed for our salvation. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen