Well good morning. My um distinct pleasure and privilege to uh He's speaking today. And I'd like to begin by thanking Pastor Shaw, Pastor Pullman, the Session of Shore Harvest for this opportunity to share God's Word with you today. Now, before I begin, it's been four months since it was discussed that I would be doing this. And I have to say, not only is it humbling, But it's also amazing to understand what our teaching elders. Pastor Pullman. Pastor Kolp and now Pastor Shaw go through and do this week after week after week and do so with an extreme um integrity into their call to bring you God's word. So I want to thank those gentlemen and all of our teaching elders who do this on a regular basis It's just awesome, and um I just want to start with that and acknowledge that. So let's open with prayer and then we'll go to the text. Open our ears, O Lord, to hear your word and to know your word from all your scriptures. Make my words comply only with your will and your holy word. Speak to our hearts and strengthen our wills that we may serve you today and always. Through the written word, may we know your living word, Jesus Christ our Savior. We ask this in the name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. The text today is Hebrews 9, 11-14. But when Christ appeared as the high priest of good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation, he entered once for all into the holy places. Not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by the means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctified for the purification of the flesh, How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself up without blemish to God, purify our conscience from the dead works to serving the living God Amen. Well scripture and his teaching on grace and faith emphasize that salvation is solos Christos, by Christ alone. That is, Christ is the only Savior. In Acts 4, we read, This Jesus is a stone that was rejected by you the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is a salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. The centrality of Christ is the foundation of true biblical faith. Martin Luther said that Jesus Christ is the center and the circumference of the Bible Meaning that who he is and what he has done in his death and resurrection is the fundamental content of Scripture. Without Christ we can do nothing. In him we can do all things as given in John 15. I am the vine and you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do nothing. And continuing from Philippians, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Only Christ alone can bring salvation. Paul makes it plain early in Romans that even though there's a self manifestation of God inside of nature, outside of his saving works in Christ, no amount of natural theology. can unite God with man. Union with Christ is the only way to salvation. Many people today question the belief that salvation is only by faith in Christ. Because of this pluralistic theology in society today, we urgently need to hear, we urgently need to share the biblical truth, solus Christus, Christ alone. As Carl Brayton, a Lutheran theologian, stated, the world is returning to a form of the old, bankrupt, 19th-century Christology approach to Protestant liberalism and calling it new. When it is actually scarcely more than a shallow understanding of who Jesus is Also, H. R. Niebuber famously said that liberalism brought many people to proclaim and worship a God without wrath, who brought men without sin into a kingdom without judgment. Through the ministrations of a Christ without a cross. So let's look at the remedy for these misperceptions that are in the world through the teaching of Christ through his scripture. Our Reformation forebears, drawing on a perspective traceable all the way back to the fourth century and later brought forth by John Calvin, found it helpful to think about Christ. as prophet, priest, and king, as taught in the scriptures. The Westminster Shorter Catechism, for instance, Puts it this way. Question 23. By the way, the outline is based on the catechism. What office does Christ fill as our Redeemer? Well Christ as our Redeemer fills the offices of prophet, priest, and king in both his states of humiliation and now an exaltation. The name of Christ in the Greek is from the form of the Hebrew word Messiah, meaning anointed one Old Testament prophets, priests and kings were anointed with oil when they entered into their offices and to their work. This points to the way that Jesus was publicly proclaimed by God the Father from the beginning of his public ministry. So let's look more closely at these three also. Christ the prophet. Well, what's a prophet? A prophet brings God's people his truth. Sometimes and many times it's about looking in the future. But it's always about bringing God's truth. A prophet is a person who speaks for God, not only about the future, but about the present as well. He makes plain what God requires. We need a prophet because we are ignorant in our own state of God's ways. So then the next question, how does Christ fill the office of prophet? Christ fills the office of prophet in revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God and our complete salvation. Through Christ, though Christ is now in heaven, he teaches us by his written word the Bible, and has promised the Holy Spirit to remove the darkness from our minds and enlighten us to the knowledge. Christ is the prophet whom we need to instruct us in the things of God, as to heal our blindness, ignorance, so that we can see and importantly respond to Him There are many prophets in Scripture, such as Moses. So then how is Christ different from all these prophets? Well the Heidelberg Catechism says Christ is our chief prophet and teacher, who has fully revealed to us the secret counsel and will of God concerning our redemption. In Deuteronomy 18, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers, it is to him you shall listen. He is God's Son, and God commands us to listen to him. In Matthew, he was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son. with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. Jesus is the only prophet, the only one who can reveal what God has been purposing in history since the world began. And who is the only one with full authority to teach and make manifest the real meanings of the Scripture through His Holy Spirit? In Romans it says, now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that has been kept for long ages. But has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God, to bring about obedience of faith. Christ is the Word Himself. We can expect to make progress in this Christian life only as we heed his instruction and teaching as prophet. In addition to being a prophet, Christ is also a priest. Well, what's a priest? A priest is a person appointed by God. From among men to represent them before God. He offers sacrifices and speaks to God, intercedes for men with God. How does Christ fulfill this office of priest? In the Old Testament, there are two main tasks that the priest was anointed by God to perform. The first of those tasks was to offer up animal sacrifices on behalf of the people to make atonement for their sins, day after day, month after month. Year after year, these animal sacrifices were performed on the altar of burnt offering in order to point the Israelites to the reality that they were desperately in need of the perfect sacrifice A sinless sacrifice that could cover all their sins, I say, I would also say all of our sins, once and for all As we read from the book of Hebrews in chapter ten, for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. So Christ fulfills this office of priest in his once offering up himself to God as our sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and reconcile us to God and in making constant intercession for us. This is how Jesus accomplished his first task as our high priest. Jesus came to earth, lived a sinless life, then willingly offered himself up as our perfect sinless substitute on the cross. The author of Hebrews, in describing the work of Christ as our priest, declares, and every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, this man Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God From that time, waiting till his enemies are made his footstool, for by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. When I stop to think of Jesus' work as priest on the cross, I'm reminded of the hymn writer, Stuart Townsend's song, How Deep the Father's Love for Us. Now to your great relief I will not sing that. But I am going to share some of the a couple of the verses. Um So this is how deep the Father's love for us. In fact, just a an aside, earlier in the week uh Scott asked what hymns, what songs I would like. And frankly I was so focused on getting this together. I really didn't think of this as being one of them. But I now looking back I wish I had. How deep the Father's love for us, how vast beyond all measure, that he would give his only son to make a wretch his treasure. How great the pain of searing loss, the father turns his face away, as wounds which mar the chosen one brings many sons to glory. Behold the man upon the cross, my sin upon his shoulders. Ashamed I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers. It is my sin that held him there until it was accomplished. His dying breath has brought me life. I know now that it is finished. There's another verse that maybe we'll get to later. Why do we need this high priest? Why do we need his sacrifice? Well, we need a priest. We need the sacrifice to satisfy God's justice because we are guilty. There are two conditions for gaining salvation, and that no matter how hard we try, we will never be able to satisfy it. Yet these conditions must be met for our salvation. The first is to satisfy the justice of God through the obedience to the law. The second is to pay the price for our sins. Again, we can do neither, but Christ did both perfectly. In Romans 5. 19, it says, by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. In Romans 5. 10, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Unlike the sacrifices of the Old Testament, Christ is a perfect sacrifice, fully adequate to satisfy God's wrath, so that sacrifice occurred once and only once. and cannot and needs not to be repeated. There is no other way to come into the presence of God other than through soulless. us by Christ alone. Jesus served as our great priest by offering himself as a perfect sacrifice in order to pay our sins. But Scripture also says That the other task that Christ performs as our priest is that he continually intercedes for us. In other words, if you're a believer in Christ, Jesus is continually praying for you. interceding with the Father on your behalf. As the writer in Hebrew says in chapter seven, is able to save to the utmost those who draw near that God through him says he always lives to make intercession for them. How comforting these words are to the believer. On our best days and on our worst days, Jesus is always there interceding for us. Jesus is always watching over you. Jesus is always praying for you. He is praying that we would be kept safe from the destructive power of sin. He is praying that we would make progress in our sanctification as we pursue living holy lives. And he is praying that all things work together for the good, and that one day we will be brought safely into the arms of of our Heavenly Father. Be encouraged, sisters and brothers, that as a believer, Jesus is your great high priest, who has fully paid for all of your sins on the cross and is continually praying for you, interceding next to God on the throne. Paul says in Romans, if God is for us, who can be against us? So is it any wonder then that Paul calls for glory to be given through God, through Jesus Christ forever? We can grow in our sanctification, in our access to knowledge and to God only by deepening reliance on Christ as our Father. priest, who made himself our sacrifice and intercessor. If there is any doubt, rest on the fact that he has secured this by the power of his resurrection Finally, Christ is a prophet, is our prophet, is our priest, Christ is also the king, ruling over all things. An earthly king is the chief authority over a people and a country, and at times is no more than a figurehead, and certainly never perfect. A king rules with dominion over the people. So how do we see Christ fulfilling this office? Question 26. Christ fills the office of King by calling and securing us as his willing subjects, continues in ruling and defending us, and in restraining and conquering all his and all of our enemies. He reigns over the church by means of the Holy Spirit. Acts 2. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God has sworn with an oath to him, that he would set one of his descendants upon the throne He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, and that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh seek corruption. This Jesus, our Jesus, God raised up, and of that we are all witnesses, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God. And having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. So how does Christ exercise this kingship? Well first Christ as our King, brings us under His power. And he does so willingly. We d we are called, we are justified by Him. And He defends us. One of the ways that God acts as King is giving us His laws for guidance and safety. He rules, defends us with His Word. The Bible contains the decrees of our sovereign King. Each week, Pastor Scott reminds us that Christ's Word, the Scriptures, are the believers' ultimate authority for matters of faith and practice. Jesus as our King rules and defends us by His Word and Spirit. As a result, Jesus' rule is not a burden to us as Christians, but on the contrary It is the believer's great delight to obey the one who gave his life for us. We are called to obey King Jesus out of gratitude and love for all that he has done for us. According to John chapter 14, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Evil while we were sinners, he calls us, and frees us from our sinfulness. He sovereignly gives remorse to the unrepentant and bestows forgiveness on the guilty. As the royal heir of the new creation, he will lead us into a kingdom, to his kingdom. of eternal light and love. As such, I think we can agree with John Calvin's words, where he said, we may patiently pass through this life with its miseries Cold, contempt, reproaches, and other troubles. Content in this one thing that our King will never leave us destitute, but will provide us all our needs until our warfare has ended and we are brought to triumph. We grow in Christian life only as we live obediently under Christ's rule and his power. Finally, Jesus exercises his kingship in our lives by restraining and conquering all of his and all of our enemies. Our sovereign King Jesus is fighting and has conquered on our behalf. Not only did he conquer sin and Satan on the cross, but he is also preserving us and watching over us. Will one day bring us to his heavenly kingdom, where our conquering king will wipe away every tear from our eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying There shall be no more pain for the former things have passed away, as promised in Revelation twenty-one. We need a king because we are in bondage to sin. We truly receive Christ When we truly receive Christ, we take Him not only as our teacher and our Savior, but as our King as well. We accept this Word, His Word, and we keep His commandments out of gratitude and love. Jesus has given all authority in heaven and earth, has been given all authority in heaven and earth, and he is able to win himself when us to himself, care for us in our weakness, and bring us at last, by his grace, to his and our eternal home. So let's summarize. So how do we fit in as a result of these biblical truths? He is our prophet, priest, and king. In a lesser way, we too are prophet, priests, and kings. We're prophets in Christ in the sense that we too are spoken for God in this world. We are Christ's witnesses. We are called to carry the message of the gospel through our cities, states, nations, and world, and we do this with the confidence that we are under Christ's authority and under the power of the Holy Spirit, and that we are uniquely and wholly equipped for this holy task. In Moses' day, this was a fond wish only. Numbers 11 states, would that all the Lord's people were prophets. But in our day, as a result of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the church at Pentecost, this has come true. Now, as Peter maintains, The words of the prophet Joel concerning the latter days have been filled. And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesize. And your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. Even all my male servants and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesize. So as prophets we speak the word of God to our contemporaries and to the world. We're also priests with Christ. There will never again be the priesthood like the Old Testament priesthood. Christ has perfected that forever. Yet there's a sense in which God's people are priests. We all have access to God equally on the basis of Christ's sacrifice. and resurrection, and are called on to offer ourselves to God in sack in sacredly dedicating our worship, praise, and service through Christ Peter speaks of this explicitly in 1 Peter 2, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices accessible to God through Jesus Christ. Paul has the same idea in mind when he writes in Romans 12, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies. as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. We're also to exercise our priesthood in intercessory prayer for one another and for the world. Finally, there's a sense in which we're also kings in Christ. The book of Revelation states in Revelation 5, and you have made them a kingdom, and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. But how do we reign? Well, first by serving and witnessing. We are to lift each other up in prayer, lovingly, caring for, and serving each other. Spreading his gospel, building up the church, and build up his body as a whole. Well, in closing, I'd like for you a second to think of a funnel and the function of a funnel. Like a funnel, the offices of prophet, priest, and king merge and come to a point of a climax in the person of Christ. The Epistle to the Hebrews makes clear, without disregarding any of the Old Testament aweses, and without over-spiritualizing the Old Testament types. But rather shows how the offices of uh point to Christ and fulfills and surpasses the earthly Old Testament offices. Moses was a great prophet. Christ is the Lord of the prophets. Priests like Aaron offered up sacrifices on behalf of Israel repeatedly. Christ is the great high priest who offered himself up as a sacrifice once and for all. Kings of old, David and Solomon examples, were sinful men. They had limited dominion and limited dynasties, where Christ is the king eternally. Who lived the perfect sinless life, died the sacrificial death, proved his authenticity through his resurrection. Rules with dominion over all things, and his kingdom extends forever. Together, in Christ alone, we have the quintessential prophet, priest, and king, who is for us acts on our behalf and looks over us. Romans 8. 28, and we know that for those who love God all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. Now let's circle back to a point that I've mentioned at the beginning and several times throughout the morning. Solos Christus, Christ alone. Sisters and brothers in Christ, be comforted that we know Christ as our prophet who teaches us, our priest who has sacrificed himself, and intercedes for us, blesses us. And our King who cares for, rules, protects, and guides us forever. For those of us who are children of God, this comfort is real. Christ is the Christ in his threefold office of prophet, priest, and king means everything to us as believers. For those who may not know Jesus yet in a personal way, But would like to find more about him, to know him more, to know more about Christ alone, more on how to relate to Christ alone. and more on how to be a child of God through Christ alone. Please reach out to our pastors, to one of the elders After the service, and we'll be happy to answer your questions and help you begin this exciting journey to know Christ alone for yourself. As salvation is only in Jesus Christ alone, solus Christus. To God be the glory through his Son, Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we are humbled that you would send your son on behalf of us even though and even while we were still sinners. We are grateful that you have done so. Help us to learn from the prophetic teachings of the perfect prophet, Jesus. Rely on the sacrifice life of our high priest, Jesus. And rest in the reign of our eternal King Jesus. Glory be to you, Christ, King of eternal glory. Crucified and Resurrected Mediator and the Eternal Word in whose name we pray. Amen