So it's the year thirty-three. It's late on the Monday night in Jerusalem. And though it's late, many people are laying awake. And it's not the weather, I know you're not that familiar with Jerusalem, but it's not the weather that's keeping them up. It's not that it's that particularly hot or cold. In fact, it's March 29th in the year 33 And temperatures in late March in Jerusalem are perfect for sleeping. Yet nobody can sleep. The city's quiet. But that's actually part of the problem. It's too quiet. It's eerily quiet. You see, this is festival week. This is Passover week. And in Jerusalem, during Passover week, the population of the city doubles. There should be people everywhere. There should be commotion. And yet there is not a cartwheel clattering or a foot falling on the streets outside. And it's because people are scared. On that Monday in Jerusalem, the things that have happened have frightened a great many people. And not knowing how it's going to play out, not knowing what's going to come of this They have hunkered down. They are in their homes. They are staying out of the way. The religious leadership, well, to say they're angry comes a little short of the mark. And they've promised action. And that's the problem. Nobody knows what action looks like. Nobody knows what this is going to be. And to complicate matters further, it's not just the Jewish religious leadership that people are uncertain about. This Galilean is stirring things up. This guy from up north seems to be at the heart of all the controversy, and it's not at all clear what he intends to do. Arguably, his parade into the city yesterday on the Sunday, arguably that was a provocative action. And then the madman scene in the temple this morning was undoubtedly provocative. It was over the top. It was downright weird. It's weird in any generic sense of the word, but it's particularly weird for this man called Jesus of Nazareth. Let me see if I can explain. Let me take you back a little ways in his ministry and remind you of where he's come from. Remember, we're talking about Jesus of Nazareth. He has been a carpenter-turned preacher. He's a no formal training, and yet he's got a following of students. He has did not grow up in Jerusalem. He did not grow up in the midst of all the religious activity of Jerusalem. And yet he has become a religious leader in his own right. He's from a little village called Nazareth, and if you can find that on a map, you're a better geographer than I am. And yet somehow he's got followers. And for the past three years, he's been preaching and teaching up in the north, up in Galilee. Which is not the place where people who want to be profound religious leaders tend to hang out. So why all the attention? Why has he garnered so much acclaim? Well, he's a miracle worker. Think about that. He's a miracle worker. Now a lot of us are skeptical. I get it. Somebody came up to us today and said they were a miracle worker, we'd be a little skeptical, and I think we'd be justified But this carpenter has garnered a following because of the signs and wonders he's performed. And they run the gambit. The first one recorded was the whole water-to-wine thing, right? But a lot of people can dismiss that, right? That's a conjurer's trick. That's a a magic act. That's a a parlor uh thing. It's flight of hand. But since then, he has caused the deaf to hear and the blind to hear. He's made the lame walk. He's cured leprosy. He's driven out demons. He has gone so far as to raise three people from the dead. Those are not parlor tricks. Those are not sleight-of-hand things. There's something going on with this guy, and he's become somewhat famous. But what's interesting about Jesus of Nazareth is that he's not famous primarily for his miracles. Arguably, his miracles take a backseat to his teaching and preaching. He teaches like no one else. He is described as having an authority not like any of the other rabbis Now we say authority, you know, there are some people who speak with authority on a subject because they are next level experts, if you will. I mean, who among us would argue with Brad Sears about wood turning? Or would debate with Chrissy about hairstyling? I certainly would not. They're experts in their fields. But to say that Jesus is an expert in that manner sells him short. For that's not really how he talks. That's the ordinary rabbis. They teach with that kind of acquired expertise. Jesus is teaching and preaching not as though he has come to understand the law, but as if he owns it. As if it's his to handle. When the when he preaches with authority, He says bold, brazen things like you've heard it said, but I tell you. He has up-ended our understanding of the law. And he's done so in such a profound and clear way that we kind of know that he's right. And yet he's done so in such a bold way that he has certainly angered a lot of people. He owns the law in an authoritative way. Now the picture I painted so far Sounds a little bit like maybe this guy's a glory hound, right? He does miracles, he teaches in brash, bold ways, he's all about the spotlight. And if that were true, then the parade yesterday and the temple tantrum this morning wouldn't be all that surprising. But you see, that's not who Jesus has been. Again, if you're not familiar, let me remind you. He's been quite the opposite of the Glory Hound. In fact, every time he's performed a miracle, he's commanded everyone to keep it to themselves, to tell no one. You remember the story of him healing the leper? And how is it recorded? He strictly warned him to tell no one. Strictly warned him. Not said, could you please keep it to yourself? Warned him. Don't tell anyone. Jesus heals the deaf man, and he tells him not to share with anybody. The way that got around, it makes you wonder if Jesus said it and then healed him. Because the guy seems not to have heard it. The dead girl. Her parents are going to be pretty stoked to get her back from the dead, right? And what does Jesus do in the room with the dead girl and Peter and James and John? He says, everybody keep their lips zipped. Don't talk about this. Don't tell anybody what has happened. Consistently Jesus has said, don't talk about me. Don't spread the word. Now you might be tempted to say, well, come on, Scott That's pretty clearly an advertising ploy. That is a really clever trick. That is reverse psychology, is what we'd call it today. By telling people not to talk about him, he's guaranteed that they're going to talk about him He's purposefully wording it that way, so that word about him will get out and he will appear humble. I don't think so. And here's why I don't think so. Consider the account of his teaching. Consider the account of the gathering. We remember that it wasn't all that long ago, a couple of years ago, that he had more than 5,000 men gathered to hear him preach. We know there were a bunch of women there, and there were probably some children in tow. We're looking at a crowd north of 12,000 people. Do you remember how it played out? If you're a glory hound, if you're all about the limelight, if you're all about yourself, what do you do with that crowd? Yeah, tell them what they want to hear. You give them what they want so they come back tomorrow, so that they bring their friends so the crowd keeps growing. But that's not what he does. He's got this huge crowd, and then he preaches the most bizarre doctrine. My body is real food. My blood is real drink. And if you don't eat of me and drink of me, you have no life in you. That's weird. That's not what you preach if you're trying to keep big crowds. And sure enough His good friend John records that by the end of that day, everybody had walked away mystified. Everybody had walked away disappointed, discouraged, thinking this guy has got to be losing his mind. He's insane. And in fact The crowd was so against him that day that John tells us that at the end of the day, Jesus wasn't even sure if the twelve would stay with him. Will you also leave me? He asked them. So it's not like he's preaching purposefully to get big crowds. In fact, just the opposite He has taken a megachurch and reduced it down to twelve people who aren't sure if they're staying. I don't think we can say that Jesus was applying some kind of reverse psychology when he said, don't talk about the miracles. And in fact, there seems to be a consistent message that he wants to fly under the radar, that he wants things to stay quiet. How many times do we read of him purposefully dodging the crowds? That he leaves them so he can go off and pray, that he gets in boats so he can get away from them. He's not seeking a huge follow. And that's what makes these past two days so strange. For three years he's been low profile. Keep it to yourself. Don't tell anybody. Oh, by the way, what has happened also during all that time? He's managed to anger the leadership. They are really ugly with him and have warned that they are going to try and capture him. So now think about it. It's festival week, it's Passover week. You're walking into Jerusalem. There are 30 or 40,000 other people walking into Jerusalem this week. It would have been a piece of cake for Jesus to pull his cowl up over his face and to just blend in with the crowd and slip in unnoticed. Celebrate the Passover with his little band of followers, slip back out and go back to Galilee. But you see that's not what he did. In fact what we have is this account of how he doesn't just walk into Jerusalem in the crowd, rather he rides into Jerusalem Now, I know you aren't first century Jews, so you may not appreciate that statement. But it was the custom of every Jew to walk into Jerusalem for the festivals. Even if you had the money to ride, if you could afford a cart or a horse or a donkey, you might ride from your hometown up to the outskirts of Jerusalem, but you dismounted. And you walked in. Why? Because that was a symbolic thing. It was to be to show that you're coming to the Passover because you need God's help. That you can't get through this life on your own. To ride in was to show off your wealth and your self-sufficiency. So even the very wealthy walked into Jerusalem. You say, well, that's just a symbolic thing. It is, but symbols are a big deal for Jews. And Jesus rode in. That is an astounding fact. So you're beginning to see why I said that Jesus' behavior was a little weird? Could have slipped in with the crowd, but he chooses to ride in. And as he rises in, what's going on? What's the scene that's happening? The crowds are singing the traditional psalms, Psalm 118 among them. But they're seeing them around him, purposefully. He's in the middle of all of the attention. One of the gospel writers tells us that the crowds ahead of him and the crowds behind him were singing antiphonally, that musical idea that you have one group that does one part and another group does another and they're physically separated from each other That's an antiphenal thing. And many of the psalms are set up to be antiphenal. We've read some of them that way. That I say one line, you say another That's how the Psalm 118 is set up. But the crowd isn't just randomly singing out the parts. No, there's a group in front of Jesus and a group behind Jesus, and Jesus is in the middle of it all. And what are they singing? Don't miss this. What are they singing? They're singing out Hosanna. Let me translate. It's quite simple. It means save us. Save us. They're singing out, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, who comes in the name of Yahweh. You ever start to put those things together? They're saying, save us. They're saying, blessed is the king who comes in the name of Yahweh. Do you know what Jesus means? Do you know what that word, that name means? It literally means Yahweh saves. Now, if that's not a little heavy-handed, I don't know what is. In the middle of a bunch of people saying, Yahweh save us, the one named Yahweh Saves is riding on a donkey when everybody else is walking The whole thing almost appears choreographed and planned. Oh, by the way, what do they call out? Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord? Little fact we may have missed. Two days earlier, on the Friday before Palm Sunday, Jesus and his followers are Walking from Galilee to Jerusalem. And along the way, there is a man, a blind man, Bartimaeus was his name. He calls out Son of David, have mercy on me. Now, there are a lot of people by this point along the road trying to get Jesus' attention. He chooses some interesting wording, son of David, and it gets Jesus' attention Jesus' disciples are first put off by this guy. Get out of the way of our teacher who's trying to get to Jerusalem, but Jesus pays attention to him. Now we can't miss the fact that he's called the son of David. David was the king, the king of the covenant, the king of the dynasty that God put in place. A son of David, a descendant of David, has a legal claim to the throne. So here he is being called as a son of David, and he's now riding into Jerusalem. And he's riding on a donkey. I know that doesn't translate into American culture particularly well, but the symbolism, we're back to that idea of symbols, the symbolism in the first century was not lost on those people. Generals ride into town on horses, beast of war. Generals ride into town with the threat of violence, and they're going to conquer you. Once the general has conquered, his king comes behind on a donkey. That was a symbol of peace. You are now under my thumb. You are now under my rule. We are no longer at war. I have conquered you. Therefore, we can be at peace. It is not lost on this crowd that this man is riding into Jerusalem on a donkey, to the sound of people saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. And it is not lost on them that this is what the prophet Zechariah had foretold in Zechariah 9:9. O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king comes to you riding on a donkey. None of this is fitting. None of this befits the guy we've gotten used to saying, keep it quiet, don't talk about me, don't draw attention. This is profoundly provocative, and it absolutely draws attention. And at the end of it all, did you catch the what happens at the end of it all? One of the rig li religious leaders is walking apparently in the crowd and walks up to the donkey next to Jesus. And point out to Jesus how inappropriate this all is. This is not right, teacher. Tell your followers, tell your students to stop This is unbecoming. This is inappropriate. That you would be praised in this way, that you would be called a king in this way. And Jesus says, no, no, no. This has to happen. It must happen. If they stop proclaiming me as king, the rocks on the side of the road will do so. This is not happenstance. This is not coincidence. This is not that there's something going on here. And until I prepared to tell you this story, I'm not sure I realized it. But as weird as the parade was yesterday on that Sunday As out of character as that was, it's not the main reason for the unease, the disquiet in Jerusalem on Monday. That's got everything to do with what happened during the day on Monday. Sunday's parade was provocative, but it was nothing compared to the Manic Monday. You see, it's one thing to ride into Jerusalem like you own the place. To do so is to make yourself king. It is altogether something else to walk in the temple as if you own the place. To do so there is to make yourself God. The former will get you into a whole lot of trouble with the Romans, the latter will get you into a whole lot of trouble with God. And for sure it's going to infuriate the religious leadership. Oh, and by the way, whether you claim to be an earthly king or you claim to be God, both are capital offenses. In first century Jerusalem. You see it every turn, everything about Jesus over these past two days. Seems to point in the same direction. Now, there have been at least a half dozen previous times when people have wanted to arrest Jesus or kill Jesus. And he's always managed to slip away. Do you remember some of these? There was the time in Nazareth when Jesus was teaching in the synagogue. He compared himself to Elijah and he compared the people listening to him to the Israel in Elijah's day. That they were stubborn and hard-hearted. And the crowd in the synagogue gets angry and they drag Jesus, they haul Jesus out to a cliff at the edge of the village. And they are prepared to throw him over the cliff. And somehow he just slips away from their grasp. It was the earlier pilgrimage into Jerusalem when Jesus claimed to be sent by God. And they tried to arrest him on that occasion. And again, it doesn't we don't know for sure. It just kind of says he evaded them. And there was the shout showdown over ancestry. You remember this one? Somebody in the crowd, somebody among the leadership, basically calls Jesus a bastard. You don't know who your daddy is. Your mommy got pregnant, and we don't know who your daddy is. We know our ancestry. Do you remember how Jesus converted them? How he called them out on that? You don't have a clue. Your ancestry is completely a mystery. Because if you were truly descended from Abraham, then you'd worship me like he did And they say, how could you have known Abraham or he know you? You're not even 50 years old yet. And he says, before Abraham, I am. He claims the name of God and they are outraged and they pick up stones to stone him for blasphemy and he simply vanishes There are several other occasions we could talk about, but the point is the same. He seems always to escape this trouble It's as if he had like, you know, I don't know if he had Bilbo's magic ring or he, you know, he's got a cloak of invisibility. He can just poof be gone. But somehow he's always getting out of these binds. And so this morning, I digress a little bit there, this morning Jesus walks into the temple on Monday morning, and you know I don't know what else to say it. He kind of goes ape. You know that expression? Act like a gorilla? Start tossing things around your cage because you're angry? That's what he does. He's throwing things around the temple. He throws the tables, overturning them. He's throwing the chairs, smashing them. He's throwing the money, the the the the the the the money boxes, spilling them everywhere. He's breaking open the the cages that contain the animals If you're not familiar with the scene, here's what's going on. You were supposed to bring an offering at Passover to the temple. But somewhere along the way, somebody had the right idea. You don't need to sacrifice a part of your flock Don't drag a lamb down from Galilee. Just bring some money and then you can buy one here in the temple and sacrifice it. That was never supposed to be the point. But now there are these animals, lambs for the people who had the money, doves, pigeons, the people who didn't have the money And Jesus is opening all their cages. It's a chaotic scene, folks. There are lambs bleaking and running everywhere. There are pigeons flying up in people's faces and hitting them and everything else There are adult men on the ground on their hands and knees trying to get the coins that have spilled everywhere before anybody else grabs their money. There gotta be a few people laughing at the whole scene And in the midst of it, Jesus says something bizarre. He stands in the midst of all this chaos and he bellows out. How does he say it? How does he cry out to them? My house is to be a house of prayer. Do you understand the significance of that? Think about how we quote things. Imagine for a moment that Drew gives me a message to deliver to Mary Beth. Sorry, Mary Beth. The children of pastors and their girlfriends end up in sermon illustrations. Nothing embarrassing on this occasion. Imagine that Drew gives me a message to pass along to Mary Beth. He says, tell Mary Beth, I will be late for our date. Now, when I deliver that message to Mary Beth, do I quote him exactly? Do I go to Mary Beth and say, Drew said I will be late for our date. Now it would be clear what was meant, but that's weird, right? That's odd. Nobody says it that way. How would I say it to her? He will be late for your date. I'm going to take myself out of the first-person picture, even though it was an exact quote. We do this all the time with our quoting a Bible. If we snap one verse out of context, we clarify who the first person pronoun is. Jesus doesn't. He doesn't say, and God said, My house shall be a house of prayer. He doesn't say, God's house shall be a house of prayer. In the midst of the chaos, he says, My house shall be a house of prayer. He has made himself the owner of that temple. By his actions, feeling like he is empowered to overturn what's going on there, and by his words and his declaration. Calling it my house. Even before the whole temple tantrum, Jesus was spoiling for a fight. He and his followers, they're walking into Jerusalem on the Monday morning, and Jesus sees a fig tree, and he decides he wants a snack. Now, mind you, it's March 29th. Most figs ripen in August. Some will ripen in late April. But there should be no figs on the tree in late March. And Jesus has spent his whole life in this agrarian society. He knows that full well. And he leaves the road and he walks over to the fig tree, and there are no figs in it, there is no fruit, he cannot refresh himself with it, and he is angry. And he curses the tree for not having fruit at a time when it shouldn't have had fruit Weird stuff is going down. Jesus is angry from the moment he leaves Bethany that morning, taking it out on a fig tree, and then getting to the temple. And going nuts. And you don't think the leadership of the Jews took notice? They are irate. And it had not had it not been for the crowds, they would have grabbed him right then, dragged him outside the gate of Jerusalem, and stoned him to death. But they can't. They don't have any arms with them at the time, and they are afraid of the crowds For the crowds at this moment, while they are a tad mystified at Jesus' behavior, are nevertheless still inclined to cut him some slack for all of the teaching and preaching and miracle working he's been doing. And so he gets away with it. So he has ridden into Jerusalem when you walk into Jerusalem. He has ridden into Jerusalem in the midst of cries that he is the king. He has accepted the praises of the people and has said that they must praise him He has gone into the temple and acted like he had every right to do whatever he wanted in that place. This is not like the Jesus of the previous three years. Keep it quiet. Don't tell anybody. Hush, hush He is initiating confrontation. He is actively creating confrontation And more is going to happen before this week is out. It's only Monday of our eight-day look. But there are two details that I have omitted that we do need to consider closely. They're easy to omit, they're easy to miss. Both are mentioned almost in passing in the Gospels. You see, it's easy to think that this confrontation is happenstance. It's it's coincidence. It's God working behind the scenes to make all of these things come together. But that's not what's going on. I mean it is, but it isn't I've already pointed out the unusual way that Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey, like a king, with a parade, with kingly proclamations being sung all around him. But I skipped over what happened earlier that morning. You see, on Sunday morning when they leave the village of Bethany and they head to Jerusalem, They, who knows what little house they were at uh in Bethany, but they're walking, they get out on the main road, and they're headed toward Jerusalem, and Jesus stops him and his followers and the crowd that's with him. And the gospels imply that there's quite a crowd that has come with him from Galilee. He stops them all, and he turns to Peter and John, and he says, I want you to go in to that village. Probably Bethany, but maybe a different part of the same little village. I want you to go into the village. And when you get into town, we're going to wait here on the main road. You guys go. You two go. We'll all wait here When you get in there, I want you to go inside, and just inside the village, you're going to find a donkey colt tied to a hitching post. When you find it, I want you to bring the donkey to me. Oh, and by the way, I've made arrangements for somebody to keep an eye on that donkey. I need it to be there. So I've got somebody watching over it. And when they say to you, what are you doing taking the donkey? I want you to say this to them. And they will know it's for me. And they will let you take it. And Peter and John go into the village and they find the donkey right where Jesus said it would be tied up, and they go down and tie the donkey, and sure enough, the watchman comes out of the house and says, What are you doing? That ain't your donkey And they say, the Lord has need of it. And the guy goes, Oh, no, it's for Jesus. Good. You're good. Take it He planned it. Before one step of this path to Jerusalem happened, he planned for it. He intentionally made arrangements so that there'd be a donkey waiting for him, so that he could climb on it. So that he could ride while everybody else walked, so that he could look like a king coming into Jerusalem. He's either crazy, a phenomenal liar Or he's king. And that temperatant on Monday That was not spur of the moment. That was not Jesus losing his cool. He didn't get to the temple on Monday morning and go, what is happening in here? And then deal with it. No, we're told after the parade into Jerusalem on Sunday, they hang out. We don't know, we're not told details, whatever they do in the city on that Sunday. They're headed back out that night before they head back out. Sorry, that night we're told, Mark tells us, Jesus went to the temple Mark implies that he went alone. It's after dark. The business of the day is concluded. The temple is quiet And Mark just says he went in and he looked around and then he went out to the village What's going on? He knew what he was going to find there. Have we forgotten that three years earlier he's already had this showdown once in the temple? He knows full well what's happening in that temple. But rather than risk rending judgment falsely on Monday morning, he goes on Sunday night and confirms the pollution of his house. You see, I've said that nobody is sleeping on Monday night because of the tension hanging over the city and they're not sure what's going to happen. Nobody knows what he's going to do But he doesn't sleep on Sunday night because of what they have done He goes to the temple, he sees its pollution, he sees all that's wrong with it. But he doesn't he could have gotten away with it Monday night, right? There's no there's no security cameras back then He could have opened all the cages, broken all the tables. He could have addressed all of it without practically any harm or risk to himself on Monday, Sunday night But he leaves it. And then he comes back into town Monday with a plan. Why is he spoiling? Why does that fig tree receive a curse from him? Why is he angry at that fig tree? He already knows his people don't bear any fruit. And he goes and he addresses it. And he deals with it. And as Monday winds to a close, the question is what's going to happen There's gonna be a showdown, that's already understood. There's going to be more confrontation, that's crystal clear. But how's it going to play out? Is he now ready to be proclaimed king? Is he ready to be the messiah that we all wanted him to be This is the guy who can't wind and waves and sings with the word of his power Not worried about him winning a showdown with the Jewish leadership. So what's going to happen tomorrow on Tuesday? Is he going to win? Is he going to knock them all off their feet? Is he going to call down angels? Is he going to pronounce curses on them like he did on the fig tree? How will this play out? And the way it plays out matters a great deal. But the key thing for us today is to recognize that not one thing that happened happened accidentally Every single step he took, he took with purpose. Every single word he spoke, he spoke knowing what was going to come of it. He's done hiding because his time has come But what is his time? What is that going to look like? If we don't understand the intentionality of Jesus in holy we If we don't grasp the purposefulness of his actions, we miss what this man did for us. Come understand him. Come see him in a new way. Come study what he did. There's a reason the weak is called his passion, his love. It was because it didn't happen to him. It happened by him and through him. Let's pray. Jesus, we are stunned to a degree that That you would do this, that you would confront this danger to yourself, that you would stand toe-to-toe with these powers of the earth. And let it play out as it did. And as we take a fresh look at you this month Help us to understand the profound depth of your love for us. Let us never again speak of your passion in any kind of cursory way, any kind of flippant way. Help us to wrestle with the profound intentionality with which you move toward the cross. We ask your help in grasping these things and in retaining them and in believing them and living as though they're true. And we know you will.