Jesus warned of the difficulty that the rich people would have entering into the kingdom of heaven. Partly because of the comfort they enjoyed in this life now. That hymn, as I understand it, was written by a slave. Having nothing to long for and look forward to in this life, that person put all of their hope in the next. And that is the call of our scriptures this morning. Open your Bibles, please, to Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 through 17. Hebrews 12, 1 to 17. Becky loves camping. And despite her full-time job, her ministry here at Shore Harvest, her friendships, her Bible studies and her motherhood and grandmotherhood, when it comes to camping, Becky will find a way to make it happen. The prospect of a week or two by the fire, on the beach, on the trails, in the woods These things motivate her. She will endure a great deal of preparation, a great many headaches, in order to enjoy camping You see, all the laundry has to be done at the same time so that we can pack. Camper beds have to be made, special food purchased and packed away. Sunscreen, check. Bug spray, check. And on and on the list goes. But she endures all of that for the joy set before her. Follow with me now as I read Hebrews 12, 1 to 17. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint hearted. In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And you have forgotten the exhortation, I'm sorry, and have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them. But he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, lift your drooping hands, and strengthen your weak knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble And by it may become defiled, that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. Let's pray. Lord, give us understanding of your word. Give us hearts willing to submit to it. And let us learn from the instruction of this preacher, so that we might endure this life, holding fast our confession. Faithful to the end, to the one who is faithful forever. We seek this in Christ's name. Amen. Have you ever stopped to consider the meaning of the word discipline? It is central to this text. And so we have to understand it. And I will admit readily, right up front, that I have generally misunderstood that word when I read through this passage. And I am guilty of having preached and taught things out of this text that I would love to be able to take back. For we misunderstand and misapply the word discipline far too often. So what do you think of when you hear that word discipline? I think the word punishment probably comes into many of our minds. And if it did not jump into yours, good for you. But it certainly is one that jumps to many of us. But I'm not sure that's what's in this text. Oh, I think he does slide up against the concept of punishment. But I don't think that's his main point. I'd like to go back through it. Let's dissect this text together and see if we can't get at a better understanding of what our preacher is saying. Verse 1, therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, I want to pause right there and say, what does he mean by that? Are these spectators? Last week, in the opening of the sermon, I used the illustration of our son Joshua running a race and all the parents and all the other teammates gathering around the track to encourage him on to finish. Is that the picture that we have here? I've heard some preachers preach this text in that way. But I'm not sure that's what's going on here. I'll remind you that the word witness has a double meaning A, a witness is someone who sees something. They witness something. But B, a witness is also someone who tells something. Who tells what they see? I really think it's the latter understanding of witness that our author has in mind. Why? First off, there's simply nothing in the scriptures that ever suggest that the dead are omniscient. We continue to be finite human beings even in the afterlife. I don't think there's any reason to believe that the saints who have gone before us can necessarily see our activities in our lives. I'm not sure that they are witnessing what we are doing, but in light of Hebrews chapter 11, I think what our author is saying is that they are witnesses and have been witnesses to us. not of us. That they, by their lives, by their faithfulness, have declared the faithfulness of God. They have testified to what they saw in God. They're not cheering us on in the sense that they're watching us and encouraging us to finish the race. Rather, they are witnesses of God's faithfulness and have said so by their lives. I also would point out the word also Let us also lay aside. In other words, in the manner that they did, like them. Let's do this thing. Again, he's not pointing to them as witnesses watching us, but rather he's telling us to look at them and listen to them And learn from them. Let us also lay aside. He continues: Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. This looking to Jesus is an interesting statement because we might take it to be an invitation to look ahead to Jesus And certainly in the wider context of Hebrews, there's some validity to that, to look ahead to the life to come with Jesus But in this spot right here, he's interestingly pointing us back to Jesus, and ironically saying, as you look back to Jesus, consider how he looked ahead I'm sorry, I lost my voice. Jesus was faced with the prospect of an agonizing, humiliating, inglorious death. But he looked past those things to his future. And in looking to the future, he asked himself, as it were, if what lay on the other side was worth it. Was it worth enduring the cross for the promise of what lay beyond? So it was in the late 1980s, I'm not sure of the exact year, a 14-year-old girl was awakened by her father very early on Christmas morning to take a phone call. You remember, this was back in the day when there was just one phone in the house and you had to go down to the kitchen to use it. So she traips down the stairs in her robe. and gets on the phone, and it is a wealthy woman from not far down the street who was hosting a Christmas brunch, a ritzy upscale Christmas brunch later that morning And her musician had canceled the last minute. You see, this young teen, this 14-year-old girl, was a talented musician and was already a very excellent carpist. And so this woman was calling to say, will you please come play your harp for my guest at my Christmas brunch? She covered the phone, she turned to her father, explained the situation to her dad, and her dad said, No, absolutely not. It's Christmas morning. You're going to be with your parents and with your brothers. Tell her no. As she put the phone back up to her ear, her father had been overheard. And the woman on the other end said, I will pay you a thousand dollars. She conveyed that to her father, and he said, find out what time she wants you to be there. We will pay the price. We will pay the cost if the reward is sufficient. Most of life's decisions are a cost-benefit analysis. And our author is saying that that's what Jesus did at the cross. He looked at the pain, at the shame, at the suffering, at the humiliation And then he looked beyond it and said, what was on the other side was worth it for the joy set before him. Now, make no mistake, what Jesus faced at the cross was an agonizing time. Not only was there going to be the physical pain. But he was going to endure a spiritual difficulty that none of us can even imagine. For Jesus alone Has been the one person in history who had the sort of spiritual life we were all meant to have. He was in a perfect relationship with his Heavenly Father. And he would hang on that cross and cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And it was because he was a sin-saturated, grotesque mess in that moment. Despite all of that, Jesus stayed the Course and suffered the cross anyway. Why? for the joy set before him, for the reward on the other side, because the benefit was worth more to him than the cost he had to pay his own life. And this author is imploring us to do the same. This author is asking us to make the decision that Jesus made. That we would decide that giving up this life is totally worth it for gaining the next one And was that not what Jesus taught in some of his parables? In the parable of the pearl of great worth? To sell everything you have and go buy that pearl because its value is totally worth it. Jesus and our author in Hebrew want us to set aside this life, this age, this existence here. For the pursuit of the real life in the age to come. Continuing. Consider him who endured from sinner such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted in your struggle against sin. I know that's not how it's marked out in your Bibles, but there is no punctuation in the original text. And I really do wonder if maybe that's how this was intended to be read. So that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted in your struggle against sin. The whole point of this is that we would endure amidst that struggle Jesus struggled against sin. His whole life was, in one regard, a struggle against sin. His time at the cross was a struggle against sin. All of it played out that way. In 1988, a highly controversial movie was released, the title of which was The Last Temptation of Christ. I have not seen the movie, and I am certainly not recommending it. But as I understand it, the basic storyline was that Jesus was tempted by sexual attraction to Mary Magdalene. That, in and of itself, is really not my complaint. After all, the book of Hebrews, way back in chapter 4, told us that Jesus was tempted in every way just as we are I have no problem believing that Jesus faced sexual temptation at some point in his life. We do, and he faced all the temptations that we face. My complaint with this title, again I haven't seen the movie, so I'm not complaining against the movie per se. My complaint with this title is that I guarantee you that that was not the last temptation of the Christ. Now, the temptations which beset Jesus in his final hours had nothing to do with pleasure and everything to do with pain. The last temptation of the Christ was the cross itself and whether or not to endure it. So that's why we are told that in the garden he prayed vigorously, Father, not my will, but yours be done. Help me through this, Dad. I don't want to face it. And so one of the last temptations of Jesus It seems like a little thing to us when we read about it, but one of the last temptations of Jesus was the drink he refused to take. Matthew says he was offered sour wine and gall. Mark records it as wine and myrrh. He was offered a drink on a sponge and he refused to take it. Why? Well, it turns out that that mixture of things is an analgesic, an ancient painkiller. And it was Common. Apparently, we have record of more than just the crucifixion of Jesus. We have other crucifixions recorded in history. And apparently it was the custom of Roman soldiers. To offer this painkiller combination to those who were suffering on their crosses, so that they might be numbed to it Slip into something resembling sleep, and then pass into death in a less painful manner. But Jesus refused it Because he had to suffer the cross, not merely get to the other side of it. This was one of those times where the journey was as important as the end. He needed to experience All the pain, all the suffering, all the humiliation, all the degradation. He could not be numbed to it No, the consequence of sin is suffering, and Jesus fully experienced it. He refused the wine mixed with myrrh because for his work to be complete He had to endure all the consequences of sin. He suffered under Pontius Pilate. But as close to the end as that was, it was not the last temptation of the Christ No, just a few verses after Matthew records Jesus refusing the painkiller, we read of the challenge which was spat out at Jesus. For the entertainment of the crowd. If you really are the Son of God, come down from the cross and save yourself. And it's here that we have the last temptation of the Christ. To endure the cross The very children of Israel whom he had come to save, those for whom he was dying, were mocking him. Those whom he had sought reviled him. And they did so by striking at the very essence of who he was. Deity. Deity incarnate. Now, these weren't believers. So how did they know about his claim to be the Son of God? Well, Matthew tells us it was only a few hours earlier that Jesus had said. Do you think that I cannot call upon my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? You see, the last temptation of Christ was to do just that: to end all the pain, all his suffering, all the humiliation, not with aspirin, but with angels. Not by easily drifting into death via drug-induced sleep, but by showing how very much alive he really was. The temptation that he faced was not suffering the mockery until the end, but making known his glory and power and majesty right there, right then. One of my father's favorite songs, which he used to sing frequently around the house, contained this excellent line in the chorus. He could have called 10,000 angels. It's a good line, but it's inaccurate. That is merely two legions. Twelve legions of angels is 60,000 angels Roughly double the population of Jerusalem at that time. And imagine if he had done so. Would not every knee have bowed? And would not every tongue have immediately confessed, Jesus is Lord? The last temptation of the Christ. was to take back the glory which was rightfully his, to take back the throne and the power and the honor which were his due. The last temptation of the Christ was to shatter the nails which held him, to splinter the cross behind him, and to obliterate the crowd before him. But he did none of that Why not? Because his struggle against sin was not complete. Remember, back in chapter 5, our author of Hebrews has already told us, back in chapter 5, verses 7 to 9. He said, In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears, a reference to Gethsemane, to him who was able to save him from death. Take this cup from me, father. And he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, sorry, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obeyed him Keep in mind that Jesus was not just sinless. He was not merely a human who never violated God's law. He also was a human who became all that humanity was supposed to become Remember how Luke describes the boy Jesus as growing in wisdom and stature, as becoming the man who was perfected how? In suffering, perfected by going through the cross Not around it. Now, would it have been sin had He not died for us? Would he have been disobeying God? I don't see how God the Son could disobey God. He is God, he can't disobey himself. I don't imagine that had he rejected the cross that he would have sinned. But he would not have been perfected in his humanity. You see, we have to be reminded of the manner in which we were created. Adam and Eve bore the likeness of God. But they were also to be experiencers of that likeness. They were to know the likeness of God in them in the biblical sense of the word, to know it experientially. It was for this reason that the Creator of People said, Go forth and make more people. It was for this reason that the one who rules over the earth said, rule over and have dominion. Go be my likeness on the earth experientially But rather than choosing to know the good through the experience of obedience, we chose to know wickedness through the experience of disobedience. And we have to take that choice to its very end That path required and requires the experience of God's wrath. That path requires A first-hand knowledge of what it means to be completely separated from God's mercy and grace and compassion. and fully exposed to his anger and justice and wrath In order for Jesus to bring an end to the race of Adam, he had to fulfill the destiny of Adam. He had to suffer the cross. Jesus suffered under Pontius Pilate was crucified dead and buried, and in so doing, he descended into hell. Not that he physically went to that location But rather that he fully experienced the reality of hell. He fully experienced God's anger unmitigated Unsoften, uneased by even wine and mirth That's what Jesus went through in his struggle against sin. A struggle not only not to sin, but also a struggle to endure the consequences of sin on our behalf. And so it is when we have regarded Jesus in this light, he having suffered for our sake, that our author says in verse 3. Consider him who endured from sinner such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted in your struggle against sin, so that you uh that you have not sorry, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. Your struggle against sin doesn't come anywhere close to that which Jesus went through. He suffered in every way imaginable. You have certainly not And so our author says: look, yes, you are tempted to abandon the Christian faith because of the struggle against sin. But consider what Jesus did. He stayed the course. He suffered under it. You should desire to do likewise. And it's for that reason he goes on in verse 5. It's in this light of a new understanding of discipline. He says, have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you with sons? And he goes, and all of that, verses five and six, and seven, and eight, and nine, ten, all the way through the end of eleven. He talks about all the aspects of that that goes on there, the training and how we respect those who discipline us, and it's difficult and it's hard and it isn't pleasant. And I will confess to you right now that I have always read this as punishment. I know I said the word discipline out loud, but what I heard was the word punishment. But when we connect this to the verses that open chapter 12, when we connect this to the experience of Jesus, It isn't necessarily punishment. In fact, we're told that it's perfection. It's training. It's building up of endurance. Consider other concepts wrapped up in discipline. Not punishment per se, but training. Training in overcoming difficulty. Training in dealing with the challenges of life. As Becky works with kindergartners, one of the things she's noticed is the ways in which some parents cripple their children. By never making them struggle with anything, by giving them immediately everything they want. So they never have to overcome any challenge. Life is not like that. This world is not like that. It is a difficult world because of sin. It is a broken and fallen world because of our wickedness. And we have to learn to live in the midst of that. We have to be trained, we have to be disciplined. So consider instead a model, perhaps, of an athlete There's this cute video with this group called Dude Perfect. They put on some wonderful YouTube videos. And there is one of them in which they uh uh uh invite Serena Williams to come and she does a bunch of tennis trick shots and stuff. But part of the video is this the question they ask, how many dude perfect guys does it take to score a point against Serena Williams? And the answer, of course, by the end of the video was more than they had. There are four of them on the opposite side of the court, and together they cannot return a serve from Serena Williams, though there are four of them taking the ball. Why? Because she was disciplined, trained. She had gone through early mornings and long days. She had suffered through all of the the uh uh uh care that was needed to become an elite athlete. She had monitored her diet, paid attention to her sleep Looked to the things that would affect her physicality and her mentality so that she could perform at an elite level. And I'm willing to bet along the way there were more than a few coaches. When she was discouraged, when she was down, when she was having a hard time getting motivated to work hard on that day. There were more than a few coaches who said, if you want to be like her and pointed at whatever superstar, if you want to be among the elite of all time, if you want to be One of the greats. And you have to stop and ask yourself, what did they do? And you've got to do that. And that is, in a sense, what our author has set before us Do you want to be a person of great faith? Do you want to be one who endures to the end? Do you want to be one who holds fast our confession? Are you prepared to go through the discipline? Not the punishment, the training, the hard work. The equipping in righteousness, the building up of holiness. And if you say to yourself, it isn't worth it. Holiness just is not worth it. Then you have to ask yourself: if I don't want holiness now in this life, what makes me think I'm going to want to spend an eternity with a holy God? And so he is saying to his readers, and he is saying to us, you're looking forward to a day when the world will be freed from sin. Begin preparing yourself for that now. Begin gearing up for that now. Begin training yourself for that now. And so he picks up again in verse 12. Therefore, let your drooping hands and stress and strengthen your weak knees. And make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. Strive for peace with everyone. What's he saying? Make the way of righteousness a little easier right now by not making enemies And for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Remember, you're training to spend eternity face to face with the Holy One of Israel. See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God. Notice the wording there. It's not just about you, it's about the others around you. Remember, you're in this together. There's no going it alone. Therefore, it's important that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble. And by it many become defiled. Don't poison the well within the life of the church. Because it's out of that well of your brothers and sisters that you're going to need strength at times. You're going to need them to lift you up, even as you lift them up. to encourage them, to challenge them, maybe even be confronted by them in your own sin. So don't embitter them Lead lives of peaceful coexistence. And I'll tell you what, as a guy who has failed in this regard repeatedly I can testify firsthand to the wisdom that is being preached right here. How much better off it would be. Had I not alienated all those people? It was Oscar Wilde who once quipped, a man cannot be too careful in his choice of enemies. It's not good, God said, for the man to be alone. So let there be no root of bitterness in your life. Deal with the issues. Make friends of your brothers and sisters in the Lord. Recognize That the world tells you you can pick up and go to the church down the street, though the world tells you you can bail anytime you want. That's not the picture the Bible portrays. The Bible portrays us as a family, as a body, as members of the same body. Where in that metaphor can you just carve out an eye or lop off a finger And reattach it to a new body because you don't like the finger next to you. The picture here is of going it together so that we might be disciplined and trained. He goes on to say in verse 16, see to it that no one is sexually immoral. Or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. There is probably not a better illustration in all the world for our preacher's point. He is saying, look to the future. Like Jesus, for the joy set before him, endured the cross, you need to endure the hardships of this life. So don't trade it in for the moment. Esau gave up future blessing for a passing moment of contentment. And he says, don't be like that. Live for the future, not for the present. The whole passage in his impassioned plea. For us to see present suffering as part of our training, as discipline Not as punishment, as preparation, as something readying us for the future As we close, I want to take us back to the very top of the passage and leave you with this amazing, sobering, hopefully motivating thought. What was the joy set before Jesus? We are told to look to Jesus, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. So what was that joy? I said that Jesus faced a cost-benefit analysis situation. The cost was the cross. But what was the benefit? What did Jesus foresee on the other side of the cross That he didn't already have before the cross. Let me put the question another way. What did God the Son not have before the cross that he would have after it? Would it be glory? Let's not imagine that that's the case at all. For God, the Son, was glorious from eternity past. He did not endure, need to endure the cross to be highly glorified. Honor? From eternity past, all the beings of heaven have been praising his name. He did not need to endure the cross to receive honor. Was it power? He's already said that he has the power to summon twelve legions of angels before going to the cross. So what was the joy set before him? I mentioned earlier that Jesus asked his father to send those twelve legions of angels. Uh uh angels, that sorry, that if Jesus had asked his father to sell send those twelve legions of angels, that all the earth would have bowed their knee, and that every tongue would have confessed Jesus is Lord. Some of you will recognize where I got that from. It's an allusion to Philippians chapter 2. But my quotation was incomplete. I left part of it out. Let me read out the fullness of that passage from Philippians chapter 2. Christ Jesus, though he was in the form of God. Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, to be held on to, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death, on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. In other words, God has granted that this Jesus of Nazareth might be called Yahweh. I am Lord in most of our English Bibles. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. And here's what I left out. In heaven and on earth, and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord In a world apart from the cross, in a world where Jesus did not stay there, in a world where he did not endure for the joy set before him. Every knee would still bow, and every tongue still confess, but they would have all done so from the confines of hell. Yes, for a time some might have declared it while on earth, but ultimately all would do so from under the earth. You see, what changed at the cross was this. You, where you're going to say these things. Where you're going to bow your knee if you are a believer. You will be in awe of the Christ. Declaring his glory in heaven. The joy which was set before Jesus, the joy for which he endured the cross, was the joy Of eternity spent with you. Let Christ's motivation be yours Throw off the sin which entangles, endure the trials of this life, become disciplined and prepared in the practice of righteousness. For the joy which is set before you. Eternity in the presence of God. Let's pray Lord, bring us home in faithfulness and in righteousness. Bring us home because you are able to lift our eyes off from this life to the joy that is set before us. And help us to understand that Jesus endured what he endured for our sake, for our salvation, so that he would be the Savior of men, so that we would be one day in heaven. Saying He is Lord. We thank you for His willingness to take that road to its very end. So that we might benefit. And while we understand that our faithfulness does not benefit him, Nevertheless, we recognize that it is our appropriate and fitting response Our spiritual act of worship, that we would be living sacrifices, poured out for the sake of His glory. We pray this in His name. Amen.