The scriptures call us to speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. I want to thank our music ministry for doing such a beautiful job of that this morning. I invite you now to turn in your Bibles to Mark 11. We're approaching the end of our sermon series, Mark, A Call to Confess Christ. But we're going to work back now in the text and pick up some verses that we omitted earlier. So looking at Mark 11, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 11. I want to remind us that here at Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if we want to know what it is that we should believe and how it is that we should live, if we want to know the king who went into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, then we have to know this book. So I invite you now to hear the Word of God from Mark 11, verses 1 to 11. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Beth Page in Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter as you As you enter it you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it. If any one says to you, Why are you doing this? say the Lord has need of it, and will send it back here immediately. And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it. And some of those standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt? And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go And they brought the coal to Jesus, and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it. And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields. And those who went before and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple, and when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Spirit of God Speak to us through your word this morning, that we might know your message for us, and that by your grace you would put it to work in our lives That we would believe more firmly, that we would confess more clearly, that we would love more dearly our Savior Jesus Christ, the King who rode into Jerusalem Who rides into our hearts today, and who will one day return and make himself known to all. We pray this in his beautiful name. Amen. As you can imagine, I don't think you have to actually have stood up here and preached to be able to uh understand this concept. There are times and texts That as a preacher, you begin to approach them and you look at them and you scratch your head and you think, what are we going to do with this? What is there to say about this? And I felt that way about this text. I looked at it and I said, you know, the majority of this text is interesting in that it's given out of the 11 verses we've read, the 11th verse It's kind of a little comment about what's coming next. Mark likes to foreshadow. That's a literary technique he uses a lot. And it really is a look at what's coming next as Jesus clears the temple. So these ten verses that deal with the Triumphal entries is sometimes called as Jesus' entry into Jerusalem, seven of them are related to the acquisition of the donkey. You stop and do that counting? Seven verses about how the donkey was acquired so that Jesus would have something to ride on. And I scratched my head and said, what am I supposed to make of that? Is this a lesson about next time you go use car shopping, all the right questions you're supposed to ask? So did you get the right ride? I don't think that's it. Is it a case that the Romans were particularly preoccupied with horsepower and they were being told that donkeys were more important? I don't think that's it. And yet I sat there looking at the text, going, what are we supposed to get out of this? And as I was wrestling with the text, it was brought to my attention. And I was reminded that we have said frequently that Mark is brief, that Mark gives a very brief account of a lot of the details of Jesus' life And that ought to matter here. Stop and think for a moment. How many verses are there in the entire Gospel of Mark about Christmas? The answer is zero. How many verses are given over to Jesus' baptism? Just three. How many verses are given over to his temptation in the wilderness? Just one. How many verses does Mark give us on the Lord's Prayer? Zero. On the Sermon on the Mount? Zero. On the high priestly prayer? Zero. Seven verses on the acquisition of the donkey. And we have to sit there and go, wait a second, this must matter. For a guy who has been so brief in so many other areas of Jesus' life, why does he spend so much time here? And so my temptation to gloss over it had to be set aside, and we had to wrestle with it. As we began to wrestle with it, it was blessed things, but blessed thoughts and understandings that came out of wrestling with. And so I invite you this morning to go with me and join with me as we think about these verses and why they matter. One of the things that we would have to ask ourselves, and if we're going to understand this text, is do these verses matter in a particular way to Mark's original audience? We don't ride on donkeys nowadays, so we're a little disconnected from this culture. So maybe if we think about the original audience and how it would have spoken to them. Does it mean something? And at first glance I I couldn't think of anything. I I it really didn't strike me as particularly important. Then reminded myself And I'll remind you this morning that Mark writes around 65, around A. D. 65, during the time of Nero's persecution of the church. It is why he is so focused on these two confessions of Jesus, of Peter's confession in chapter 8, and of the Centurion's confession that we'll be considering Thursday night in chapter 15. Marcus focused on these two confessions because he wants his original audience, and he wants all future generations of audiences to confess that Jesus is the Christ. And so I ask myself, how does this help? How does the acquisition of a donkey help us confess that Jesus is the Christ? And of course the reminder was our Old Testament reading this morning. As we heard from Zechariah, as we heard Zechariah 9. 9, we're reminded of why the acquisition of the donkey Matters. For the prophet Zechariah foretold that the king of Jerusalem would ride in on a donkey. Let's hear that verse again from the prophet Zechariah. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. Matthew and John explicitly reference that verse. Mark does not, and yet it is crystal clear that that prophetic passage underlies Mark's text. That's why these this is so important. That's why the acquisition of the donkey is worthy of more verses than Mark gives to many other things we regard as very important. Because it's important that we see the manner in which Jesus went into Jerusalem. It's important that we understand the intent. and the purposeful steps he took in order to go into Jerusalem. So let's back up a little in the text and consider some of the things from Mark 10, some of the context that is set here. Things that we considered earlier in our sermon series. Mark 10, 46 reminds us that it was with a large crowd. That Jesus was walking into, out of Jericho, into and up to Jerusalem. Now we're reminded that large crowds have been very common. In the Gospel of Mark. Where Jesus goes, large crowds go. When Jesus heads out across the Sea of Galilee to the other side, he no sooner steps on the dry ground than a large crowd immediately gathers. Somebody recognizes him. Somebody goes into the village and says, hey, that healer, that one who teaches with authority, he's here. He's in our village. And the crowds flock to see him They bring their sick and they bring their dying. Some of them just bring their empty stomachs. One way or another, they want to come see this carpenter. So the fact that it's a large crowd with Jesus is not something unusual, except that he is now at this point quite outside of his normal geographic region of ministry. Now we know from John's Gospel that Jesus has ventured south before, but this is the first time that Mark alludes to that. This is the first time we catch any sense that Jesus has gone south. So the fact that there's a large crowd here is a little more surprising. And yet Mark makes clear that this is a crowd that has ventured with him from Galilee. So we have to ask ourselves why? Why are they headed from Galilee down to Jerusalem? Well, there were certain festivals during the year in which all observant Jews were encouraged to make pilgrimage to Jerusalem. As often as their situation in life would allow, as often as their finances would permit, as often as the tending of the farm would let them get away, they were encouraged to go to Jerusalem. And one of those was the Passover. It is on this occasion that Jesus is headed to Jerusalem to celebrate Passover there with his disciples, with the twelve. And the crowd from Galilee is large, and I don't think it's a coincidence. I suspect that there were many in the region of Galilee. Who had been perhaps putting off any plans to go to Jerusalem. Maybe next year we'll get there. And you still we don't have the finances this year. And then they find out that Jesus is going. Jesus is headed to Jerusalem. Honey, pack the bags, we're going this year. If that carpenter, that preacher, that powerful speaker goes down there to Jerusalem, there must be something going on and I want to be a part of it. Mark reminds us in chapter 10 and verse 32 that many who went along the way with Jesus were afraid of what was before them in Jerusalem. Why were they afraid? They've seen the confrontations between this man and the the representatives of the Jewish leadership. The Jews in Jerusalem have sent their disciples up to Galilee. We've read of those accounts in Mark And they have confronted Jesus. And there are many in this crowd who have seen the fireworks between Jesus and some of the Jewish leadership in Galilee, and they know full well that if Jesus continues to behave like he has behaved In Jerusalem, things are going to get ugly. It's going to get very intense very quickly. And many of them are are saying to themselves as they walk along the way, what's going to happen? Is he going to fly under the radar? Is he going to go into Jerusalem low-key? Or is there going to be an explosion? Now, if you were going to enter Jerusalem under the radar, or if you were going to go in unnoticed, this would be the time to do it. For at Passover, there were huge crowds that came to Jerusalem. Some historians estimate that the population of Jerusalem would double or even triple at this time of year. So that it would be easy to get lost in the crowd. So that all that Jesus would have to do is pull his cloak up a little around his face Keep a low profile, just talk to the twelve, don't confront any of the leadership in Jerusalem. And he could slip in and slip out and get back to his ministry in Galilee. But Mark in chapter 10 also reminds us that in the midst of the fear of the crowds, Jesus pulled aside the twelve. He said, fellows, come here for a minute. I hear what's going on. I hear the discussions in the crowd back there. I hear that they're afraid. I know some of you are too. In chapter 10 and in verse 33, Jesus reminds the twelve, he says, you know, we're going up to Jerusalem, so that the Son of Man might be betrayed into the hands of sinners. And they're going to mock him, and they're going to beat him, and they're going to spit on him. They're going to spit on me, for I'm going to be betrayed. And if the disciples had harbored any thought that Jesus was going to fly under the radar, he dispels it at the end of chapter 10. And he says, I am not going there as a mere pilgrim. I am not going there as someone who hopes to catch a glimpse of the temple. Maybe get the autograph of the high priest and then hightail it back to Galilee and live out a quiet life. Jesus reminds the twelve at the end of chapter 10 that he is going into Jerusalem. In a way that no one else ever has. And we see, as Mark does like to foreshadow, we see Mark's account of blind Bartamaeus at the end of ten, who calls out Son of David, have mercy on me. And the foreshadowing of the one who has a claim to the throne, the one who is a descendant of David, who has a right to go into Jerusalem as its king. And now we come to the text, and we see the donkey, and all the effort made to acquire the donkey. And Mark takes the time to point this out so that we will understand that Jesus took the time to be sure it was fulfilled. The Intertestamental writings of the Jewish leadership make it very clear that by the time of Jesus, Jews of every stripe, from the most liberal to the most conservative, Jews of every stripe believed that Zechariah 9. 9 was messianic. Every Jew knew that that was about the Messiah. And Jesus is going to make very clear that everybody knows that it's about him. And the transitive property absolutely applies. If Zechariah 9. 9 is about the Messiah, and if Zechariah 9. 9 is about him, then he is the Messiah. And he is making a crystal clear claim to be the one who has the right to enter in Jerusalem as its king. And so we're given these details. Somewhere along the line, Jesus has made arrangements. Now Mark is not clear that you know they're in one village and he sends his disciples to another village and it's not crystal clear from Mark which village is which and where they're staying and where they're headed to. But probably, from the best we can piece it together, what's probably going on is it appears that they have stayed briefly in Beth Page And then Jesus sends the two disciples into Bethany to get the colt, to bring it back to Bethpage so that he can ride up on it. It's not that outlandish. We know from the other gospels that Jesus has friends in Bethany. You know their names. It's Martha and Mary and Lazarus. Maybe he has other acquaintances there. But one way or another, he's made arrangements that there would be a cult ready for him. And he's told his disciples what to expect. You're going to go into town. There's a cult tied up here. I've already got it all planned out. You're going to go in, there's going to be a cult tied. You're going to take it. They're going to ask you why you're taking it. You're going to give them this password. You're going to tell them why you're taking it, and they're going to let you go. Again, the point is to know that this didn't just happen. It wasn't by mere chance that all this came together. This is not the later church superimposing upon Jesus of Nazareth some some messianic vision that they had. This is Jesus conscientiously, purposefully bringing upon himself the mantle of the Messiah. Saying purposefully and intentionally, Zechariah 9. 9 is about me. There's some other things we need to understand of what's going on here so that we can rightly comprehend this. If you're familiar with the scripture, you're familiar with the phrase of going up to Jerusalem. Now I haven't lived here in Maryland long enough to know exactly how how we use up around here, but where I come from, up met north. Okay? In Michigan you go up north all summer long. And of course, what do all the Michiganians do in the wintertime? You go down south to Florida. Get away from all that miserable cold and snow. When the scriptures use the term going up to Jerusalem, they're not talking about north and south. They're talking about literally up, away from the surface of the earth. You see, Jerusalem is an elevated city Quite far above sea level. And they're walking along the Jordan River Valley, which is actually below sea level at Jericho. So that the trek from Jericho up to Jerusalem is a long uphill journey. As a result, those who could afford it tended to ride because it was such a hard walk. And they would ride up to the edge of the city. But tradition had it that you do not ride into the city. You ride up to the city, you return your donkey to Enterprise Donkey Reynolds, and you walk into the city Do we catch what Jesus did? He walks most of the way and then rides into the city. If there was any thought that he was going to fly under the radar, it is completely dispelled at this point. For he is drawing all attention to himself. as he enters the city. It was the custom of the people as the festival crowds went to Jerusalem as they walked up that steep embankment to get to the holy city that they would sing, as we mentioned earlier, what are sometimes called the Psalms of Ascent. Psalms 113 to 118. They were called Psalms of Ascent because as you ascended into Jerusalem, you would sing these psalms. And scholars believe that many of these psalms were sung antiphonally. That is to say, there were two separate groups And one would sing and the other would sing in response. Not unlike our responsive reading of the Psalms this morning. And Mark makes clear that there are two groups. That there is a group going before Jesus and there is a group twilling behind Jesus. And in verse 9 we read, And those who went before and those who followed were shouting. There are two different groups. giving support to this idea of an antiphenal declaration of the Psalms. And what do they do? They take out of Psalm 118 the following verses. And the the one group was shouting, Hosanna And we can hear the group behind Jesus yelling back, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And then the group in front says, Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. And the group behind closes it out, Hosanna in the highest. And they shout these things back and forth as Jesus rides up in the midst of them. And some may say, well that's just a coincidence. Jesus just happened to be there. I mean they're not singing about him any more than there's anybody else in the crowd. And he's the only one that's writing. He's the only one before whom they're throwing their cloaks. He's the only one before whom they're cutting palm branches and laying them down. It is crystal clear that he is the center of all of this celebration. And if we've been with Mark throughout this series, we're reminded of how often Jesus told the followers, Shh, don't say anything. Keep it to yourself. Don't tell anybody. Go straight home. Don't talk about the miracle I just did. And on this occasion, far from shushing the crowd, he gets on the donkey so that everybody can see him, so that everybody knows who he's about. He makes it crystal clear that he is riding in as King. As they ride up Jesus is accepting the praises of the people. If you are a student of the scriptures, you know that mere servants of God never accept the praises of God's people. When an angel would appear, when a messenger, a mere messenger, would appear, and the people would be startled and they would fall before the angel. The angel would always say, Get up! Don't worship me. I am merely a servant like yourself. Get up. When John in the book of Revelation falls as though one dead, the angel says, Get up. You don't lay on the ground before me. I am simply the messenger. Not the one worthy of praise. And we are back, we are forced again to consider what we've seen so many times in the Gospel of Mark. That there is no middle road with regard to this one called Jesus. We cannot say that he is just a good guy. For if he is just a good guy, he should have said no to all the praises being bestowed upon him here. You know how this goes. If you've been following the March Madness at all, you know the guy who makes the winning shot at the end of the game, they stick the microphone in his face, and then what does he say? Yeah, I'm great. I'm that good. You should all be executed. No It was team game, it was a team effort. You know, if they hadn't if they hadn't set the screen I wouldn't have been open for the shot. If the guy hadn't given me the pass, I wouldn't have had the ball. It was a team effort. We got there through teamwork. That's what you're supposed to to say. Otherwise you regard it as conceited and prideful. Jesus does not say to the crowd, oh stop. Oh hush. Knock it off. You're embarrassing me. He sits up straight on that donkey saddle and he rides in. And it's not inappropriate. It's not prideful. It's not sinful arrogance because it's not out of place. Because it's appropriate to declare the king of all heaven as to also be the king of Jerusalem. And he takes the mantle upon himself and says, I am king. He gets into Jerusalem, we saw in verse 11, and he goes to the temple. We talked a little bit about this earlier in the sermon series, but it's worth mentioning again. He goes to the temple and he takes a look at it. And it might be a temptation to look at that and say, well, you know, he he's a he's one of the pilgrims. He's a tourist. You know, the temple's the main sight to see in Jerusalem, so he wants to go see it. He can't wait to, you know, snap a couple of quick pictures, a couple selfies there at the temple, get them posted to his social media. I don't think that's it at all. He is not going to the temple as a tourist or even as a mere pilgrim. Brother, he's in a hurry to get home. You've all had that experience after a long trip, and you come into town and the things begin to look familiar. You begin to recognize where you are. Remember when you were a kid and you'd wake up in the back seat and go, Oh, I know where I am now. Do the long trip. And you know, mom would say, we're going to stop and pick up some milk and go, oh, I don't want to stop. I just want to go home. That's Jesus coming into the temple. This is the place where he has met with his people for almost a millennia, millennium. This is the place where he approached Isaiah and called him to ministry. This is the place where he took the filthy clothes off Joshua the high priest and put on him clean garments. This is the place where he filled it with smoke on the day of his dedication. This is the place where he resided between the wings of the cherubim. And met with his people and forgave their sins at the atonement cover. He goes to the temple because he's going home. And Mark again lets us know what's coming. Hints at something more. He looks around, there's something wrong. And of course we know what happens on Monday morning. He goes back to the temple and he clears And he takes upon himself again the mantle of God and says, My house is to be a house of prayer. Throughout all of this, Mark spends seven verses talking about this, so that we will understand that Jesus went to great lengths to be sure that we understood that it applied to him. As we think about Zechariah 9. 9, as we think about Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, there is one more thing we need to think about We need to go back one more time and look at Zechariah 9. 9 and consider what it says. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation is he. So far, so good, it all aligns, it all accords well with Mark's account Look at the next line. Humble and mounted on a donkey. Some of the translations have the word gentle. We scratch our heads and we say to ourselves, what is there about Jesus' approach to Jerusalem that is the slightest bit humble? What about this is gentle? Pastor, you've just said that he went to great lengths to make sure that everybody knew it was about him. In order to understand this, in order to respond to this, we've got to remind ourselves of the fact that Zechariah 9:9 fits between Zechariah 1 and Zechariah 14. And that is not a mere mathematical observation, but rather it is to point out that in Zechariah 1. 1, we see the Lord's horsemen riding forth into all the earth, and they report back to the Lord. That the nations have risen up against his people, the nations refuse to humble themselves and worship the one true God, and that they are opposing his people. And the anger of the Lord is stirred up against the nations. In Zechariah 1 In Zechariah 1, God warns that he is going to destroy the nations who will not humble themselves before his king. And then Zechariah 9 tells us about the coming king. And then Zechariah 14 looks forward to the day when those things, when those nations will be destroyed. And in Zechariah 14, we read how the Lord returns to the earth. He returns to the Mount of Olives, the place from which we read in verse 1 they had just been coming. And Jesus descends on the Mount of Olives, and the mountain splits open, and the crevice that is created in the Mount of Olives is for God's people a hiding place. And they flee to it and they are kept there under his protection while his wrath then ravages the rest of the earth. We read it in our New Testament reading, did we not? About the one who rules with an iron scepter, the one who will put all of his enemies under his footstool? If you think that Jesus came into Jerusalem on this occasion lacking humility, you don't understand what the final coming is going to be like. He came with gentleness into Jerusalem the first time, not with wrath and judgment, not yet He came saying, there is a way to avoid the coming wrath. For I am going up to Jerusalem to die, to be a ransom for many, Mark tells us. And he says in his first riding into Jerusalem, his first entry, he goes in knowing we know clearly that he's king, but he goes in with a gentleness that says there is yet a way to be right. There is yet a way to avoid the next coming and its wrath and to rejoice in the next coming. So that the humility, the gentleness with which he enters Jerusalem, is not in contrast to how others go into Jerusalem, but is rather in contrast to how he will one day come back. to establish it as his eternal capital city, when he reigns visibly over all the earth. That is the gentleness of our Savior. He could have come and destroyed us the first time. He could have come and wiped out every sinner on that occasion. But he rode into Jerusalem gently. He made clear that he was king. He said, Believe in me, believe in the salvation I'm going to offer, believe in the death that is about to occur. believe in the resurrection and the victory over death that it declares. And he says to all who will hear, The next time I come back, you will be saved. Saved. And you will rejoice, for you will not be one who has to face my wrath. He was gentle indeed. with us. See, as Mark has called for those who have eyes to see and ears to hear, pray that the Spirit would open your eyes. So that you will see in this Jesus of Nazareth, the King of heaven and earth, who has been patient with us, whose arms are still open, who says, Come to me now and be saved from the next coming. But reminds us that he is in fact coming again. And on that occasion it'll be rejoicing for those who are his, but gnashing of teeth and weeping for those who are not. Praise God that we can be His through His death and His resurrection. Let's pray. God forgive us for not seeing Jesus as King, for not recognizing in him all authority and power. For not realizing that he had the right to destroy us the moment we sinned. And yet with gentleness he rode into Jerusalem. That we might be made right, that we might be justified and reconciled to you, despite our Sin. What good news indeed. Help us to proclaim that exciting gospel. So that others will hear it and come glorify King Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen.