Turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews 13. We are in the home stretch of the book of Hebrews. We are Looking at this final chapter, and though it is uh uh brief compared to some of the other portions of Hebrews. There's actually quite a bit packed into it. And so we're going to be in this chapter 13 for a few more weeks as we consider these practical things that we find here at the close of the book of Hebrews. Speaking of the close of a book of the Bible, I am really quite convinced that Paul did not write the book of Hebrews, and yet Chapter 13 would be a reason why some might think that he did. For it is common in Paul's letters to have a long portion at the beginning of the letter. given to doctrine and theology, given to an exposition of the gospel or some truth of who God is and what he has done, And then he pivots at the end of his letters and begins to give some practical implications for all that he has said. how to live life in light of all of the doctrine that he is taught. And that's what we find happening here in Hebrews chapter 13. The depths of the doctrine of the Christology of the first 12 chapters of Hebrews are now going to become the foundation for how we ought to live the Christian life. Now, while I don't think this was written by Paul, but probably maybe somebody close to him, perhaps Luke. Nevertheless, what we see here and in the Pauline letters and throughout all of the scriptures is this ongoing pattern. That the realities of who God is and what he has done are the foundation for, the cause for how we ought to live our lives. Adam did not exist. And then he did because God brought him about. And as a consequence, Adam was to obey God. Abraham was a pagan worshiping idols living beyond the river. God called him out of that life bound for hell. And as a result, commanded Abraham to walk before me and be blameless. On and on, the list goes. David is made king, and then God says, Therefore you ought to be a king in this manner. And we see this pattern continuing throughout all of the scriptures. Based on the teaching, the doctrine of who God is and what he has done, we are to live lives a certain way. And then we see over the top of all of that, over the doctrine and the ethics, over the past realities and the future imperatives, all of it is shrouded, draped, covered in a blanket of love. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. What did our Old Testament reading say this morning? Love your neighbor as yourself. And what do we find in the New Testament reading? A new commandment idea. You love one another. They will know you are my disciples if you love one another. Now, to be sure, the liberal North American Church has gotten this very wrong by skipping over doctrine and going right to the question of love. And that is a disaster. It's a recipe for all sorts of love of self and love of sin. And it is a tragedy. But we in the conservative church have our problems as well. It's not that we skip over doctrine, it's that we sometimes don't move beyond it. That we get caught up in our doctrine, our love of doctrine, and it's good that we begin with doctrine, that is the biblical pattern, but we have to recognize the biblical pattern goes further. It does not end with doctrine, but it moves on to how we live lives. And it takes that ethic, how we live our lives, and it blankets it all. in a covering of love. It would be hard to argue this statement That the greatest theologian, the most doctrinally astute person to ever live in the church age, would be Saul of Tarsus, the Apostle Paul. I don't think that's a debatable statement. And in the midst of his doctrine, a man for whom doctrine was breath itself. In the midst of this, while he's teaching the church in Corinth, he stops in 1 Corinthians 13, and what does he say there? If I have prophetic powers, if I understand all mysteries and have all knowledge, that is, if I have mastered all doctrine And if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. So we cannot imagine that the book of Hebrews could be ended after chapter 12. For a Christian life Lived only in the first twelve chapters of Hebrews is no Christian life at all. It is nothing, according to the Apostle Paul. And so we come now to Hebrews 13. We come now to that portion which really is kind of a shotgun approach. It's kind of a a popcorn approach, a bunch of seemingly disconnected statements about how we should live life. But what we're going to see is while they the individual application points are a little disjointed There is certainly a theme to the whole chapter. So join me now as we read Hebrews 13. We are going to be looking, uh not the whole chapter. We're going to be looking at verses 1, 2, and 3, and then we're going to skip down to verse 16, and you'll see that they do kind of thematically tie together. Hebrews 13, 1, 2, 3, and 16. Join me now as we read. Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body Verse 16. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Let's pray. Lord, it is our desire to be pleasing to you. It is our desire to make you happy And so we want to learn what these verses teach us. We want to hear the message of Hebrews 13. And by your grace, we want to make it the way we live our lives. Help us do that. Encourage us in that. Teach us and show us how. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. The Bible certainly does not dictate every action that we might take, nor does it prescribe exactly every thought that we should think. And in fact, it does very little on that level of specificity. When it comes to the specifics, the Bible leaves far more unsaid than is actually said. I once took a contractual job some years ago, a situation in which I was under contract to do a certain job for a certain period of time. It was interesting how it played out that we never actually signed a contract. Rather what happened was the company the institution and I kind of came to a an ambiguous verbal agreement. We shook hands, and that was that. Two years later, and it was a three-year contract, two years later I was offered a better job, well, I was a better job, a job that paid more for less work, let's put it that way. And Becky and I got laughing that had I actually signed a detailed contract, there would have probably been a loophole, an opt-out clause, and I could have gone and taken that better job. But because the contract was so brief and so informal and said so little, I felt obligated to stay the third year and I turned down the other job. There really is a precedent for that. The more we try to spell out every detail, the more likely we are to leave out some detail. And God's word follows this pattern. The Ten Commandments are so brief for a reason. It simply says, do not steal. And it does not explain what stealing is. Why? Because the moment we are tempted to say, is it really stealing if, the answer is yes If you are debating it, the answer is yes, it's feeling. Because that's why you're trying to justify yourself. Because you know deep down that it's wrong The brevity of the commands of Scripture are precisely the reason they are so encompassing and so broad. And we see here in the book of Hebrews this same principle at work. Hebrews 13 is a brief summary of Christian behavior, but in its brevity, it says so. So this morning we're going to look really principally at just the four words of verse one. Verse 1 contains four words. Let brotherly love continue. And we're going to look at those four words in some detail, and then we're going to see how the applications in verses 2, 3, and 16 begin to flesh out some of those details. Now Before we get to that content, those four words, we're going to look at the context. I want to look at the context and then the content. kind of the summary of this morning's sermon, the outline, if you will, the context of Hebrews 13 and the content of Hebrews 13, 1. Slide your finger up, probably just an inch or maybe less in your Bible. Go right to the end of chapter 12. Look at it, it's the last full sentence of chapter 12, verses 28 and 29. Look there. Please keep your eyes actually on your text as I read it aloud. But I'm going to Remove one of the English words and insert the biblical Greek word, and you'll see why in a moment, even though you won't know the word. It'll be obvious. Here we go. Hebrews 12, beginning in verse 28. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thus let us offer to God uarestos worship. Uarestos worship. Okay, now move down to the very end of the book of Hebrews, or close to the end, near the bottom of chapter 13, looking at verses 20 and 21. Hebrews 13, 20, and 21. This is the great benediction that closes out the book of Hebrews. And again, I'm going to read, you follow along, and again I'm going to substitute a word. Verse 20. Now may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, equivalent covenant Equip you with everything good, that you may do his will, working in us that which is your estos in his fight You see why I wanted to substitute the Greek word? Because in your English version, it's two different words, or at least in many of the English versions, it's two different words. It's the word acceptable at the end of chapter 12, and it's the word pleasing at the end of chapter 13, but in the writing of our author, it's the same word. And it's the only time he uses the word. My point is this: that he has crafted what's called an Inclusio, a set of bookins. It's a thematic set of book ins It is the chocolate cookie of an Oreo. It is the sandwich on either side That he has concluded his doctrinal treatise in the first twelve chapters by saying that ought to lead to acceptable worship, urestos worship. He then tells us all the content of 13, and then says, God will bring about your estos in his sight, pleadingness in his sight. In other words, chapter 13 is the cream in the Oreo. It's the filling, it's the stuffing. It's all the explanation of what pleases God. You want to know how to be Urestos in his fight? You want to know how to be acceptable to him? How to be pleasing to him? Here it is in Hebrews 13. Now I don't know what you are like in your more intimate, close relationships, but what I have found is that for me Over the years, I've gotten pretty good at figuring out what really annoys Becky. And I more or less steer clear of those things. She would argue that I was not this morning steering clear of those things. But, but, more or less I know. You know where I struggle? Well, not always so good is figuring out what actually pleases her. It's one thing to not anger her. It's another thing to actually please her. And yet, in a relationship of intimacy and love, it's not enough to live life not annoying. We have to figure out how to be pleasing. It is not okay to live the Christian life simply not angering God. We have to flip it around and learn how to please him. And that really is the teaching that we have here in chapter 13. You see, the Ten Commandments tell us you shall not murder. Hebrews 13 says you have to love in a brotherly love manner. The Ten Commandments say you should not commit adultery. Hebrews 13. 4 is going to tell us that marriage should be held in honor among all. Ten commandments tell us you shall not steal. But what do we find in verse 16? You should be generous and share that which is yours. It's not a good Christian life if all you're doing all the time is trying to steer clear of angering God. It is a healthy Christian life. If you're trying to please him, if you're trying to figure out how to make him happy, if you're looking to have God Think well of you in this relationship. So chapter 13 is not a list of tiresome commands. Rather, it is a description of how we can move our relationship with God to the next level, if you would. This is, of course, why such ethical discussions always follow the doctrinal explanations. You see, he's explained to us who God is and what he's done. And in light of that, in light of the fact, go way back to chapter 1, in light of the fact that our God, who once spoke through the prophets, has now sent his own son, who is the exact representation of God and the radiance of God's glory, in light of that. Do you not want to please him? And if the answer is no, I don't really want to please God. I'm really quite content to just simply not annoy him. And either you have not understood all of the doctrine and theology that has been set forth in this book, or you don't believe it. It's amazing to me how many Christians will uh uh kind of push back against this idea. That scriptural, biblical, Christian preaching and teaching should include instruction on what to do. But I would think the genuine Christians would be begging. What am I to do? I know what God has done for me. I know how much He loves me, so what do I do? How do I respond? How do I live in light of that? Every one of us who loves our spouse. Ask that question. What can I do to please you? And so this is being set forth in this passage. So verse 1, here we go. We're going to look, that's the context, okay? That is, we're looking at what pleases God So that our worship will be URS Dos worship, pleasing, acceptable worship, so that we will be able to please and be acceptable to him down at the end of the doxology, uh not the doxology, the uh uh benediction, um And what's in between is how to do it. So that's the context for this. So now the content. Let's break it down and look at these four words. Now, whenever you do this kind of thing, it's always a great idea, right at the top, to begin with a grammar lesson, because most congregations are full of people who love grammar. I know there are a few of you out there. So here we go. Real quickly. Quick grammar lesson. In English, when we give commandments, directives. When we tell somebody to do something, it's always in the second person. Get out of bed. We're speaking to the person who's still in bed. Hold the elevator. We're talking to the person who's getting onto the elevator. Always in the second person. But in the Greek of the biblical era, in the New Testament time period, the Greek language had a structure that actually kind of I can't even wrap my head around it, boggles the mind They had a third-person imperative. A commandment. It would be like me looking to this side of the sanctuary and commanding that side while I talk to you guys. It's just weird. There's a third person commandment, and that's the word we have here in the opening of verse 1. Traditionally, translations have used the structure that ours used, let. But I'll ask you, does the word let sound to you like a command? It really doesn't, does it? But in the Greek, there's a command being given here. Let brotherly love continue. That kind of sounds like an allowance. Put up with it. You know, if there's brotherly love in your church, let it happen. Don't excommunicate anybody who loves. That's not what the word let sounds like. Permission to put up with love. Now I realize some of us wishes that what it meant, but that's not what it means. It's a command. Some of the newer translations are experimenting with other ways to kind of render this, and I like one of them. One of them I found said this: brotherly love must continue. Brotherly love must continue. And I really do think that's what is meant here. That's what's in the grammar. That's what's the structure of this It's not mere permission to be loving. It is a command to be loving. Brotherly love must continue. Brotherly love must continue. Think about that word continue. The implications of that word are interesting. First of all, it assumes that brother love already exists in the target church. He doesn't say so now in light of all this doctrine, start loving one another. He presupposes the existence of love, and he should. What did we see in Jesus' own teaching? A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. What do we see in our assurance of grace? In this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us. Christianity is steeped in love. It is, uh-uh, well, I want to stop short of wording like it's all about love and only love. That's not correct. Nevertheless, there can be no discussion of genuine authentic Christianity without love. The founder of our faith, the perfecter of our faith, said that we better be known by the way we love. You see, if we are in fact believers Then we have been loved by God. We know that He has sent Jesus to be the atoning sacrifice, the propitiation for our sins. And in light of that love For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, so whoever believes in him would not perish but have eternal life. In light of that truth, we ought to respond. in love. Brotherly love must continue. It's there among you. Let it keep going. And I'm thankful that he worded it this way. It was a neat thing to be a part of yesterday. I'm sorry for some of you who couldn't make it. But to see the brotherly, the sibling atmosphere. Working together, laughing with one another, striving together, making an effort. Some of those who are young being helped along by some who are less young. It was a neat thing to watch. There is brotherly love in this congregation. But what else does the word continue imply? Not only that it pre-exists, but the very fact that he gives the command that it must continue implies that it is at risk. We don't say to a perfectly healthy person, breathe. Breathing is a natural consequence of being physically healthy. But to the one who is in physical danger, perhaps the person who has just been pulled out of the boat accident, we might scream at them, breathe! Because in their condition, that's not a guaranteed thing. You see, he acknowledges that there is love in that church, but he turns right around and acknowledges that it is at risk. That it could go astray, that something could undermine it. And he says, you've got to keep it going. We must never take for granted the brotherly love within this congregation or any other that we're ever a part of. As much as of the blessing as it might be, it is always in danger You've heard me say this before. I get such a kick out of some people when you ask them, oh, you go to such and such a church. Oh me, I didn't know that. What denomination is it a part of? Oh We don't subscribe to denominational labels. We're not Baptist or Methodists or Presbyterians, you know. They've all got their problems. We just want to be a New Testament church. And the unsanctified part of me wants to say, really? You want to be Corinth, where they got drunk at communion and slept with their s sisters? Or perhaps you want to be Ephesus, where they couldn't get along because of the ethical division uh the ethnic divisions among them. Or perhaps you'd like to be the Roman church, where Jews and Gentiles hated each other. You want to go on? The list goes on and on. There is not a healthy church in the New Testament. You don't want to know why? Because they're all full of Christians You see, because we are who we are, saved, yes, but far from sanctified. We are going to offend one another. We're going to step on each other's toes. We're going to do things that annoy, and we're going to sin against one another. Always the other person, never me. I get that But allowing for the fact that those other people are sinners, not you, we have to work at letting the love continue. Brotherly love must continue. Um It does also bring up the question, what do you think was going on in this particular church? It's not hard to imagine what he actually has in mind as he writes this. You see, this whole book of Hebrews, we've said it over and over and over again, it is a treatise, a long sermon that is meant to encourage those who are at risk of apostasizing. They are Jewish Christians who are tempted to turn back to their Christless Judaism. And he has been writing to implore them not to do so. And now he says brotherly love must continue. What do you think he actually means? I suspect he's writing like this. I know your friend Jacob Goldberg is thinking about leaving the church. Brotherly love must continue. I've heard the rumors that the Abelman family is looking to go back to the synagogue. Brotherly love must continue. So the question to us, dear Shore Harvest, is: how do we behave toward those who are undermining the unity of the church? She's gossiping about you. Brotherly love must continue. He thoughtlessly offended me. Brotherly love must continue. He didn't ask about my dying grandmother. Brotherly love must continue. You see, this was a church at risk of coming apart at the scenes. And he doesn't say to them, pick sides, figure out who's right about the doctrine and who's wrong. He says brotherly love must continue It doesn't matter what that other person's politics are. It doesn't matter how they've offended you. It doesn't matter how they are wrong about everything. Brotherly love must continue. Four words, four subpoints, two down, two to go. Must, it's a commandment, continue. It is at risk. Love. Brotherly love must continue. I imagine most of you were probably expecting me to take up the word love last as kind of the climax of the sermon. But I would like to look at love here. Brotherly love must continue. Biblically speaking, Which is to say, truthfully speaking, love is not a feeling. It's not an emotion, so much as it is a set of actions. Feelings are inward, actions outward. Thus, love perhaps could be defined as acting in the other person's best interest. Out of affection for them. Love is acting in the other person's best interest out of affection for him or her. You see, it doesn't matter how much affection you have in your heart, if it is not expressed outwardly, it is not love. If you don't believe me, I will pause for a moment. You can just look at your wife very slyly. She will confirm that I'm speaking the truth. I'm not going to make eye contact with Becky. It doesn't matter the affection that's in your heart. It's love once it plays out in your actions. So when he talks here about these things, notice the illustrations. This is now where we jump into the other verses. Look at verse 2. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. For thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Now I'm going to get the second part of the verse out of the way because it can be so distracting. What's going on with the angels unawares? Almost undoubtedly, he's thinking of two particular Old Testament stories. Remember, the whole book's been steeped in the Old Testament. Okay? He is thinking of Abraham with the three strangers who visited in Genesis 18. And it turned out later that one of those was God, a Theophany, the other two were angels. So he's thinking of that, and he's probably thinking also of Gideon's parents. In Judges, I think it's Judges chapter 6. Where Gideon's parents meet some strangers who turn out to be angels. Okay? So this is almost certainly what he's talking about. Remember, the first century Judaism, first century Jews were enamored with angels Much like our modern greeting card companies at Christmas. They were enamored with angels. Remember, way back in chapter one, he talked about how Christ is superior to the angels. Okay? So he's really kind of alluding to this by, I think, as a way of kind of enticing his audience to be hospitable Okay? Um to show hospitality. Alright, so with that out of the way, let's look at the application. Show hospitality. Act in the other person's best interest. Do something to make that person's existence easier. You cook, you serve, you clean up. Also that the other person can relax and enjoy and take it easy. He starts to apply this even to strangers, those whom you don't know. Take the visiting pastor. When I'm out of town and we have a guest preacher, offer it to feed him lunch, him and his family. You don't know him, but they traveled a long way to minister among us Show hospitality hospitality to strangers. When missionaries visit, offer them the spare room in your house so that they don't have to uh uh uh pay for a hotel. Let them stay with you. Show hospitality to strangers. This is an act of love. It's behaving in a way that has the other person's interest. At the forefront. Verse 3. Remember those who are in prison as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body. This is almost certainly talking about those who are imprisoned for their faith, who are imprisoned for the sake of Christ. Now, Christians in the U. S. in the 21st century are not imprisoned for our faith. So how do we apply this? Well, we certainly could support a ministry overseas that does reach out to Christians who are imprisoned. We could give to a ministry that works in China to provide a legal defense for Christians who were in prison, perhaps to provide physical comfort to Christians in prison. That would be an application of this But I think there are some other applications, if not in our lives at the moment, I think they're on the horizon. For while we may not in the near future be imprisoned for our faith, there are going to be increasing consequences. for our faith. The day is coming. It is right around the corner, and in fact I suspect it's here in some places. Where your Christian morality, your Bible-based ethic is not going to be tolerated at the workplace. You did not go to the bridal shower for the two brides who were marrying each other. Therefore, you're not a team player. You're not fostering the inclusivity we want in our workplace. You're fired. If that hasn't already happened, it's going to very soon. Are we prepared to love the brother or sister caught in that circumstance? Are we prepared to suffer alongside of them? To give to the point where it actually hurts our budget, because they have no budget to speak of. This is what it's talking about there in verse 3. Remember those who are imprisoned as though imprisoned with them, and those who are mistreated. When he talks about love, these are the sorts of things he's talking about. And what did we see in verse 16? Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Obviously, the other two overlap this, and vice versa. Showing hospitality, caring for those suffering is a matter of sharing what you have. But he broadens this out in verse 16 to kind of a general principle. Wherever it might apply, apply it If love is doing what is in the best interest of the other person out of affection for them, then here are some practical illustrations for how it might play out. By the way, we're going to see a bunch more in the rest of Hebrews 13, but these are kind of the general ones I decided to incorporate into this sermon. We will look at some of the specifics in the weeks to come. So love is outward acts of affection. It must continue. That is, it's a commandment, and it must continue. That is, it is at risk. Love must continue. Finally, we get to the word brotherly. Brotherly love must continue. Most of you know more biblical Greek than you realize? And most of you actually know the word that's in the text here. For it isn't two words, it's one word. Brotherly love is one word in the Greek. It is the word Philadelphia. Philadelphia is literally the word here. Brotherly love. Adelphi, the brethren? Philea love. Philadelphia You know what's interesting. Apart from Christian writings, if you set aside Christian writings out of this time period in the ancient world, Every single example of the word Philadelphia in all of the rest of Greek writing that has yet been uncovered, every single one of them, always is speaking of the biological family. Always. Philadelphia always means how a family loves itself. You know what's interesting? When Christians began to write, they were writing of a new thing Of a unique experience and understanding of God, that God had become men and walked among us. We have to tell people about this, but we don't have a language to tell people. So Christians were constantly co-opting the existing language to figure out how to communicate all these new things. So we had this Hebrew word that meant breath and wind and spirit. We have this Greek word that means breath and wind, so we're going to tap spirit onto it. And phnumatos is not used in pagan Greek, it's never used for spirit until 300 years after Christ, where the Christians co-opted the language and took it over. And that happens with Philadelphia. The Christian writers are looking at their language going, we have no way to express what ought to be happening in the church. And they look at the language and they say, what comes the closest? And they say, you know what, it's that word Philadelphia. It's how families work And our writer of Hebrews is going to have no problem adopting that, for he's the one way back in chapter 2 who told us that Jesus was our older brother. That Jesus was the firstborn among many brothers, that he had to be incarnate because he had to be made like his brothers That this is a family imagery is going to fit right in with the book of Hebrews. And our author, when he comes to the practical application of our Christian faith, he says, Philadelphia Look at how the brothers in a family, how the siblings in a family, how the sisters in a family, how the parents in a family, look at how they get along. Look how they live with each other. And live like that. Which is exactly why I left brotherly to last. For I think we sometimes misunderstand what the love in the church should look like. I can't prove what I'm about to say next, but I think it's a safe statement that if you were to survey those who know me and my brother well, they would affirm, they would confirm that we have an outstanding relationship. We are brothers on a level that most brothers would dream of having. And there are days I can't stand him. Mostly because he's right and I'm wrong and I can't stand that. There are days we fight like cat and dogs. There are days we have disagreed with each other. There have been days we literally were punching the lights out of each other. We haven't done that for a few years, thankfully Brotherly love doesn't mean perfect harmony and peace in every moment Brotherly love doesn't mean that it fits some Facebook image of what life ought to be like in the church. Brotherly love is rooted in the difficult reality of living on top of each other all the time. My brother and I shared a room when we were growing up, which meant we were in each other's space on a routine basis, which meant we annoyed each other on a pretty routine basis. What distinguishes it is love was the day, and I will never, I have not yet forgotten, and by God's grace I will never forget. The day that we were on the playground at school during lunch break, my brother five years my junior And a couple of boys, two boys bigger than me, were coming and picking on me. And before I got the living snop beat out of me, the teachers broke it up. But as I turned around, there was my first grade brother. Ready to defend me. By the way, we can't post this online. If my brother touches the window, this his head will get so big. Didn't matter how much we fought. It didn't matter how much we annoyed each other. There was a bond there that could not be tossed aside for anything little. For anything casual. Can that bond be broken? The answer is yes. There are sins, there are things that are so grievous that you would have to sever a brotherly relationship. But it ain't over the color of the carpet in the sanctuary. It isn't over which version of the Bible we use. It doesn't come down to whether or not we like the hymn selections. It doesn't even come down to whether or not they were nice to me. Brotherly love endures All of those little things. All of those annoyances, all of the legit sins against you. Jesus assumes that your Christian brothers are going to sin against you. He says in Matthew 18, when your brother sins against you, it's a presupposed thing in his mind. So why would you walk away? Have you ever thought about the reason he would change churches? Better be just a few. The Lord physically takes you elsewhere. Perhaps the commute would be a bit brutal. If the Lord were to allow your church to stop preaching and teaching his word But there aren't a lot of others. There are not a lot of other reasons That we ought to sever the familial relationships established by the blood of Christ, ordained by our Heavenly Father. being made real amongst us precisely because we're going through hard times together. Not in spite of them. Brotherly love must continue. This is the summary of what pleases God, of what is acceptable for his children. It is the way we fulfill all the doctrinal realities that have been taught to us. Let brotherly love continue. Let's pray. Lord, we struggle. We struggle with this reality. We struggle to live out and live our lives in this manner We are easily offended, though we are often offensive ourselves. And so brotherly relationships are torn apart. They're broken down. The familial bonds that ought to hold sister to sister, friend to friend in here, don't always hold us together the way they should. So work in us that we would live out this command That we would recognize that the love we have for one another is all at risk, it is always in danger. And let us do everything in the power that you have granted us. that we might serve the best interests of one another in outward actions, not merely inward feelings. so that we are known as your disciples by our love. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen.