I want you to open your Bibles to the Gospel of Mark, the 12th chapter. We'll be looking at the end of Mark 12. We'll be beginning in verse 38 and going through the end of the chapter, verse 44. Mark 12, 38 to 44. I'd like to remind us often as we believe that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice That if you want to know God and His ways, if you want to know how to love God, you must know His Word So please hear now the word of our God from the gospel according to St. Mark. And in his teaching, he said. Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts. Who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers, they will receive the greater condemnation And he sat down opposite the treasury, and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny And he called his disciples to him and said to them, Truly I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering boxes For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word. Let us hear its message, and by your grace in our lives, may you put it to work. Conforming us to the image of the one who has redeemed us, that we might be the restored image of God on earth. earth. Let us learn how to love you. And let us forsake love of ourselves. So that we may give all we have to you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I must confess to you this morning that I was seriously tempted to forgo this passage altogether. For you see in this passage, Jesus takes issue with those who wear long robes and sit in prominent places. And for that reason I thought perhaps it was best that we just not cover it at all. And yet we see here an incredibly important message. For our Lord has taken up the subject of how to love him. And in fact, as we consider the text, we recognize in Mark's words, in the way he opens this passage, and in his teaching, he said. Now Mark has this is not the formula we've seen through much of Mark. In many places we've seen and next, and immediately, and then this happened. And here we seem to have Mark saying, oh, by the way. In light of what I just wrote, I'm reminded of a time when Jesus taught this. And Mark seems to be going back into the treasury of Jesus' teaching. And bringing out a couple of events that illustrate the point that was just made, so that we might see through Jesus' own view how to love properly. Now, if this is in fact true, if this is in fact an illustration of what has just been said, then we need to remind ourselves of what was said. So if we looked last week at the first half of Mark 12, we saw this series of showdowns, of confrontations between Jesus and the religious leadership of his day. And we saw that Jesus bested each and every one of these. He bested the Pharisees on the issue of taxes. He bested the Sadducees on the issue of the resurrection. And the last of the challengers that came to him was a scribe who challenged Jesus to sum up the law, which is the greatest commandment. Out of the 613 laws we have, which one's most important? And as you may recall, we saw that Jesus answered by quoting from Deuteronomy 6. Jesus used the scriptures to defend his position against the attack that came. And he says, this is the sum of the law. It is to love the Lord your God with everything you have, all of your heart, and all of your mind, and all of your soul, and all of your strength. And it's in light of that summary that Mark now brings these two stories into the text. Mark says, you know, that teaching about Jesus about loving God with everything you have. is a reminder of some times when that didn't happen and also a time when Jesus pointed out that it did. And so in light of that, I want us to consider these two accounts. In the first story we have here, in verses 38 to 40, we have not a picture of how to love God with everything we have, but rather a picture of those who love themselves with everything that is God's. God told us, Jesus told us to love God with everything we have. They love themselves with everything God has. Let's take a look at how that plays out. You know, it opens there with talking about their attire. Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces. And so we have to ask ourselves, is this really about how you dress? Is that what's in view here? Is what you wear? And of course the answer is no. It's not about that. God himself ordained that his priests would wear robes. God himself ordained that they would be set apart by their attire. It's not about the fact that they're wearing the robes. It's about that beginning of it. Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in the long robes The issue at play here is not whether or not somebody is marked with some outward sign of distinction. It's their attitude about that marking. For our God does mark people out for certain purposes. He ordains. How did Paul say it in Ephesians? It is He, Jesus Christ, who gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. God does these things. God marks certain people out for certain jobs within his church. God sets them apart. You know, we will go through ordination services occasionally here, ordaining an elder, ordaining a pastor, ordaining a deacon. And sometimes we mistakenly say that the church has ordained that person. But that's not correct. It is God who ordains men to service. It is the church who recognizes how God has worked behind the scenes. It is the church that publicly confirms What God has accomplished. So it is not the mark of distinction that is the problem here in the temple. It is not that the scribes are wearing long robes that is at issue. What is at issue is that they like the attention that comes with that. They really enjoy it. And that's not why they were set apart. That's not the reason for which they were marked They were marked out by God to serve his people, to be servant leaders, to be shepherd guides. And Jesus says, that's not what they do. They were supposed to serve the people of God. They were supposed to give themselves up. In service to my people. How did uh uh uh uh uh Dietrich Bonhoeffer say it? When Christ bids you come, he bids you come and die They were supposed to die, give everything of their lives for my people. And instead, they have taken the position that's been given to them, the distinctions, the markings that have been given to them, and they walk around strutting like peacocks. Look at me! Look how important I am. Brothers and sisters, if you are set apart by God for some particular purpose, don't shy away from that. That's false humility. If you are marked out as a deacon of our church, if God ordains you to that purpose Then be a deacon of our church and be marked by all the things the text says we should be marked by. Be marked by temperance and sobriety and not lovers of money and not given to strong green. All the things that the Bible says should mark us. Let them mark you. But if what you seek is to be a deacon in the church so that you can put it on your resume, so that you can run for political office, then that's taking the things of God and loving yourself. By the way, this passage is hard on pastors. Because it says, Pastor, if you really enjoy the attention of being up front. If that's why you're doing it, then there's a problem. Pray for your pastors. Because this is a real temptation. We have seen those. We've all probably, I'm going to guess most of us here anyway, have at one time or another seen the distinction between those who use their gifts to the service of God and those who use the people of God in service of self. You go to the to the uh a Bible conference and you attend a certain workshop and the the the the the person there, the man or the woman there gives this wonderful uh teaching and and lecture about some aspect of of the Christian life or of the scriptures and you you come away going, wow, that was really good. And you look you you you go to the thing, you leave And a couple of days later you happen to be looking through the bookstore or you happen to be looking and you go, oh hey, that person wrote a book. I didn't even know that. And then there are those others who can't help but sell you their books in the middle of the workshop. The one takes the gifts they've been given and serves the church, the other takes the church and serves self. If you're a real estate agent, are you here to make connections so you can get more commissions? It's not the right reason to be among God's people. Whatever your thing is, are you using it to further God's kingdom or are you using God's kingdom to further self? Beware of the scribes. By the way, I think part of what's going on here, I'm not 100% certain that Jesus is telling his disciples, telling the twelve, that they need to be afraid of the scribes, beware of the scribes in the sense of watch out for them. I think what he's telling them is beware of that behavior creeping into yourself. I'm prepping you. I'm setting you up to be the leaders of the new people of God. Do not become like them. Beware of the scribes. He goes on then to say that uh uh uh they like to be greeted in the marketplace. I had a member of my family who lived in a small town, and this member of my family really liked you'd go out to eat and we'd just know everybody who came through the diner. Just like that whole seeing everybody and be connected to everybody and being able to say hi to everybody and call them over the table and introduce them. And there's nothing wrong with being known and knowing people. But if you will if what you're doing is using the church to make yourself known That's the problem. If you're using the people of God to get more likes on your Facebook account, to get more Twitter followers. That's the problem. The picture here is not that they get greeted in the marketplace, it's that they want you to greet them. They expect you to greet them. Now we're going through deacon training with several of the men here in the church, and we were looking at it, it was interesting we saw in our Book of Order that when the paragraph describes the duties, the ministries of the deacon, one of the very first things it says is to care for the friendless. That's not what these guys are doing. They're not walking through the temple and noticing over there the widow Smith and nobody is caring for her. Nobody has greeted her in the Lord's name today. Nobody said happy Sabbath to her. And the scribes make a beeline and go over there to the Widow Smith and say, Are you okay today? You look downcast. Can we pray for you? That's an appropriate greeting. That's not what they're doing. They're strutting around and expecting everybody to notice them. Greet one another. Be the initiator. Be the active one who says, who needs to be greeted this morning? Who's standing around? And apparently downcast, perhaps not a friend talking to them, who can I go encourage this morning in the Lord? Not on your way home, could you believe it? I was there for an hour today and nobody came over and said hi to me. These people, I should be greeted. That's the scribe's approach to being among the people of God. I should be greeted. Jesus goes on as he describes them, and he says they like to sit in the places of honor. And again, we have to understand that it's not inherently wrong to be in the place of honor. If your wife throws you a surprise birthday party, you better sit where she tells you to sit. There's nothing humble about going, oh, I don't want to sit there. In fact, that's just the opposite. That's drawing a ton of attention to yourself in your little temper tantrum. It is appropriate occasionally to be in the place of honor. The bride and groom should sit at the head table of their own wedding reception. Again, what Jesus is saying is, these are people who twist their place in the church, that to which God had ordained them, they use it to secure for themselves honor that is not theirs That is not to do them. It is not actually becoming to them They should be saying to others, Oh, hey, I just realized I split your group up. Can I move to the- I'll move to the back table. You guys jump in here. So you can all sit together. I'll go sit over there. No problem. They make pretentious prayer. How's it uh who uh for a pretense they make long prayers. I can remember the first time I was asked to pray in a worship service. My knees were knocking, my voice was shaking, and I was really, really worried. About how my prayer would sound. That's exactly the problem here. It's not about my prayer, it's about the God to whom I'm praying. How my prayer sounds to you is completely irrelevant. It's not the quality of my words or the size of my vocabulary. And in fact, if you are in a prayer meeting with any brothers and sisters in the Lord and you struggle with that praying out loud thing, like I did that time. I'm going to give you this freedom. It's completely okay to go to God with a single sentence. Lord, help Mrs. Jones. doesn't know you. Let her see Jesus. That's all you need to pray. Lord help my nephew who broke his hand. That's all you need. God is not impressed by the length or the sound of your prayers or by the sincerity of the voice you use when you pray For in these pretenses, we impress each other, but we do not impress God These men are taking that which belongs to the Lord, the people of God, the place of honor, prayer, and they are using it to make themselves look better. They are using it to make themselves richer. They are loving themselves with everything that belongs to God. And it is absolutely dishonoring to the Lord. Now, Jesus certainly is giving an illustration of the first and greatest commandment in these two stories. There's no question about that. And yet Jesus does make a note as he goes through here that if you violate the first commandment, then it is inevitable that you will violate the second commandment. For you recall what the second commandment was last week? The first commandment was to love the Lord your God. The second commandment is to love your neighbor as yourself. What does Jesus note here? Verse 40 40. And they devour widows' houses. Scribes were essentially the lawyers of the day. These were the men who had a knowledge of the law of God and could use it to great effect. These were the men who should have been using their knowledge of the law of God to figure out how to keep the widow Smith in her home. Her husband has died, she has no son to care for her, there is no Social Security program, she's in trouble of losing her home. What can we do to make sure she doesn't? And on the contrary, they're using their law, the knowledge of the law, to figure out how to boot her out faster They're devouring widows. Failure to keep the first commandment, failure to love God, will always lead to violations of the second commandment You know, we live in a culture that does not understand that we really extol the second commandment. We all love it. Oh, love your neighbor. Everybody, the biggest atheist out in our culture, loves that. Love your neighbor. Lus, of course, the neighbor lives within my girlfriend's womb and I don't really want her to have that baby. Unless of course that neighbor just took the lane that I wanted in the grocery store. Unless, of course, that neighbor has something I want and I should I feel the right that I can take it. You say, well, I've never stolen from anybody. Yes, you have. We've all downloaded software that we didn't have the right to use. We've all listened to music that we didn't have a copyright to use. We haven't paid for. This is not loving our neighbor. When we set aside the first commandment, we will always set aside the second. And that's what these men did. Jesus has held them up, and he has said, do not be like them. They appear to be religious, but they do not love God with all their that they have. On the contrary, they love themselves with everything that should belong to God. Then Mark turns our attention to the widow. And Jesus now is sitting and he's watching the people as they walk through the temple courts, and there are these money boxes, and he's watching different people put the money in the boxes. And many of them are coming and they're making a show out of the bags of gold coins and they're dumping those in nice and loud so it rings out in there and everybody is seeing how they are given so much And Jesus n Jesus noticed this widow over here. And he uses clearly his divine insight. I suppose it could be a human base, maybe he knows the widow on a human level, but one way or another he's aware of her financial situation. And he notices that she looks down and she's got two coins. In the Palestinian system, these two coins added together to equal the the uh the the Roman quadrant, which was the penny in the Roman system, the lowest monetary unit. So she basically would have amount to two half pennies. And this is it. This is all she has. And she stands in front of that offering box and she wrestles with a reality that each of us needs to wrestle with, and by God's grace in our lives, I hope it happens before you are in the place of that widow, an absolutely destitute. But she comes to a realization that each of us needs to come to. I can do nothing to guarantee tomorrow. I can do nothing to assure food on my table, a roof over my head, clothes on my back, any care for my children. And she stands here, that offering box, and she realizes, Lord, if you have another day ordained for me, then you're going to have to provide for it. You're going to have to send the food necessary. You're going to have to bring it to be. And she gives the last that she has to the Lord's offering Each of us needs to recognize. Whether we have two pennies in our pocket or 20 million pennies in the bank, and I don't want you doing the math, that's $200,000. I don't care if you have two pennies or twenty million pennies. You have to realize that you are a moment from utter destruction. How many very wealthy men threw themselves to their death in nineteen twenty-nine? What's going on here? Why does Jesus hold up this widow? Does he really want me to empty my bank account this week? Am I supposed to come in with All that I have saved up, with all the retirement I've set aside, with my Rainy Day Savings Account, am I supposed to give all of that to Shore Harvest next week? Is that the message of the text? Yes. Absolutely it is not. Rather it is a mindset of loving God with everything. Now let me tell you one real practical way that plays out in our lives. If we were obedient with regard to the tithe, if we gave in proportion, as our reading in Corinthians said, if we gave in proportion to what we have been given. And of course the biblical model for that is the 10%, the tithe. It would impact all of our lives It would impact the whole of our life. I actually want to point something out here, and I don't very often dig this deep into the original language of the Greek, but I do want to note something. If we go back up into verse 44, uh I'm sorry, verse 30. If we go back up into verse 30. I've got to find verse 30 in my Bible. Here it is. Okay. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. The Greek construction there is really the idea of the whole of Okay? You shall love the Lord your God with the whole of your heart, with the whole of your soul, with the whole uh W-H-O-L-E, with the whole of your mind, and with the whole of your strength. And the reason I point that out is because it's lost in translation, but that is precisely the same set of words that gets used in verse 44. Exactly the same set of words in Greek. She gave the whole of her life. It's translated here, all she had to live on. But in Greek, it's literally the same four words. She gave the whole of her life. Jesus in his language has very purposely connected what this woman did to his quoting of the first and greatest commandment. To give the whole of your life. She gave the whole of her life. If you and I were obedient in our giving, obedient in the stewardship of our talents and of our time and of our of our tithes It would affect our whole life. For most of us, 10% of our income is a sizable chunk. It's going to change how we live. If we had a 10% raise tomorrow, it would change how we lived And if we begin to give 10% to the church, it's going to change how we live. You don't need to put in every single penny to accomplish what this woman accomplished. For when we obey in the tithe, it's going to create changes like this. Maybe we wait another year on the new car. Maybe we buy a boat that's a couple models older. Maybe our vacation has to be downscaled just a hair. I know, son, that all of your friends have an iPhone X. But we're not going to get you one. Not that we don't love you. It's that we've made the conscientious decision to give to the Lord in response to all that he's given us What a conversation to have with your kids. What a great opportunity to teach the next generation about the importance of giving By the way, when we read the proverb in our Old Testament reading, when it says that we should lean not on our own understanding, but trust in the Lord, what's the very first thing? That the writer of Proverbs 3 addresses. The first thing, we read it there, wealth. In the wisdom of God, the first thing that we need to tackle is that issue of money. It's a big deal in our lives. And how we handle it. Martin Luther said, the last thing about a man to be converted is his pocketbook. There is a need to understand how we love God with all that we have. It's not about emptying our checkbook and putting every penny in the plate. It's about realizing that giving rightly will affect every aspect of our lives. What we saw last week was the superiority of Jesus over the Pharisees, over the Sadducees, and over the scribes. And the question now before us, is he superior in our lives? Does he transcend everything that we want? Is it worth giving up some of the things, some of the comforts, some of the desires of this life? And by the way, for some of us, the day may come when we are faced with what this widow faced. Where we get on our knees and say, Lord, I got a stack of bills waiting on my office in my office on the desk. I don't know how I'm gonna pay them And it sure seems to me if I held back this ten percent, I could make a much bigger dent in those bills But all you're doing at that point is reinforcing in your own mind that your wisdom is the way to follow. And the call in our lives is to trust the Lord And with tears sometimes. Say, Lord, I'm going to give what you've asked me to give. I'm going to trust you to provide what I need. The scribes took what belonged to God and used it to love themselves. Jesus points to this widow and says, she took everything she had and used it to love God. And the question before us today is how are we going to respond to the superiority of Christ? How are we going to respond to His greatness and His work on our behalf? One more practical offering I understand. I get that it's not easy to get there immediately. But begin the process. Begin to give systematically. Begin to give conscientiously. Begin to chip away at that, giving more. Maybe every year you increment it up a little bit Maybe every month. Until we're able to love the Lord. Not just with our pocketbook. But with how we think about our car and how we think about our house. and how we think about our vacation and how we think about every other aspect that will be impacted through this kind of giving. Let's pray. Jesus, you gave everything on our behalf. And you ask that we would do the same. That we would take everything you've given us and use it for your glory and for your purposes and to love you with all of it. And Lord, we realize then that the offering, that the tithe is but a small portion. It is that portion which we turn over that the church might use to accomplish your purposes there. But in doing so we recognize that the other ninety percent is still yours. And we still seek to use it for your glory. We still seek to use it for your purposes. We still seek to honor you. With everything we have, with the whole of our lives. Work in us that we might accomplish this. So that we might bask in the joy that comes from trusting you. That we might be that your faithfulness would be confirmed to us over and over and over again. So that we recognize How great you really are. We pray this in your name, Amen