I invite you to turn your Bibles to Mark 11, the 11th chapter of the Gospel of Mark. We'll be actually beginning in verse 12. And if you've been following along our sermon series and you are able to count. then you will know that we're skipping over some verses. That actually what comes next is Mark 11, 1. And yet that is the account of the triumphal entry, off in what is known as Palm Sunday. And so we We've made the decision to come back to that text. We're not skipping it. We're not omitting it. We're just going to come back to it on Palm Sunday as seems fitting for that text. And yet we read it as our New Testament reading so that we can refer to it and be familiar with what is found there. So I'm going to invite you to look at Mark 11, beginning in verse 12. We'll be reading through uh uh uh the end of the chapter. Most Sundays I remind us that we believe that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. That if we want to know what it is we are to believe and how it is we are to live, if we want to know who really is King over all things Then we have to know God's Word. And so I invite you now to hear the Word of God from the Gospel of Mark On the following day, when they had come from Bethany, he was hungry, and seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, he went to see if he could find anything on it. When he came to it he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. And he said to it, May no one ever eat fruit from you again. And his disciples heard it. And he came to Jerusalem, and he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple. And he was teaching them, and saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations, but you have made it a den of robbers. And the chief priests and the scribes heard it, and were seeking a way to destroy him, for they feared him, because all the crowd was astonished at his teaching. And when evening came, they went out of the city. And they passed by in the morning, and they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots. And Peter remembered and said to him, Rabbi, look! The fig tree that you cursed has withered. And Jesus answered them, Have faith in God. Truly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, be taken up and thrown into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him. Therefore, I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours. And whenever you stand praying, Forgive if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also, who is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. And they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him, and they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do them? Jesus said to them, I will ask you one question, answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me. And they discussed it with one another, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from man, They were afraid of the people, for they all held that John really was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, we do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word. Let my words be in keeping with your message And if I should say anything that is out of accord, that is not according to the truth of your word, let it be quickly forgotten. So that we hear you and only you this morning. So that your word will be at work in our hearts and minds, conforming us to the image of the one who even in this passage is on his way to die. We pray this in His glorious name. Amen. There's a long-standing tradition in the human uh race that we've kind of it's Fading from our collective experience nowadays simply because we don't have opportunities to do so anymore. There's a long tradition of staking a claim. Going to a land where there is no one else and saying, this is mine, or this belongs to my king, I'm going to claim this on behalf of this, that, or the other person. In June of 1633, Lord Baltimore applied for a charter to stake a claim to this land that we now live in. And a year and a half later, March 25th, 1635, his second son, uh uh uh Leonard Calvert landed at St. Clements Island. and stake the claim on Terra Marie, the land of Mary. We don't stake claims anymore because there's not much in the way of unexplored or untamed land. We went to the moon some time ago, and it was a new land and a new place, and what did we do when we got there? We stake the claim, we put down a flag in in commemoration of the nation that sent those people there. We go to a new place, when we go to a new land, in the history of humanity, we have always staked a claim, said, this is ours, this is mine, or this belongs to my king or to my queen. That is what's happening in this text here today. And in fact, it's actually part two of Jesus staking a claim on that which is his. We read the first half of Mark 11, in which Jesus enters into Jerusalem. And we're going to get into the details of this later as we come back and consider it. But the key thing we need to recognize. Is that Jesus enters into Jerusalem as one who would be king? He receives the praises and the adoration of the crowd. He does not turn it away He enters Jerusalem as the king. You know, that's the crime for which Jesus was executed. That he claimed to be a king. The crime of sedition, of claiming to be one in authority, when in fact Caesar, we know, of course, is king over everything And that's why Jesus died. And that was the charge above his cross. He claimed to be the king of the Jews. And many will read the scriptures and go, I don't ever see Jesus claiming. that. I don't ever say him say, I am the king of the Jews. And yet in the first half of Mark 11, he acts like a king. We have an old saying, actions speak louder than words. The faithful servants of God throughout scriptures, when someone worships them, they say, oh no, no, don't worship me. I'm only an angel. I'm just a servant like you. Don't worship me. Worship him. But in the first half of Mark 11, these people worship Jesus and he receives their worship He accepts their praise. He does not deflect it. He does not turn it to another. He acts like one who deserves glory. He acts like the king. And so stakes his claim to the physical realm, to the earthly throne of his father David. We saw this in last week's sermon. How blind Bartimaeus Foreshadow this in Mark's account. As Jesus is walking along the road, Bartimaeus says, calls out, Jesus, son of David! The only time that title is used in the Gospel of Mark. And by recording specifically the title that Bartimaeus uses, Mark is foreshadowing what comes next in chapter 11. Mark is saying, yes, have we not yet recognized? This blind man sees, do you not see? This is the son of David. This is the one who has a rightful claim on the throne. And now he enters into Jerusalem as king. He enters into the physical realm as Lord. And he receives praise and glory And again, we're going to leave most of the details of that until our Palm Sunday sermon. But did you see in verse 11 the interesting way in which it ended? That Jesus, after entering Jerusalem on that Palm Sunday, he Sunday evening, he heads to the temple Now this is not a tourist who can't wait to get there and check this off from his uh vacation list You know, some years ago we were blessed to be able to take our family to Disney. And as we drove from Michigan and crossed into Ohio, there was a little more excitement that we were closer, and then the Kentucky line, a little we're getting closer, and then the Tennessee line, the Georgia line, the flying the Florida line. And with each passing state line, the was more excitement about the proximity to the destination And as we turned the corner and came around and saw the arts and the ears and the big sign that says Disneyland, my wife just went crazy. She was so excited to be there. This is not the illustration we have here. This is not a tourist on vacation just wanting to go see this temple I've heard so much about because Mark I mean Luke reminds us he's been here before. He's seen this temple. And in fact, he taught in this temple at age twelve This is not a tourist going to check out his vacation destination. In verse 11 there, when Jesus walks into the temple, He's going home. This is the place Where he filled the temple on the day of dedication with his glory, so much so that the priests were driven out of it. When Solomon dedicated the temple. This is the place. Where he shook the doorpost when he called Isaiah and said, Be my servant. This is the place where he told the prophet Zechariah to do what had previously been anathema. Put the crown on the priest. And at least for a moment unite the kingship and the priesthood into one. This is the place where he has met with his people for centuries This is not a tourist on vacation. This is a wanderer coming home. And he enters the temple. And on that evening. What did the verse say? He looked around him. Isn't it stunning when we read a little further, we're going to come back to it, but when he enters the temple the next day on Monday morning, he immediately goes into action. Why? Because on Sunday evening he'd already seen all he needed to see He was furious with these people. They had desecrated his home. And now he's going to do something about it. So the one who on Sunday has ridden into Jerusalem and claim the title of king over Israel, the one who has the right to sit on the throne, the earthly throne of David, now enters the temple And says, I am also Lord over all the spiritual realm. What Joshua the high priest had foreshadowed at the time of Zechariah, the union of the king and the priest, he now fulfills. Here. On Sunday, he is made king, and on Monday, he claims to be God over all. Let's take a look at how this unfolds. As he walks up to Jerusalem with his disciples, along the way there is this fig tree, and we're told that he curses the fig tree. We're also told a little bit about it being out of season for figs. And I I share that, I point that out because uh we we've got to recognize, well first of all we've got to recognize we've seen that Mark has a brevity to him, and so that anything he includes, he includes with an intent and purpose. And so there's a part of this whole fig tree thing that seems a little bizarre and a little and yet we've got to wrestle with it and go, why is it here? Mark doesn't just put things in to fill pages. He puts things in for a reason and for purpose. And so they're walking along, and we're told that the fig tree uh it was not the season for figs. And the reason for that is we've got to understand we may not get that now. But see, back then everybody knew when the season for figs was. That was an agrarian culture. They all knew the seasons for the different agricultural They all knew when these came when olives came into ripe and when when the grain ripened and when the figs riped, they all knew all of that. It's the reason that this carpenter's son Every single one of his illustrations is an agricultural illustration. Not one time does he talk about planing wood or building furniture because he knows that nobody around him is going to understand that illustration They all knew that the fig tree was not in season. Jesus knew the fig tree was not in season. And yet he goes to it and curses it anyway. Why? Well, we've got to recognize that Mark, Mark's favorite literary technique is foreshadowing. He likes to hint at what is to come. Just as Bartimaeus cried out, son of David, and the next day he enter uh sorry, two days later he enters Jerusalem as the king. Now we see this fruitlessness of the tree and the curse upon it. And we have to be saying to ourselves, if we don't understand it now, then we've got to read on, because probably Mark's pointing forward with this. And sure enough, as they enter into the temple, we read there in verse 15, and they came to Jerusalem, he entered the temple, and he began to drive out those who had sold. As I already mentioned, he doesn't walk in this time and look around. He comes in prepared for action. I think sometimes this scene of Jesus in the temple clearing it is is uh sometimes in our heads and in our discussion reflected as though Jesus went in and lost it. He just lost his cool, just lost his temper. That's not what's portrayed here in Mark. He didn't lose his cool because this didn't come as a surprise on Monday morning. He'd already seen it on Sunday night He comes back fully intending to do this. This is not him out of control. This is not a temper tantrum. This is the one who has the right to judge all mankind, judging the people in the temple. And he comes in that morning and begins to gut the temple, to overturn the tables of the money changers, to scatter the seats of those who sold the pigeons. It's kind of an interesting thing. My entire uh career, my entire adult life has been involved in teaching in one form or another. And I find it interesting. I can't imagine trying to uh make a whip, drive out a bunch of money changers while teaching. And yet that's what it says here. And he was teaching them and saying to them And in the midst of his fury at cleaning out this temple, he's teaching them. And he says, Isn't it not written, as we read in our our prophet Isaiah this morning in our Old Testament reading, is it not written, My house shall be called a house? of prayer for all the nations. And then he quotes Jeremiah, but you have made it a den of robbers. And some will look at this And they'll say, well, you know, he's just quoting what God said. And I'm going to suggest to you that's misunderstanding this. And I realize there's ambiguity. When we quote somebody else who spoke in the first person, it does lead to ambiguity. So if my my my wife says something to me in the first person and she says, I'm going to the store, and then Andrew comes in and says, Where is mom? And if I quote her, she said, I'm going to the store. Hopefully he figures out that I'm not going to the store. Okay? That I'm simply quoting mom and that she's going to the store. There's ambiguity when we quote somebody who uses the first person. And so some would argue, and some commentators argue, that Jesus really isn't claiming that this is his house. He's simply quoting the first person quote that's in Isaiah. And again, I would point us back to actions speak louder than words. How does he behave in this house? He behaves as though it is his. He behaves as though he has every right to do what he's doing. He is not merely quoting God. He is restating what he already said to Isaiah. My house will be called a house of prayer. He steps into the spiritual realm of the people on earth and he says, This is mine. I'm God. And when you come in here, you come to meet with me, and you will come on my terms the way I tell you. And I told you this was to be a house of prayer, not a place of profit. And it was to be for all the nations And you have made it into a den of robbers. And you say, well, Pastor, I'm still not convinced I see what you're saying, the first person, but boy, do you have any other evidence? And I'm going to tell you how did the leaders of the Jewish society take his behavior? How did they interpret it? They see him as taking authority and having an authoritative position and an authoritative attitude. That's why they come back the next day and say, on what authority? On what grounds? With what justification did you do that? They interpret his behavior as though he is claiming that place. And I'm telling us we need to understand it the same. same way. That this Jesus who up until now has told everybody, don't tell anybody. Keep it quiet. He heals somebody who says, don't tell anybody. He just goes straight home. He does a miracle. He says, keep it to yourself. Don't tell anybody. Up until now he's been telling everybody, hush, hush, about Me. We've seen where he's tried to get out of Israel altogether and he's gone up to Tyre and Sidon to try to get away from the crowds, and even there they knew who he was. He couldn't get away from it. He has wanted to keep things quiet. Up until these last two days. He did not enter Jerusalem quietly, and he does not enter the temple quietly. It is time to reveal who he is. And we need to see this. We need to recognize this one who claims lordship over the spiritual aspects of our lives. Now, for the sake of the disciples at that time, it was particularly important. Because here on this Monday, it's just four short days in the time they're going to see him die. And they're going to have doubts and they're going to wonder. And he's saying, can you look back at this? Can you see the claim I made? If in fact you believed me when I walked into that temple, if you really believe that this was my house. Then have faith. Stick with me. See it through. Yes, it's confusing. On Good Friday. Yes, it's bewildering that you see me hanging there dead. But if I really am God over the temple, Then there's nothing to worry about. And every reason to hope. He enters that temple and claims it as his my house shall be a house of prayer. As they leave that afternoon, even that even that evening, when evening came, verse nineteen, they head back out of the city, and the next day as they're walking back in, they come back past that same fig tree. And now it is all withered. In fact, it's withered right down to the root. It has dried up in unbelievably fast fashion. Unprecedented death. And Peter, astonished, I don't think so much astonished that it withered, but perhaps astonished that it happened that quickly, says to Jesus, Rabbi, look, look at the tree. And Jesus responds to him, why, Peter, are you still surprised by these things? And how does he say it? Have faith in God. Don't be surprised that what I said came to be. It was fulfilled. Because I'm God. Have faith in God. Of course, the tree at this point on the next day, the picture is a little more clear now. For it is a picture of the fruitlessness of the people of God. The Jews in Jerusalem, at least the leadership of the people in Jerusalem, were fruitless. You see, yeah, but it's not fair to the fig tree because it was out of season. I think that's the point. I think Jesus is saying there is no one season which my people should bear fruit. You can't go around doing whatever evil thing you want to do, and then when you think maybe I'm at the doorstep, you clean up your act. Had they known that God was coming, do we think they'd have been selling these things? No, they'd have cleaned it out And Jesus' point is, you should always be ready for me to come. There is no season in which the people of God have a right to bear fruit in the season where they have a right to be out of fruit. And Jesus says to them, Those who do not bear fruit will wither and die like this tree. He then takes the opportunity in oh, by the way, before we go on We absolutely need to stop and think for just a moment about how the people of Israel came to be the condition they're in. How is it that the temple came to be like this? If we don't understand how it got here, we're gonna miss it when it happens to us. For no one purposely set out to corrupt the temple. On the day after Solomon dedicated it, they didn't get together and say, okay, let's put the pigeon cellars here, we'll put the money changers over there. Why don't you guys get some goats and set up back there? No. That's not what happened. And that's not how our churches are corrupted. They don't happen with that kind of blatantness and that kind of bluntness. And in fact, it happened out of a whole series of good ideas. And yeah, I did not misspeak there. It was the corruption of worship through a whole bunch of good ideas. Because somewhere along the line, somebody said to themselves, It's really hard, you know. For the people who live in Dan, that's way up north. It's a long haul to get down here to Jerusalem And if they gotta bring goats with them to sacrifice, and if along the way the goat stumbles and breaks its leg, and then it's no longer a suitable sacrifice, and this is It's a lot to demand out of the people. Wouldn't it just be easier if they sold the goat and Dan, carried the money down, and then bought a goat down here? And people went Oh yeah, that's a good point. That would work. It's a good idea. And then somebody said, well, yeah, but you know, they still don't they don't know their way around. They're not from Jerusalem. They don't know where Market Street is. Wouldn't it just be easier? They know they can all everybody can see the temple. Right there up the top of the hill. Everybody can see that. What if we just put the goat cellars and the pigeon cellars right there, you know, right next to the temple? Well, for that matter, you know what we ought to do? Since the goats and the pigeons and the sacrifices have to be blessed by the priests, what if we were to just take them all inside, get the priest to bless them all? And then keep them there so we're guaranteed that their blessing isn't violated in any way, and that way people won't buy one at risk. They'll know that what they're buying is a suitable sacrifice. And through a whole series of good ideas. worship of God was completely corrupted. Faithfulness never is never swallowed by a shark. It always dies through the bite of a thousand Guppies. The church today needs to learn this lesson And we need to be vigilant. And we need to be on guard for when good ideas are going to distract us from the best idea. You know, I took over as the headmaster of a Christian school in uh uh July of 05, and in August of 05, Katrina devastated New Orleans. In September of 2005, we opened for the first day of school, and we had been opened all of an hour, I think, before I had somebody in my office Saying, well, we should do a tan food drive for New Orleans, or we should take up textbooks for New Orleans, or we should figure out some way to serve New Orleans. And I finally had to say, could you stop, please? We are here. People are paying their tuition money to have their kids here to learn algebra and literature and chemistry. Right now we're a mess. Our enrollment's down, our budget's bleeding red ink everywhere. We are at the verge of going under. And you want to distract us from our mission? Is helping the victims of Katrina in New Orleans a good thing? Absolutely it is. And when we've accomplished our principal purpose of providing a quality education in the schools to everyone who comes Then if we have some energy and resources left over, we can do other things. But we first have to be about what we're supposed to be about, for it serves nobody if we go under. Death by a thousand guppies. That's how this situation came to be, what it is in Jerusalem. Back to Jesus as they are looking at the withered f fig tree, they uh so he takes up this opportunity to teach them about prayer. And To help you understand the fact I I I I was a little surprised given that you know we we've moved I've moved down here south, I've moved south of the Mason Dixon line. I was uh kind of hoping maybe we could figure you know make this a little bit more readable, but I'm not here So I just have to tell you, if we were a little further south, this passage would be much easier to understand. For all of those second-person pronouns would be y'all. Parts of Georgia'd be all y'all. Where I lived in Pennsylvania it'd be you guys For in the Greek, these are all plural pronouns. You say, Pastor, why do you point that out? What's that a big deal? Because we abuse this passage all the time. We see the word you there, and we think, oh, it's talking about me, that whatever I want, I can pray for, and if I want a mountain thrown in the sea, See, I can do it. It's about me. No, it is not. It is about us, collectively, as the church. Every one of the pronouns there is plural. Y'all. And we have to understand what Jesus was doing. For just as Mark has been foreshadowing, he foreshadowed the king of uh uh the son of David through Bartimaeus, he foreshadowed He uh at the evening when Jesus scouted out the temple, he foreshadowed the cleansing on the Monday morning with the fig tree, he foreshadowed the fruitlessness of the people. Now, with Jesus destroying what was happening in the temple We have a foreshadowing of what's coming in just two chapters. In Mark 13, we're still a few weeks away from that, but in Mark 13, Jesus is going to tell us about the destruction of the temple and how it's going to come down. And he begins here in this teaching to prepare his disciples, the nascent church, for what it's going to be like after the temple falls And he says, I've just called this a house of prayer. Let me teach you now about what prayer is going to be like. Prayer is going to reside within you collectively. When the temple falls, you will be the house of prayer. My church will continue as the temple. As the place of worship, as the collective house of prayer. And together, through seeking my Father's will, through studying my Spirit's word. When you come together and are united and seek God's power, it will be yours And just as he did not literally mean to cut off our feet a couple chapters ago, I don't think he literally means we're going to toss about mountains, although the power of God can certainly accomplish that. What he says is that when you together as the church come to me in unity and have agreed upon what it is that should be done, You have my power at your disposal. That's no less encouraging, folks. It's not quite as self-centered as our usual way of understanding this passage. But it is no less encouraging. For it means that whatever barrier or mountain might be before Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church When we together go to God and ask for His power to overcome it, it will be overcome. When we together, as the church on the Eastern Shore, with our brothers and sisters in other congregations on this Lord's day, Day, seek the power of God in a united way, it will be ours to have. And when the church throughout North America and around the world says, Lord, Help us. He will help us. It is not the prayer of give me what I want. This really is the prayer of your will. Jesus, we continue then with the challenge to his authority, and the uh the the Pharisees come and say You know, by what authority? What right do you have to do these things? So now they're back in the temple the next day. He he comes in Sunday evening to see it, he cleans it out on Monday, he comes back in on Tuesday morning, and the the uh the leaders of the the the Jews confront him and say, by what authority? In whose name? On what account? Don't you wish? I really wish they had said, who died and made you king? But that's what is here in front of us. And Jesus says, I have the right, and I don't have to answer to you. It is my right. Because I'm about to die. And because I'm about to die, my Father in heaven is going to make me king How does Paul say in Philippians 2? Because he was obedient unto death, God has raised him to the highest place so that the name, Lord, the name of Jesus, everyone will say Lord. In heaven and on earth and under the earth. By the way, don't think for one moment that hell is going to be a place in eternity where we're not glorifying God. The people in hell will glorify God for all eternity. They will bow the knee and they will cry with their lips, Jesus is Lord, in praise of his justice. And his righteous wrath. And he says, this is my house, and I don't answer to you. And it's interesting how they resolve it, actually how he doesn't resolve it. Jesus says, okay, you've asked me a question, let me ask you one. What about John? We read it there, we saw it as plain as day. They can't answer. They don't know what to do. They're stuck. They're politically stuck. We don't really believe it was from heaven. So we can't say that, because they'll ask us why we didn't follow John. But we don't really want to say what we do believe, because we know all the people think John was a real prophet, and we're we're in a mess. And so they come back, well, well, we don't know. We don't know. And their inability to confess what they believe, Jesus turns it around on them and says, I'm not going to resolve this for you. I'm not going to test And it's beautiful how the Spirit works these things out so that as Mark is writing his gospel, all along Mark has been telling us to confess. Mark has been calling us to see who Jesus is and who the Christ is. And he's been showing us the power of Jesus to overcome the effects of the fall. Showing us the ministry of Jesus, the one who is going to be betrayed and is going to suffer and is going to die and is going to be raised again on the third day. And it all comes together here and leaves us to answer the question. Mark has written this beautifully. It is Mark's prayer, and it is my prayer. That at this moment, as you read this, you feel like you want to yell at the leadership and go, what do you mean by whose authority? Isn't it obvious by this point? He's God. He does it on his own authority. And he's the perfect man. So he's earned the right And he's going to die on my behalf, despite all of that Mark leaves us hanging precisely so that we are forced to wrestle with it on our own. And a question linked Do you see in this carpenter from Nazareth the one who is king over the earth Realm, the one who is Lord over the spiritual realm, the one who has the right to lay claim to everything. And say mine every nook and cranny of your life, every area of my sin. All of it belongs to him. And to question that, or to wonder about that. He is to deny his righteous and rightful place in this world. Jesus entered Jerusalem and said, This is mine. And he went into the temple and said, This is mine. And he comes to you this morning and says, You are mine. And if you will humbly acknowledge His Lordship and seek to follow Him. By faith in what he's about to do on Good Friday, then you will no longer be at war with the king of all the universe. You'll still make mistakes, you'll still trip up, you will still hold things back that you shouldn't hold back. But peace with the one who claims lordship over all. Is simply the cry of have mercy away from me right now. Son of David The one who has the right to sit on the earthly throne, God of all, the one who has the right to enter the temple and claim it, have mercy on me, for I have denied your lordship I have denied your kingship, and I don't want to fight with you any longer. That's the resolution that Mark leaves us to come to Jesus, you are Lord over all. And yet we don't act like that. We don't seem to truly always believe that Help us to see in your bold conquering of the temple, your powerful claim on our lives. Make us not like these leaders of the Jews who didn't know where the authority came from. But help us to recognize and to humbly confess that you have earned every right to claim everything Everything and everyone. Hear our cry, be merciful to us to us. Forgive us for the arrogance and pride that keeps us from making you rightfully Lord in our lives. And lead us afresh into an understanding of who you are. Amen